Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2605-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
THIRD AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
June 28, 1979
This document h  restricted dirbution nd may be med by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dbelosd without Word Ink  ihorastlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 15, 1979)
Rs 1.00         =   Paise 100
US$1.00         =   Rs 8.13782
Rs 1.00         =   US$0.1228
Rs 1 million   =   US$122,800
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee ex-
change rate is subject to change. Conversions in the
Appraisal Report were made at US$1 to Rs 8.60, which
represents the projected exchange rate over the disburse-
ment period).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS REPORT
ARDC -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
GOI  -   Government of India
LDB  -   Land Development Bank
RBI  -   Reserve Bank of India



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:       Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) and banks for on-lending to farmers for on-
farm investments.
Amount:              US$250.0 million.
Terms:               Standard.
Relending Terms:    From GOI to ARDC, interest per annum would be 6%
in respect of ARDC refinancing for up to 9 years
and 6.52% for refinancing up to 15 years. GOI to
carry the exchange risk.
From ARI)C to banks, interest per annum would be
6.5% for all minor irrigation loan; and for other
agricultural loans, 6.5% to small farmers 1/ and
7.5% to other farmers; repayments to coincide
approximately with expected collections of loans
refinanced.
From banks to ultimate borrowers, interest per
annum would be 9.5% for all minor irrigation; and
for other types of agricultural loans, 9.5% to
small farmers and 10.5% to other farmers; repay-
ment periods to be based on borrower's repayment
capacity and the type of investments to be
finance,d.
Project
Description:       The purpose of the project is to support a two-year
ARDC program of lending to farmers, an intensive training
program primarily for the staff of land development banks,
and provision of equipment to State Groundwater Organiza-
tions, State Land Development Banks and ARDC to enable
them to more effectively implement groundwater resource
evaluations. Lending under the project would be mainly
for minor irrigation (including land development),
plantation, horticulture, livestock and fisheries.
1/   Small, farmers are defined as those cultivating land providing a pre-
development net return, to family income not exceeding Rs 3,100 annually
(at '1978 prices).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                             (US$ Million)
Local  Foreign  Total
Minor Irrigation                  510.9   62.6    573.5
Diversified Lending               276.4   56.8    333.2
Training and Equipment              2.4    0.2        2.6
Sub-total                      789.7  119.6    909.3
Price Contingencies                83.0   12.7      95.7
Total Project Cost             872.7  132.3  1,005.0 1/
Project Cost net of
taxes and duties                 820.7  132.3    953.0
Financing Plan:                                             (US$ Million)
Local  Foreign  Total
IDA Credit                        117.7  132.3    250.0
Local Financing:
GOI/ARDC 2/                  433.2    -       433.3
Banks                        140.2    -       140.2
Ultimate borrowers (farmers)    129.6    -         129.6
Total                  820.7  132.3    953.0
Estimated                             --------(US$ Million)------
Disbursements                       FY80        FY81        FY82
Amount     Amount      Amount
Annual           70.0       140.0         40.0
Cumulative       70.0       210.0        250.0
Rate of Return:      About 46%.
Appraisal Report:   No. 2404a-IN dated June 21, 1979.
1/   Including taxes and duties of about US$52 million.
2/   Of this amount, ARDC and GOI expect up to US$150 million may be provided
by other donors, such as KfW, ODM, USAID, CIDA, EEC Special Fund, etc.
The extent to which these funds will be forthcoming and their timing are
as yet unclear. In any event, GOI will provide all funds required for
the project, irrespective of possible assistance from other donors.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CRERDIT TO INDIA FOR THE
THIRD AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Government of India (GOI) for the equivalent of
US$250 million on standard :[DA terms. The credit would support the activities
of the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC) in providing
credit to farmers for on farm development purposes, primarily minor irrigation.
The proceeds of the credit would be channelled through the ARDC to cooperative
and commercial banks for on-lending to farmers. On-lending from GOI to ARDC
would be at 6% and 6.5% int,erest per annum for 9 and 15 years respectively.
ARDC would on-lend the funds to banks at 6.5% and 7.5% annual interest for up
to 15 years and the banks would lend to farmers at 9.5% and 10.5%, the actual
terms depending on the type of investments refinanced and the repayment capa-
city of the ultimate borrowers. The exchange risk would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2431-IN dated April 9, 1979), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 1.3, 1979. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large, low-income country with 640 million people whose
average income is US$150 pebr annum. The agricultural sector dominates the
economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor force and contributing over
40% of vaLue added. Although smallholder agriculture provides a fullsome
subsistence to many, the land base is inadequate to provide all families in
rural areas with an adequate livelihood under current conditions, and many
who are landless or nearly landless have only an insecure grasp on the means
of existence. Industrialization in India has not been rapid enough to bring
about the economic transformation that has led to higher productivity and
rapid urbanization in some other countries. The urban population was 18%
of the total in 1960, 20% in 1970 and is 21% now. The share of manufacturing
has grown slowly and since the late 1960s has remained roughly constant at
16% of GDP.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past, with GDP growing at a
trend rate of 3.6% per annum from 1950 to 1975. Agricultural output grew at
2.4% per annum over the same period. Slow growth in agriculture acted as
a drag on overall growth, not only because of its sheer weight in the total,
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Thal Fertilizer Project
(Report P-2599-IN), dated June 14, 1979.



- 2 -
but also because of the need to use scarce foreign exchange to import food.
Growth in industrial output has been higher at 5.2% per annum between 1950 and
1975, but not as high as in many other developing countries nor as high as can
be expected.
5.        This slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditable domestic
saving and investment performance. Domestic saving has grown from 9% of GDP
in 1951 to the current high level of 22%. Gross domestic investment has risen
from 10% to 21% of GDP over the same period. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment and have financed no more than
5% of investment since 1970. Foreign savings have been important in financing
imports, and a shortage of foreign exchange has acted as a constraint on the
economy for most of the period. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance is less
than 2% of GDP now, has never risen above 3% and fell to less than 1% in the
early 1970s. Exports have grown relatively slowly -- 5.4% per annum in US
dollar terms and 2.8% per annum in volume terms between 1950/51 and 1975/76.
So far during the 1970s, exports have grown much more rapidly, by 18% per
annum in US dollar terms and 8% in volume terms over the period 1970/71 to
1976/77. During the same period imports grew by 17% per annum in US dollar
terms but only by 2% per annum in volume terms, reflecting a 28% fall in
India's terms of trade over the period.
6.        India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace than
has been achieved so far. Although the industrial sector is small compared to
the size of the total economy, it nevertheless has a highly diversified struc-
ture and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads
and ports--is extensive compared to many countries, although considerable
gaps remain. India is rich in human resources and institutional infrastruc-
ture, although there is much scope for improvement. India is reasonably
well-supplied with natural resources, not only land and water but minerals,
including oil, gas and coal. With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings, India should be able to manage these considerable
resources to accelerate the longer-term growth trend.
Recent Trends
7.        India has managed faster growth during the recent past.  Growth of
GDP in 1978/79 is estimated to be between 3% and 4%; this is a strong perform-
ance coming on top of the previous year's 7.2% growth in GDP and considering
agricultural output grew less than 2%. Even this agricultural growth is
highly creditable given the previous years' record harvests in most crops.
Industrial output grew by 8-10% in 1978/79. Over the four years, 1975/76 to
1978/79, growth in real GDP, agricultural output and industrial output has
averaged 5.3%, 4.4% and 6.9% per annum, respectively. Although these rates
represent growth over the depressed base of the early 1970s, they are signi-
ficantly higher than the longer-term past trend and comparable to the target
growth rates for the medium-term future.
8.        The 1978/79 foodgrain crop exceeded the 1977/78 record crop of 126
million tons, and many non-food crops did well. The 1978 monsoon rains were



- 3 -
timely and adequate, although severe flooding in some areas destroyed both
lives and. property and ruined some crops. The basic inputs into agricultural
production continued their rapid growth of the recent past. Additions to
area under irrigation have doubled from 1.3 million hectares a year during
the five-year period ending 1973/74 to 2.6 million hectares a year during
1977/78 and 1978/79. Fertilizer consumption in 1978/79 reached 5 million
nutrient tons, an increase of 18% over 1977/78. This growth is impressive,
particularly since it follows two successive years of very high growth--18%
in 1976/77 and 26% in 1977/78--so that fertilizer consumption is now 75%
higher than it was in 1975/76. These rates of growth in agricultural inputs
and output are heartening evidence that the good harvests of 1975/76 and
1977/78 were not isolated peaks resulting from good weather alone but
represent: an increased agricultural production capacity.
9.        The growth of industrial output in 1978/79 came from a sharp rise
in the output of food industries, particularly sugar, a modest increase in
textiles,, important increases in the hitherto depressed engineering sector
and the revival of demand for consumer durables. Production would have been
still higher but for recurring shortages of steel, coal, railway wagons and
electric power and capacity constraints in fertilizer, cement, vegetable oils
and petroleum products. Labor unrest also constrained output in some indus-
tries, particularly in textiles, steel and mining; man-days lost in 1978 ex-
ceeded the high level of 1977 and only in 1974 were the number of days lost
higher. Power production increased by 12% or more but continuing shortages
in many States necessitated power cuts and curbs on new demand.
10.       The trade deficit grew and both the current account surplus and the
balance of payments surplus of recent years shrank in 1978/79. The import bill
is expected to reach US$8.4 billion, which brings the average rate of increase
in US dollar terms to 19% per annum since 1976/77. Non-foodgrain imports rose
even more dramatically by 28% per annum over the past two years. The growth
of imports and the liberaLization of import control policies represents a
desirable adjustment to enhanced foreign resources. Although exports grew
much faster during the 1970s through 1976/77 than earlier, export growth
in 1977/78 and 1978/79 has slowed somewhat. After rising by 12% in 1975/76
and 23% in 1976/77 in US dollar terms (virtually all growth in export volume),
export earnings rose by only 9% in 1977/78 (with little or no volume growth)
and an estimated 8% in 1978/79 (with 5-8% volume growth). Although part of
the decline is attributable to unfavorable conditions in foreign markets,
export profitability has been allowed to deteriorate somewhat. With net
invisible receipts in 1978/79 estimated the same as in 1977/78--US$2 billion--
the widened trade deficit resulted in a significantly reduced current account
surplus, from US$1 billion in 1977/78 to US$400 million in 1978/79. Despite
some increase in net aid disbursements from their low level in 1977/78, the
increase in reserves declined from about US$2 billion in 1977/78 to about
US$1.5 billion in 1978/79 to reach US$7.4 billion.
Developm[ent Prospects
11.       The circumstances that have brought about the currently favorable
economic situation hold the promise of continuing into the future given conti-
nued policy improvements. The faster growth of the recent past has been made



possible by the much-increased inward flow of foreign exchange from increased
exports, workers' remittances and external assistance; greatly improved agri-
cultural performance; the impressive saving effort; the liberalization of
import controls; and expanded public expenditure on development programs.
Although sustaining the high growth rates of the recent past into the future
is by no means automatically assured, India has a level of resources with
which to manage the economy that had never existed before. The comfortable
foreign exchange position, the large foodgrain stocks and the absence of
strong inflationary pressures have eased the pressures to deal with short-
term crises and freed India's economic managers to plot a more ambitious
course for the economy. The policy improvements needed to achieve the better
performance now possible have begun in some important areas but in others
have yet to be initiated.
12.       The Draft Plan, which was released in March 1978 and is expected
to be finalized and approved by the National Development Council later this
year, sets out India's development strategy for the five years 1978/79 to
1982/83. The principal objectives of the Draft Plan are to achieve within
a period of ten years: (i) the removal of unemployment and significant under-
employment, (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of living of the poorest
sections of the population, and (iii) provision by the Government of some of
the basic needs of the people in these low-income groups. While the Plan
recognizes the importance of achieving more rapid expansion of the economy
than in the past to meet the employment and welfare objectives, the targeted
rate of growth at 4.7% per annum is lower than projected in most earlier Plans.
According to the planners, this reflects in part the increased emphasis given
to the distribution rather than the level of income generation, and in part
the need for greater realism in the macro-economic assumptions underlying the
Plan. While the trade-off between growth and distribution is not immediately
obvious from the Plan model, the adoption of a more realistic growth target
is in itself well justified -- even at 4.7% per annum, the targeted growth
rate is higher than actually achieved during any of the previous Plan periods,
and is substantially above the longer-term trend growth rate.
13.       In agriculture, the economic policies, development programs and
secular trends all seem favorable for a period of sustained high growth.
Fertilizer prices have been reduced progressively from their very high level
in early 1975 and despite some fall in market foodgrain prices, the fertilizer:
foodgrain price ratio has fallen to a clearly profitable range. Good harvests
and higher farm incomes provide the money to finance higher fertilizer pur-
chases, creating something of a virtuous circle. Pricing policies for many
crops--rice, wheat, sugarcane, pulses and others--have concentrated recently
on supporting prices to maintain incentives to farmers rather than trying to
administratively control prices to contain inflation. The ambitious irrigation
and rural electrification investment program in the new Five-Year Plan, if
fully funded, will help provide the water control needed to increase yields
directly and to induce further productivity-increasing investments. The
highly effective reorganization of the agricultural extension service will
raise yields as it takes hold progressively across India in the near future.
Finally, there are several heartening trends in foodgrain production: one
is the steady growth of area planted to high-yielding varieties of rice;
another is the growing adoption of summer rice cultivation in the traditional



- 5 -
wheat-producing areas (Punjab and Haryana).  These two trends along with the
other favorable developments have caused rice production to rise impressively
in the last two years. Another good omen for foodgrain production is the
rapid growth of winter wheat cropping in traditionally rice areas (West
Bengal, Assam and Orissa).
14.       In industry, despite some uncertainty in industrial policy and
the lack of strong policy stimulus to improve efficiency in the industrial
structure, recently strengthened demand forces along with adroit input supply
management should allow the industrial sector to continue to grow at the
improved rate of the recent past, at least for the near- and medium-term
future. Over the longer term, growth of industrial production at or above
the rate experienced in the recent past--e.g., 7% per annum during the last
four years--will require some changes in policy to induce a more efficient
industrial structure. Recent industrial policies have sent mixed signals
to private manufactures and investors. Some, such as reserving certain lines
of production for small-scale enterprises or prohibiting the location of new
firms in municipal areas, have been restrictive. Others have been stimula-
tive, such as the raising of the exemption limit of industrial licensing for
capital investment or favorable adjustments in the pricing and production
controls in several major industries, including cement, steel, and textiles.
In addition the liberalization of import controls is of considerable benefit
to increasing industrial production. However, there are some worrisome supply
shortages that are currently threatening continued rapid industrial growth.
Many can be handled through imports, if needed, as long as India maintains a
healthy foreign exchange position. However, two supply constraints likely to
persist in the future -- namely, rail transport and power -- cannot be eased
through imports. The new Plan contains a major power investment program to
increase capacity rapidly. The railway investment program is more modest.
Another crucial input into both of these sectors, and into most other major
sectors, is coal, whose supply needs careful management.
15.       The main reason for expecting sustained growth in industrial pro-
duction is improvement in demand prospects for each of the four major sources
of industrial demand. The first is market demand for manufactured consumption
goods, which is expected to pick up in response to the increase in disposable
income due in particular to t:he good agricultural harvests. Although its
effect has been delayed somewhat, this broad-based demand is finally making
itself felt and is expected to continue into the future as long as the growth
in agricultural output continues.  Another source of demand is public expendi-
ture on development projects, which has grown in a major way in the last few
years and is scheduled to continue to grow under the new Five-Year Plan.   A
third source of growth is export demand for industrial goods. There has been
a sustained growth in the export of manufactures such as engineering goods,
garments, gems, finished lealther and some chemical products. This export
growth should continue in the future with proper policy support. A final
source of growing demand is private investment by both the household and
corporate sectors. There are as yet only a few signs of this growth, such
as increased disbursement by term lending institutions and increased use of
inputs; investments should become stronger as growth in the other sources of
demand continues and as capacity limitations begin to constrain production in



- 6 -
more industries. The net result of increasing demand should be continued high
growth in industrial production in the near and medium term within existing
policies.
16.       Import policy is an area where there has been significant improve-
ment in the recent past; but some improvement in export policy is required
to raise incentives to export.  India has liberalized import control policy
significantly in the past two years and imports have responded. Future growth
in imports, and in the benefits of price stability, enhanced production and
increased efficiency which imports bring, will depend to a great extent on
how the now liberalized policy is administered. A delicate touch is required
to yield the benefits without bringing about undesirable damage to vulnerable
industries. India has the foreign resources to allow imports to grow at the
rapid rates of the past two years for a few more years and continue to relax
the very severe restraints imposed on the economy during the early 1970s by
suppression of imports. But, given the import liberalization undertaken so
far and the expected growth of imports, by the end of the Plan period (1982/83),
foreign exchange reserves will have fallen to six months of imports, or less,
and some adjustment in the balance of payments will be required. Part of the
adjustment will very likely be a reduction in the growth rate of imports; the
import bill need not grow 15% in volume terms indefinitely to sustain the
target growth in GDP. Part of the adjustment must come from the achievement
of a growth rate of exports in the vicinity of 7-8% or higher in volume terms.
Faster export growth is needed not only to provide the foreign exchange to
sustain the rapid growth in imports but also to allow foreign demand and
competition to improve the efficiency of Indian industry. Finally, part
of the adjustment should come from an increased net transfer of external
assistance.
17.       India's population policy continues to aim at reducing the birth
rate to 33 births per thousand people by 1983 through completely voluntary
acceptance of fertility control methods supplied by a family welfare system
integrated with the supply of basic health, maternal and child health and
nutrition services. Since 1977, the family planning achievements in terms
of number of acceptors have been below that needed to achieve the 1983 goal
or even to keep the birth rate from rising above its current low level. The
low performance is primarily the result of the reaction to the harsh birth
control policies introduced during 1976. Since then family planning perform-
ance has been gradually returning to the rising trend which was discernible
before it was disrupted by the intensive drive of 1976/77. Given continued
support for the program of family welfare, India's rate of population in-
crease should remain below 2% per annum and fall to 1.5% by 1990.
18.       In addition to stimulating overall economic growth and constraining
population growth, reduction of poverty in India requires special attention
to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More
than one-third of the world's poor live in India and more than 80% of the
Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small
farmers. The prospects for alleviating their poverty by providing these
families with more land are not good because of the virtual absence of un-
cultivated arable land, the slow progress in implementing land reform and
the limited amount of land that would be available if land reform were carried



out.  Estimates of the amount of land that would be available if land reform
were carried out vary greatly. One estimate is that these would be about
9 million hectares available for distribution. This compares to roughly
45 million families in the two poorest groups in rural India: landless
families and families owing less than one hectare of land, whose average
holding is 0.31 hectares. An approach to the amelioration oF poverty more
promising than land reform is the creation of more employment opportunities
for the landless and small farmers in rural areas. Although the basic thrust
must come from the market by a more rapidly increasing agricultural output,
there will be a role for employment-intensive rural works programs. The new
Plan provides for increased rural employment both through direct employment
schemes and through ambitious programs of investment in rural infrastructure
in addition to the more general rural development programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 56 loans and 113 development
credits to India totalling US$2,281 million and US$6,747 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$978 million had been
repaid, and US$2,720 million was still undisbursed as of April 30, 1979.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of April 30, 1979,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1957, IFC has made 15 commitments in India totalling US$64.0
million, of which US$15.9 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$33.6 million, US$25.6 mil-
lion represents loans and US$8.0 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of April 30, 1979, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financirng the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, water supply development, and urban investments have also
received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's ne,eds and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, improved water management and intensification and



streamlining of extension systems, form an important aspect of the Bank
Group's program for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given
to projects benefitting small farmers. Projects supporting water supply,
sewerage, and urban development also form an integral part of the BanK s
lending strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support
of infrastructure and industrial investments will focus on agriculture-,
export- and energy-related projects.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
24.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably
be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank
lending. The ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was 12%
in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of
March 31, 1979, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,331 million, of which
US$657 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of
US$674 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On March 31, 1977, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$13.3 billion,  of which the Bank Group's
share was 28%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in
the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
In 1977/78, about 16% of India's total debt service payments were to the
Bank Group.



- 9 -
PART III -. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT IN INDIA
Background
26.       India 's agricultural growth requires substantial cash investment
on the part of millions of farmers. The traditional system of family financ-
ing and rural money-lending supplied a large portion of funds in the past;
but these sources are not well-suited to the needs of modern agriculture.
Specialized agricultural credit institutions with the ability to appraise
projects and lend for them on the basis of their productivity, with access to
funds outside the rural secitor and with the ability to fulfill farmers' needs
for production credit at reasonable cost, have come to play a crucial role in
facilitating and accelerating private agricultural investment.
27.       The share of traditional money-lenders in rural credit is esti-
mated to have declined to about 65%, compared with about 90% in the early
1960s. Their diminishing role can be attributed not only to social pressures
and borrower protection legislation, but also to the growing accessibility
of institutional credit for agricultural investments on reasonable terms.
Private investment of the type financed by institutional agricultural credit
has increased substantially since the mid-1960s. Institutional credit
financed less than 3% of total investment in agriculture in 1956; it reached
8% in 196]., then jumped to 20% in 1969 and has remained at about this level
since then.  In terms of amLounts, however, total institutional finance (direct
and indirect) has continued to register a remarkable increase; from US$194
million for the year ending June 1974 to US$411 million for the year ending
June 1978. GOI's current plan calls for doubling of the total institutional
credit by about 1980/81.
28.       The bulk of loans from agricultural credit institutions to farmers
has been to finance minor irrigation investments - mainly tubewells and pump-
sets; but dugwells, river lift, tank and small surface diversion irrigation
have been financed as well. This is consistent with the need to expand the
irrigated area which is seen by most analysts of Indian agriculture as the
crucial variable in raising productivity. Minor irrigation (mostly private)
accounts for over half of the current gross irrigated area and represents just
under half of the ultimate irrigation potential remaining to be developed.
Undeveloped potential for minor irrigation is particularly large in the
Eastern Region (West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Assam and eastern Uttar Pradesh).
Recently the Government of India with the assistance of the Bank Group has
been concentrating on raising agricultural productivity in this region through
a series of agricultural projects with research and extension as their center-
piece. These efforts are expected to lead not only to significant increases
in national foodgrain output and to improvement of regional income distribu-
tion but ultimately also to stimulation of large-scale private investment in
minor irrigation.
Agricultural Credit Institutions
29.       The history of agricultural credit institutions is long, starting
with the Cooperative Credit Societies Act of 1904. At present, the main



- 10 -
institutions in this field are: the cooperative banks (about two-thirds
of outstanding agricultural loans in 1978); nationalized and private commer-
cial banks (nearly one-third); and a number of smaller institutions, such
as Regional Rural Banks, which combine features of both cooperative and
commercial banking. All these banking windows offer farmers similar terms
and conditions under Reserve Bank of India (RBI) guidance.
30.       Cooperative banks are organized by individual States into two inde-
pendent groups of institutions: (a) land development banks (long-term credit),
and (b) cooperative banks (short- and medium-term credit) . There are State
Land Development Banks (LDB) in 17 States, which lend through their branches,
or make loans through their affiliated primary land development banks. LDB
lend for 3- to 15-year periods. They do not make seasonal loans or accept
deposits. The cooperative banking structure is much larger. In 1977, 26
State Cooperative Banks provided funds for 344 district-level Central Coop-
erative Banks which, in turn, supported some 123,000 village-level primary
agricultural credit societies. The primary societies specialize in seasonal
and medium-term (2 to 5 years) credit and also provide a variety of services
to their members, including savings facilities and consumption loans. A study
conducted under Credit 540-IN (see paragraph 40), recommended a gradual merger
at all levels, and a few States are experimenting with various methods of
obtaining the benefits of integration. GOI has agreed to review the progress
made by the cooperative credit system towards meeting the agricultural credit
needs of farmers through one source (or closely coordinated sources) and to
inform the Association, by December 31, 1980, of its findings and proposals
arising from the review (Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement).
31.       Commercial banks' involvement with agricultural lending is rela-
tively recent and occupies a modest proportion of such banks' total business.
Even so, the commercial banks' lending to the agricultural sector increased
from 5% of their total operations in 1969 to nearly 11% in 1978. Nearly half
of their agricultural lending volume is for seasonal loans. An advantage
of commercial banks is that they provide both long- and short-term credit
to their clients.
32.       The main problems in the institutional credit sector are:  high
loan overdues; marked regional disparities in volume of lending; and diffi-
culty in providing access to credit for the smallest farmers. To some degree
these problems are interrelated, as often areas where overdues are highest
are the areas where the volume of lending is lowest and the proportion of
small farms is highest. For the most part, these problems do not originate
in the agricultural credit system but are a reflection of more fundamental
problems of agricultural development, particularly extensive rural poverty and
low productivity. Nevertheless, lack of channels for providing agricultural
credit is part of the problem and much can be done to improve the situation.
Loan overdues can be reduced by better technical and economic appraisal of
projects, improved supervision, and greater determination at the State level
to enforce repayment discipline both among farmers and within the institutions
themselves. Regional differentials can be reduced by strengthening the finan-
cial position and administration of credit institutions in backward States
and creating clear expectations by use of targets for their growth. The



- 11 -
volume of loans to small farmers can be raised by increasing the incentives
for credit institutions to lend to small farmers and by providing credit
terms that cffer sufficient inducement for small farmers to risk undertaking
economically viable investments.
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
33.       ARDC, a subsidiary of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), was estab-
lished by an Act of Parliament on July 1, 1963. Its main objective is to
provide credit for agricultural investments by making long- and medium-term
funds available to land development banks, commercial banks and other approved
institutions, to refinance agricultural schemes which are judged by ARDC to
be economically and technically sound and are located within a reasonably
compact area.  ARDC helps formulate schemes, particularly in less developed
States, and consequently is able to influence lending policies and procedures
of agencies it assists, thus contributing to the development of agricultural
credit institutions throughout India.
34.       ARDC had about 500 professional staff and 14 regional offices as
of June 30, 1978. ARDC has a nine-member Board of Directors. The Chairman
is a Deputy Governor of RBI. ARDC's shareholders include RBI, State Land
Development Banks, State Cooperative Banks, the Life Insurance Corporation of
India, commercial banks and investment companies. It derives its operating
funds through borrowings from GOI, RBI and the market as well as from profits
on investments. Its GOI borrowings represent mainly the flow of IDA funds to
ARDC under ongoing projects (see paragraphs 37 to 41). As of the end of FY78,
ARDC's sources of funds were as follows: capital and reserves, US$67 million;
GOI borrowings, US$497 million; RBI borrowings, US$252 million; and capital
market borrowings, US$235 million.
35.       ARDC's operations are conducted mostly through the refinancing of
agriculturcal development schemes undertaken by State Land Development Banks
and commercial banks. The Land Banks' disbursements increased by over 80%
between 1974 and 1978, although their share of ARDC's refinancing declined
from 90% to 50% over the same period with a corresponding increase in commer-
cial banks' share. ARDC's operating results continue to be satisfactory.
Profits have increased steadily with ARDC's expanding operations, and in
1977/78 profits before taxes were US$13.9 million.
36.       l4ost of ARDC refinance has been for minor irrigation, 70%; other
purposes include farm mechanization, 14%, storage and market yards, 6%, and
land development, 4%. The remaining 6% has gone to forestry, plantation,
livestock and fisheries. Since its inception, ARDC has made significant con-
tributions to increased production through financing of about 250,000 tube-
wells, 390,000 dugwells, and 580,000 pumpsets. Land development in irrigation
projects and land improved under soil conservation schemes aggregate about
890,000 ha.  Through its investments, ARDC has assisted in bringing nearly 3
million ha under multiple cropping.



- 12 -
Previous Bank Group Experience with ARDC
37.       ARDC's association with the Bank Group dates from the formulation of
a series of State-based agricultural credit projects between 1969 and 1972.
Eleven of those projects have since been implemented through ARDC. More
recently, ARDC has been entrusted with two general lines of credit, ARDC I
(Credit 540-IN, of April 1975) for refinancing from August 1975 to July 1977,
and ARDC II (Credit 715-IN, of June 1977) for refinancing from August 1977
to December 1979. In addition, ARDC has taken an active role in the imple-
mentation and formulation of another 20 IDA/IBRD projects approved until
March 31, 1979, mostly by providing long-term credit and loan supervision
in support of investments in major irrigation, horticulture, fisheries and
seed. The total amount committed by IDA for disbursement through ARDC in
those 33 projects is about US$860 million. Other projects with possible ARDC
involvement are currently under consideration. As of March 31, 1979, IDA
disbursements to GOI for on-lending through ARDC were about US$504 million.
38.       The 11 State-based agricultural credit projects were designed to
support three- and four-year lending programs by selected commercial and
cooperative banks to farmers for investments in minor irrigation (about 80%),
land levelling and, in six States, farm mechanization. Almost every project
required the State government concerned to establish or strengthen an agency
responsible for monitoring the scale and quality of groundwater investments
financed through institutional credit. Each project also required participat-
ing banks to adopt specific loan appraisal procedures based on incremental
cash flows, to observe uniform lending terms and conditions, and usually to
implement various improvements in their staffing and management methods.
Nine of the projects closed between 1975 and 1978; the remaining two projects
are expected to close in 1980. Project completion reviews have been carried
out on six of these projects, two of such reviews were based on ARDC's own
competion reports. ARDC is also preparing completion reports on the three
remaining projects. The main conclusions of this ex-post evaluation were
as follows: (a) The main objective of the projects, that of achieving
increased agricultural production through expansion of irrigation and the use
of modern technology, was clearly achieved in aggregate. Returns to farmers
and to the economy were in the range estimated at appraisal; (b) Many State-
level institutions performed well in terms of substantially increasing lending
while maintaining good control over loan appraisal and recovery. However, the
long-term credit system in some States (notably Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil
Nadu) has been plagued by persistent overdues; (c) The gradual change from
purely security-oriented lending to appraisal based on incremental income has
substantially improved the quality and coverage of agricultural lending, and
has particularly helped the small farmers; and (d) The groundwater resource
balance in a few limited areas is alarming enough to warrant careful control
over new investments.
39.       So far, Operations Evaluation Department has completed one Project
performance Audit, on Gujarat Agricultural Credit (in October 1976). The
main recommendations of the Audit Report included:
(i) the necessity of enacting legislation to control groundwater
resources and development;



- 13 -
(ii)  t:he need for SLDB to reschedule overdue loans in areas
affected by severe weather, including project loans as
appropriate;
(iii)  the necessity for SLDB to initiate schemes to diversify
its lending in sectors other than minor irrigation;
(iv)  t:he necessity for SLDB to continue to implement, at the
fastest rate possible, its program of improvement of its
managerial, financial and organizational operations; and
(v) t:he need for improvement in the extension service.
These recommendations apply to most other States as well. Therefore,
they were t:aken into consideration in preparing each of the three ARDC credits.
40.        In April 1975, IDA approved a general line of credit of US$75 mil-
lion (Credit 540-IN) for disbursement over two years on the general under-
standing that it would be the first in a series of such credits to ARDC. The
objective of the project was for ARDC to commit specific amounts for indivi-
dual schemes (appraised by ARDC and not by IDA) within an IDA-approved overall
lending program. These schemes would normally be too small for IDA to approve
individualLy. The project provided funds for minor irrigation and diversified
agricultural investments ancl for staff training of lending institutions. The
credit closed in September 1977. The completion review of this project had
the following main conclusions.
(i)  The project had achieved its physical targets, including
targets for lending to small farmers (50% of the IDA credit);
(ii)  rhe State Land Development Bank system continued to suffer
from a high level of loan overdues, but the sliding eligi-
bility criteria helped control overdues. 1/ Expansion of
commercial bank refinance through ARDC has been beyond
all expectation, and a minimum recovery/eligibility
requirement should be introduced; and
(iii) The key to the successful results achieved under the
project was ARDC, and its performance was good.
41.        The second line of credit (Credit 715-IN), which supported ARDC
operations throughout India for two years, followed on directly from the
first project, and has been effective since August 1977. The Credit amount
was increased from US$75 million in ARDC I to US$200 million in ARDC II (but
declined from 44% to 34% of project cost), reflecting the substantial increase
in ARDC ccmmitments and disbursements since 1977. The diversified lending
1/   Sliding scale eligibility criteria (linking the ARDC refinancing of the
Land Banks' future lending volume to the Banks' recent collection per-
formance) were introduced to provide an incentive to the Land Banks
with poor recoveries to improve their situation.



- 14 -
component was increased from US$4 million to US$25 million to reflect the
change in the composition of ARDC's portfolio. The credit also included a
major training program for staff of agricultural financing institutions.
Terms and conditions, including eligibility criteria designed to control
overdues, are in most respects similar to ARDC I, although the scope for
eligible borrowers has been widened to include recipients of capital subsidies
from the Small Farmers Development Authority. The Seconil ARDC credit is
progressing well. As of March 31, 1979, US$91.1 million had been disbursed.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.        The project was prepared by the staff of ARDC and submitted to
IDA in September 1978. It was appraised in October/November 1978, and nego-
tiations were held in Washington in April 1979. The Borrowers' delegation
included Mr. Baldev Singh, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Finance, GOI;
Mr. M. Chidambaram, Managing Director, ARDC; and representatives of GOI
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation. A report entitled "Third Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation Credit Project" (Report No. 2404a-IN),
dated June 21, 1979 is being circulated to the Executive Directors separately.
A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
43.       The project would continue Bank Group support, over two years
(fromn abolit 1)Dcember 1979 to December 1981), for ARDC's program of lending
to farmers. The proposed credit would support the whole of ARDC's lending
operations in virtually every district of India. However, for administra-
tive simplicity, IDA would restrict its own disbursements to a few major
categories, such as minor irrigation (including land development), plan-
tation, horticulture, livestock and fisheries. The project would also
continue to support further training, mainly for staff of participating
financing institutions. In addition, the project would finance essential
equipment to strengthen the groundwater resources evaluation capacities of
the State Groundwater Organizations, the State Land Development Banks and
ARDC. The project would give emphasis to lending to small farmers, which
is expected to reach about 60% of the proposed credit. Small farmers are
identified on the basis of their predevelopment annual family income from
farming (up to Rs 3,100 at 1978 prices).
44.       Minor irrigation development under the project would predominate,
accounting for about 63% (US$633 million) of total project costs. Minor irriga-
tion investments would include both groundwater and surface water development,
though groundwater would constitute the major portion of the project and most
of the loans would be to individual farmers. Loans to individual farmers for
investments in groundwater development would be for new wells, improvement or
rehabilitation of existing wells and provision of pumpsets. Loans for medium-
duty tubewells serving areas of 10 to 30 ha would be made to groups of farmers.
Loans for deep, high-capacity tubewells serving command areas of up to 100 ha
would be made to cooperatives and State Corporations. Loans for surface water



- 15 -
development would be made to individual farmers, cooperatives, and State
Corporations and consist mainly of river lift schemes ranging in size from
single farm commands to several hundred hectares.
45.       Institutional finance for groundwater programs would be linked to
systematic and controlled resource evaluations (Section 2.Oo of the Project
Agreement). The controls would specify increasingly detailed levels of
investigation commensurate with escalating levels of resource development.
This is to provide a measure of security to institutional loans by ensuring
that schem1e appraisals would be made from a fuller data base in the case of
areas with a high degree of groundwater exploitation.  The guidelines defin-
ing groundwater resource categories and levels of evaluation studies required
have been discussed and finalized. To implement these guidelines, State
Groundwater Organizations (SGO) in several States would need to be strength-
ened. AR)C has therefore agreed that it would refinance minor irrigation
schemes olnly in States where it is satisfied that SGO has been suitably
strengthened to carry out the required evaluation of groundwater resources
(Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement).
46.       While supplies of both electrical and diesel pumpsets are plentiful
and availability of spare parts is generally adequate, recent ARDC studies
show that sets purchased by farmers are often substandard in technical
specifications and, in some cases, in quality. Improvements of technical
standards would be achieved through the establishment of approved lists of
pumps and prime movers in each State and through the establishment of
technical support organizations operating through the banking systems in
each State. ARDC has agreed to carry out pilot quality control programs in
selected areas of four states which would be completed by December 31, 1980;
based upon a review of this experience, ARDC would prepare, by June 30, 1981,
a phased program to start implementation in other states before the end of
the project period (Section 2.12 of the Project Agreement).
47.       The share of len,ding to agricultural and allied activities other
than irrigation and land development would be increased during the project
period. Such activities would include dairy, poultry, plantations and
horticulture, fisheries, farm mechanization and others; their combined share
would be about 36% (as against 26% of cumulative disbursements under ARDC II
to June 30, 1978).  This increase reflects a rapidly growing demand for such
loans as well as the increasing importance attached by GOI to such activities,
particularly as a means oif reaching the landless and near-landless rural
poor.
48.       The training program, started in 1975 under the first ARDC project,
would be continued and expanded. So far, some 2,300 senior and middle-level
staff and about 11,400 junior staff of rural lending agencies have been trained
in modern methods of agriczultural lending. This project would provide training
for about 3,000 senior an,d middle-level staff (including ARDC staff) and 7,800
junior staff. The project would also provide refresher courses to over 4,000
staff.



- 16 -
Implementation
49.       Project financing and organizational arrangements would follow the
pattern successfully established and developed during the previous projects.
The proceeds of the credit would be channelled through and supervised by
ARDC to refinance up to 90% of participating banks' loans. ARDC continues
to be an organization of high caliber. To keep pace with its rapid growth,
however, substantial changes in working methods and management systems will
have to be introduced to maintain and improve ARDC's capacity for project
appraisal and supervision. ARDC intends to implement a time-bound reorgani-
zation plan which would include steps to strengthen its regional offices by
increased staffing and delegation of responsibilities, and a further review
of ARDC's operations with the assistance of local management consultants.
ARDC would also appoint a senior officer to be next in command to the Managing
Director, by December 31, 1979 (Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement).
50.       To deal with the loan overdues problem, under ARDC I and ARDC II,
eligibility criteria have been applied to the land development banks as a
condition of IDA financial support. The criteria are amended as appropriate
from time to time (for example, when abnormal climatic conditions occur), on
the recommendations of a Debenture Norms Committee which was set up to advise
ARDC on recovery discipline for cooperative banks. The main objective of the
eligibility scale criteria has been to provide an incentive to the State Land
Development Banks (SLDB) and the Primary Land Development Banks (PLDB) with
poor recoveries to improve the situation by linking their future lending
volume to their recent collection performance. Under the proposed project,
these criteria would be continued and made somewhat stricter. If 50% or more
of land development banks (or branches) became ineligible for refinance under
the criteria, or if overdues at the State Land Development Bank level were
50% or more, the entire land development bank structure in the State would be
ineligible for further ARDC refinance unless the State Government agreed with
ARDC/RBI on a specific time-bound rehabilitation program acceptable to ARDC.
Such a step is considered necessary to ensure that State governments provide
serious support for loan collections and other measures needed to ensure
viability of the land development banks. ARDC would maintain eligibility
criteria satisfactory to IDA (Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement).
51.       Similar loan recovery discipline for the commercial banks has not
been included, mainly because term agricultural lending formed only a small
part of the commercial banks' portfolio and encouragement has been required
for the banks to expand such lending. However, commercial banks' agricultural
lending operations have now reached sufficient scale and maturity to warrant
closer monitoring of collection performance. Commercial banks' agricultural
lending overdues reached an all-India average of about 51% in 1978, with a
high of about 68% in the Northeastern region. Consequently, ARDC proposes
to scrutinize commercial banks' recovery performance on a regular basis and,
under the proposed project, ARDC has established a new Committee on Agricul-
tural Loans through Commercial Banks, with membership and functions mutually
agreed between the Association and ARDC, to advise ARDC on appropriate
appraisal criteria, lending policies, and procedures for improving recovery
disciplines in the commercial banks. The Committee is expected to make its
initial recommendations by December 31, 1979.



- 17 -
52.       Project monitoring and evaluation systems established during the
previous projects would be continued and further strengthened. To help ensure
adequate supervision of its growing portfolio, ARDC intends to improve effi-
ciency by improved district level supervision and by continuation of the
process of standardization of data collection and presentation of supervision
reports b) the participating banks. The concept of "problem scheme" and
"problem districts" would be introduced to focus attention on problems.
During the project period, ARDC plans to evaluate three completed IDA financed
agricultural credit projects for which ARDC will prepare Project Completion
Reports. In addition, about five evaluation studies concerning ARDC refinanced
schemes would be sub-contracted to research institutes and about ten evalua-
tion stuclies would be conducted by participating banks under ARDC supervision.
ARDC would intensify its efforts to improve monitoring and evaluation method-
ologies and would assist participating banks with establishment and training
of monitoring and evaluation units.
Project Cost and Financing
53.       The total project cost, over the two years, is estimated at US$1,005
million (including duties and taxes of about US$52 million), of which the
foreign exchange component is about US$132.2 million or 13%. Included in
this cosi: is about US$633.7 million for minor irrigation, US$368.7 million for
diversified lending (comprising non-irrigation on-farm investments), US$2.0
million for training and US$0.6 million for equipment for State Groundwater
Organizalions, State Land Development Banks and ARDC.
54.       The proposed IDA credit of US$250 million would cover about 26% of
the totaL project cost, excluding duties and taxes. IDA financing would cover
the whole of the foreign exchange costs and an estimated US$117.7 million of
local costs. The remaining 74% of the project costs would be financed by
borrowing farmers (15%), participating banks (14%) and GOI/ARDC (45%). Of the
GOI/ARDC share of US$433.2 million, about US$150 million is expected to be
provided by other external donors, such as KFW, UK, USAID, CIDA, and the EEC
Special Fund. Nevertheless, GOI will provide all funds required for the
project, irrespective of any assistance from other donors.
55.       IDA funds would be channelled by GOI to ARDC.  US$1.3 million would
be in the form of a grant for training and equipment, and US$248.7 million
would be provided at 6% interest per annum for ARDC refinancing for up to 9
and 6.5% for refinancing Up to 15 years. GOI would carry the foreign exchange
risk. IDA funds for lending to farmers would be used by ARDC for refinancing
the agricultural schemes fEinanced by participating cooperative or commercial
banks in accordance with appraisal criteria which have been reviewed by the
Association and are satisEactory. ARDC's refinancing to the banks would be
at the annual rate of 6.5%. for all minor irrigation loans, and 6.5% for other
types of agricultural loans to small farmers (see paragraph 43) and 7.5% to
other borrowers; repayments to coincide approximately with expected collections
of loans refinanced. From the banks to the ultimate borrowers, the interest
per annum would be 9.5% for minor irrigation, 9.5% for other types of agricul-
tural loans to small farmers and 10.5% to other farmers; repayment periods to
be based on the borrower's repayment capacity and the type of investments to
be financed.



- 18 -
56.       Interest rates are consistent with the prevailing overall rate
structure in India; intersectoral rate differentials are small. The average
increase in the Indian wholesale prices over the past four years was 2%;
it is not expected to exceed 5% over the next three years. The proposed
interest rates are expected to provide adequate margins to participating
financing institutions (including ARDC). ARDC is expected to complete a
comprehensive survey of interest margins on lending through land development
banks in mid-1979. GOI would, by June 30, 1980, review the results of the
survey and inform IDA of GOI's proposal for implementing the survey recom-
mendations (Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       Procurement under schemes involving relatively small investments
by individual farmers would be based on farmers' choice through local dealers
and contractors. Typical items would be pumpsets, tubewells, dugwells, dairy
cattle, bullock and pneumatic tyre carts, and farm mechanization equipment
such as tractors, power tillers and sprayers. ARDC would establish guidelines
for the selection of pumpsets which would include equipment performance
standards established by the Indian Standards Institute, and standards relat-
ing a given investment item (e.g., size and horsepower of pumpset) to farmers'
typical situations (e.g., size of area to be irrigated). Procurement under
such schemes as construction of storage warehouses, market yards, and agro-
processing facilities would normally be based on local competitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to IDA. International competitive bidding would not
be practical given the relatively small size of investments involved and their
dispersion throughout the country and over time. Normal commercial channels
provide an adequate choice of locally manufactured equipment and good servic-
ing facilities, and prices are competitive with those on world markets.
Procurement of equipment for the State Groundwater Organizations, the State
Land Development Bank and ARDC (US$0.6 million), which would be spread over
two years, would be based on local shopping procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
58.       IDA would disburse against 50% of ARDC's refinancing for minor
irrigation and land development, for diversified lending (plantation and
horticulture, livestock and fishing), and for training and equipment. Dis-
bursement would continue to be against ARDC certified statements; documents
would be retained by ARDC for inspection by IDA supervision missions.
Economic Benefits and Risks
59.       The project's primary economic benefit would be an increase in agri-
cultural production for domestic consumption and export. At full development,
by about 1986, the annual value of increased production is estimated at about
US$825 million in 1978 prices.
60.       Economic rates of return have been calculated for the investment
models used in the financial analysis of the project. As they are based on
the experience gained under ongoing ARDC schemes, they can be regarded as



- 19 -
indicative of the rates of return which would accrue. Results of the calcu-
lations indicate that the economic rates of return range from about 30% for
some dugwell and pumpset schemes, to about 50% for poultry, dairy and land
development schemes and to over 50% for some other minor irrigation schemes.
The overall economic return of the project would be about 46%.
61.       Beyond the realization of substantial benefits arising out of
productive on-farm investments, the project aims to continue the long-term
process of strengthening the agricultural credit structure started under
ARDC I and ARDC II. In ARDC itself, a reorganization phase would begin with
a build-up of senior management and technical expertise, the design and im-
plementation of area-based supervision systems, and the introduction of
additional technical appraisal criteria. Participating banks would be
assisted through training and through enforcement of conditions of loan
refinance.
62.       The number of project beneficiaries would be substantial and is
estimated at about one million farmers, including farmers who would be
expected to purchase excess water from project borrowers. At least 60% of
the credit is expected to be! extended to small farmers and approximately 50%
is expected to be used in the less developed northeastern States.  Incremental
annual empLoyment generated by project investment is estimated at about 115
million man-days. Much of the additional labor would be supplied by un-
employed or underemployed members of beneficiary families. However, a sig-
nificant part would be proviided by hired laborers, many of them landless
people belonging to the poorest segments of India's population.
63.       The main risk in this type of project is inadequate appraisal and
monitoring of schemes and individual borrowers, leading to poor performance
of some investments and individual loans. ARDC's experience shows that this
risk is slight, and continuing institutional improvement should reduce it
further. The vagaries of wieather are an omnipresent risk, but with about
two-thirds of project investments planned for minor irrigation, the project
by its nature reduces weather risk. A further risk relates to participating
banks' ability to enforce satisfactory repayment discipline at higher volumes
of lending. Stricter repayment disciplines proposed under this project (see
paragraphs 50 and 51) should help minimize this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation, and the Recommendation
of the Conmittee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
65.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.



- 20 -
66.        The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and ARDC
is an additional condition of effectiveness of the Credit (see Section 6.02
(b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
67.        I aiv satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.        T recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
June 28, 1979



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDIA 
LAND AREA (THOUSAND                            INDIA                           - MOST R       E
TOTAL       A387.6                                                        SAME          SAME       NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTULRAL             16118.3                       MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME           INCOME
1960 /b     1970 lb  ESTIMATE /b   REGION {c    GROUP Id        GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA(Ls )                        60.0        9U.0     .50.0         167.4        182.9          432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPIIA
(KILOGRAMS 0P COAL EQUIVALENT)       142.0        181.0     218.0(76)     65.7          88.9          251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        434.9        547.6     631.7 /f
IJRBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   17.6        19.5      20.6          12.8         15.0           24.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000
(MILLIONS)              973.0
STATIONAPY POPULATION
(MILLIONS)             1643.0
YEAR STATIONARY
POPULATION IS REACHED  2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. m.                        132.0        167.0     192.0         83.2          46.8           42.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTIRAL LAND     247.0        308.0     347.0        322.6         254.1           95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          41.0         41.6      42.0(77)     44.0          43.6           44.9
15-64 YRS.                          55.9         55.3      55.0(77)     52.9          53.3           52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.1         3.1       3.C(77)      2.9           2.9            3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.9         2.3       2.0          2.2           2.4            2.7
UTRBAN                              2 .5/        3.4       3.5          4.2           4.0            8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       44.0         40.0      35.0(77)     45.1          44.3           42.2
CRUDE DEATH rATE (PER THOUSAND)        21.0        17.0      14.0(77)     17.3          19.7           12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.2         2.9       2.4(77)      3.2           2.9            3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNLAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       3768.0    4518.0
USERS(PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)       ..         12.0      11.2         13.7          14.6           14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION             100.0        102.0     101.0         95.6          96.4          104.3
PER CAPITA (1969-71 = 100)
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF CALORIES
(PERCENT OF REQUIREMENTS)          95.0        92.0       89.0         91.1         92.3            99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              51.0         53.0      48.0         49.6          50.0           56.8
OF WHIFCE ANIMAL AND PULSE          19.0        16.0      12.6         12.6          13.9           17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RAIE        28.0        22.0      10.0           ..           ..             7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)      41.7         48.0      51.0(77)     43.1          45.8           53.3
IMFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER TiCUSAND)                                  1 '34.0   134.0         99.5        102.7            82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION )
TOTAL                                .          17.0      33.0         30.0          26.4           31.1
UR3AN                                 -         60.0      83.0         66.3          63.5           68.5
RURAL                               *-           6.0      20.0         17.2          14.1           18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                           18.0      20.0         15.7          16.1           37.5
LRBAN                                           85.0      87.0         66.9          65.9           69.5
RURAL                                 -          1.0       2.0          2.5           3.4           25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            5840.0/h    4890.0    3135.0(77)   8830.8        13432.7         9359.2
POPULATION PEN NURSING PERSON      1l590.0/h    5220.0    63Z0.0(76)   8479.3         6983.3         2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2590.0/4    2020.0    1231.0(77)   1624.5         1157.6          786.5
URBAN                               8. ..                  ,,           ..          183.3          278.4
RURAL                                .           ..        .,           ..         1348.8         1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RIO .D.                     ..        ..           ..           19.5           19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.2          ..        5.2          .,            5.2
URBAN                               5.2          ,,        4.8          ,,            4.8
RURAL                               5.2          ..        5.3          ..            5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERUONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.6          2.8       ..
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..           ..            1.8            2.3
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINCS
TOTAL                                ,     .       .       ..           .            25.9           28.3
URBAN
RURAL                                ,,         ..         ..           ..           8.7            10.3



ANNEX I
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET             Page 2 of 5
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDIA                                                       /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME            SAME       NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC       INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b      1970 /b   ESTIMATE /b    RECION /c         GROUP /d        GROUP L e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:       TOTAL                    61.0         72.0       79.0(76)        59.1             62.9          75.8
FEMALE                   40.0         55.0       63.0(76)        38.4            45.9           67.9
MALE                     80.0         87.0       94.0(76)
SECONDARY:    TOTAL                     20.0         29.0       28.0(76)        19.9             14.4          17.7
FEMALE                   10.0         17.0       18.0(76)         9.9             8.8           12.9
MALE                     30.0         39.0       38.0(76)
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)        8.0          6.0/       *-              1.5              6.6           7.4
PbPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                 29.0         38.0       40.0            38.2             38.5          34.3
SECONDARY                               16.0         17.0        ..             23.5             19.8          23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)              28.0         33.0       36.0             35.6            36.7          63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               0.7          1.0        1.2(76)         2.2              3.1           7.2
FADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               5.0         21.0       24.0(76)        14.9             31.1          71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               *            0.1        0.5              ..              2.8          14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPLLATION                        11.0         16.0       16.0(75)          6.4             6.0          16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA         4.0          6.3        3.8              ..              1.4           1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)          175000.0    218000.0  261000.0/k
FEMALE (PERCENT)                        31.3         32.6       32.2            21.3            24.2           28.0
AGRICLLTURE (PERCENT)                   73.0         73.8       72.5            62.8             60.7          54.1
INDUST'RY (PERCENT)                     10.4          9.8        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                      43.0         40.2       39.2             35.8            39.8          37.8
MALE                                       57.1         52.3       51.3             52.4            53.3          50.3
FEMALE                                     27.9         27.1       26.2             15.6            19.6          20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                        1.1          1.1        1.1             1.3             1.3            1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         26.7         25.0/1      ..             18.6             20.3          19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        51.7         53.1/1      ..             42.9             45.1          48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          4.1          4.7/1      ..              7.3              5.7           5.9
LOWEST b0 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         13.6         13.1/1      .-             19.3             16.8          15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (CS$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..        83.0(77)        80.2             88.5         155.9
RURAL                                    ..           ..        73.0(77)        67.2             71.9          97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UREAN                                    ..           ..        80.0(75)          ..            100.8         143.7
RURAL                                    ..           ..        50.0(77)        39.8            42.0           87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLLTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                    ..           ..        47.0(77)        50.3             46.0          22.9
RURAL                                    ..           ..        52.0(77)        44.6            48.0           36.7
Not available
Not applicable
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c   South Asia; /d Low Incorme ($280 or less per capita 1976); /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);
If  1978 mid-year population is estimated at 640.4 million; Lg 1951-60;  /h 1962;  /i  1958;  J;  1967;
Lk 1978 mid-year labor force is estimated at 261 million; /L 1964-65.
March, 1979



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
FnfPlfr INS OF SOCIAL niDCATOOS
joaa.j   Althoogh the dtens are draw   froms sor...sgnerally Judged  h6. moa  -oehatIeeiive and reliable, ft shoulid also he noted thit they may not haIner.
.ial    map.arole b,:ause of the tacit of standrdized definitions  .Ad cenept. oaed by different Ioustriec  innolntu   the date.   Tha data  arm  onthlee
u-or.1 to de...rib. orders of ngaeitd., in,dicate tread., aed nharot.ristimo 4tAoiS. -alor difference. b.eties noon-rte..
Th.  dote    ro  avej~   rogoo  for ...oh indicatot are populstioee-Seighted goomstein eaana, Oodigthe sworn. values  f th. Ctdi--' and  h.a  --e  ~PpL-td
-ootr  Io ech group.  Due to la-k of data,P group aee.  of all indicnatrs for Capital Surplus Oil impaorter. and of .1rddiIt.re  oltus  t, -at- sod so..reta
di'Pol.::Ifoonig, bone. dIsctnIbu-on and Povrty for other rounty groups arm  popul.tion-aeightsd geontrtO  eases  ittttuO  oclso Of the o.                              m   .aaeand
and neat pupuisted  -oor. Sen   i ,tse    footrsane    heidctr  daedo onsnilblitY of dote oud Io lot unfr                                                    uto    uthenrte
to relotin   ararsOeaof on. indnator no  sother.  Thae et'sreee are maily osefofas sneroniailone of"omecectedntatunaa0.0ofonoarte the".e..oc if            on
todloanor Or a vIes 0e005 the connors sod reference oreose~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r             t
LAND RiEh  f:h!,-ed op. Ion)                                                                    Pn.a2L.ti-oaer  hyhricis   - Populstion dtiidd.  brcate   f pr-acrict     ph-oi-
Toa       n luel, aeormse,atsprialeg land arm  sand laad wat.es.                        sian  qotl"ifid  Ifn a-dic,I. scoo  St u' rio  ee.,
ALricult, al - Moe Irecnoat  st*-t  of arclua    raused tespararily                          ponlaclo  Par snc    Ese               Pouato I divie   hy, or         o   rci,.Cg
onp -seotly to,  -rpa, Pastures, osrkec  and kitohen genden   or to                     osi  andl femalt greduatanore...   rst-to-ol nor..., an d ...el--  I'l
lie  (ahoy.                                                        ~~~~~Ponulatian nr h.sntalbd-cnl.ubn   o  rural   ?porlattui (otl
ore_, and r_srl, divided hy the trapoiemano   optlnd
GNP0 PER CAPITA (U9SS    7lfP Per caieeteteanocrn   bht prices,                                   s...ale.   i  pbl.c and privaec  g          Iea  mod cp.oisos   hoapitaad   s
becu edh  cas     -onrelo  mthod aa World BSeek Atieas (1975-77 baseie);               habilitation center.  Hospital. are oablisha-c   potts-ptly et.-ted hr
19h0, 1970, sod 1177 data.                                                                   at least on  phyi.t.ie.  Et.belihasnt. providing pri-ulpair  -  `,aioll
care are not iocloded.  houel hompicat         hors, iooad   heelth Sod madi-
buN'R: CCtnSlMIyIunOtI CPr - ho-so  -ocsoPtion of  teseal sogy (ca                                 a   e  e    o    ersetpnnfdh      trltn(u   ramdcl  e
o,td lignite, patoolet, - turs.i. gsnd bydroP, nucl.r aed genshewnal                   siaiaeet, osr-, sideife, ec,.) ohith offer topttnin               nndro    n
sL.ctrliciy) in kLlotm   fcalo               -ln    eropi.peid.so limaited tongs of oedica1 f-itlittes.
Ad.Lsions, or hoanit&l bad - Total nuber ofr,isost  o   lcbre
POPTILATION CND VITAL ;TATtSTICN                                                                  Irom, hospitals dvidad by the .-b.ha  of  eds..
Totl  cooinod-er(itue                         us of Jo1y 1; 1960, 1970, ad
1977 data.                                                                              HnUSTNG
trhs,  oPPulation (pennant of total) -RaIttle of urban to total popolm,tioe;                 Aoer,ce else of h-saeodt(roe   on,rhnand                                     - oal   00    o  intl1
di oretd nfooon  of aISe ersemy affet uonpae-ility of dsta                                 ho- hocld Io.n.isie  of s  rop of indiyidual  who uha   living Teir
onon -  otries                                                                               sand tbeir main me As boar.der or lodgar may  -or ny no  he to-lad In the
?Puolatlon ProconcioM.                                                                         household for  suLtOiP-roee...
FPonu-atto  to Teen 7000 - Current poPuistion  preJecioe   ar, based oM                    Aversm  numbr of  meron  ear room  -  -otel  urban, and r-rI -  verage, nanb-
"975 total population by age and eon and their lsortsltty and fertility                      of Persone Par roanio       alm  ohe L.d rural   -coptd oneci idunite."
caes   ProJection  para ters  for .ortolity rat.s nompniem  of 3 level                       roepanti-ely. Doellisg.  ald    n-pennttrnur   and   --ocpied porte.
ea nglife  :ognotasny en birth iscrese..  wSith I.utrety's Per cepits                 ACCteSa to alstrinity (rerent of dusltloge) -ttl    -ra,ad  --1a  -
booms level, ano  Annal  lfe,, ...staI. .tebjiling at 77.5 ysars.                       Conronetionsi dw-llIns. sinhIeotninity t. liriog q-aronr  at porro-tgn  of
Thn,sseeot.   etiIyrt   lohn   levels,11  se-oniln  denlientotal. erhan, and total doelltg.n   rmspaoti-er.
--noo.Othrutry is then assigned ens of thee. 9 nosbiostlans                    EDUrCATION
of oortatity  -.Id fertlinytronde for prn)otion  Pourposee.                                dmsed  nrolletent ratios
Scatloose  pnStao-Ia1otionary Population, then  is no grneesh                                prsy   col- tonl   a   Sd f                     Gml        .ross tnna.1  male and fetl. enrol-
iobe  tho birth -aeis  qeqoI to th. death rats, and aleS  the  ge                            man  00 all ages atItep-et   arta   percetnsges  f  -op-cti- prlnor
-trrrereain,   -tsom.t.  Thio is achievd only after fertility ra to                      h- oba-ags popolationes; so-olty Inoiude. ohildree aged 6-1.1 flare  hut
lciethr.-p1-onot Level of -nit nat reprodoetion rats,  hobo  meac                    sd)cd for different length, of prImaur  edonstion; for  ottrias with
esrto    f wasn replotee  itself osmetly.  Th. Ststienaoy, Population                     tociaa  aduration anIonliss   -a,  -oredIDO P00...w  aL-. s-n  popils are
lie. nsaas imned on the basis of the progeoted ch ...otriatiee  of the                      hbo  nsoo_hMffoa  sbo    ga.
-o.Ulonio~n I  the poor 2000, end the rena of dsolime of fertility Irac                     Senend.ry col-tnl   aesdlcl   Coup-td as Shove;  -scodaryiadus-
to"rPIa.  aSt lo-e1                                                                          tin  regoi-e  an lease  four pears of approved prIar   ntrart--ion  Provide
YMoor1   'Mranc   Pp.1uloion to. ne..ded - Chs year ohao  Stationary Ponals-                  geea   oaional,, o  tesoher tra            ingla tu-rlu-  for Putilo   ea           f
cion r1ica has bteen.. rahed.                                                                12 to 1   mr-=fae;orepon~d-o -              oraaat- --al  eoudd
PoulttoNdsit                                                                                Vostlonal .n.II-atn (per ...  of  VtndrI -                  VotIua  i-ftitut -n  -Inclde
Per  0. on. - Mid-year popolation Per sqasre kilneter  (100 hentar.e)                         tanheital, iedumtria1, or other p-groee  which opan-t  independentlyura
of tonal eo.depa.meneote of  -eondary inetitunions.
Per en. on. aorlulturol !and - Conpoted se above for ant llo an ed                          Poeil-t        Ieortio     _ oieo    and .aced.EL - To-Io.. otdeniseorled1        i
only.                                                                                         rmr   e  snodogry Isas   iid.  by nour.atr  of- On-h-r   ntin   rr
P.nul.,I..ao  oncooe  oroent) - Childlde   (0-14 yeare), .:rskog-.qe                           eposedinglve.
71--pom,cd rned(65 years a. ad over) ue per.ennag e of old-                       Adu!ltIlcr    reta--     -toer t  -  lter-t  adolts  lai   o r-d sod  -rI-n  as
coon ropolsrian.                                                     a ~~~~~perceonsp  01 Ioa  autPoPultion aged 15 years andon.
Population orouth rano )oedr,-no'- otal. e-d urbo - C~onp.ood afloat
groth  -ate  of toalan  uroan cid .ee   popuiStiana  for 1950060,                       CoOlltUMPT7feP
1960-70. aod 1910-77.                                                                     -seoa   ae(o  toos    nuafn)-Psegrcr    -rooriaoo     rr
Cods bit  race   P.,r th.ocand) - t,unol live birth. Per thousand of                          Ssetin  las  he  ago   Ioeoa  sclu.  ..ua..               e  bero   odmltn
oid-y-e  populs(ion; 1960, 1970 and 1977 dana..                                              vehidlas.
Crude death rote  nper thoand) - usn."    deatho  Per thouaned of mid-                       Radio reier 'Inat thousand Pon  laton   -  l  types ofrelorfrrao
ys-  Population. 1960, 1970 and 1977 data.                                                   Oroadnasce  to gearl        bi  perLthousand of popuLation;  -ottdoeolt-cer,sd
iro... -Prdu-i- rao;te   AyOerage  namb-f of d.oght.ro. a -tee   ill bear                      r-oivar  In ooomtrioe snd in y.an  whnrgitaIn                   ofrdosaaweC
In  rrnoma  rcprndu-ir  period if sh. aepreosPr...e  ag-ffot; data.for recent pesos may non ho  -enyreblstv    orottrs
opeclfCa fertility  ronas; usual-ly five-year avrae  aedlog  In 1960,                abelhed lcnig.
1170. and 19'S                                                     10.0~~~~~7 reoivereCen  thousand  lnaition) - TVro-oiv--  for-        odattgor
ancspnor  of htoth-concrol d-o.ie   _ude           tasie    nof mtinal roily-                "tie  aad 1             aerOsn r_gistrtion  of T10 sate  -S  10 effect.
poningpore.tsemntnr`aio    nrtoosdenloiol-   Shone oh,aaor go1 ciroa-
IsnlyologigI-%oorc Ceorus-t of uaIroid.edaon.n                 Penna of                      Itin  of "dily  reetorsi  .osetnaaa"                  is .     spari  d  iodoo  pohli
ma .dot    f  -vld-hbe...t  age S    15-46 peace) -,ht, us. blt-h-on-tr1             coi   dvted pot-aily  tors-ordlog gonr.l os -_  It 1.s  -nidr-d to
3r'iens  o all marIInd wmnin e-anego group.                                            ha"aly' if it'appesro  at least four ti-s   a aenk.
Clone    -Ioa  atnad.... Par ..pi,* par Yeatr- Baand  -n ohs cn-  of  itk-sn
FOOD1 aNnt PUTITIl                                                                               oold durig 06. year. I-Wldlng adniaion   to dri-e-ic ctn-   and nohil.
Ind.. of foo  oodeto   nor 1a9t                                     us6~ll0)-t,ncabhr of par   aolto.
energ   eqolnaisot cA In 0-0 s-ppl is  .-a ilabla  in  outr  Per cpita.                     oa   Shnun   (thousands) - E-eoIou11o uc-i-  -e - n, cirlodingote
Par daY.  A.ilbhl  stppJime IIooer iea d-mtic p-odaotomn,  mp.rte lees                       forcee and anep1oyad bun senludinghoultosviv,  t.td..t.. .I0.  Defio
-oporeIso  ooe  1n stock.  Na.t suppliese  emluds anleaal feed, oseds,                       tioesin various  -otrieosare notIneperabl.,
fuoii.aue   1   od      poseo,and I..... L. distribution.  9.5-                       F-al  lestouot) - Fena. lahb          ao   spretfoIttlbor forte.,p...
quirnaelnte  oe,,etimatsd b, CAO  baesd on pbvoioltogila . osd. for no-                    AuR-oultrs (es-nt) - Labor force in foni.g, fo-esry, h,Ircog and fishing
ma   cflya,,d 0h10  considering onvr-eato1l conperantum, body                           asper tnnge of toota Ilabor foro..
ruihe . oeadandtscrib ction   of PopuSlation, aod allowing  10 Par-                  oduanny Cre--et,     ao   ot  is nintg, coeotcto, m eatnrrosd
~rr eottooopnlr ofor-oin (aren   Pre  day) - prot.e retncet of Pmr                    Panonco   ae(eon -totlm'a7                     s and fonslo. - -<Coo , main  end
-a1a  e  tupell  rf food Per day.  Pet supply-o foo   edele  a                            oal    or   ao  as peoraa    f theirnectv                      ortr;Wh.90
shts  equirsnsots for all rountri-s neabliahed hy USDA previd. for                      and .1975 data.  Th... ar  ILOc)  adjtoa-d    rtcorn  r                -verf-ieoin ws
a  tton-  al'oac   of.60 gr-   of.total protein par.dsp, and 20 gros                        o  otaor  of the ppolation, and long tl.e  drend.~
ioma  and Itusa(rn , of whichI10 goon  ohould be onleall Protini.                     Incnrdnnac   ai      001   fpptta    ne                          0d cC and c-sr to
2 hsce totnddrdIdore bootth-n those o  75 gina  of total protein end                         telbrocaiage groop of 15-64  -ers
23rOsof Snmlprtloasan                   _gnoe   for the  -arl.d, prapoend by
FAOT it the Third aurIdoodF                                                             INoy.TCOM lIISTIt'1
per Qtoita Bo- tsl _eunol  TIrosislad Ios. - Pr'tein supply of food                          Preosofrva    I-oan   <both in t.sh and kind; rerl s  bv richeec  5
d   fevd  ro   un=lmls  n    oi   rm    e  ds.                                          p-roeo, riubhs  20 percent. pooret 70 percen.  an d portto   er  n
Child (oct  1-41 notai0   rat - Cost!I o,honaad) - k-ro1  deaths Per nhoue-                    uf households.
-td  goe  groP 1_4 year, to o1tildren in this ago; groop.
PIALTH                                                                  11till"d l1l1!r1111 1I.-Elyfil.11-   "I'll ttOy 100011-1410110
jC-.if.  ctap--      00 birrh (vT-ra-Aerg.  mn-br of years of lifl. rosaio-                    nb_olutn povrt  mon   evlt  thtItn   ee    n..     c;                         ta
ing a' olrth; 1960, 1070, sod 1977 Io,                                                        urnoaiaoot    itp.   es  ilnnCvr~ien-oeo
Infant--orallt  ruts  (P., thousan d) - Anoual deathe of infant. uod.r                         sfIodbe
oepa   Ca&e Por  rcndIon  hiorhe.                                                  Ianntd  eain-oeo   ntn   ee   1')S0p nerabl-ahu   ond tonl 
to  ut  cternooen o  ntuatentnoe ..  rbn.oc  rual-                            slstv  pven,   -cntn  level is an-thtvd ofan np-r .upt,. peronal
iN--  o   el   cot.a.. Lme,  odora 1, .4th reioaleoe    ebn.-  of rho  ooir
c-l, ta1rotu,pln Cincwaude  treated a-foco oanr   r                -n,eted hoc                        --fote   o,l-rir  co-     aolueooet                                  -b-sboe    emnr.'ta  on
.ocouov Col-  aoinr -aut,:,tha0 ut.Cro  prnte;ced borsholno . opringe,                    r:Url -.eo  of PrP;clotion (urhou  -nd no,'ctSr'. -.C,    op
_td solrarn.   mello  asPerotao           f tnwir tee ponv   populatos
lv on  -rOac   twpuhilt f-,natr or etandpoet  or-tad no, t nOO   rh`
10  aton  Et,,  a  ocsan  bo  -a-ideond an being oithin -rna nsln
rho   te  ho. tot o  vH ner        n.f rh   houshol  dotrot CaveR) ""  to  nenda
oronr mntl   parotthedanif   ontingthefuolyaatereno .Iroowi  ,r  So r- d                                                                       Sre ,,1 I'
olsoesl  cerrn t o  onoultuwoCP' tota.  rh...  odi. .rn..rneWrntdI
rerol- Tootor  f pn       -d- (omb.uobu .   udthrulr  aere    rehe-dt                                                                          orh 
pe aI  n  ecenaco   f   hirrnpettcnpoubtinb               Cooht -luou



ANNEX I
OONC DllTm D                                Page 4 of 5
03P PR CUXl IN 1977: M    15L0A
b/                                                                                                    cJ
GROSS   TIO   PRODUCT IN 1977/78                                                             ANSL    RS  w  cu  Cll   coolant n ries)
U.s$ Sl                                                       1960/61-19M/65      1965/1W"9/70    1970/71-1976/77
GNUT  t Markect Price           101.47       100.0                                                  3.9                 3.6                3.2
Grooe Dometic Investment         21.65       21.3
Gross National Saving            22.77       22.4
Current *ccount Balance  d/       1.04         1.0
Resource Balance   d/           - 0.31       - 0.3
OUTPUT   BOR POOZ AND PROnICTMT! IN 1971
Value Added (at f-etor cost)         sbAor Force              V.A. Per Worker
U  Bln.          2                flu,       IL             119       2 of Hatioal Averata
Ariculture                        24.5            46.6              130.0     72.1            158               64
Industry                          11.8           22.3                20.2     11.2            582              199
Servie*a                          16.3           31-1                30.2     16.7            542              18
T tal/average                     52.6           100.0              180.4    100.0            292              100
CovENIINT F*NAm
Cenral Govarment                                             Central Ce_at
Is..Bln                                                      as ofDr    ID         f 
ls77/7e  1 9 7 > 7 7                   1977/7~~~~~~~~~~~~1247-519
Current Receipt.                 164.42          18.9          18.2                            95.62          11.0           10.5
Current Expenditures             157.29         18.1           16.5                            95.27          10.9            9.9
Currant Surlus/Deficit             7.1.3          0.8           1.6                             0.35          a.e.            0.6
Capital Expenditures  f/          62.58          7.2            7.0                            43.31           5.0            5.0
External Assistance (nat) A/       9.82          1.1            1.6                             9.82           1.1            1.6
MMY. CUDIT AID PUIC                 1970/71    1973/76    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78       S.ttber 1977       Sest_ebr 197e
(Is 5illion outstanding at and of period)
Money and Quasi Moay                 121.4       198.4      220.3      254.7      30.9       365.1           334.8            395.e
Bank  Credit to Goverannt (net)       52.6       87.3        95.3      101.1      110.2      129.7           119.3            139.5
Bank Credit to Comercial Sector       64.6       107.0      126.7      153.9      185.1      210.0           195.3            223.5
(Percentage or Indem Hubers)                              January 1978       January 1979
Money and Quasi Money as 7 of CDP     30.1        33.5       31.5       34.5       38.8        41.9
Wbolasale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                    100.0      139.7      174.9      173.0       176.6       185.8        184.5              184.6
Anual percentage changes in:
Vbolsole Price index                   7.7        20.2       25.2      . 1.1        2.1         5.2           3.2               0.1
Bank Credit to Govermnent (net)       10.8        12.3        9.2        6.1        9.0        17.7          13.4              16.9
bank Credit to Co_rcial Sector        19.4        22.6       18.4       21.5       20.3         13.5         16.6              14.4
l/ The per capita ONW etimate is at mrket prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Atla..
All other converaions to dollars in this table are at the averag  exchang  rate prevailivn  during the period coverd.
b/ Quick Setluates.
c7  Cputed from trend line of GNP at factor cost aerita, including one observation before first year and on
obaervation after last year of listed period.
dt World bank estimates, not necessarily consistent with official National Account Statistics.
a/  Transfers between Centre and States have bean netted out.
ft All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
A/ External grants and loans, l1es principal repsymenrt, as recorded in the Central Budget.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
hi         h/
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS             1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79                  NERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1977/78)
(US$ million)                                                       US$ mln.         %
Exports of Goods                  4,672      5,753        6,276        6,800              Engineering Goods               610         11
Imports of Goods                 -6,449    -5,928        -7,237       -8,400              Tea                             417          7
Trade Balance                    -1,777      - 175        - 961       -1,600              Gms                             377          7
NFS (naet)                           310       360          650          700               Clothing                       331          6
Leather and Leatb,er
Resource Balance                 -1,467        185        - 311      -  900                        Products               278          5
i/                                                              Jute Manufactures               267          5
Interest Payments (ne:)           - 216      - 180         - 50          -                 Iron Ore                       265          5
Other Factor Payments (net)           -         -            -           -                 Cotton Textiles                248          4
Net Transfers  j/                   470        730        1,400       1,300                Sugar                          244          4
Others                       2,530         45
Balance on Current Account       -1,213        735        1.039         400
Total                        5.567        100
Official Aid
Disbursements                  2,341      1,953        1,628       1,805               EXTERILL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1978 6/
Amortization                   - 531      - 560        - 645       - 725                                                     USS billion
Transactions with I1F               242      - 337        - 330       - 158               Outstanding and Disbursed                 14.8
All Other Items                     - 45     - 216          384          205              Undisbursed                                4.3
Outstanding, including
Increase in Reserves (-)          - 794    -1,575        -2,076      -1,527                     Undisburied                         19.1
Gross Reserves (end year)         2,172      3,747        5,823       7,350                                                 h/l/
Net Reserves (end yesar)  k/      1,365      3,276        5,668       7,350               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1977/78            15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                 IBRD/IDA LENDINS, DECEMBER 31. 1978
Imports                           1,417      1,581        1,817       1,980                                                     US$ million
of which: Petrolewn             1,417      1,581        1,817       1,980                                                  IBRD          IDA
Exports                              43         37           33        n.a.               Outstanding and Disbursed           613         3,864
Undisbursed                        615         1,992
of which: Petroleum                22         21           18        n.a.               Outstanding, including                  m/
Undisbursed              1,228         5,856
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971            US$1.00 - Re 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 tc end-June 1972       US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$o.137376
After end-June 1972                       Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978              US$1.00 - Rs 8.188
US$1.00 - Re 0.122
h/  Estimated.
i/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
J/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included vithie official aid disbursements.
k/  Excludes net use of 11M  credit.
1/  Amortization arnd interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.
m/ Excludes exchsatge adjustment, but includes US$ 22 million due to third parties.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
TBE STATUS OP BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A.  STATEMNT OP BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1979)
1US$ Million-
Loan or                                                                                         (Net of Cancellations)
Credit N.         year       Borrower                   Purpose                          Sank           IDA       Undisburoed
40 Loans!                                                                              1,100.6
55 Credits fully disbursed                                                                            3,338.6
267-IN            1971        India       Wheat Storage                                   --              5.0           1.10
294-IN            1972        India       Bihar Agricultural Markets                      --             14.0           2.48
312-IN            1972        India      Population                                       --             21.2           2.43
342-IN            1972        India      Education                                        -              12.0          7.03
356-IN            1972        India       IDBI                                                           25.0          9.02
378-IN            1973        India      Mysore Agricultural Markets                      --              8.0          6.67
902-IN            1973        ICICI       Industry DFC X                                  62.8           --            0.26
390-IN            1973        India       Bombay Water Supply                             --             55.0         13.00
427-IN            1973        India       Calcutta Urban Development                      --             35.0           3.71
440-IN            1973        India       Bihar Agricultural Credit                       --             32.0           7.05
456-IN            1974        India       hP Apple Processing & Marketing                 --             13.0           8.80
481-IN            1974        India       Trombay IV                                      --             50.0          2.42
1011-IN            1974        India       Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                         52.0           --           28.05
482-IN            1974        India       Karnataka Dairy                                 --             30.0         22.42
502-IN            1974        India       Rajasthan Canal CAD                             --             83.0         42.71
520-IN            1974        India       Sindri Fertilizer                               --             91.0          7.09
521-IN            1974        India      Rajasthan Dairy                                  --             27.7         19.91
522-IN            1974        India      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                             --             16.4         10.72
526-IN            1975        India      Drought Prone Areas                              --             35.0         16.89
1079-IN            1975        IFFCO       IFFCO Fertilizer                               109.0           --           26.oo
1097-IN            1975        ICCII       Industry DFC XI                                 97.5           --            8.33
532-IN            1975        India      Godavari Barrage Irrigation                      --             45.0         17.19
541-IN            1975        India      West Bengal Agricultural Development             --             34.0         19.03
562-IN            1975        India      Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                     --             24.0         11.19
172-IN            1975        India      Rural Electrification                            --             57.0         33.02
585-IN            1975        India      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                       --             40.0         29.84
598-IN            1975        India      Fertilizer Industry                              --            105.0         74.46
604-IN            1976        India      Power Transmission IV                            --            150.0        103.97
609-IN            1976        India      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                     --              4.0          2.87
610-IN            1976        India      Integrated Cotton Development                    --             18.0         16.06
1251-lN(TW)        1976        India      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                       145.0           --          124.97
1260-IN            1976        India       IDBI II                                         40.0           --           29.88
1273-IN            1976        India      National Seeds                                   25.0           --           24.65
1313-IN            1976        India      Telecommunications VI                            80.0           --           24.98
1335-IN            1976        BMRDA      Bombay Urban Transport                           25.0           --           14.40
680-IN            1977        India      Kerala Agricultural Development                  --             30.0         29.84
682-IN            1977        India      Orissa Agricultural Development                  --             20.0         17.88
685-IN            1977        India      Singrauli Thermal Power                          --            150.0        126.74
687-IN            1977        India      Madras Urban Development                         --             24.0         18.52
695-IN            1977        India      Gujarat Fisheries                                --              4.0          3.21
1394-IN(TW)        1977        India      GuJarat Fisheries                                14.0           --           14.00
690-IN            1977        India      West Bengal Agricultural Development             --             12.0         12.00
712-IN            1977        India      Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Development          --             10.0         10.00
715-IN            1977        India      Second ARDC Credit                               _-            200.0        79.67
720-IN            1977        India      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                        --             23.0        20.36
728-IN            1977        India      Assan Agricultural Development                   --              8.0          7.62
1473-IN            1977        India       Bombay High Offshore Development               150.0           --           81.35
736-IN            1977        India      Maharashtra Irrigation                           --             70.0        61.58
737-IN            1977        India      Rajasthan Agricultural Eitension                 --             13.0        12.09
740-IN            1977        India      Orissa Irrigation                                --             58.0        54.89
1475-IN            1977        ICICI       Industry DFC XII                                80.0           --           56.54
747-IN            1978        India       Second Foodgrain Storage                        -             107.0       101.52
756-IN            1978        India      Second Calcutta Urban Development                --             87.0        72.99
761-IN            1978        India      Bihar Agricultural Extension & Research          --              8.0         8.0
1511-IN            1978        India       IDBI Joint/Public Sector                        25.0           --          25.0
1549-IN            1978        TEC         Third Trombay Thermal Power                    105.0           --          96.42
788-IN            1978        India      Karnataka Irrigation                             --            126.0       126.0
793-IN            1978        India      Korba Thermal Power                              --            200.0       181.18
806-IN            1978        India      J .amo-Kashmir Horticulture                      --             14.0        14.0
808-IN            1978        India      Gujarat Irrigation                               --             85.0        85.0
815-IN            1978        India      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                         --             17.5        17.5
816-IN            1978        India       Second National Seeds                           --             16.0        16.0
1592-IN            1978        India       Telecommunications VII                         120.0           --          91.93
824-IN            1978        India      National Dairy                                   --            150.0       147.98
842-IN*           1978        India       Second Bombay Water Supply & Sewerage           --            196.0       196.0
843-IN            1978        India      Haryams Irrigation                               --            111.0       106.10
844-IN            1978        India       Railway Modernioation & Maintenance             --            190.0       186.68
848-IN            1978        India      Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage                 --             38.0        37.74
855-IN            1979        India      National Agricultural Research                   --             27.0        27.0
962-IN*           1979        India      Composite Agricultural Extension                 --             25.0        25.0
871-IN*           1979        India      NCDC                                                            30.0        30.0
1648-IN*           1979        India       Ramagundam Thermal Power                        50.0           --          50.0
874-IN*           1979        India       Ramagundam Thermal Power                        --            200.0       200.0
889-IN5           1979        India       Punjab Irrigation                               --            129.0       129.0
Total                                                                2,280.93       6,747.39
of which has been repaid                                             931.11         47.22
Total sow suistandiing                                               1,349.82       6.700.17
Amount Sold                        133.3
of which has been repaid         111.5                                21.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                       1,328.02       6,700.77
Total undisbursed (emcluding*)                                         646.75       2.073.19
Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjuntment



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. STiATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(Aks of April 30, 1979)
Fiscal                                                     Amount (US$ million)
Year                    Company                         Loan     Equity      Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.                  1.5       -           1.5
1959         Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9       -          0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                       1.4       -           1.4
1961         K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                          0.2        -          0.2
1963-66      Precision Bearings India Ltd.              0.7        0.3        1.0
1964        Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.                 0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75     Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.              11.8         1.4      13.2
1964        Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                   1.0       0.3        1.3
1967         Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                    1.0        0.1        1.1
1967         Indian Explosives Ltd.                     8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70      Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                 15.1        3.8       18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                             6.6         -         6.6
1978         Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                4.0        1.4        5.2
TOTAL                                53.6       10.4       64.0
Less:  Sold                                   5.9        1.7        7.6
Repaid                               15.9         -        15.9
Cancelled                             6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                             25.6        8.0       33.6
Undisbursed                           4.5        0.6        5.1



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$496.4 million in FY78 or 39% of Bank Group com-
mitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$2,720 million
as of April 30, 1979, reflects the lead time which would be expected given
the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 (US$23.5 million) are also ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1980
The project provides US$32.0 million in support of a lending program
for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets investment in the Tirhut Division of Bihar.
Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than estimated Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate and by low unit investment costs compared with appraisal esti-
mates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date to March 1980 and expand the
project area to cover the whole State. Physical targets have now been
achieved and the credit should be fully disbursed by the revised closing
date.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Credit 715 is designed to provide long- and medium-term credit
to farmers through credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily
in minor irrigation. The piroportion of disbursements to small farmers is
currently estimated at abouLt 60% compared with the appraisal target of 50%.
Training programs for staff of the financing institutions are progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Credit 267, which is being co-financed with Sweden, finances
(i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage and handling facilities,
(ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain Storage Study. The
government-owned Food Corporation of India is responsible for the storage
construction. All the nine 10,000-ton-capacity bag warehouses envisaged under
the project as revised became operational in 1975. The construction of five
grain silos is progressing satisfactorily after delays due to cement shortages.
The training component is being implemented. The All-India Grain Storage Study
was completed in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating the proposal
for the Second Foodgrain Storage Project (Credit 747). The Second Project
is proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 milLion credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Credit 456 includes grading and packing centers, cold storage
facilities, a juice processing plant, road improvements and cableways. It
also includes cold storage facilities and a pilot project to promote mush-
room production. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems; however remedial measures have been taken to overcome
these difficulties. Land has been acquired for 8 to 10 packing and grading
sites, and procurement and construction activities are well underway. The
Project Preparation Report for the juice processing plant has been completed,



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
and the equipment has been ordered. The road improvement program is progres-
sing satisfactorily, and the feasibility reports on aerial cableways at the
packing/grading sites have been completed. The Jammu Kashmir Horticulture
Project was declared effective on January 16, 1979.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Loan 1313 supports the expansion of the Indian telecommunications
system through the provision of funds for the installation of 220,000 direct
exchange lines and expansion of the trunk network. A second loan (Loan 1592)
continues support of the development of India's telecommunication system
through FY 1981 and as well contributes to the improvement of the Indian
telecommunication industry. Both projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$65 million had
been awarded by December 1978. This Credit included a supplementary Credit
of US$30 million to meet increased costs of equipment scheduled under the
Third Power Transmission Project; all but US$4 million of this amount has
also been committed.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date:  March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Trombay IV project is now being commissioned, about 18 months
behind schedule due to longer-than-expected delivery times for critical equip-
ment. The Sindri project is also being commissioned. The IFFCO project was



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to
naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts. However, project
construction is now proceedling satisfactorily and no further delays in project
implementaiton are expected. Credit 598 is designed to increase the utiliza-
tion of existing fertilizer production capacity.  The proje.zC has encountered
delays in sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government.
Further, some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize
because of reconsideration by the Central and State governments. IDA has
agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the ones that are likely to be
dropped. Because of the above, the project is likely to be delayed by 6-12
months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29,, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number oE towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under the
Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. The project includes training
of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and evaluation
of the project's economic impact. Development plans have been completed for
53 market yards to ensure the project target of 50 markets is met. As of
November 1978, the date of the last review, appraisals had been completed for
50, and loans approved for 49 markets. Construction had been completed for
19 and was in progress for 31 markets. Farmers and traders served by the 11
market yards now in operation report more efficient marketing activities and
improved farmers' terms of trade. Progress under the Karnataka project is
improving. As of October 1978, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion was underway for 36 of the 39 project markets. Plans and land acquisi-
tion are nearing completion at the remaining sites. Both projects are
expected to be completed by their respective closing dates.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design arnd monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of manage!ment information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended by one year.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer.
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The first IDBI Project had a slow start mainly due to institutional
problems in the participating State Financial Corporations. However, the
credit is now fully committed. In order to continue the Bank Group's involve-
ment in assisting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved, a second operation (Loan 1260) was
approved in 1976, and disbursements have reached US$9.3 million by the end of
March. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the pooling of private and public
capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The project will also assist IDBI in
carrying out industrial sector investment studies and in strengthening the
financial institutions dealing with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; (expected) Effective
Date: June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date:  January 25, 1979,
*                            Closing Date:  March 31, 1983
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns
caused by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), re-
design of major project comlponents and the addition of a supplementary study
on sewage disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing relatively well. All of
the major contracts will be sufficiently advanced to permit the supply of
additional water (455 mld) in the second quarter of 1979; completion of water
treatment works for the whole supply by the end of 1979 is realistically fore-
cast. Completion of additiLonal sewage disposal studies (August 1977) has
allowed e-ngineering design of the project sewerage components to proceed, so
that completion of construction of these works is now scheduled for mid-1980,
two years later than originally forecast. Financial performance of the
project e-ntity is satisfactorily. Credit 848 was declared effective on
schedule and preliminary work in connection with its implenentation is pro-
gressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for riegional- and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements are being
made to appoint a full-time management adviser to closely supervise and
coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
For the first of these projects, following considerable increases
in project costs, GOI and IDA finalized a project redefinition in April 1976.
It is now expected to be substantially completed by December 1979. Credit
756 is designed to expand and upgrade the capabilities of Calcutta's admin-
istrative authorities, to strengthen the city's fiscal base, and to reha-
bilitate and extend its urban service system.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services, slum improvement, small-
scale and cottage industry, and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city. The
water supply and sewerage, road and traffic, bus transport and technical
assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in water supply
and transport. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, and
disbursements are slightly ahead of appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date:  August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project, which got off to a
slow start, has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 700 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions envisaged under the project have been established and are
functioning satisfactorily. Karnataka's decision to procure plant equipment
jointly with Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh on the same tender should lead to
a recovery of considerable time lost earlier in the Karnataka project. In
Madhya Pradesh good progress has been made. About 252 new dairy cooperatives
societies have been established. Detailed design studies for plant construc-
tion are complete. The response of small farmers to the project is excellent.
GOMP has plans to cover all districts in the State. Technical services in-
vestments are being made. Contracts have been placed for livestock imports.
The Rajasthan project is also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed
and excellent progress has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
800 dairy cooperatives at the village level. Plant designs are ready, and
procurement is making adequate progress. Based upon the good results expe-
rienced, GOR is planning to expand the form of dairy development to all other
districts of the State.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily. Disbursements reached 59% of total credit amount as of
December 31, 1978.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 30, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)          Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 7T6    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 17, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date:  August 31, 1983
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides financing over four years mainly for minor
irrigation investments but also for development of markets, agro service
centers, and support of related government extension services. Although dis-
bursements have been slower than anticipated, there has been a considerable
improvement in project organization and administration and disbursements are
expected to improve considerably. The physical progress of shallow tubewells,
and of deep tubewells for the Minor Irrigation Corporation, is satisfactory.
IDA, GOWB and ARDC are combining efforts in order to solve difficulties such
as organizational problems at the farm level; lack of demand for agro service
centers; and completion of designs for water distribution systems and irriga-
tion schemes. Positive results, particularly for the redesigned water distri-
bution systems have been achieved.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date:  September 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date:  February 6, 1978;  Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 7,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
August 16, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects, totalling US$123 million, finance the re-organi-
zation and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of
adaptive agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early
and sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these projects. The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States. The projects' components include provision
of additional staff, training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory
facilities, equipment and transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, [975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricualtural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve tree crop production in Kerala and has
particular emphasis on increasing benefits to small farmers. It comprises
rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconut and 10,000 ha pepper and 2,240 ha cashew,
and new plantings of 5,000 ha coconut and 1,500 ha cashew. About 25% of the
coconut area would be irrigated for intensive intercropping. Funds have been
provided for development of a seed garden for tree crops and for strengthening
tree crops research. Ten crumb rubber factories would also be established to
process smallholder rubber. Project implementation started slowly due to
initial staffing and funding delays but has recently gained momentum. Proj-
ect actions for 1978/79 have been rephased and advance action planned so
as to make up for lost time.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project is intended to strengthen the institutional framework
responsible for promoting and financing development of cooperatives, partic-
ularly village level multipurpose cooperative societies.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which, at about Rs 5 million each, would cover about 140 schemes. There are
now thirteen States eligible for onlending (compared with six at the time
of appraisal). The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the
need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to international
competitive bidding, but the position has now improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed.
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 mil-
lion credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances equipment, civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and cotton production increase
in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton gin-
neries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. Effectiveness was delayed by slow appointment of
consultants, but the cotton extension services program was started without
delay and has now been in operation for two years. Disbursements have been



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
small mainly due to poor demand to date for project credit. A recent super-
vision mission, working with technical consultants, has made detailed recom-
mendations for more appropriate pest control practices and more adaptive
research to identify and introduce better varieties. These measures are
under discussion with GOI, and when agreed to and implemented, should speed
up project disbursements.
Ln. No. 12.73   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 81.6    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date>: December 31, 1984
Loan 1273 supports the first phase of India's national seed
program, consisting of: sebed industry expansion in the public and private
sectors, improvements in seed quality control, strengthening of breeding and
seed technology research, and development of a reserve stock scheme.  Insti-
tutional development and managerial arrangements, particularly at the state
level, have proceeded fair:Ly satisfactorily. Project implementation, however,
slowed down after loan effectiveness mainly due to organizational problems.
Project progress is now gaining momentum after GOI filled the two top posts
of the National Seeds Corporation which were vacant for several months. A
project supporting the second phase of India's national seed program (Credit
816) is now effective.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Contracts for all 700 bus chassis and nearly all 700 bus bodies
to be procured under the project have been awarded and some 500 buses have
been delivered.  Civil works contracts have been awarded for 8 bus facilities,
and 24 traffic engineering, schemes. Delays are expected in implementing some
BMC traffic engineering schemes and the BEST workshop schemes although steps
are being taken to minimize such delays. Consultants in organization, admin-
istration, financial management systems, accounting and development planning
are at work assisting the Borrower, the Bombay Metropolitan Regional Develop-
ment Authority.  Other beneficiaries of the loan, the Bombay Municipal
Corporation and the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking, have
selected consultants in traffic engineering and operations and management
assistance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: September 19, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
These projects finance the construction of fishing harbors, sea~oo_
processing plants and other facilities required to assist the development of
fisheries in the States of Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh. The projects also
provide funds through ARDC to assist fisherman to purchase 9-15 meter vessels
and 9 meter canoes. Preliminary work in connection with implementation of
these projects is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is, in turn, the first of four power stations in
the Government's program for the development of large Central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such station,
at Korba, is being financed through Credit 793. It is proposed that the
Bank Group will have a continuing involvement in this development program.
The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been formed to construct
and operate these power stations, and the development program has gotten off
to a good start. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding satisfac-
torily, and the Singrauli project is proceeding on schedule. Civil works are
in progress and contracts have been awarded for major plant (turbo-generators,
boilers, transformers). Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500
MW extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore have been laid and were commissioned in June 1978.
Disbursements had reached 46% of the loan amount on April 30, 1979.



ANNEX III
Page I
INDIA
THIRD ARDC CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Nine months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
ARDC
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of first mission to consider the proje-t
June 1978 and July 1978.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 20, 1978
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 25, 1979
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
August 1979
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
none
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a)  GOI to review progress made by the cooperative
credit system in meeting farmer credit needs and
inform the Association, by December 31, 1980,
of the findings and proposals for the future
(paragraph 34);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) ARDC to apply guidelines for groundwater evaluation
appropriate to levels of resource development, and
to refinance minor irrigation schemes only in States
where it is satisfied that SGO has been suitably
strengthened (paragraph 45);
(c) ARDC to establish and maintain criteria, satisfactory
to the Association, for determining eligibility of
the land development banks to receive refinance
(paragraph 50);
(d) GOI to review the findings of the survey on interest
rate spreads, conducted under the Second ARDC Project,
and inform IDA, by June 39, 1980, of GOI's proposal
for carrying out the recommendations of the survey
(paragraph 56).



IBRD 12630R 1
MARCH  1979
IN                         THIRD AGRICULTURAL RFF NANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC   )                                                  Genera ized Occurrence of Groundwater, Rainfa 1, EvapDrotion and ARDC Regional Offices
AFGHANISTAN    I
PAITN                                                     c# ;                              tt,F1sera 0 a bo rnC -hs- t
-2KjtV> L 2 .<...... +SA .tn
AHMEnB                            &HOPAL4fe 1       ,       t     . . v,>t,
20'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
gOMtEAX*.tW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~P  -A\.r h'I 2g-,  h,' I, 'LSa,
.  , L \Th ~ '}   ( lolA/JAR  i "RA  a'                                                       - -Indf    -
gM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADr-     C,p                                  l    1,   -2f-
AArabianR,,q -I 0ffiI-
TRIV/X2i~~~~~~~                                                           ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'ANS 'A
lti',  <,   2         591>R   LAXNKA                                          2 s 70u  300  
ONH                             N 
The~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Cnph te                                                                         00h h  - insiarxhis Yterrsc          200  300  400  500
rowt hN f f hyCh bModwr                   E, --                                                70~~NE PAI
attad,o~~ Ca    *a4 ~ ~                                                              B H4U T 
DSCODO,WOWOOOP0'A paolooDVAoO&k00
r0,rOaOO P DODOSD& .aoOa''Ooo O~OO~.oe iuJAe
80'                           00'~~~~~~~~~~~~~N



