Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FILE  COPY
Report No. 2404a-IN
INDIA
STAFF APPRIAISAL REPORT
OF THE
THIRD AGRICULTIJRAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPO]RATION CREDIT PROJECT
June 21, 1979
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division D
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othierwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Rs 8.60 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ACD       -    Agricultural Credit Department (RBI)
APC       -    Agricultural Projects Course
ARDC      -    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
ARDC I    -    First Agricultural Refinance (and Development) Corporation
Credit Project
ARDC II   -    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
Credit Project
CAB       -    College of Agricultural Banking, Pune
CB        -    Commercial Banks
CGWB      -    Central Groundwater Board
DCCB      -    District Central Cooperative Banks
FSS       -    Farmers' Service Societies
GOI       -    Government of India
ICAR      -    Indian Council for Agricultural Research
LDB       -    Land Development Banks (Generic term for all SLDB and
PLDB whether operating on a federated or unitary system)
NIBM      -    National Institute of Bank Management
PCR       -    Project Completion Report
PACS      -    Primary Agricultural Credit Societies
PLDB      -    Primary Land Development Banks
PPA       -    Project Preparation and Appraisal Course
RBI       -    Reserve Bank of India
REC       -    Rural Electrification Corporation
RRB       -    Regional Rural Banks
SCB       -    State Cooperative Banks
SFDA      -    Small Farmers Development Agencies
SGO       -    State Groundwater Organizations
SLDB      -    State Land Development Banks
CROPPING SEASONS
Kharif - June to September
Rabi    -  October to February
Summer  -  March to May
FISCAL YEAR
ARDC   - July 1 to June 30
GOI    - April 1 to March 31
1/   Until September 25, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then, it has been fixed against a "basket"
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report have
been made at US$1.00 to Rs 8.60, the projected exchange rate over the
disbursement period.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     INTRODUCTION  ..........................................                              1
II.     THE AGRICULTURAL  SECTOR  ................................                             I
A.     Agriculture  in India  .............................                           1
B.    Land  and Water  Resources  .........................                           2
C.     Output  Trends  ....................................                           4
D.     Extension  and Research  ...........................                           7
III.     AGRICULTURAL  CREDIT  AND AGRICULTURAL
CREDIT  INSTITUTIONS  .................................                            8
A.     Background  .......................................                            8
B.     Cooperative  Credit  System  ........................                          9
C.    Land  Development  Banks  ...........................                          10
D.     Commercial  Banks  ..................................                         12
E.     Regional  Rural  Banks  ..............................                        14
F.     Farmers  Service  Societies  and Village
Adoption  Schemes  ...............................                         14
G.     Coordination  .....................................                           15
IV.     PERFORMANCE  OF BANK GROUP  FINANCED AGRICULTURAL  CREDIT
PROJECTS  IN  INDIA  ...................................                          15
A.     Introduction  .....................................                           15
B.     State-Based  Agricultural  Credit  Projects  ....                  .....      15
C.     The First  General  Line  of Credit
Project  (ARDC  I)  ...............................                        17
D.     The  Second  General  Line  of Credit
Project  (ARDC  II)  ..............................                        18
V.     THE  PROJECT  ............................................                           19
A.     Introduction  ..................                  ...................         19
B.    Project  Description  .............              ..      ...............       19
C.    Detailed  Features  ................                   ................        20
(a)   Minor  Irrigation   ...........................                        20
(b)   Diversified  Lending  ..........................                       25
(c)   Training  ....................................                         28
(d)   Equipment  ...................................                         29
D.     Cost  Estimates  ...................................                          29
E.     Financing          ....................         ....................          31
F.     Procurement           ...................        ...................          31
G.     Disbursements  ....... ...........                 ..................         32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
VI.  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ................................  32
A.  Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation   ....................................  32
B.  Lending  Procedures   ...............................  35
C.  Terms  and  Conditions   .............................  35
D.  Lending  to  Small  Farmers  .........................  37
E.  Lending in Less Developed States ....    .............  37
F.  Accounts and Audit ................                 38
G.  Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting ....  .........   38
VII.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RETURNS
TO  PROJECT  BENEFICIARIES  ............................  40
VIII.   BENEFITS, RISK AND JUSTIFICATION ......................   43
IX.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....   ............   46
SCHEDULE A    Lending Terms and Conditions
SCHEDULE B    Guidelines for Selection of Pumps and Prime Movers
for Inclusion on State Approved Lists
SCHEDULE C    Guidelines for Disbursements Against Public Direct
Irrigation and Augmentation Tubewells
SCHEDULE D    Guidelines for Levels of Evaluation of Groundwater
Resources Appropriate to Levels of Resource Development
SCHEDULE E    Small Farmer Definition
ANNEX I - Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
LIST OF TABLES AND CHARTS
Table 1 -  State and Primary Land Development Banks - Summary of Overdues
Table 2 -  Summary Data on IDA/IBRD Assisted Projects Through ARDC
Table 3 -  Cost of Equipment and Services for Strengthening SGO, SLDB
and ARDC
Table 4 -  Estimated ARDC and IDA Disbursements.
Table 5 -  ARDC Condensed Balance Sheets 1973/74 - 1982/83
Table 6 -  ARDC Condensed Statement of Income and Expenditure
1973/74-1982/83
Table 7 -  ARDC Summarized Cash Flows 1973/74 - 1982/83
Table 8 -  ARDC Total Projected Lending Program by State and Subsector 1979/81



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Chart 19300   ARDC Organization Chart
Chart 19830   Principal Agricultural Credit Institutions
Chart 19809   Maajor Institutional Ftnding for Agricultural Term Loans
MAP IBRD 12630R  -   India:  GeneraLized Occurrence of Groundwater, Rainfall
and Evaporation, and ARDC Regional Offices.
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA VOLUME
The following annexes are contained in a Supplementary Data Volume
to the Staff Appraisal Report, and are available on request from Agriculture
Division D, South Asia Projects Department.
ANNEX 2     Water Resources and Minor Irrigation
ANNEX 3     Principal Categories of ARDC Diversified Lending Program
ANNEX 4     Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
ANNEX 5     Agricultural Credit Institutions
ANNEX 6     Training
ANNEX 7     Monitoring and Evaluation
ANNEX 8     Financial Analysis
ANNEX 9     Economic Analysis
ANNEX 10    Small Farmer Definition,
ANNEX 11    Note on Disbursement Procedures and Statements of Expenditure
ANNEX 12    Note on Interest Rates in India






* 1 -
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In August 1975, an IDA general line of credit (ARDC I, 540-IN) was
made to the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC). 1/
That credit (US$75 M), which supported a project costing about US$180 M, was
fully disbursed by August 1977, three months ahead of schedule.  In August
1977, a second general line of credit (ARDC II, 715-IN) for US$200 M, was
approved. That credit supports a project estimated to cost US$583 M and is
expected to be fully disbursed by December 1979. In September 1978, the
Government of India (GOI) asked IDA for further financial assistance to ARDC.
1.02      The project proposed for IDA financing would be a continuation of
ARDC I and ARDC II, and a follow-up to a number of past and on-going projects
in which IDA and ARDC have participated and which are described in Chapter IV.
The project would give special emphasis to meeting the medium and long-term
agricultural credit needs of small farmers, and to those States where agri-
cultural development is lagging.
1.03      Several other country donors including United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau (KFW),
Ministry for Overseas Development, Great Britain (ODM), and Canadian Inter-
national Development Agency (CIDA), have expressed interest in supporting
ARDC's lending program.
1.04      This report is based on an application prepared by ARDC, and on the
findings of an appraisal mission which visited India in October/November 1978,
consisting of Messrs. R. L. Headworth, C. Diewald, C. Helman, A. Rogerson,
G. Slade (IDA), W. Barber, G. Kaddar, A. Stoneham and R. Van Wagenen (Consul-
tants). Messrs. J. Beilby and D. Redden (USAID consultants) and F. Anema
(CIDA consultant) joined the mission, and contributed to the report. A
follow-up mission (R.L. Headworth) visited India in January/February 1979.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Agriculture in India
2.01      India's population of about 640 M is growing at an annual rate of
about 2.1% per year and per capita income (US$150 in 1976) at about 1.0%.
Although average per capita income has increased, much remains to be done to
improve the living standards of the vast masses of urban and rural poor which,
1/   Known then as Agricultural Refinance Corporation.  Its origins, func-
tions, structure and growth are described in 6.01 to 6.08, and its
assocation with IDA in 4.01 to 4.07 below.



conservatively measured, consist of some 250 M people with annual incomes
below the current estimated rural poverty line of US$70 per capita. Thus,
Government of India's (GOI) recent development plan (Five-Year Plan (1978-83))
gives emphasis to maintaining self-sufficiency in food, alleviating poverty,
and creating employment, especially in rural areas.
2.02      Agriculture (including crop production, animal husbandry, forestry
and fishing) is the dominant sector of the economy, contributing about 42%
of GNP, but it is also the one with the slowest growth rate. It engages about
70% of the labor force and provides the base for about 60% of exports. During
the last decade, GOI has sought to raise foodgrain production by accelerating
irrigation development, increasing the use of fertilizers, plant protection
chemicals, and improved high yielding seed varieties. In support of this,
GOI has promoted modernization and expansion of extension services and agri-
cultural credit institutions.
2.03      Because of the limited scope for bringing new land into cultivation,
the greatest part of future increments in food production, and foodgrains in
particular, must come from increases in land productivity. A prerequisite for
this is an assured irrigation water supply which: (a) provides supplemental
irrigation in the rainy season (rainfall is often inadequate for optimal
production of even a single rainfed crop); and (b) permit multiple cropping
(rainfall over most of India permits only one assured crop a year). Conse-
quently, GOI's Five-Year Plan (1978-83) provides for major investments in
irrigation, both by the public sector, mostly in major surface irrigation
schemes, and by the private sector, in groundwater development through minor
irrigation involving dugwells, pumpsets and shallow tubewells. The project
appraised in this report would help provide institutional credit support for
this effort.
2.04      As the domestic foodgrain situation improves and irrigation devel-
opment continues farmers have greater incentives to diversify their crops.
Such diversification is important to: (i) better utilize India's diverse
climatic and soil resources; (ii) produce a wider range of foods and raw
materials in the interests of better nutritional standards, for example, milk
and fish, and of increased agricultural exports, such as coffee or cashew
products; and (iii) improve income and employment prospects of the rural poor
who have little or no land, but who can participate in activities such as
small-scale poultry and dairying. Diversified agricultural activities sup-
ported by the proposed project would include a wide range of investments in
horticulture and tree crops, livestock, marine and inland fisheries, market
yards, storage facilities, farm machinery, and forestry.
B. Land and Water Resources
2.05      India has a total land surface of about 328 M ha of which 175 M
(53%) are classified as arable. The possibility of reclaiming additional
land is limited. In 1974, about 142 M ha (81% of the arable surface) were
under cultivation; allowing for multiple cropping, the total area cropped
was about 169 M ha.



- 3 -
2.06      The southwest monsoon begins at the end of May or early June and
continues until November/December; its duration is at a minimum in the north-
west and at a maximum in the south. The wettest months are June-September when
most of the country receives 80% or more of the annual rainfall. Mean annual
rainfall ranges from 200-300 mm in the Rajasthan desert to more than 5,000 mm
on the Western Ghats, and in the hills of Assam. The crucial months for rain-
fed agriculture are July and August: the amount and distribution of rainfall
in those months largely decides the fate of kharif crops.
2.07      The volume of annual3average recharge to groundwater is estimated
to be 35 M ha m (350 billion m ). Allowing for irregular spatial distribu-
tion of groundwater recharge, variation in demand, and the incidence of dry
and wet sequences, it is not possible to regulate more than 70% of annual
recharge. Therefore, the total utilizable recharge may be taken for planning
purposes as about 25 M ha m. Net extraction in 1976/77 is estimated to have
been about 6.5 M ha m (26% of utilizable recharge), and by 1981/82, net
extraction may reach 8.8 M ha m (about 35% of utilizable recharge). The
principal use and consumption of water has been and will continue to be for
irrigation.
2.08      Total area with irrigation potential is about 110 M ha of which
76 M ha would be served from surface sources and 34 M ha from groundwater.
By 1974, about 44 M ha had been developed of which about 17 M ha (36%) was
from groundwater. GOI's Fifth Five.-Year Plan, which was closed one year in
advance in March, 1978, is believed to have added an additional 3 M ha of
groundwater irrigation thus bringing the total to nearly 20 M ha. The major
part of groundwater development is attributable to the private sector. While
the all-India groundwater balance indicates considerable scope for groundwater
development, the present distribution of development relative to resource
potential is variable. States such as Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab and Tamil
Nadu, which have undertaken intensive groundwater development programs over
the past two decades, have reached high levels of development in many areas,
and over-development in some localities. Conversely, in several other States
such as Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal, groundwater potential is large and
extent of exploitation low. In a few States with heavy rainfall, for example,
Assam, the proportion of groundwater development to potential is extremely
low.
2.09      GOI's new Five-Year Plan (1978-83) aims at creating an additional
9 M ha to be served by minor irrigation developments of which 7 M ha would
be served by groundwater and the balance by surface water.  Emphasis would
be on groundwater development in the least exploited areas (particularly in
the soft rock areas of the Ganges basin and the Brahmaputra valley), and on
private sector groundwater development with the support of institutional
finance. Public tubewell schemes would be developed in areas where marginal
farmers without the means to justify individual investments predominate, and
conjunctive use would be made of groundwater and surface water in medium and
major irrigation command areas.
2.10      ARDC's proposed five year program (1978-83) of groundwater develop-
ment reflects GOI's policy to encourage development in less developed States
and in States with high untapped potential. About 85% of ARDC's proposed
lending for groundwater development would be in such States. The States



of Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab, and Tamil Nadu, which have seen intensive ground-
water development over the past 15 years would account for only about 15%.
Each State has extensive areas of high development, and overdraft conditions
have occurred in parts of Gujarat and Tamil Nadu. While some potential remains
in all four States, special care will be necessary in evaluating groundwater
resources for future development (para 5.12).
C. Output Trends
Crop Production
2.11      Crop production contributes about 82% of sectoral production, as
against 15% by livestock, 2% forestry and 1% fishing. Foodgrains constitute
about 55% of gross value of production, and 75% of cropped area. Rice (38%
by volume) and wheat (26%) are by far the most important foodgrains, followed
by pulses (10%) and by other cereals like grain sorghum (9%), maize (6%), and
various millets. The major commercial crops are oilseeds (8.1% of gross value),
sugarcane (6.7%), fruits and vegetables (6.3%), cotton (3.0%), condiments and
spices (2.8%) and tobacco, tea, and related commodities (2.4%). Overall crop
production (still characterized by erratic fluctuations from year to year) was
pushed steeply upwards in the late sixties - the "Green Revolution" - through
an impressive adoption of high yielding wheat varieties, a new effort to expand
irrigation facilities, and with simultaneously growing rates of fertilizer
application. This rapid growth could not be sustained through the poor grow-
ing seasons of the early seventies, but the four years through 1977/78 have
witnessed a remarkable improvement, averaging 5% growth per annum, in which
the impact of rapidly increasing input use has been enhanced by excellent
growing conditions.
2.12      Other characteristic trends in crop production relate to the seasonal
distribution of crops. The share of rabi (winter-season) crops, which depend
mostly on residual soil moisture and irrigation, has been steadily growing,
while the relative importance of kharif crops, which depend mainly on summer
monsoon rains and supplementary irrigation, and are more susceptible to
climatic vagaries, has been reduced.
2.13      Performance of particular crops.  Wheat production and yield rose
7.6% and 4.6% respectively from 1960 to 1976, and its share in cultivated area
from about 9% in the early 1960s to about 13% at present. Just over half of
the crop is irrigated, and most production is concentrated in the northwestern
States, where private tubewell development is most advanced. Rice had shown
a disappointing performance until 1975-76, with production growing at less
than 2% per year through modest yield increases (1.1%), and lower area
increases. The low historical rate of growth is probably due to a high
incidence of rainfed cultivation (over 60%), which was subject to alternating
moisture stress and/or flooding. The area under HYV rice has, however, grown
from 15% in 1970/71 to about 33% in 1977/78, and production has accelerated
considerably during the last three years particularly in the northwestern
region. Pulses, the traditional source of protein supply for most of the
population have lost importance since the late 1950s as production economics



have made their production less attractive to farmers.   Output of oilseeds
and cotton has lagged behind the general trend of crop production. Oilseeds
are still mostly grown on rainfed areas, resulting in only modest yield
increases; thus, India is still dependent on imports of oilseeds and edible
oils. Despite the introduction of improved varieties after 1970/71, cotton
production, yields and quality are still low, mainly due to slow introduction
of irrigation, wide price fluctuations, long growing seasons, and high risk of
plant disease. Sugarcane, which is almost 75% irrigated and, therefore, less
susceptible to rainfall fluctuations has shown significant increases in area
and production, with yields growing more rapidly in recent years.
2.14      Prospects.  Most recent estimates confirm that the stagnation of
crop production in the early 1970s has been overcome. GOI's Five-Year Plan
1978-83 envisages a target growth rate of 4% per annum for agricultural output
and most of this growth has to come from crop production. An increase of this
order appears attainable in the light of the 4.3% per annum growth record over
the past four years. Even so, India will have to face the possibility of a
deficit in its foodgrain supply for some years to come if there is to be any
sustained improvement in the nutrition of the poor. (Currently, foodgrain
imports are negligible, due to high stocks and good harvests.) Extension
and improvement of irrigation systems (including groundwater development),
increase in seed and fertilizer supply, reorganization and expansion of sup-
porting facilities and services (including agricultural credit), are essential
to achieve the target growth rate.
Plantation and Horticulture
2.15      India has a wide variety of climatic conditions, which favor almost
all types of plantation/horticulture crops. Although these crops cover a
small part of overall cropped area (about 2-3%), their contribution to the
total gross value of agricultural production is considerable (about 12-13%).
Coconut, tea, tobacco and banana are the four most important crops, followed
by rubber, cashewnut, coffee and pepper. However, a wide variety of other
fruits and spices are grown. Tea, coffee, tobacco, cashewnuts and spices,
make up the major portion of all agricultural exports.  The growth trend in
plantation/horticulture production over the last decade has not been uniform.
Increases in crops such as coconut and bananas have been disappointing, but
crops like rubber, coffee, and tea, have improved faster. Better results
*         could be achieved by greater use of higher yielding planting material, more
organized marketing, and more efficient specialized extension support. Growth
prospectives for almost all crops in this category are good to excellent, as
there is a reliable growing demand, both domestically and/or for export.
Recent IDA projects in this subsector are listed in Table 2.
Dairy
2.16      India has one of the highest densities of bovine population in the
world, both in relation to human population and disposable land area. Of a
total number of about 253 M head in 1972, about 178 M (70%) were cattle held
mostly for draught purpose. The buffalo population, much smaller in size
(about 57 M), is mainly for milk production, having higher milk yields and
lactation efficiency than unimproved cattle breeds. Typically, about 70% of



- 6 -
animal protein intake comes from milk consumption, although, at an annual
production of 23 Mt, per capita consumption is still low (107 grams/day). The
highest density of animals per ha of cropped area is found where human density
is also highest, and amongst very small operational holdings, underlining the
importance of cattle/buffalo husbandry for the poorest.  Most of the milk
produced is consumed locally although there is good demand from the cities.
The Indian dairy development program, widely known as "Operation Flood," 1/ is
attempting to overcome such problems as low productivity, scarce fodder base,
inadequate veterinary services, and to improve facilities for the collection,
processing and distribution of milk to cities. This has already benefited
about I M farm families, organized in over 6,000 dairy cooperative societies
at village level, and 28 unions at district level. Those families, which
consist mostly of small and marginal farmers and landless laborers, are
estimated to have raised their incomes by as much as 50%. The integrated
approach is supported by a scientific program of cross-breeding local cows
with exotic buils and upgrading buffaloes by selective breeding with high
yielding local breeds. Currently, the organized sector provides about 18% of
urban milk demand (19 M liters/day), and its share is growing fast. There is
a vast demand for dairy production, and milk plant capacities are ahead of
available supply.
Poultry
2.17      The poultry industry has made considerable progress during the
past two decades; it has emerged as a commercial enterprise from a backyard
activity. The value of poultry products increased from Rs 650 M in 1961 to
Rs 4,320 M in 1976. Annual egg production grew at about 9.6% per annum, from
2,340 M in 1961 to 9,230 M in 1976, raising per capita availability from 5.3
eggs/year to 15.2 eggs/year, which is, however, still far from sufficient.
The number of eggs per layer is low, due to the fact that the bird popula-
tion is dominated by local varieties. Bird population is increasingly being
upgraded by imported exotic pure bred males and improved local parent stock.
Major problems to be overcome include availability of reasonably priced feed
and distribution to major producing pockets, control of poultry diseases, and
a closer link between producers and consumers, the latter being concentrated
in the major cities.
Fishery
2.18      India Vas about 5,550 km of coastline with a continental shelf of
about t15,000 km and an Exclusive Economic Zone in the Indian Ocean of about
2 M km . Total marine fish catch rose from 0.6 Mt in 1950 to 1.4 Mt in 1976.
The potential sustainable yield is estimated at around 3.7 Mt. Present catches
are almost completely taken from inshore waters, mostly less than 30 m deep.
Marine fishing is dominated by a high percentage of shrimp catches (10-18%
in quantity, over 50% in value). India has become the world's largest shrimp
producer and exporter, with a world market share of 20%, and annual export of
crustaceans of 48,000 tons, valued at about US$214 M per year. The rapidly
1/   For further details see the IDA-supported National Dairy Project,
May 1978 (Report No. 1964-IN).



-- 7-
increasing fleet of 14,000-16,000 mechanized vessels is mostly used for shrimp
fishing. 95% of the fishermen operate about 200,000 traditional vessels, and
catch about 70% of overall fish production. For shrimp, a sufficient and grow-
ing processing and marketing infrastructure has been created but there are
signs that shrimp fishing in some coastal areas might already be approaching
its safe limits. Non-shrimp fishery still suffers from uncertainties as to the
extent and exact location of commercially and profitably exploitable resources.
More resource studies and explorations are necessary, together with an effec-
tive organization of processing and marketing, to satisfy a growing demand. 1/
Inland fishery is, as yet, not well developed but has substantial potential.
Production rose from 0.28 Mt in 1960 to about 0.8 Mt in 1976. Taking into
account available and reclaimable water areas and advanced composite fish
culture techniques (mostly for carp varieties), potential production is
estimated at 3.5 Mt. Brackish water shrimp culture might be another area
where development is possible. Practical problems over marketing, lack of
extension, breeding of suitable vari,eties for fish seed supply and institu-
tional arrangements are being addressed so as to permit faster growth of this
activity.
D. Extension and Research
2.19      The agricultural extension system, for which individual States are
responsible, has traditionally been integrated with a wide range of other
community development activities, with the result that multipurpose village
level workers were neither able to direct most of their efforts to extension
work nor were they efficiently organized and oriented towards a planned and
supervised agricultural extension program. Contact with and feedback to
agricultural research have been insufficient. In addition to these organi-
zational problems, the extension service has suffered from inadequate and
outdated staff training. GOI has become increasingly concerned with improv-
ing this situation as yields on irrigated and rainfed areas are well below
potential. With IDA assistance, a new system of extension, based on frequent
and regular farm visits by full-time, adequately trained extension workers,
was developed in 1974. The introduction of this system is showing encouraging
results, and it has since been adopted in nine States, i.e., Assam, Bihar,
Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan, and West
Bengal. 2/
2.20      Notable progress has been made in recent years toward the develop-
ment of a highly competent, professional, and effective agricultural research
system. When fully developed, this system should be capable of generating
and developing the scientific and technological improvements required for
1/   The development of the marine fishery subsector is described in the
staff project report on the Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project (Report
No. 1896a-IN, May 1978).
2/   See Composite Agricultural Extension Project (Report No. 2171a-IN
November 30, 1978).



- 8 -
a sustained and rapid growth in agricultural productivity. The system has
already demonstrated its effectiveness in several important areas, notably
with wheat, rice and maize. Agricultural research is coordinated by the
Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and carried out at specialized
ICAR centers and at 21 State Agricultural Universities in 16 States. There
is, however, a growing need to extend scientific advances from the relatively
few major research centers and adapt them to other ecological situations.
Emphasis in the future should be on strong regional stations in major eco-
logical zones, and on development of research programs serving specific zones.
This is especially necessary for serving small farmers in rainfed areas. The
IDA supported National Agricultural Research Project (Report No. 2083a-IN)
would strengthen the capability of Agricultural Universities to do such area-
specific applied research, with particular attention to foodgrains under
rainfed conditions, and to improved mixed farming systems.
III.  AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
A. Background
3.01      Private moneylenders still provide the bulk of credit in rural
areas although their share of outstanding rural debt is estimated to have
declined to about 65%, compared with as much as 90% in the early 1960s. 1/
Their gradually diminishing role can be attributed not only to social pres-
sures and borrower protection legislation, but also to growing accessibility
of institutional credit for agricultural investments on more favorable terms.
Direct agricultural loans by institutions amounted to about Rs 27,550 M in
1978 2/ as against about Rs 11,900 M in 1974. Medium and long-term lending
for agriculture nearly tripled over the same period to Rs 9,230 M in 1978
from Rs 3,270 M in 1974, a real increase of over 100%. GOI's current Five
Year Plan calls for a doubling (in nominal terms) of total institutional
credit for agriculture by 1980/81.
3.02      The main institutions involved in term lending for agricultural
development and their principal sources of funds, are shown in Charts 19809
and 19830. The rural banking system is comprised of: cooperative banks
(about two-thirds of outstanding agricultural loans in 1978); nationalized
and private commercial banks (nearly one-third); and a number of smaller
institutions, such as Regional Rural Banks (RRB), which combine features of
both cooperative and commercial banking. All these banking windows offer
farmers similar terms and conditions under Reserve Bank of India (RBI) guid-
ance. Long-term funding of the agricultural credit system is provided mainly
by: open market bond operations supervised by RBI; refinance from ARDC; time
deposits; share capital contributions and loans from State governments, RBI
and public corporations.
1/   All-India Debt and Investment Surveys.
2/   Provisional.



- 9 -
B. CooperaLtive Credit System
3.03      The Indian cooperative credit movement, dating back to the late
1800s, was until recently the only institutional source of finance in most
rural areas. Since the mid-1920s, when the distinction between short and long
term credit needs first crystallized, cooperative banks have been organized by
individual States into two independent groups of institutions: (a) land
development banks (long-term credit system); and (b) cooperative banks (short-
and medium-term credit system). There are land development banks (LDB) in 17
States, and each LDB consists of a State Land Development Bank (SLDB) which
lends through its own branches, or refinances affiliated primary land develop-
ment banks (PLDB). LDB provide loans for agricultural investments for periods
of between 3 and 15 years. They do not make seasonal loans, accept individual
deposits, or lend for non-agricultural purposes. The cooperative bank struc-
ture is much larger and more diversified. In 1977 (the latest data available),
26 State Cooperative Banks (SCB) provided funds for 344 district-level Central
Cooperative Banks (DCCB) which, in turn, supported about 123,000 village-level
primary agricultural credit societies (PACS). These PACS, which specialize in
seasonal and medium-term (1 to 5 years) credit, are also designed to provide
a variety of services to their members, including savings facilities, and
provision of consumption loans. 1/
3.04      Integration.  The split cooperative credit structure has obvious
disadvantages. PACS tend to have aL closer relationship than LDB with poten-
tial borrowers, yet lack experience and trained staff for long-term lending.
LDB, on the other hand, do not have such extensive grassroots organizations
as PACS, or close contact with their members' other banking activities. More-
over, farmers remain unable to obtain all their credit requirements, both
seasonal and term, from a single cooperative organization.
3.05      A study of the advisabiliLty of integration of the two systems, con-
ducted by GOI under ARDC I, recommended a gradual merger at all levels, and
a few States 2/ are experimenting with various methods of achieving the main
objectives of integration. It is too early yet to assess to what extent the
experiments have been successful but during negotiations, an undertaking was
obtained from GOI to review progress made by the cooperative credit system
towards meeting the agricultural credit needs of farmers through one source
or closely coordinated sources and to inform IDA by December 31, 1980 of its
findings and proposals arising from the review. A major obstacle to early
changes remains the extreme weakness of a large number of PACS. SCB currently
receive less than 1% of annual ARDC disbursements and that is concentrated
largely in areas which either have no LDB, or in specialized lending sectors,
such as fisheries and dairy, where local cooperative societies have developed
1/   A full description of the State Cooperative Bank structure is given in
Staff Appraisal Report on the National Cooperative Development Corpora-
tion Project, December 1978, (Report No. 2198-IN).
2/   Such as Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, and West Bengal.  These experiments
usually involve sharing of staff and facilities on an agency basis, but
not joint financing or merger of the two structures.



- 10 -
the necessary expertise. However, the SCB share of ARDC refinanced activities
is expected to increase gradually as more PACS are reorganized under profes-
sional management.
C. Land Development Banks (LDB)
3.06      LDB's annual share of ARDC refinance declined from nearly 90% in
1974 to less than 50% in 1978, whilst that of commercial banks grew propor-
tionately. In absolute terms, however, LDB disbursements more than doubled
in the same period; they still account for two-thirds of ARDC's total out-
standing portfolio, and over half of total outstanding medium- and long-term
credit. The main sources of SLDB funds are: (i) special development deben-
tures, sold to ARDC and State governments, and also guaranteed by the latter,
bearing 6.5% to 7.5% interest, and, retired in annual installments over
actual maturities (5 to 15 years) of loans to which they relate; and (ii)
ordinary debentures, floated on the wider institutional market at a similar
rate (currently 6.25% at 10 and 15 years) and repayable in full at maturity.
LDB share capital is owned by the respective State government, and by farmers
who are normally required to deposit 5% to 10% of the loan amount in their
share accounts for the duration of the loan.
3.07      The most critical problem facing LDB is the growing level of their
overdues. 1/ State-by-State details are given in Table 1. Regardless of
regional variations, a pattern emerges of a noticeable overall improvement
between 1974 and 1976 (a period when performance worsened in four States
but improved significantly in eight others), followed by a general relapse
between 1976 and 1978. In six States (Bihar, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh,
Karnataka, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu) overdues from ultimate borrowers are
currently close to or more than 50% of demand, and in two of them (Gujarat and
Maharashtra), they have been over 50% for at least three consecutive years. 2/
Overdues of these proportions progressively weaken the credit system through-
out the State and ultimately threaten the institutions concerned.
3.08      Sliding scale eligibility criteria were introduced under ARDC I and
continued for ARDC II, as a condition of IDA financial support. The main
objective of the criteria is to provide an incentive to SLDB branches or PLDB
with poor recoveries to improve the situation by linking their future lending
volume to their recent collection performance. The criteria are amended as
appropriate (for example, when abnormal climatic conditions occur) on the
recommendations of an ARDC/RBI Debenture Norms Committee which was established
for that purpose, and such amendments are agreed with IDA.
3.09      Natural calamities and reluctance by some LDB to reschedule loans
in cases of genuine hardship have contributed to the deterioration. In most
1/   In India, overdues at the end of the fiscal year are expressed as a per-
centage of "demand" (principal and interest falling due during the year,
plus overdues from previous years). Given the greatly varying criteria
used in different countries, it is not possible to compare India overdue
statistics with those of other countries.
2/   Provisional figures as at June 30, 1978.



- 11 -
cases, however, the deterioration from 1976-78 can be traced to direct inter-
vention by State and local authorities with LDB collection efforts during
elections. The most effective and essential factor for improving collections
is political support of SLDB recovery efforts. Following ARDC intervention,
some State governments are taking corrective action by supporting LDB recovery
activities. However, in a few States (Gujarat and Maharashtra in particular),
the situation is deteriorating and corrective action is urgently required.
GOI, RBI and ARDC are holding discussions with the State Governments concerned
to try and improve the situation.
3.10      ARDC has agreed to establish more stringent criteria, satisfactory
to IDA, for LDB to be eligible for refinance. The existing Debenture Norms
Committee (para 3.08) would advise ARDC on criteria for all cooperative banks,
and a new Committee an Agricultural Loans through Commercial Banks would
advise ARDC on commercial bank matters (para 3.18). ARDC eligibility criteria
would include the following changes to the current eligibility criteria for
LDB:
(a) Lending by individual PLDB or SLDB branches would continue to
be regulated on a sliding scale basis, but the minimum PLDB/
SLDB branch recovery level would be raised from the present
45% to 50% of demand.
(b) If 50% or more of any LDB's lending units (PLDB or SLDB/
branches) became ineligible under the sliding scale criteria,
or if overdues at SLDB level were 50% or more, ARDC's refinanc-
ing under the Project would be subject to the State Government
agreeing to a specific timebound rehabilitation program
acceptable to ARDC;
(c)  The rehabilitation program under (b) above would be subject
to an annual review, and the performance of the LDB in
carrying out the program would be the basis for continuing
ARDC refinancing support. ARDC would keep IDA informed of
the agreed rehabilitation program and of the time schedule
for implementation.
3.11      An undertaking was obta-ined from ARDC at negotiations that  ARDC
would establish and maintain eligibility criteria for LDB, such criteria to
be acceptable to IDA. During negotiations, IDA and ARDC discussed and reached
agreement on new minimum criteria for LDB effective from October 1980.
3.12      Based on current provisional data, Gujarat and Maharashtra LDB
would not be eligible to participate in the project under the provisions
contained in para 3.10 above unless they took firm corrective action; in four
other States -- Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu, overall
performance is only slightly better but as specific action plans are under
discussion by the respective State governments and ARDC, they would probably
be eligible under the sliding scale criteria by the time the proposed credit
becomes effective. State government support is the key to LDB performance
in every State, and if that support is forthcoming LDB should be able to
participate to the fullest extent in the project. Without that support,
institutional credit channels for agricultural development would be impaired



- 12 -
to the point where further increases could not be justified. Meanwhile,
ARDC's projected lending program has been estimated conservatively to allow
for likely institutional constraints.
3.13      While considerable progress has been made, a difficulty faced by
some LDB remains their lack of sufficiently qualified management and techni-
cal staff. Although chartered as independent cooperatives, LDB are sometimes
treated for administrative purposes as if they were part of State governments,
with the result that State government officers with little or no relevant
experience may be posted to senior SLDB management positions, and be trans-
ferred again before they can operate efficiently in their new environment.
Several State governments are beginning to appreciate that this practice has
had a seriously adverse affect on SLDB operations, and are taking steps to
recruit management and senior staff for direct appointments to SLDB estab-
lishments. However, it will take some time before this becomes standard
practice throughout India. ARDC will continue to move LDB in this direction
by insisting on adequate supervision arrangements as a condition of scheme
approvals.
D. Commercial Banks (CB)
3.14      With over 28,000 branches, nearly 12,000 of which are in rural
areas, the CB network is expanding at the rate of 3,000 to 4,000 new branch
openings per year. However, CB involvement with agricultural lending (and
agricultural term loans in particular), is still comparatively recent and
such loans occupy only a modest proportion of CB total business. CB lending
to the agricultural sector increased from 5% of total operations in 1969 to
nearly 11% in 1978. About four-fifths of the number of agricultural loans
and nearly half of CB agricultural lending volume are seasonal loans.
3.15      CB involvement with ARDC increased sharply in the last five years,
from Rs 45 M (less than 5%) of ARDC refinance in 1973, to Rs 1,200 M (over
50%) in 1978. This change is due to a number of factors, the most important
of which are: the relative decline of the LDB system (para 3.07), the gradual
absorption of significant numbers of trained agricultural staff in CB branches,
and deliberate GOI and RBI policy measures to encourage CB agricultural lend-
ing. In early 1978, RBI instructed CB to reduce their agricultural interest
rates, then about 13%-14%, and to adopt the ARDC-prescribed onlending interest
rates as a maximum for all term loans for specified agricultural purposes,
regardless of whether those loans were refinanced by ARDC or from the CB's
own long-term resources. Since the latter are relatively scarce, and more
costly than ARDC refinance, 1/ CB are expected to turn increasingly to ARDC
refinance as the principal means of reaching the priority sector targets set
by GOI. As a consequence, a much greater proportion of CB term lending for
agriculture would come under ARDC supervision.
1/   See Chart 19809.  The effective cost of term deposits is raised by RBI
minimum cash reserve and liquidity ratio requirements.



- 13 -
3.16      Commercial banking facilities and expertise in agricultural lend-
ing vary greatly from State to State and between institutions. The most
prominent CB is the State Bank of India group with over 7,000 branches operat-
ing throughout the country, and absorbing over half of total ARDC refinance
to CB. Fourteen other nationalized CB each have branch networks covering a
number of States. A small number of private banks operate on a much smaller
scale, typically in a single State or a few adjacent States. The larger and
more progressive organizations, such as State Bank of India, have opened
hundreds of branches specializing in agricultural lending, each staffed with
several qualified supervisors and equipped with suitable transport facilities.
At the other end of the scale, smaller CB continue to offer agricultural loans
as a minority activity of semi-urban branches, supervised by only one or two
qualified junior officers whose heavy workload and lack of transport precludes
adequate contact with borrowers. Supervision and assistance from ARDC and RBI
is gradually helping to improve the situation in these cases.
3.17      As CB began to engage in agricultural lending, pursuant to GOI
policy, it became clear that a number of obsolete legal and procedural
restrictions, originally aimed at protecting cooperative banks from compe-
tition by CB, were inhibiting their activities. The major constraints, which
were identified by the Talwar Committee 1/, have now been largely or fully
removed in most States. 2/ Some of the restrictions which have been overcome
are:   exemption of stamp duty, simplification of mortgage registration
procedures, and removal of cooperative bank priority over charges created
on security.
3.18      Under ARDC I and ARDC II, refinance of CB agricultural loans by
ARDC has not been linked to specific performance criteria, such as overdues,
mainly on the grounds that: (a) lending for agriculture was still a new
field of operations into which CB we!re reluctant to expand, and they needed
as much encouragement as possible; and (b) term agricultural lending involved
such a small part of CB portfolio and resources that even heavy agricultural
overdues could be borne without jeopardizing the financial stability of the
institutions. Whilst the second argument still holds true, CB agricultural
operations have now reached sufficient scale and maturity to justify closer
monitoring of performance, including periodic review of overdues indicators.
Introducing monitoring and controls based on overdues, however, presents
statistical difficulties since, as yet, not all CB calculate overdues on
the same basis. ARDC is attempting to overcome this by conducting seminars
throughout the country, and by reaching agreement on a standard definition
of "demand" as now used by LDB. Nevertheless, statistics available to date
indicate that in many States, CB experience in long term agricultural lending
is only marginally better than that of LDB and in a few others, it is worse.
CB short- and long-term agricultural overdues combined reached an estimated
51% on an all-India average basis in 1978, with a high of about 68% in the
1/   Report of the Expert Group on 'State Enactments having a bearing on
Commercial Banks' lending to Agriculture - Bombay, 1971.
2/   Legislation is still pending in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Andhra
Pradesh, and Jammu and Kashmir.



- 14 -
northeastern region. A major recent cause of overdues in many States appears
to be political pressure on LDB not to take coercive action on recoveries at
the time of elections (para. 3.09), and this has had repercussions on the
recovery efforts of other financing institutions. For this project, a new
Committee on Agricultural Loans through Commercial Banks has been established
to advise ARDC on appropriate appraisal criteria, policies and procedures for
improving recovery disciplines in commercial banks (para 3.10). The Commit-
tee's first recommendations are expected to be made by the end of 1979; in
the meantime ARDC would continue to apply its present procedures keeping in
view inter alia the adequacy of technical and financial supervision arrange-
ments and paying particular attention to recovery procedures.
E. Regional Rural Banks (RRB)
3.19      In an effort to combine some of the perceived advantages of CB and
of cooperative banks, some 50 RRB have been set up since 1975. These banks
are owned jointly by GOI, a sponsoring CB which also provides management
expertise, and the State government concerned. RRB accept deposits and make
loans of varying maturities under similar RBI regulations as CB, with the
major difference that they deal mainly with small and marginal farmers,
artisans, and other specified target groups. These RRB have opened about
800 branches which are still in early stages of development: they account
for less than 1% of total institutional finance for agriculture. RRB growth
is likely to continue to be gradual over the next few years, but as they
develop and take increasing advantage of ARDC refinance facilities RRB are
expected to begin to make a significant impact on ARDC small farmer coverage.
F. Farmers Service Societies and Village Adoption Schemes
3.20      CB are linked to cooperatives through Farmers Service Societies and
village adoption schemes.  Farmers Service Societies (FSS), of which there
were about 350 in 1977, are expected to provide packages of agricultural
inputs and management services alongside credit, for which they are sponsored
either by a cooperative bank, or a CB. FSS, launched under the aegis of the
National Commission of Agriculture in 1974, are intended to cover a wider
geographical area than PACS, and employ more specialized staff. Nonetheless,
the two institutions frequently overlap and the evidence is that FSS perform-
ance with respect to small farmer coverage, overdues, minimum volume of
business, and other yardsticks is usually no better than local PACS. Under
a typical village adoption scheme, a CB branch provides seasonal loans to
PACS for onlending to its members. Some 4,000 societies were financed in
this way in 1977. Although some State governments are encouraging CB to
route an increasing proportion of their lending through adopted PACS, the
administrative difficulties involved have proven to be substantial, and few
PACS show significant improvement after CB sponsorship.



-- 15 -
G. Coordination
3.21      LDB, which are closely linked to State governments, normally get
priority when responsibility for providing area development schemes is
distributed amongst institutions. More recently, however, where LDB are weak
or they are ineligible for ARDC support, such schemes are increasingly offered
by some State governments to other institutions, or schemes are generated by
CB themselves. In nearly every block or district, a particular banking insti-
tution has established a commanding position in agricultural term lending.
This situation has been formalized by RBI into the "lead bank system" whereby
one institution is given the responsibility of proposing and coordinating a
comprehensive lending program for the district in conjunction with district
authorities and other banks. Steps to improve planning and coordination at
State and district levels are emphasized as part of the GOI's new Five-Year
Plan, and are essential to this project.
IV. PERFORMANCE OF BANK GROUP FINANCED AGRICULTURAL
CREDIT PROJECTS IN INDIA
A. :Introduction
4.01      ARDC's association with the Bank Group dates to the formulation of
a series of State-based agricultural credit projects between 1969 and 1974.
Eleven of those projects have since been implemented through ARDC: nine are
fully disbursed and the remaining two are scheduled to close during FY1980.
More recently, ARDC has been entrusted with two general lines of credit,
ARDC I (August 1975 to July 1977) and ARDC II (August 1977 to December 1979),
which provide the immediate background for the proposed project. In addition,
ARDC has taken an active role in the implementation and formulation of another
20 IDA/IBRD projects approved to date (Table 2), mostly by providing long-term
finance and loan supervision in support of investments in major irrigation,
horticulture, fisheries and seed production. Other projects with possible
ARDC involvement are currently under consideration. The total amount commit-
ted by IDA for disbursement through ARDC in the 33 projects approved to date
exceeds US$850 M (Table 2). With the present project, this amount would
increase to about US$1,100 M. As of March 31, 1979, cumulative IDA disburse-
ments to GOI for onlending through ARDC were about US$504 M (59% of commitments).
B. State-Based Agricultural Credit Projects
4.02      The 11 State-based agricultural credit projects 1/ were designed
mainly to support three and four year lending programs by commercial and
cooperative banks to farmers for investments in minor irrigation (about 80%
1/   Including a Rural Development project in West Bengal whose main component
is an agricultural credit program through ARDC.



- 16 -
of the total program), land levelling, and, in six States, farm mechanization.
Nearly all the projects required the State government concerned to establish
or strengthen an agency responsible for monitoring the scale and quality of
groundwater investments financed through institutional credit. Each project
required participating banks to adopt specific loan appraisal procedures based
on incremental income calculations, to observe uniform lending terms and con-
ditions, and usually to implement various improvements in their staffing and
management methods. Nine of the projects closed between 1975-1978. Project
completion reviews have been carried out on six of them, and are in progress
on the remaining three. 1/ The main conclusions to date of this ex-post
evaluation program can be summarized as follows:
(a) the main objective of the projects, that of achieving
increased agricultural production through expansion of
irrigation and the use of modern technology, was clearly
achieved. Returns to individual farmers and to the economy
are in a similar range to those estimated at appraisal
(financial rates of return ranging from 11% to over 50%,
and economic rates of return from 18% to over 50%);
(b) some LDB (Punjab, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh in particular)
performed well in terms of substantially increasing
lending whilst maintaining good control over loan appraisal
and recovery. However, the long-term agricultural credit
system in a few States (notably Gujarat, Maharashtra and
Tamil Nadu) has been severely damaged by persistent overdues
which continued to grow between 1976-1978 (para 3.07), and
for which the most convincing explanations remain wilful
default, poor management, and political intervention at
State and local levels;
(c) a gradual change from purely security-oriented lending to
appraisals based on incremental income has been achieved.
Although this process is not yet complete, it has led to a
substantial improvement in the quality and coverage of
agricultural lending;
(d) the groundwater resource balance in a few limited areas is
precarious enough to warrant careful control over new in-
vestments.  However, the spacing and density criteria in-
troduced under these projects are not applicable to
privately-financed investments, and are, therefore, only
partly effective.
The remaining two projects in Bihar and West Bengal are scheduled to close
in March 1980. In all projects, the pace of disbursements in minor irrigation
1/   Out of these reviews, two (Haryana and Punjab) were based on ARDC's own
completion reports, and ARDC is preparing completion reports for the
remaining three (Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh).



- 17 -
categories has matched or exceeded iexpectations, whereas land development
loans and loans to groups of farmers have been slowed by organizational or
legal difficulties, which are only lnow being overcome.
4.03      Out of the nine projects which have been closed, one Project
Performance Audit has been carried out by the Operations Evaluation Depart-
ment with respect to the Gujarat Ag.ricultural Credit Project. The main
recommendations of the Audit Report (Report No. 1303 dated October 4, 1976)
were:
(a) the necessity of enacting legislation to control. groundwater
resources and development;
(b)  the need for SLDB to reschedule overdue loans in areas
affected by severe weather, including project loans as
appropriate;
(c) the necessity for SLDB to initiate schemes to diversify
its lending in sectors other than minor irrigation;
(d) the necessity for SLDB to continue to implement, at the
fastest rate possible, its program of improvement of its
managerial, financial and organizational operations; and
(e) the need for improvement in the extension service.
These findings parallel those of the project completion reviews and were taken
into account while designing this project.
C.  The First General Line of Credit Project (ARDC I)
4.04      In April 1975, IDA approved a general line of credit of US$75 M for
disbursement over two years on the general understanding that it would be the
first in a series of such credits to ARDC. The objective of the project was
for ARDC to commit specific amounts for individual schemes (appraised by ARDC
and not by IDA) within an IDA-approved overall lending program. The schemes
are normally too small for IDA to approve individually. The project comprised:
(i) loans for minor irrigation; (ii) loans for diversified agricultural invest-
ments; (iii) a study on the feasibility of merging the short/medium-term and
long-term cooperative credit institutions; and (iv) a study of the training
needs of LDB junior-level staff; training of such staff; and an intensive two-
year training program primarily for senior and middle-level LDB staff. The
credit became effective in August 1975, and closed September 1977, three
months ahead of the original closing date.
4.05      A project completion review has been completed and its findings
have been fully considered in the diesign of this project. The main conclu-
sions and recommendations are:



- 18 -
(a) the project achieved its physical objectives, and although
the investments financed have not yet reached full produc-
tion stage, indications are that incremental production
generated by the project will exceed appraisal expectations.
Some 185,000 minor irrigation units (including 85,000 pump-
sets and 43,000 dugwells), 3,400 ha of land development,
9,200 ha of plantation/horticulture and 17,000 dairy
animals were financed under the project;
(b) although the project target for lending to small farmers
(some 110,000 farmers, over 50% of the IDA credit) was
achieved, in future projects, overall small farmers cover-
age should be based on individual State targets to match
achievement with regional variations in landholding patterns.
(c) with regard to the LDB system, although the high level of
overdues continues to be a serious problem, the impression
is that the debenture eligibility criteria (para 3.08) is
nonetheless an improvement on undisciplined lending. The
criteria should be continued, amended as necessary, and its
effectiveness studied over a longer period;
(d) expansion of commercial bank refinance through ARDC has been
beyond all expectations and minimum institutional standards
for CB participation should now be introduced (para 3.18); and
(e) ARDC's standard of appraisal and supervision was satisfactory.
However, there must be a continuous adjustment of ARDC staffing
and organization to keep up with its substantial financial
growth.
D. The Second General Line of Credit Project (ARDC II) _/
4.06      The second line of credit (ARDC II), which supported ARDC opera-
tions throughout India for two years, was approved in May 1977 and has been
effective since August 1977, shortly before ARDC I closed. The credit amount
was increased from US$75 M in ARDC I to US$200 M in ARDC II (but down from 44%
to 34% of project cost) to reflect the substantial increase expected in ARDC
commitments and disbursements, an expectation which has been fulfilled. The
diversified lending component was increased from US$4 M to US$25 M to reflect
the changing composition of ARDC's portfolio.  The credit also includes a
major training program for staff of agricultural financing institutions.
Terms and conditions, including debenture eligibility norms, in most respects
are similar to those of ARDC I, although the scope for eligible borrowers has
been widened to include recipients of SFDA 2/ capital subsidies.
1/   Detailed features may be found in Report No. 1520-IN, Second Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation Credit Project, May 1977.
2/   Small (and marginal) Farmers Development Authority.



-- 19 -
4.07      Disbursements under this project as at March 31, 1979 amounted to
US$91 M, over 75% of appraisal estimates and ARDC had accumulated sufficient
eligible refinance disbursements to cover the balance. Mid-term estimates of
small farmer coverage show that 54% of disbursements in minor irrigation, and
52% overall, are accounted for by small farmers. Preliminary indications of
physical achievements are also in line with appraisal estimates. As of
September 30, 1978, some 160,000 minLor irrigation units had been financed
under the project, including 45,000 dugwells and 72,000 pumpsets, nearly half
the total units estimated through December 1979 at appraisal. The project
includes a considerable strengthening of ARDC's monitoring and evaluation
cell; the Cell is beginning to operate effectively, although delays in
recruitment and transfer of staff have so far made it difficult for ARDC to
keep pace with the rapidly increased workload. A number of studies have been
commissioned as required under project covenants. The main ones are: (i) a
sample survey of areas likely to be subject to the risk of groundwater exploi-
tation; (ii) a study of the adequacy of interest rate spreads, with particular
reference to LDB; and (iii) a survey to estimate the magnitude of pumpset
replacement demand. The surveys are well advanced and should be completed
before the credit closes. Other project covenants are being fulfilled.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
5.01       The Government of India (GOI) has requested an IDA credit to help
finance: (a) a third two year time slice (approximately December 1979 through
December 1981) of the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation's
(ARDC) lending program; (b) further training of staff, mainly of participating
financing institutions; and (c) the purchase of equipment for State Groundwater
Organizations (SGO), State Land Development Banks (SLDB), and ARDC.
B. Project Description
5.02      The objectives of the project would be to:
(a) increase agricultural production and to raise the produc-
tivity of farmers, particularly small farmers and those
living in less developed areas by supporting ARDC in its
financing and developmental activities (paras 5.04 to 5.21);
(b) further encourage institution building:
(i) in CB, through the introduction, by ARDC, of a
Committee on Agricultural Loans through Commercial
Banks (para 3.18);



- 20 -
(ii)  in SGO through provision of additional staff and
equipment (para 5.12);
(iii)  in participating banks, mainly LDB, through inten-
sified staff training programs (para 5.23); and
(iv)  in ARDC itself by initiating changes in staffing
and organization patterns (para 6.07).
(c) improve the quality of investments, particularly in minor
irrigation, through the establishment of a technical
support system in all States (para 5.08); and
(d)  increase small farmer participation by disbursing up to 60%
of the amount of the IDA credit to small farmers (50% in
ARDC I and ARDC II) (para 6.15), and help remove regional
imbalances by promoting development in lesser developed
States (para 6.17).
5.03      The project would support the whole of ARDC's lending operations
in virtually every district in India, over two years. However, for admini-
strative simplicity, IDA would restrict its own disbursements to a few major
categories, such as minor irrigation (including land development), plantation,
horticulture, livestock and fisheries. Project funds would be channeled
through ARDC which would refinance loans made by participating banks in
accordance with specific lending terms and conditions (Schedule A). Final
beneficiaries would be individuals or groups of farmers and fishermen, coop-
eratives, public and private sector companies, and corporations. As under
ARDC I, ARDC II, and the State oriented projects, participating banks would
develop schemes, normally for a single activity such as shallow tubewells or
fisheries, and in a compact physical area in which necessary support services
would be provided. Minor irrigation development would predominate, represent-
ing about 63% of project costs which are estimated at US$1,005 M. The project
would also provide US$2.0 M to continue training agricultural banking staff
started under ARDC I and ARDC II, and US$0.6 M for the purchase of equipment
for State Groundwater Organizations (SGO), SLDB and ARDC. ARDC would endeavor
to ensure that small farmers receive at least 60% of the IDA credit, and an
estimated 45-50% of project lending would be disbursed to States where
agricultural development is lagging.
C. Detailed Features
(a) Minor Irrigation
5.04      Development of groundwater for irrigation in India over the past
two decades has been rapid and extensive. This has been particularly true
of private sector development when assisted by institutional finance. The
importance given to groundwater development in this project reflects GOI
policy to expand exploitation of this resource.



- 21 -
5.05      While considerable groundwater resources remain for further devel-
opment in most States, high levels of resource utilization have been achieved
in several States and pockets of excessive development have occurred in others.
Recognizing the necessity of achieving full resource development within safe
yields of aquifer systems, groundwater programs for institutional finance
would, under this project, be linked to controlled resource evaluation. The
controls specify increasingly detaiLed levels of investigation required with
escalating levels of resource development so as to provide a measure of
security to institutional loans by ensuring that scheme appraisals would
be made from a fuller data base in the case of highly developed areas.
5.06      There is considerable scope for improvement in the technical stand-
ards of private sector groundwater investments and, in particular, of pumping
equipment. Such improvement would result in operating cost savings to farmers,
and energy savings at State and all-India level. Consequently, the project
would define technical standards for water points in each State, and identify
technical capability requirements within the banking systems to apply such
standards to individual loans (para 5.08).
5.07      Loans would be made to individual farmers, groups of farmers, coop-
eratives and State Corporations. Minor irrigation investments would include
development of both groundwater and surface water resources. A relatively
small part of the project would be for provision of lined conveyance in irri-
gated farm areas, and for development of tanks. Loans to individual farmers
for investment in groundwater development would be for construction of new
wells, improvement or rehabilitation of existing wells ancd provision of
pumpsets. Credit for well construction would include construction of open
dugwells, dug-cum-bore wells, shallow bores and filter point or cavity tube-
wells. Costs of various types of wells for individual farmer investment range
from Rs 600 for cavity wells in soft rock, to Rs 12,000 for dugwells in hard
rock. Power units would be typically in the range of 3 to 5 hp. Typical costs
of electric powered pumpsets range from Rs 3,000 to Rs 5,000, and diesel motor
powered sets Rs 4,000 to Rs 6,000. Well construction for individual farmer
investments presents few problems. There are many private contractors with
skills, local experience and equipment; in addition, some State government
departments or public sector corporations offer custom service to farmers for
well construction.
5.08      While supplies of both el,ectrical and diesel pumpsets are plentiful
and availability of spare parts is generally adequate, recent ARDC studies
carried out at the request of IDA sihow that sets purchased by farmers are
sometimes substandard in technical specification and, in some cases, in qual-
ity. Pumps and power units are often mismatched, pumps are poorly selected
for the required duty, and pipework and ancillary fittings are badly designed.
Improvement of technical standards of both wells and pumping units would be
achieved in each State through the establishment, by existing committees or
committees to be set up in each State, of approved lists of pumps and prime
movers in accordance with guidelines set out in Schedule B, and through the
establishment of technical support organizations operating through the bank-
ing systems. ARDC would set up pilot projects to be completed by December 31,
1980 in selected States (Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttar



- 22 -
Pradesh) for improvement of investment quality control, and from the results
would draw up guidelines for future adoption on a country wide basis. By
June, 1981 ARDC would provide IDA with a program showing the phasing by which
quality control would be introduced on an All-India basis by December 1981.
ARDC would also proceed with recruitment of suitably qualified technical
officers for posting to ARDC regional offices to support the program and,
where necessary, would require banks to recruit or redeploy technical officers
for supervision of quality control. Assurances on these points were obtained
from ARDC at negotiations. ARDC's proposed action plan for quality control
is dealt with in greater detail in Annex 2 of the Supplementary Data Volume.
Quality control should result in important savings in energy at State and
Union level, but as the program would entail considerable inputs of manpower
and organization improvements would be gradual.
5.09      To protect agricultural investments, ARDC would, from its own
resources and mainly in coordination with the Rural Electrification Corpo-
ration (REC), refinance loans to State Electricity Corporations for spur lines
and associated equipment for private sector minor irrigation schemes which are
to be provided with electrical power. The estimated average cost of the step
down transformer, 11 kv line and low voltage cable is Rs 4,500 per pumpset
connection. An assurance was obtained from ARDC at negotiations that ARDC
would, prior to refinancing a loan made by a participating bank to a State
Electricity Board for pumpset electification, require the participating bank
to obtain from the State Electricity Board confirmation that the connection
of the pumpsets would not lead to overloading the local power system or to
any other effects detrimental to the State electrical power system.
5.10      Loans for medium duty tubewells serving areas of 10 to 30 ha would
be made to groups of farmers. Wells would be equipped with either vertical
shaft turbine pumps powered by electric or diesel motors, or with electric
submersible pumps. Typical costs of such installations would be from
Rs 20,000 to Rs 60,000. There are numerous drilling contractors equipped to
construct such tubewells and, in some States, government departments or public
sector organizations offer custom drilling services. Drilling contractors and
public sector organizations usually provide technical advice on selection of
pumping equipment and install pumps as part of their service. Technical
standards of installations are normally acceptable.
5.11      Loans for deep, high capacity tubewells serving command areas of
up to 100 ha would be made to cooperatives and State Corporations.  Wells
would be designed for discharges in the range of 150 to 250 m /h, and would be
equipped with either electric vertical shaft turbine pumps or electric submer-
sible pumps. The distribution system would be either lined channels or pipes.
Costs of such installations range from Rs 150,000 to Rs 400,000. Past perfor-
mance of irrigation tubewells operated by State Corporations or cooperatives
has been generally unsatisfactory. Several causes including electrical power
rationing, unscheduled outages due to overloaded electrical conveyance systems,
long delays in repair of pumping units and inefficient or inequitable distri-
bution systems have contributed to this situation. Water rates generally
involve high levels of subsidy, and frequently are inadequate to meet even
operation and maintenance costs. Collection of water rates has, in many



-- 23 -
cases, been poor. For these reasons, disbursements against public irrigation
tubewells would be made according to guidelines as specified in Schedule C.
Loans would be made to State Corporations for deep, high capacity, augmenta-
tion tubewells which discharge directly into surface water irrigation 3canal
conveyances. Wells would be designed for discharges of 200 to 300 m /h and
would be equipped with electric vertical shaft turbine pumps or electric
submersible pumps. Piped conveyance would be provided from well head to
irrigation canal. Costs of such installations would range from Rs 100,000
to Rs 140,000. The performance of augmentation wells has been considerably
better than that of direct irrigation public tubewells. Disbursements against
augmentation wells would be in accordance with guidelines as specified in
Schedule C. An undertaking was obtained from ARDC at negotiations that ARDC
would disburse against public deep tubewell and augmentation tubewells in
accordance with guidelines shown in Schedule C.
5.12      Legislation to regulate groundwater development has been advocated
by GOI for several years. However, such proposals have raised major social
and administrative issues and remain largely unacceptable to State governments.
Well spacing and density control standards, introduced on a large scale as
a result of ARDC I, and maintained as guidelines under ARDC II, have been
ineffective because they do not regulate privately financed well construction.
The danger of over-exploitation remains and though, as yet, development has
reached critical levels only in a few well-defined areas, the present pace
of groundwater development implies that a measure of control is necessary,
particularly as considerable development is taking place outside institutional
finance channels. In the absence of legislation, the only practical way of
ensuring that institutional finance does not aggravate excessive groundwater
drawdowns is through more detailed investigations by SGO to provide a better
basis for ARDC appraisals. The more developed a proposed project area, the
greater care must be taken in establishing present groundwater balances, and
in forecasting future development over the proposed investment life. GOI and
ARDC have agreed to introduce an appraisal system consisting of three cate-
gories of areas based on the level of development which relates net draft to
recoverable recharge. Each corresponds to a level of resource evaluation and
groundwater investigation appropriate to the potential risks. The guidelines
defining categories and levels of studies are given in Schedule D. The inten-
sified studies required by the guidelines would necessitate strengthening many
SGO and providing SGO and SLDB with essential equipment. As a condition of
ARDC refinance under the minor irrigation category in each State, ARDC would
ensure that SGO had been strengthened to the level required to initiate imple-
mentation of work programs for groundwater resource evaluations in support of
the proposed development programs of each State. This is discussed in more
detail in Annex 2, and a list of essential equipment is in Table 3. An under-
taking was obtained from ARDC at negotiations that ARDC would apply Guidelines
for Levels of Evaluation of Groundwater Resources Appropriate to Levels of
Resource Development, as shown in Schedule D. Although it would no longer be
required in all cases, SGO and ARDC would continue at their discretion to
apply spacing and density criteria adapted to suit local circumstances.



- 24 -
5.13      Investments in groundwater development involve an element of risk
in that a well may fail to yield an adequate quantity of water at completion
and, moreover, may fail to maintain an adequate yield through the life of the
investment. The former risk is easy to ascertain; the latter is not. Indivi-
dual farmers (particularly small farmers) require some protection against the
possibility of failure. The probability of failure at completion is low when
figures are considered at State level, ranging from less than 1% to 3% and
averaging about 1%. Failure of a well through time may be identified but the
reason for failure would not be easy to define. Several possible interacting
factors could contribute to complete or partial failure of a well, including
the natural phenomenon of a long drought period. Given this situation, it
is not easy to define a rational basis for insurance of farmers against well
failure through time. On the other hand, several States presently run success-
ful compensation schemes for failure at completion. In light of this ARDC
would, by June 30, 1980, review existing failed well schemes presently
operated by some States for well failure, and would on the basis of this
review encourage all States to adopt a rational scheme. An undertaking to
this effect was obtained from ARDC at negotiations.
5.14      Minor irrigation development of surface water resources would con-
sist mainly of river lift schemes ranging in size from single farm commands
to several hundred hectares. Loans would be made to individual farmers,
cooperatives and State corporations. Loans to individual farmers would be
for small pumpsets and pipe work to raise water from the river on to adjoin-
ing land. The pumps would be of the centrifugal type and would be powered
by either electric or diesel motors. Power unit capacities would cost from
Rs 3,000 to Rs 5,000. Loans would be made to cooperatives and State corpo-
rations (which would charge a water rate to farmers), for financing river
lifts which would involve command areas extending up to several hundred ha.
Installations would be energized by electrical power taken directly from 33 kv
conveyance. Estimated costs of river lift schemes range from Rs 1,000 to
Rs 6,000 per ha.
5.15      Other relatively small minor irrigation investments for which loans
would be made include water course lining for surface water irrigation systems,
at an estimated cost of about Rs 20-25 per m , and provision of buried pipe
conveyance for existing public tubewells at about Rs 2,000 per ha. A small
provision is made for tank development at about Rs 10,000 per unit.
5.16      Land Development.  Command area development (CAD) works in surface
irrigation projects financed through institutional credit include mainly
investments below the chak 1/ outlet such as watercourses, drainage and land
shaping. There has been an increasing gap between the creation of the capa-
bility to convey water to the minor and chak outlet (dams, canals) and the
implementation of CAD works required for efficient water utilization. As
a result, India has been foregoing a large amount of incremental production.
1/   The term 'chak' refers here to a block of holdings averaging about
40 ha, which receive irrigation water from the same outlet on a minor
or subminor irrigation canal.



- 25 -
5.17      In order to accelerate implementation of CAD works, it is essential
that water supply to each field in the areas developed be reliable. This
would facilitate farmers' participation and encourage them to take loans for
land development. Additionally, it iis essential to separate the finance and
implementation of the communal items of CAD (watercourses, drainage) from that
of the individual on-farm items (land shaping, bunding) because their construc-
tion can proceed much faster. Moreover, upon completion of the communal items,
water distribution to fields can start and farmers' confidence in water supply
and their willingness to undertake onfarm development is therefore increased.
The present procedure of financing communal items through credit and charging
the cost pro rata to farmers, has caused implementation delays since the con-
sent and credit eligibility of each farmer must be established before the
finance is made available. Ideally, the most appropriate solution would be
to finance the communal items through government sources as a part of the
irrigation project concerned, and onLy the on-farm portion through individual
loans. This is currently under discussion.
5.18      Under the project, loans for land development would be made to indi-
vidual farmers only for on-farm deveLopment, i.e., work done on the farmers'
land such as land shaping, bunding and water and drainage channels. The cost
of land shaping would depend on various factors such as slope, soil type and
condition, etc.; the average cost wouald be about Rs 1,500/ha. The work would
be done manually or by machine in accordance with the farmer's preference.  It
is essential that farmers have an assured and reliable water supply in order
to generate the incremental income required for loan repayment. Therefore,
lending for on-farm development would be limited to areas where project
agencies were making every effort to ensure that: (i) flow rates and fre-
quency of water supply at the chak outlet were adequate; and (ii) a rotational
water supply system was being pogressively established so that each farmer is
allocated water according to a pre-determined time schedule. An assurance to
that effect was obtained from ARDC at negotiations. Loans would be also made
to State Corporations for construction of watercourses and for lining of
watercourses and canals in order to reduce seepage losses.
(b) Diversified Lending
5.19      Diversified lending would support agricultural and allied activities
other than minor irrigation and land development, such as: dairy, poultry,
other livestock related activities, plantation and horticulture, marine and
inland fisheries, farm mechanization, storage, market yards, and forestry.
The share of diversified lending in ARDC proposed program for 1979-81 would be
about 33% as against 26% of cumulative disbursements to June 30, 1978. This
reflects a rapidly growing demand for such loans, and the increasing import-
ance attached by GOI to diversified agricultural development measures parti-
cularly as a means of reaching the landless and near landless rural poor.
Many of the above-mentioned activities are currently supported by ongoing
IDA financed projects through ARDC (Table 2). Those projects have helped
to develop, test and revise suitable technologies and lending arrangements.
5.20      For administrative simplicity, IDA disbursements would be limited
to the following four categories:



- 26 -
(a) Livestock. Generally, loans would provide for purchase of
one or two improved milk animals such as cross-bred cows,
or higher yielding buffaloes costing about Rs 2,300 per head.
Animals would be in milk for the first or second time at
date of purchase.  An alternative which will probably be of
more importance in the future, is a loan for rearing one or
two cross-bred calves through artificial insemination of
farmer's own stock. The loan would cover all precalving
expenditures and subsequent cost, including medical care
and insurance, totalling about Rs 2,700 during 40 months of
rearing the female calf until lactation stage. The schemes
would mainly be undertaken in conjunction with GOI "Operation
Flood II" (para 2.16). That would ensure a regular supply
of semen of proven quality, of veterinary cover, and close
follow-up of farmers' management of animals, as well as an
integration into the collection/distribution network
established through Dairy Cooperative Societies. These
loans would benefit mostly small farmers and landless
laborers.  Part of ARDC refinance would, if necessary,
provide supporting facilities such as milk processing
plants, manufacturing units for milk products, as well as
breeding and fodder farms. The project would also support
piggery development mainly in the north-eastern States, and
sheep breeding in most States. The loans for piggery and
sheep breeding development would be about Rs 2,700 to
Rs 3,000 for typical units of 4 pigs and 20 sheep respectively.
(b)  Poultry.  Loans, either to groups or individuals, would
typically finance the establishment of small to medium
commercial layer batteries and broiler units. Medium-
sized units would be for about 1,000 birds and cost about
Rs 60,000, whereas small units for individual small far-
mers (50-100 birds) would cost about Rs 4,000 to Rs 6,000.
The latter would normally be sponsored by Small Farmers
Development Agencies. Loans would also be granted for
new or expanded hatcheries, poultry feed plants, cold
storage facilities for eggs/broiler meat, broiler proces-
sing plants, marketing facilities, etc. It is intended
that wherever possible new poultry units would be integ-
rated into an organized cooperative processing and market-
ing system, the development of which is planned on similar
lines as in the dairy sector.
(c)  Plantation and Horticulture.  Loans would be used mainly for
planting, replanting or rejuvenation of existing material of
a variety of commercial tree and fruit crops, such as coco-
nut, cashewnut, rubber, coffee, cocoa, pepper, cardamon,
mango, citrus, and pineapple. A typical loan would include
the cost of land preparation, improved planting materials,
and working capital for proper maintenance up to maturity
of the trees. In some cases, the loan may include cost of
processing equipment. Investments would normally be by small



- 27 -
and medium farmers. ARDC would ensure that each scheme pro-
vided for an adequate and reliable extension service (and
supervision) particularly to small farmers and especially for
crops like tea, coffee and sensitive fruits (citrus). ARDC
would ensure that marketing arrangements were satisfactory.
Investment costs vary widely from crop to crop and between
regions, but it is estimated that average per ha cost (up
to maturity of trees) would amount to about Rs 14,000.
(d)  Fishery.  Loans would go mostly into the marine subsector,
where they would be for purchase of mechanized fishing
vessels (10 to 12 m) including accessories and mainly on
the upper east coast, where there is still scope for an
increase in shrimp catching. Unit costs vary with size
and type of equipment and are estimated at Rs 110,000 to
Rs 200,000. Loans would also be granted for traditional
fishery operations, such as canoes (8 to 9 m) with onboard or
outboard motors, or for mechanization of existing canoes to
extend their reach of operation. Average unit costs would be
about Rs 34,000 for a mechanized canoe with equipment, and
Rs 6,000 for motor only. If necessary to support a scheme,
ARDC would also refinance loans to establish ice plants, fish
processing and freezing capacity at harbors, and supply of ice
by insulated trailers to landing sites for groups of fishing
villages. In inland fishery, a typical loan would be for
establishing or rehabilitating fishfarm tanks or ponds, either
by individual or cooperatives, and would also include the cost
of fingerlings, nets and other implements. Average investment
would be about Rs 2,000/ha.
5.21      From ARDC's own resources and as part of the project, ARDC would
refinance schemes mainly for the following purposes:
(a)  Storage:  Food Corporation of India (FCI) is expected to
continue its arrangements for guaranteed lease of privately
owned and constructed godowns. FCI leases such godowns for
a minimum period of 3 to 5 years, and usually longer, for
the storage of buffer stoc;ks, and for distribution of food-
grains. ARDC would provide refinance for loans by CB to
private parties for construction of such godowns, ranging
in capacity from 2,500 to 20,000 tons and costing from
Rs 0.6 M to Rs 5 M. Under similar terms and conditions
ARDC would refinance storage capacity for lease by Jute
Corporation of India in the eastern States, with average
capacity of about 7,000 tons costing about Rs 2.3 M each.
Other schemes would cover storage capacity for State
Warehouse Corporation and State Marketing Federations.
ARDC would ensure that storage schemes would be in line
with carefully assessed demand for the area and commodities
concerned, and would take into consideration FCI and National
Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) storage programs.



- 28 -
(b) Market Yards: ARDC would continue to refinance loans to
State Agricultural Marketing Boards and Agricultural Produce
Market Committees for construction, remodeling or extension
of regulated market yards in major trading centers in order
to exercise some control over the transaction, storage and
processing of agricultural produce in a notified area and
commodity. Cost of such market yards (which normally would
include platforms for drying, cleaning, display and auction,
trader's shops, storage facilities, weighing scales, access
roads and parking space for vehicles, and a number of public
amenities such as rest house, bank and post office), would
amount to about Rs 100,000 for small primary markets, and up
to Rs 30 M for large regional centers. Average cost would
be about Rs 4 M for a 7-10 ha market yard. ARDC intends to
strengthen its Technical Cell to include specialized and
experienced staff to assess the feasibility of market devel-
opment in States which request loans, to advise State agencies
in planning and preparation of schemes, and to appraise pro-
posed schemes, especially in view of changes in modern market
yard functional designs.
(c) Forestry: In view of domestic and export demand for commer-
cial and industrial wood, and of a low degree of current
exploitation, ARDC would support a reorientation program of
forest management towards commercial use of existing valuable
forest areas, and of those mixed forests which could be
economically converted into regular plantations of high
value stands. ARDC would refinance loans to State Forest
Development Corporations, which would cover items such as
building of feeder roads and extraction paths, machinery
and equipment for clearfelling, extraction and logging,
setting up of nurseries for planting material and provi-
sion for maintenance and working capital during an initial
period. Total investment cost would be about Rs 2,500-
Rs 3,500 per ha.
(d) Farm Mechanization: ARDC refinancing of loans for tractors,
power tillers and other mechanical farm equipment would
be selective. Scheme appraisals would take into considera-
tion the need to predict and avoid undersirable effects on
employment and income distribution. Average costs would
be about Rs 70,000 for a 35 hp tractor and Rs 25,000 for a
power tiller.
(c) Training
5.22      A training program was started under ARDC I in 1975 when the urgent
need to train staff of financing institutions, particularly LDB staff, in more
modern methods of financing agricultural development was identified. That
program was extended into ARDC II and by mid-1979 it is estimated that about
2,300 senior and middle-level staff, and about 11,400 junior LDB staff (both
about 95% of appraisal estimates) will have been trained. That represents
about 27% of estimated total LDB senior and middle-level staff and about 54%
of their junior staff.



- 29 -
5.23      This project, which would continue and expand that program, would
provide: (i) training for about 3,000 senior and middle-level staff, includ-
ing ARDC staff, and special technical courses for staff of SGO; (ii) training
for about 7,800 junior LDB staff; (iii) introductory training in long-term
lending for SCB staff; and (iv) refresher courses for about 150 senior and
middle-level LDB staff and about 4,000 junior LDB staff. At the same time,
RBI, has begun a study of the training needs of CB as it is recognized that
current training facilities are insufficient. With assistance from ARDC's
Training Cell, the study is expected to be completed by the end of 1980.
5.24      Senior and middle-level staff are trained mainly at the College
of Agricultural Banking, Pune, and junior LDB staff at the 19 LDB Training
Centers (including five sub-centers) accessible to almost every State and
Territory. Details of the programs are contained in Annex 6 of the Supple-
mentary Data Volume. The quality of training is generally satisfactory, and
the most serious defect in the junior program, i.e. unsatisfactory living
conditions for junior trainees which has damaging effects on training, is
being addressed by ARDC more vigorously than in the past. Workshops for
trainers that started under ARDC II would be continued.
5.25      ARDC would continue to be responsible for organizing and monitoring
the program. Its performance under ARDC I was satisfactory. ARDC II carried
higher expectations, but the ARDC Training Cell was badly hampered by under-
staffing until recently: it is expected to reach an adequate staffing level
by the end of ARDC II. Two weaknesses in the junior program, i.e., inadequate
training materials and infrequent visits to Training Centers are being recti-
fied. Production and distribution of training materials are gaining momentum,
and ARDC intends to visit each of the 14 Training Centers at LDB Head Offices
at least once every quarter during the project.
5.26      Training costs have been estimated on the basis of experience gained
under ARDC II and are summarized below:
Element                         Cost (US$'000)
Senior and Middle Level Staff            432.8
Junior Level LDB Staff                 1,154.7
ARDC Training Cell                       366.5
1,954.0
(d) Equipment
5.27      The project would provide essential equipment such as well loggers,
and water level recording and conductivity meters, to strengthen State Ground-
water Organizations, State Land Development Banks, and ARDC, to enable them
to more efficiently implement programs for groundwater resources evaluations
in support of minor irrigation development programs (para 5.12). A schedule
of equipment to be purchased is in Table 3. The basic cost of the equipment
is estimated at US$0.6 M.
D. Cost Estimates
5.28      Project costs are estimated at Rs 8,643 M (US$1,005 M) of which
about Rs 447 (US$52 M) are duties and taxes. The costs are summarized below:



- 30 -
Foreign
Local  Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total Exchange
----- (Rs M)   -         ---- (US$ M)             (%)
I.   Minor Irrigation
Minor Irrigation           3,203.0   436.0 3,639.0  372.4   50.7  423.1   12
Land Development             428.0    23.0   451.0   49.8    2.6   52.4    5
Pumpset Electrification    682.0    76.0   758.0   79.3    8.8   88.1   10
Soil Conservation/
Reclamation                 81.0     4.0    85.0    9.4    0.5    9.9    5
Subtotal             4,394.0   539.0 4,933.0  510.9   62.6  573.5   11
II.  Diversified Lending
Plantation/Horticulture    202.0    22.0   224.0   23.5    2.5   26.0   10
Farm Mechanizatioi           659.0   220.0   879.0   76.6   25.6  102.2   25
Livestock                    436.0    49.0   485.0   50.7    5.7   56.4   10
Fisheries                    254.0    28.0   282.0   29.5    3.3   32.8   10
Forestry                     224.0    39.0   263.0   26.1    4.5   30.6   15
Storage                      308.0    64.0   372.0   35.8    7.5   43.3   20
Yards                        239.0    60.0   299.0   27.8    7.0   34.8   20
Others                        55.0      6.0    61.0    6.4    0.7    7.1   10
Subtotal             2,377.0   488.0 2,865.0  276.4   56.8  333.2   17
III. Training                      17.0      -       17.0    2.0      -     2.0   -
IV. Equipment                      3.0      2.0      5.0    0.4    0.2    0.6   25
Total before
Contingencies           6,791.0 1,029.0 7,820.0  789.7  119.6   909.3  13
V.  Price Contingencies          714.0   109.0   823.0   83.0   12.7    95.7  13
Total Project Cost         7,505.0 1,138.0 8,643.0  872.7  132.3 1,005.0  13
Estimates incorporate a price increase contingency at an annual rate of 5%
in accordance with Bank estimates of future price movements in India and ARDC
experience with specific items. Cost estimates are based on ARDC's indicative
lending program for the period 1979/80 to 1980/81 which is drawn from estimates
of agricultural investments requiring ARDC refinance, prepared by the various
States, and adjusted by the appraisal mission in light of previous disbursement
and commitment performance, and known institutional constraints. Individual
investment cost estimates are based on ARDC's recent experience with similar
ongoing projects. This is a two-year time slice of ARDC's estimated five year
program (excluding ongoing IDA projects channelled through ARDC) and, as with
most agricultural credit projects, no allowance has been made for physical
contingencies. ARDC's projected lending program by State and subsector for
1979/81 is shown in Table 8.



- 31 -
E. Financing
Financing would be as follows:
Borrowers   Banks      ARDC/GOI          IDA        Total
US$M   %  US$M            %   US$M   %    US$M    %
Minor Irrigation          76.3  12  84.4  13  265.8 /a  42  207.2  33   633.7  100
Diversified Lending       62.9  17  66.2  18  198.1 Ia  54   41.5  11   368.7  100
Training and Equipment   -       - _-       -    1.3 /b  50    1.3  50       2.6  100
Total              139.2  14 15(.6  15  465.2       46  250.0  25 1,005.0 100
/a   ARDC
/b   GOI
5.29      The proposed IDA credit of US$250 M would be made to GOI on standard
terms and would finance about 25% of total project costs or 26% of costs net
of duties and taxes.  About 46% of project costs would be provided by ARDC
and GOI, 1/ 15% by participating banks, and 14% by borrowers.  A Subsidiary
Agreement, satisfactory to IDA, wou:Ld be executed between GOI and ARDC, under
which GOI would make: (i) US$1.0 M of the IDA proceeds available to ARDC, as
a training grant and US$0.3 M to ARDC and any State Government as an equipment
grant; and (ii) US$248.7 M available to ARDC, repayable partly up to 9 years
and partly up to 15 years at 6.25% and 6.75% respectively (with 0.25% rebate
for prompt repayments of capital andl interest depending on the repayment
period of ARDC refinance to participating banks. GOI would bear the foreign
exchange risk. It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that GOI and
ARDC had executed a Subsidiary Agreesment satisfactory to IDA.
F. Procurement
5.30      Procurement under schemes involving relatively small investments by
individual farmers would be based on farmers' choice through local dealers
and contractors. Typical items would be pumpsets, tubewe:Lls, dugwells, dairy
cattle, bullock and pneumatic tyre carts, motors for fishing boats and farm
mechanization equipment such as tractors, power tillers and sprayers. ARDC
would establish guidelines for the selection of pumpsets which would include
equipment performance standards established by the Indian Standards Institute,
and standards relating a given investment item (e.g., size and horsepower
of pumpset) to farmers' typical situations (e.g., size of area to be irri-
gated) (Schedule B). Normal commercial channels provide an adequate choice
of locally manufactured equipment and good servicing facilities, and prices
1/   GOI is in the process of negotiating additional external support for
ARDC's lending program from bilateral donors, including USAID, CIDA and
KFW. Since the amount and timing of these contributions have not yet
been finalized, GOI has agreed to ensure that ARDC is provided with the
local resources required to execute this program.



- 32 -
are competitive with those on world markets. Procurement under such schemes
as construction of storage warehouses, market yards, and agro-processing
facilities would be normally based on local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to ARDC and IDA. International competitive bidding would not be
practical given the relatively small size of investments involved and their
scattering throughout the country and over time. Procurement of equipment for
SGO, SLDB and ARDC (US$0.6 M), which would be spread over two years, would be
based on prudent shopping procedures satisfactory to IDA.
G. Disbursements
5.31      IDA disbursements would be against ARDC certified statements of
loans made by participating banks and refinanced by ARDC, and of expenditures
on training and equipment. For ease of administration, disbursement of the
credit would be against: (i) 50% of ARDC refinance for: (a) minor irriga-
tion lending (minor irrigation, land development, and soil conservation) and
(b) diversified agricultural lending (plantation and horticulture, livestock
and fishery); and (ii) 50% of the cost of training and equipment. Documents
would not be submitted to IDA for review, but would be retained by ARDC and
be available for inspection by IDA during project supervision. This proce-
dure has been applied to all IDA supported agricultural credit project dis-
bursements because of the extremely large number of individual loans involved.
ARDC bases its refinancing of participating banks upon their certification of
loans made under ARDC approved schemes: each application is verified by ARDC
regional offices to ensure that it conforms with agreed lending terms and
conditions. Each loan is required to be physically verified by the lending
bank and ARDC carries out sample checks. Both ARDC and participating banks
are subject to regular audits. A schedule of estimated quarterly disburse-
ments is in Table 4.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. The Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
6.01      All project funds would be channelled through and supervised by
ARDC whose structure and operational record are described in detail in
Annex 4 of the Supplementary Data Volume as well as in the appraisal report
of the Second ARDC Credit Project (No. 1520-IN, May 1977). Major features
are updated and summarized below.
6.02      Functions.  ARDC, a subsidiary of RBI, was established by Act of
Parliament on July 1, 1963. Its main objective is to provide credit for
agricultural investments by making long and medium-term funds available to
LDB, CB, and other approved institutions, to refinance agricultural schemes
which are economically and technically sound, and are located within a rea-
sonably compact area. In its developmental role, ARDC helps formulate
schemes, particularly in less developed States, and consequently, is able
to influence lending policies and procedures of agencies it assists. Through



- 33 -
its regulated refinancing of participating banks, ARDC wouLd continue to
control the flow of project funds, and further contribute to development of
agricultural credit institutions throughout India.
6.03      Organization and Management.  The Managing Director (who is the
chief executive) is assisted by some 500 professional staff of whom about
300 are located at Head Office in Bombay. The rest are distributed between
an office in Delhi, to liaise with GOI, and 13 State regional offices
(Map IBRD 12630R), to maintain contaLct with State governments and financing
institutions. Regional offices mainly assist State governments and lending
institutions in scheme preparation and implementation in accordance with
ARDC policies and procedures.
6.04      Sources of Funds.  Other than loan repayments (Rs 829 M in 1977/78),
the four main sources of funds available to ARDC are:
(i) Share Capital and Reserves: As of June 30, 1978, issued
and paid-up capital was Rs 475 M, and reserves stood at
Rs 104 M. ARDC has never had any bad debts or overdues,
and reserves are adequate given that all of its lending
is either guaranteed by State governments, or, in the case
of CB, backed by RBI minimnum reserve requirements. The
principal shareholders are RBI (55%), LDB and SCB (24%)
and CB (19%).
(ii) Borrowings from GOI: As of June 30, 1978, borrowings from
GOI, mainly representing the rupee counterpart of disburse-
ments made on IDA credits, stood at Rs 4,276 M. Withdrawals
during 1977/78 were Rs 876 M.
(iii) Issue and Sale of Bonds Guaranteed by GOI: This source of
funds helps mobilize savings from a variety of institutions
such as insurance companies, and commercial banks, etc.
During 1977/78, bonds for an aggregate amount of Rs 206 M
were issued, raising total market borrowings to Rs 2,023 M;
and
(iv)  Borrowings from RBI:  Borrowings from RBI are of two kinds:
(a) term loans (currently 10 years) under the National Agri-
cultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund. The balance
outstanding at June 30, 1978 was Rs 2,168 M and net borrow-
ings during 1977/78 were Rs 442 M; and (b) short-term borrow-
ings (less than 18 months); ARDC has a limit of Rs 150 M to
accommodate temporary requirements but has not drawn against
this facility in the last two years.
6.05      Use of Funds.  Most of ARDC refinance has been for minor irrigation
(69.7%).  Other purposes of ARDC refinance include farm mechanization (13.8%),
storage and market yards (6.1%), and land development (4.3%). The remaining
6.1% mainly comprises forestry, plantation, livestock and fisheries. Since



- 34 -
its inception, ARDC has made significant contributions to increased produc-
tion through financing of about 250,000 tubewells, 390,000 dugwells, and
580,000 pumpsets. Land developed on irrigation projects and land improved
under soil conservation schemes, aggregate about 890,000 ha. Through its
investments, ARDC has assisted in bringing nearly 3 M ha under multiple
cropping. ARDC currently supports about 40% of direct institutional term
lending for agriculture in India.
6.06      Operating Results and Projections.  ARDC operating results continue
to be satisfactory. Profits before taxes in 1977/78 were Rs 119.2 M; with
a statutory 25% transferred to reserves (Rs 30.0 M) and taxes of Rs 51.7 M,
this left a net profit for distribution of Rs 37.5 M. After paying cash
dividends of Rs 24.8 M the balance was added to reserves. As of March, 1979
ARDC has been granted exemption from corporation tax, and ARDC's interest rate
structure has been slightly modified (para 6.12) so as to pass on most of the
increased margin to ultimate borrowers and still allow a more rapid build up
of reserves than hitherto. From 1977/78 to 1982/83, ARDC portfolio is pro-
jected to increase from Rs 8,700 M to Rs 21,500 M, paid-up share capital from
Rs 475 M to Rs 786 M and reserves from Rs 104 M to Rs 603 M. Available re-
serves would cover 2.8% as against the present 1.3% of outstanding portfolio:
though still low, this level of reserves would be sufficient in the special
circumstances of ARDC (para 6.04(i)). Even with administrative costs expected
to grow significantly faster than portfolio, ARDC's projected net surplus is
adequate over the project horizon. The gross margin on new lending, however,
will need to be kept under constant review. Projected balance sheets, income
statements, and cash flow projections to 1982/83 are in Tables 5, 6 and 7.
ARDC accounts for the year ended June 30, 1978, have been audited and have
received an unqualified report.
6.07      Medium-Term Reorganization Plans.  ARDC's greatly increased work-
load (e.g., 1,800 schemes approved in 1977/78 as against 600 in 1974/75) is
beginning to strain its manpower resources to the point where the quality of
appraisal and supervision is threatened. Even if specialized staff continue
to be recruited almost in proportion to the growth of ARDC's refinance (doub-
ling every four to five years), substantial changes in working methods and
management systems will have to be introduced to alleviate bottlenecks. ARDC
and RBl recognize that the present highly centralized organizational pattern
should be gradually replaced by one involving delegation of most preparation,
appraisal, and supervision responsibilities to regional offices with a cor-
responding increase in senior line managers and technical staff: a process
which is beginning this year under ARDC II. Over the same period, the Head
Office in Bombay should increasingly concentrate on program planning, design
and control of technical standards, and economic evaluation. This gradual
regionalization process would also involve strengthening of senior management
at Head Office, and considerable upgrading of appraisal and supervision
systems and procedures. In a complex institution such as ARDC, major changes
can, however, only be introduced after careful review and experimentation.
During negotiations, IDA and ARDC discussed and reached agreement on a
detailed reorganization plan and on a further review of ARDC working methods
and procedures by December 31, 1980.



-- 35 -
6.08      More urgently, ARDC needs to:  (a) build up its senior management
so as to keep pace with its lending program; top priority must be given to
the recruitment of a senior official who would gradually replace the managing
director in all routine operational matters; and (b) change its staffing
pattern to recruitment on its own establishment instead of on deputation from
RBI. ARDC's proposals on these lines were discussed and agreed at negotia-
tions. ARDC agreed to appoint a senior official to be next in command to
the managing director by December 31, 1979.
B. Lending Procedures
6.09      Participation in ARDC-Supported Schemes.  Schemes would be prepared
on the basis of State and (increasingly) district-level banking programs
developed by lead banks, and coordinated by ARDC regional offices and senior
State government officials appointed for this purpose. Banks would be invited
to participate in schemes already prepared by government agencies, or prepare
their own with ARDC assistance. 1/ LDB, CB and the other institutions would
not be given specific allocations of funds under the project but would compete
for projects, subject to area priorities, and eligibility criteria (para 3.11).
6.10      Appraisal.  Schemes are submitted to ARDC for appraisal and prior
commitment to refinance. Appraisal covers not only technical and financial
feasibility, but also an assessment of the administrative and organizational
capacity of supporting institutions, including extension, input supply and
seasonal credit. Where necessary, time-scheduled undertakings are obtained
that services and institutions will be brought up to required standards.
In addition, under the proposed project, every scheme proposal would clearly
identify supervision responsibilities within the participating bank for sub-
sequent ARDC monitoring purposes. Technical appraisal is conducted by ARDC
specialist staff supplemented where necessary by a panel of consultants. The
overall quality of scheme appraisal is satisfactory. Under the proposed pro-
ject, a substantial increase in ARDC technical staff is projected, particularly
at regional office level to ensure satisfactory groundwater investigations,
and quality control of investments (paras 5.08 and 5.12). To assist ARDC
officers in monitoring consistent application of appraisal methodology, ARDC
is compiling an updated operational manual to be completed by not later than
June 1980.
C.   Terms and Conditions
6.11      Lending terms and conditions are set out in Schedule A and an under-
taking was obtained from ARDC at negotiations that ARDC would apply them to
all its refinancing for similar purposes irrespective of the source of ARDC's
funds.
1/   Particularly in lesser developed States (para 6.17).



- 36 -
6.12      Interest.  The interest rate structure negotiated under ARDC II has
recently been modified as under (figures in brackets refer to rates prior to
March 15, 1979):
Banks to
GOI to ARDC           ARDC to Banks    Borrowers
_______________________%________________________-
Minor Irrigation
All Farmers           6.0 to 6.5 (6.5 to 7.0)   6.5 (7.5)        9.5 (10.5)
Diversified Lending
Small Farmers         6.0 to 6.5 (6.5 to 7.0)   6.5 (8.0)        9.5 (11.0)
Other Farmers         6.0 to 6.5 (6.5 to 7.0)   7.5 (8.0)       10.5 (11.0)
These changes do not affect the gross margin of participating banks and their
net effect on ARDC's financial position has been compensated by the granting
of full tax exemption (para 6.06). The revised rates remove much of the cost
advantage of LDB ordinary debentures, and further reduce the attractiveness
of CB lending from own resources; both of these effects will tend to increase
ARDC's share in total term financing for agriculture. A comprehensive survey
of interest margins, commissioned under ARDC II, is scheduled for completion by
June 30, 1979. Preliminary indications are that most organizations find the
present spread sufficient to cover the costs of general lending operations,
but some additional support may be necessary to compensate banks for higher
costs of a high proportion of small farmer loans in certain areas. An assur-
ance was obtained at negotiations that GOI would, by June 30, 1980, review
the results of the survey and advise IDA of GOI's proposals for implementing
the survey recommendations.
6.13      Inflation in India over the past three years has averLged 2.1% per
annum. Inflation over the next three years is not expected to exceed 5%
annually. Therefore, the proposed rate to the ultimate borrowers (9.5% and
10.5%) would be positive in real terms and compare favorably with real inter-
est rates to ultimate borrowers in other developing countries. Furthermore,
the interest rates to be applied would be consistent with onlending rates for
institutional credit in other sectors of the economy, and are already generally
applied to all term lending for agricultural purposes. An analysis of cash
flows and financial rates of return for typical investments by farmers shows
that the proposed interest rates would be within farmers' repayment capacity
and would allow for a gradual build-up of their equity (para 7.04).
6.14      Security.  Security would be in accordance with arrangements between
ARDC and participating banks. CB secure medium and long-term loans by discre-
tionary first mortgages on land, chattel mortgages, guarantees, or other
acceptable securities. In most States, LDB are required by law to obtain
a first mortgage on land for all loans, and in most cases, they also take a
lien on any equipment purchased with loans. These conditions are gradually
being relaxed.



-- 37 -
D. Lending to Small Farmers
6.15      A minimum of 50% (US$125 M equivalent) of the credit proceeds would
be earmarked for reimbursing loans to small farmers, as presently defined by
ARDC (Schedule E). However, during negotiations ARDC agreed to try to dis-
burse at least 60% (US$150 M) of the credit proceeds to small farmers. The
definition includes borrowers cultivrating land which produces a maximum annual
net return to the farm family, before the proposed improvements, of Rs 2,000
in 1972 prices. This upper limit is updated regularly by ARDC using different
cost-of-living indices for each State: the 1977/78 all-India equivalent is
Rs 3,100, which amounts to about $65 per capita, equal to or below current Bank
estimates of the absolute poverty income level in rural India. 1/ ARDC would
continue to ensure that adequate records are maintained by participating banks
to clearly identify small farmer loans. Under ARDC II, these are currently
running at about 52% of total disbursements as against a target of 50% (US$100 M
of the IDA Credit). Under ARDC III, in addition to reaching for a higher over-
all small farmer coverage, ARDC has agreed to establish and monitor indicative
State-by-State targets which would be adjusted to reflect existing landholding
patterns. ARDC provides special downpayment and loan maturity advantages for
small farmers (Schedule A). Under this project, ARDC would permit PLDB/SLDB
branches with restricted eligibility to draw additional finance for specific
supervised small farmer programs. GOI and most State governments offer small
farmers (under various definitions), and other priority groups, capital grants.
Most of those are arranged under the aegis of the Small Farmer Development
Authority (SFDA), Command Area Development (CAD), or Drought Prone Areas (DPAP)
programs, and are combined with ARDC-refinanced loans.
6.16      ARDC's policy with regard to subsidies is that it will admit bor-
rowers who receive capital subsidies under an approved GOI or State program
provided: (a) ARDC is satisfied that all subsidies granted in connection
with subloans are channelled through the lending bank; and (b) suitable field
supervision and auditing procedures are followed in identifying recipients
and disbursing grants.
E. Lending in Less Developed States
6.17      The northeastern region, comprising Assam, Bihar, Orissa, West
Bengal, and a few smaller eastern States and Territories, is an area
where agricultural development lags and rural banking services are less
1/   While such farmers are very poor, they are not always the poorest rural
people. The latter are mostly landless laborers. They benefit in-
directly from ARDC-supported minor irrigation operations as a result of
improved on-farm employment opportunities resulting from intensification
of land use. They also benefit directly from small-scale diversified
lending activities which requi.re minimum additional resources.



- 38 -
developed. 1/ Yet, most of those areas have relatively high potential for
development in terms of moderate to heavy monsoon rains, relatively fertile
soils, and vast unexploited groundwater resources. ARDC continues, therefore,
to make special efforts to devise and promote new lending schemes in this
region. Bihar, Orissa, and West Bengal, which together accounted for only
2.2% of ARDC refinance in 1971/72, absorbed nearly 16% of ARDC business in
1977/78. Between 1978 and 1983, the northeastern region is targeted to reach
about 22% of new lending. Including other areas which ARDC also lists as less
developed, 2/ ARDC will target nearly 50% of its lending to such disadvantaged
areas. Development of agricultural extension and research projects, currently
being implemented with IDA assistance or under consideration in those States,
are expected to contribute greatly to demand for credit and its efficient
delivery.
F. Accounts and Audit
6.18      Accounting and auditing procedures would be as in other ongoing
Bank Group financed agricultural credit projects in India. Audited accounts
of participating banks are submitted through ARDC to IDA normally within four
months of the end of the fiscal year. CB accounts are audited by commercial
accounting firms and scrutinized by RBI; LDB accounts are audited by an Audit
Section of the State Cooperative Department. Those audit procedures are
satisfactory, and audit reporting under ongoing projects is up to date. ARDC
auditors are rotated once every three years, and are appointed with the prior
approval of the Reserve Bank of India. ARDC would continue to have its
accounts audited by auditors acceptable to IDA, and those audits would spe-
cifically include examination of certificates of expenditures submitted to IDA
for reimbursement.
G. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
6.19       Strengthening of the monitoring and evaluation systems is a con-
tinuous process. ARDC is following guidelines agreed under ARDC II which
are also valid for this project. However, because of the projected substan-
tial increase in the number of schemes, changes in supervision methodology
are necessary to facilitate adequate coverage.
1/   Contrast, for example, the average population per commercial bank office
in Bihar as of June 30, 1978 (40,000) with Punjab (10,000) or
Kerala (11,000).
2/   Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and
Rajasthan. The last three have several relatively underdeveloped dis-
tricts but the practice of including the entire State under the "less-
developed" heading tends to distort the definition.



- :39 -
6.20      Monitoring.  Reports from participating banks and field supervisions
by ARDC are the main sources of information on the progress of ARDC refinanced
schemes. Field supervisions are essential for control of loan utilization,
and for direct contacts with beneficiaries. During the project period sev-
eral hundred schemes would be inspected and several thousand beneficiaries
visited every year. To help ensure adequate supervision, ARDC intends to
increase the number of staff at its regional offices, and to improve super-
vision efficiency by:
(i)  introducing a system of district level supervision which
would utilize special progress reports prepared by partici-
pating banks; and
(ii)  continuing the process of standardization of data collection
and presentation of supervision reports.
The concept of a "problem scheme" and a "problem district" would be introduced
to focus the attention of ARDC management on needed improvement of performance
in critical areas of lending.
6.21      Evaluation.  Evaluation provides ARDC with data on costs, benefits,
and financial viability of the main investments it refinances. During this
project ARDC plans to conduct 20 evaluation studies, and to evaluate two com-
pleted IDA financed agricultural credit projects and ARDC II, for which ARDC
will prepare Project Completion Reports. In addition, about ten evaluation
studies would be subcontracted to independent research institutes, and about
twenty evaluation studies would be conducted by participating banks under ARDC
supervision. In total about 50 evaluation studies covering about 4,000 bene-
ficiaries would be conducted during the project period. Special emphasis
would be given to evaluation of investments in less developed States. ARDC
would intensify its efforts to develop monitoring and evaluation methodologies,
and would assist participating banks with establishment and training of
monitoring and evaluation units.
6.22      Reporting.  ARDC sends quarterly and annual progress reports to
IDA in the format established during ARDC II. These are satisfactory and
would continue under this project, as amended from time to time.
6.23      Completion Report.  ARDC would prepare a project completion report
not later than six months after the Closing Date.
6.24      An assurance was obtained during negotiations that ARDC would follow
monitoring, evaluation and reporting procedures agreed with IDA, and complete
a program of at least 25 evaluation studies as agreed with IDA.



- 40 -
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL
RETURNS TO PROJECT BENEFICIARIES
Production
7.01      As a result of investments in minor irrigation, land development
and land reclamation, farmers would be able to intensify cultivation, raise
crop yields, and shift to higher value crops. In an increasing number of
States these efforts would be supported by improvements in extension services
and research activities, many of which would take place with IDA assistance.
The project would induce an annual incremental crop production at full devel-
opment estimated as follows:
Estimated
Incremental Output at
Crop               Full production (1985)   Existing Output (1977/78)
(mtM)                        (mtM)
Rice                        1.4                         52.7
Wheat                       1.4                         31.3
Pulses                     <0.1                          11.8
Oilseeds                   <0.1                          8.9
Sugarcane                   4.8                        187.8
Total value of annual incremental output is estimated to be Rs 6,250 M
(US$727 M) at 1978 farmgate prices. Part of the incremental output would
substitute for imports, or would enhance export of raw or processed agricul-
tural goods. Diversified lending would lead to production increments in
milk, eggs, wool, fish and shrimps, and of such plantation/horticulture crops
as coffee, tea, coconuts, cashew, pineapple, etc., most of which are destined
for exports or for reducing import requirements (butteroil, milk powder,
copra). The value of incremental output at full development is estimated
to be about Rs 830 M (US$97 M) per annum at 1978 prices 1/. However, all
estimates are subject to substantial variation depending on the actual
phasing and composition of ARDC's refinance approvals, and participating
banks' loan disbursements.
Marketing and Market Prospects
7.02      Incremental output of foodgrains (about 3.0 M tons) would be handled
through existing local channels. No bottlenecks are expected since production
would be widely dispersed throughout the country. Given the low per capita
availability of foodgrains and the growing population, no difficulty is
expected to arise in marketing of the additional quantity. In case of excep-
tionally buoyant short-term supply, government procurement policy would
1/   Including only plantation/horticulture, dairy, poultry, sheep and goat
breeding, and fisheries programs.



- 41 -
guarantee an outlet for most foodgrains at minimum support prices. Major
cash crops (cotton, oilseeds, sugarcane, etc.) would also find reliable
domestic and export markets through established channels; for some crops
this would increasingly involve a direct link between farmers and processing
facilities. Plantation crops (coffee, tea, coconut, cashewnut, etc.) are
often connected to established and reliable markets; any excess over domestic
demand is usually exportable. Coconut/copra production would substitute for
imports. For horticulture crops (pineapple, citrus, mango, etc.), marketing
arrangements would be closely reviewed during scheme appraisal. The incre-
mental production would serve a growing domestic market, mainly in urban
areas, for fruits and vegetables. The annual increase in urban milk demand
is estimated at 5%. Given an expected continuing shortage of milk supplies,
reduced production within urban areas, and excess processing capacity in the
organized sector, prospects for milk marketing from cooperatively organized
villages are excellent. 1/ Much the same would be true for poultry production
(eggs and broiler meat). Incremental output, (about 150 M eggs), would be
small compared to existing supply, and could easily be absorbed through exist-
ing marketing channels. GOI envisages the establishment of a cooperative-based
processing/marketing system for poultry similar to the one existing in the
dairy sector.
Market Prices
7.03      Financial prices used in this report are based on estimates of 1978
farmgate prices adjusted in line with the Bank's projections of relative price
changes through 1985. Estimates were derived from recent wholesale price
trends for certain crops, actual peak marketing season price quotations in
1978, and government procurement prices as lower limits. Allowances were made
for processing, transport and other costs between farmgate and wholesale
point.
Financial Analysis
7.04      A wide range of investments would be financed under the project,
and the exact composition of the lending program depends on future demand for
loans for individual purposes. Since conditions will vary under different
regional circumstances and between similar investments of different size,
financial analysis has been limited to selected illustrative investment types,
represented by typical farm models in each category. Models Nos. 1 to 10 are
derived from results of recent evaluation studies and IDA reviews of previous
agricultural credit projects in various States. The other two (poultry and
dairy) are based on ARDC's experience with these investments, and on its own
appraisal models. The underlying assumptions as to changes in cropping
patterns, yields, input and requirements and other physical assumptions
pertaining to the models are presented in Annex 8 of the Supplementary Data
Volume. Financial rates of return (FRR), and incremental income after full
development are given below:
1/   See Report on National Dairy Project No. 1964-IN.



- 42 -
Ratio of
Incremental
Income to
Investment                       Unit Size   Cost    FRR       Debt Service a/
(Rs)    (%)
1.  Pumpset on Existing Well,
Uttar Pradesh                     1.6 ha    5,500    33          1.2 - 5.1
2.  Pumpset on Existing Well,
Tamil Nadu                        0.8 ha    4,000    30          1.1 - 4.7
3.  New Dugwell and Pumpset,
Andhra Pradesh                    1.4 ha   12,000    18          0.9 - 5.0
4.  New Dugwell and Pumpset,
Maharashtra                       2.4 ha   14,000    29          1.3 - 7.2
5.  Dugwell Deepening and
Pumpset, Maharashtra              1.4 ha   10,000    19          1.0 - 5.6
6.  Borewell and Pumpset,
Uttar Pradesh                     2.2 ha    8,000    36          1.4 - 3.7
7.  Shallow Tubewell and
Pumpset, Uttar Pradesh            1.8 ha    8,000    30          1.4 - 3.0
8.  Land Development,
Madhya Pradesh                    0.9 ha    3,800    31          0.5 - 5.3
9.  Citrus Garden with
Irrigation, Andhra
Pradesh                           2.0 ha   16,200    24          1.2 - 2.8
10. Mechanized Fishing                 10 m
Vessel, Karnataka                 boat    110,000    29          1.3 - 2.0
11. Poultry, Layer Battery             1,000
(ARDC estimate)                   layers   50,000    40         1.9 - 2.8
12. Cross-bred Buffalo,                2
Haryana                           buffalo   4,400    53          2.3 - 2.7
a/   In the first and last year of principal repayment, in constant prices.
Debt service was calculated on ARDC on-lending terms prevailing at
the time of appraisal. The rate of interest to final borrowers has now
been lowered by 0.5% to 1.5% thus further increasing the attractiveness
of the investments (para 6.12).



-- 43 -
VIII. BENEFITS RISK AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The principal benefit of the proposed project would be an increase
in production of crops, dairy, poultry, and forest and fishery production.
At full development, normally four to five years after the investment takes
place, the annual value of the incremental production at 1978 farmgate prices
is estimated at about Rs 7,100 M (US$825 M). A considerable part of the
increment would replace imports, mainly in foodgrains, edible oils and/or
oilseeds, copra and high quality cotton. Increased milk production would
reduce import of butteroil and milk powder. Other outputs, mainly from
plantation crops (tea, coffee, spices, rubber), but also fruits, sugarcane,
and some oilseed would add to supply for exports. The same holds true for
wool, some varieties of cotton, and for shrimp.
8.02      Project investments would create a permanent increase in rural
employment through increased crop, livestock, forestry and fishery production,
due to more intensive cropping, higher yields, increased stocks of animals,
and capital investment in forestry and fishery. Total incremental recurrent
employment from IDA-supported project investments-is estimated at about 115 14
man/days. At least 60% of the loan amount would go to small farmers, includ-
ing landless laborers, and the number of direct beneficiari'L's 1/ is estimated
to be about 1.1 M rural families. Loans for dairy, poultry, plantation/
horticulture, and mechanized canoes as well as a high proportion of the
loans for minor irrigation would predominantly benefit the poorer agricul-
tural population. Lastly, there would be considerable numbers of indirect
beneficiaries such as neighboring farmers who buy water from new or improved
wells, or hire pumpsets from direct beneficiaries. Their number is estimated
at about 10% of individual minor irrigation investors (about 60,000).
8.03      Environmental Effects.  N4o adverse effects on environmental condi-
tions are expected from the project. The dairy sub-program would help to
remove cattle holdings from urban to rural areas. Controlled forest exploit-
ation would enhance soil conservation.  Problems of soil erosion, salinity
and waterlogging would also be specifically addressed in a number of schemes.
8.04      Economic Rates of Return.,  The illustrative models used for finan-
cial analysis (para 7.04) have been adjusted for the calculation of the
economic rates of return. Details of adjustments and assumptions are in
Annex 9 of the Supplementary Data Vlolume. Changes in cost and benefit streams
were made to test rates of return on their sensitivity to deviations from
assumed values. Results are summarized in the following table:
1/   Excluding programs financed exclusively out of ARDC resources, such as
forestry, farm mechanization, and market yards, and including partici-
pants in group use schemes such as public tubewells and CAD scheme
projects.



- 44 -
Economic Rates of Return
Economic Rates of Return
Best    Investment   Operational   Benefits
Investment                    Estimate  Cost + 10%    Cost +10%         -10%
1.   Pumpset (1.4 ha)            52           48           44            33
2.   Pumpset (0.8 ha)            45           42           36             28
3.   Dugwell and Pumpset
(1.4 ha)                   30           28           24            20
4.   Dugwell and Pumpset
(2.11 ha)              over 50          49           46            41
5.   Dugwell deepening           29           27           24             19
6.   Borewell and Pumpset   over 50        over 50      over 50          49
7.   Shallow tubewell         over 50      over 50         49             38
8.   Land development            46           43           42            36
9.   Citrus                      30           29           29             26
10.  Mechanized fishing
vessel                      45           39           36            30
11.  Poultry                     49           45           32            26
12.  Dairy                       48           39           32            22
The overall ERR (weighted average) is about 46%.
8.05      These rates, which are consistently higher than the FRR for the
same models (para 7.04), already incorporate overall adjustments for the
economic cost of loan administration and family labor. The result reflects
the relationship between domestic and border prices for project inputs and
output: many farm investments bear taxes, imported inputs are a small frac-
tion of project costs, and world commodity prices are projected to remain
higher than their domestic equivalents over the project horizon.
Other Benefits
8.06      The project aims to consolidate institutional development and con-
tinue the long-term process of strengthening the agricultural credit structure
started under ARDC I and ARDC II. In ARDC itself, a reorganization phase
would begin with a build-up of senior management and technical expertise, the
design and implementation of area-based supervision systems, and the intro-
duction of additional technical appraisal criteria. In the States and dis-
tricts, ARDC and State governments would work with participating banks to
develop comprehensive banking plans to provide a framework and set priorities
for scheme proposals. Participating banks would continue to be assisted
directly through training, and indirectly through the enforcement of specific
conditions of scheme approval relating to adequacy of technical support
services and supervision systems.
Project Risks
8.07      A lending operation of this magnitude and diversity involves both
institutional and physical risks:



-- 45 -
(a) There is a risk that eithe!r ARDC might not achieve the
lending targets set forth in its two-year program (and
the physical targets attached to it), or that the program
would be achieved only at the expense of the quality of
appraisal and supervision work. However, measures would
be taken to expand ARDC staff, especially at senior level
and in technical posts, and to enhance the quality of
participating banks' scheme proposals and their loan
supervision and monitoring efforts through better trained
staff. Also the composition of ARDC's projected lending
program was based on careful estimates of probable demand
for different categories of loans and the overall size of
the program is well within ARDC and participating banks'
capacity.
(b) A further risk is to be seen in participating banks' ability
to enforce satisfactory repayment discipline at higher volumes
of lending. The reduced participation and, if necessary,
exclusion from the project: of LDB with chronic loan recovery
problems, and the increased attention which ARDC would devote
to the overdues problems of commercial banks applying for
refinance would reduce this risk. There is, however, always
the possibility of political or other circumstances beyond
institutional control which could cause a serious deteriora-
tion in repayments. Under such conditions, reduction of
further lending in areas so affected would be considered
until adequate measures to restore financial performance
of banks had been taken.
(c) Agricultural investments are by their nature susceptible to
failures due to adverse cLimatic conditions. This risk can
never be eliminated, but the build-up of groundwater-based
irrigation should at the same time reduce dependency on
the vagaries of weather. The related risk of overexploita-
tion of water resources would be addressed through specific
requirements for water ba:Lance investigations and the degree
of precision would rise with higher degrees of existing or
potential exploitation. A further risk lies in the possible
lack of advice to and supervision of farmers on technical
design of their investments and appropriate cultivation
techniques, especially in the more sensitive plantation and
horticulture crops. ARDC would pay special attention to
arrangements for extension/supervision in each scheme, so as
to minimize that risk.



- 46 -
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Assurances have been obtained from GOI that:
(a)  GOI would review progress made by the cooperative credit
system towards meeting the agricultural credit needs of
farmers through one source or closely coordinated sources
and would inform IDA, by December 31, 1980 of its proposals
arising from the review (para 3.05); and
(b)  GOI would, by June 30, 1980, review the results of the
ongoing study of interest margins and advise IDA of GOI
proposals for implementing the survey recommendations
(para 6.12).
9.02      Assurances have been obtained from ARDC that:
(a)  ARDC would establish and maintain criteria satisfactory
to IDA for LDB to be eligible for ARDC refinance (para 3.11);
(b)  ARDC would maintain a Banking Committee which would advise
ARDC on appraisal criteria for schemes involving commercial
banks. The Banking Committee is expected to make its initial
recommendations by December 31, 1979, but in the meantime
ARDC would continue to apply its present procedures keeping
in view inter-alia the adequacy of technical and financial
supervision arrangements and paying particular attention to
recovery procedures (para 3.18).
(c)  ARDC would set up pilot projects to be completed by December 31,
1980 in selected States (Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu
and Uttar Pradesh) for improvement of investment quality control
and, on completion of a review of the pilot projects, would start
to introduce quality control in other States. In order to imple-
ment the introduction of quality control on an All-India basis by
December 31, 1981 ARDC would prepare, by June 30, 1981, a phased
quality control program to be satisfactory to IDA (para 5.08);
(d)  ARDC would appoint or cause to be appointed by participating
banks such number of suitably qualified technical officers
as may be required to carry out the quality control program
(para 5.08);
(e)  ARDC would, prior to refinancing a loan made by a participat-
ing bank to a State Electricity Board for pumpset electrification,
require the participating bank to obtain from the SEB confirmation
that the connection of the pumpsets would not lead to overloading
the local power system or to any other effects detrimental to the
State electrical power system (para 5.09);



- 47 -
(f)  ARDC would refinance against public deep tubewell and augmen-
tation tubewell loans in -accordance with guidelines shown in
Schedule C (para 5.11);
(g)  ARDC would ensure that SGO have been strengthened to the
level required to initiate implementation of work programs
for groundwater resources evaluations as a condition of
ARDC refinance under the minor irrigation category in each
State (para 5.12);
(h) ARDC would apply guidelines for Levels of Evaluation of
Groundwater Resources Appropriate to Levels of Resource
Developments, as shown in Schedule D; (para 5.12);
(i) ARDC would by June 30, 1980, review existing compensation
schemes for failed wells and would recommend to all States
the acceptance of a rational scheme based on the review
(para 5.13);
(j)  ARDC would refinance on-farm development loans in command
area schemes where the project agencies assured ARDC that:
(i) flow rates and frequency of water supply at the 'chak'
outlet would be adequate and (ii) a rotational water supply
system would progressively be established (para 5.18);
(k) ARDC would by December 31, 1979 appoint a senior official
to be next in command to the managing director (para 6.08);
(1)  ARDC would apply Lending Terms and Conditions as set out
in Schedule A (para 6.11);; and
(m)  ARDC would follow monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
procedures satisfactory to IDA (para 6.24).
9.03      Condition of Effectiveness
It would be a condition of- effectiveness that:
(a) GOI and ARDC had executed a Subsidiary Agreement
satisfactory to IDA (para 5.29).
9.04      Understandings Reached at Negotiations
At negotiations, IDA and AIRDC discussed and reached
understanding on:
(a)  guidelines for the establishment of minimum eligibility
criteria for LDB (para 3.11);
(b) a reorganization plan for ARDC (para 6.07);



- 48 -
(c) proposals for direct establishment of ARDC staff, and
for recruitment of ARDC senior staff (para 6.08); and
(d) a program of 25 monitoring/evaluation studies to be
conducted during the project (para 6.24).
9.05      Subject to these agreements, the project is suitable for an IDA
credit of US$250 M on standard terms. The Borrower would be the Government
of India.



- 49 -
Schedule A
Page I
INDIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
LENDING TERMS AND CONDITIONS
1.   GOI to ARDC:
(a) For ARDC refinancing up to 9 years:
(i) annual interest rate of 6.25%, less 0.25%
for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 9 years.
(b) For ARDC refinancing for more than 9 and up to 15 years:
(i) annual interest rate of 6.75%, less 0.25%
for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 15 years; and
(c) GOI to bear the foreign exchange risk.
2.   ARDC to Participating Banks:
(a) Interest rate to be 6.5% per annum for minor irrigation,
6.5% per annum for diversified lending to small farmers,
and 7.5% per annum for all other diversified lending;
(b) Installment repayments to coincide approximately with
collections from ultimate borrowers; and
(c) Refinancing to be by purchase of debentures or by loans,
generally up to 90% of individual loans.
3.   Participating Banks to Ultimate Borrowers:
A.   Minor Irrigation and Land Development:
a.   Interest rate to be 9.5% per annum;
b.   A once and for all evaluation fee of 0.5% of the
cost of project investment may be charged; this fee
may be waived with the concurrence of ARDC;



- 50 -
Schedule A
Page 2
c.   Farmers' contribution (including obligatory purchase
of LDB shares, own labor, and other contributions in
cash or kind):
(i)  for lending to small farmers, a minimum 5% of
investment cost;
(ii)  for farmers cultivating land providing a pre-
development net return to family resources to
such farmers and his family ranging from
Rs 2,001 to Rs 3,500 based on 1972 prices,
a minimum of 10% of the investment cost.
(For the purpose of determining the said net
returns, the criteria set forth in Schedule E
shall apply).
(iii) for other farmers, a minimum of 10% 1/ of the cost
of pumpsets and 15% 2/ for other minor irrigation
investments.
(iv)  for corporate borrowers, public trusts, etc. a
minimum of 10%.
d.   Repayment periods to be based on the ultimate borrower's
repayment capacity, but generally not to exceed:
For lending to small farmers:
(i)  7 years on loans for pumpsets, whether financed
as separate loans or included in other minor
irrigation loans; and
(ii)  15 years on loans for all other minor irrigation
loans; and
For lending to other farmers:
(i)  7 years on loans for pumpsets, whether financed
as separate loans or included in other minor
irrigation loans; and
(ii)  9 years on loans for minor irrigation, other
than pumpsets; and
1/   7% for two or more farmers in a group loan.
2/   10% for two or more farmers in a group loan.



- 51 -
Schedule A
Page 3
For lending to other beneficiaries
(i) 15 years maximum for minor irrigation investments.
e.   Grace periods may be granted at the discretion of ARDC,
provided that the repayment period of such loans is not
exceeded;
f.   Technical standards, as laid down by ARDC taking into
consideration IDA guidelines where applicable, to be
observed.
g.   If his own cultivated area is significantly smaller
than that which can be adequately irrigated by the
irrigation unit so financed, the borrower must under-
take to sell water stLrplus to his needs, or to hire
out his pumpset.
B.   Diversified Lending:
(a)  Annual interest rate to be 9.5% per annum for lending
to small farmers, ancl 10.5% for all other diversified
lending;
(b)  A once and for all evaluation fee of 0.5% of the cost of
investment may be charged; this fee may be waived with
the concurrence of ARDC;
(c)  Farmers' contribution (including obligatory purchase
of LDB shares, own labor and other contributions in
cash or kind):
(i) for lending to small farmers, a minimum of 5%
of the investment cost;
(ii) for farmers cultivating land providing a pre-
development net return to family resources to
such farmer and his family ranging from Rs 2,001
to Rs 3,500 based on 1972 prices, a minimum of
10% 1/ of the investment cost.  For the purpose of
determining said net returns, the criteria set
forth in Schedule E shall apply; and
(iii) for other farmers a minimum of 15% 2/ of the invest-
ment cost.
1/   7% for two or more farmers in a group loan.
2/   10% for two or more farmers in a group loan.



- 52 -
Schedule A
Page 4
For the purpose of this paragraph, the terms "Small Farmer" and "Farmer" shall
include all beneficiaries of schemes other than minor irrigation; for the pur-
pose of determining the equivalent of small farmers and farmers among such
beneficiaries, the definition of small farmer and the description of farmers
set forth in sub-paragraph (ii) hereof shall be adapted to mean "any person
primarily engaged in an activity which provides a pre-development net return
to family resources to such person and his family not exceeding Rs 2,000 and
ranging from Rs 2,001 to Rs 3,500" respectively (based on 1972 prices); and
"net return to family resources" shall mean gross family income from the said
activity less costs actually incurred.
(d) Repayment periods to be based on the ultimate borrower
repayment capacity, but not to exceed 15 years (including
grace periods where necessary).
C.   General:
(a) Participating banks to maintain separate accounts for
lending to small farmers;
(b) Security to be in accordance with arrangements between
participating banks and ARDC;
(c) ARDC shall refinance only sound schemes which, on the
basis of careful study are considered to be financially
viable, have a minimum financial rate of return of 15%
to total investment costs, and are backed with satis-
factory technical and administrative management to
be identified at the time of scheme approval;
(d) ARDC shall forward all applications for refinance of
diversified lending schemes having total investment
costs of US$500,000 equivalent or more together with
appraisal reports and all other relevant data, to
IDA for its approval;
(e) Where necessary, ARDC may approve rescheduling of loans
particularly when requests for rescheduling are from
districts suffering from adverse climatic conditions.
(f) Lending Terms and Conditions from ARDC to participating
banks, and to ultimate borrowers, for similar purposes
to be identical irrespective of source of funds.
4.        These lending terms and conditions may be amended from time to
time as agreed between IDA and ARDC.



- 53 -
Schedule B
INDIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Guidelines for Selection of Pumps and Prime Movers for
Inclusion in State Approved Lists
1.        A committee has been or will be set up in each State, with repre-
sentation from GOI, major participating banks, State governments, Indian
Standards Institute, SGO, and ARDC to review pumpsets availability in the
State. The committees will attempt to establish State-wide standards for
inclusion of pumping equipment on an approved list, that would take account
of local hydrological conditions as well as pumpset mechanical aspects. The
committee should subject equipment to such technical tests as necessary to
ascertain their eligibility to be included on the approved list.
2.        All pumps and prime movers would be:
(a)  constructed of materials and designed to ISI standards;
(b) provided with appropriate literature defining the equipment's
type, design and capacity;
(c) in the case of pumps, provided with manufacturer's rating
curves for duties under an appropriate range of discharges,
working heads and revolutions;
(d) permanently labelled showing manufacturer's or trade name,
equipment type and mark, construction serial number and
basic information on capacity; and
(e) provided with a suitable performance guarantee for at
least one year.
3.        The Committee would reserve the right to independent checking of
the manufacturer's performance claims by arranging for tests on a randomly
selected sample of any unit.
4.        The Committees would satisfy themselves that the sales agencies for
any equipment are appropriately distributed and have sufficient spares and
personnel to provide satisfactory after sales service.



- 54 -
Schedule C
Page 1
INDIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Guidelines for Disbursement Against
Public Direct Irrigation and Augmentation Tubewells
A.   Public Direct Irrigation Tubewells
1.        ARDC would ensure that the Tubewell Corporation obtained an assur-
ance from the State Electricity Board that electric power would be available
for the requisite number of hours and at the appropriate times and seasons
for the economic operation of schemes.
2.        Assurances would also be obtained from the State Electricity Board
through State governments that the power distribution system serving the wells
would not be overloaded by extended rural electrification connections, and
that the system would be protected against power surges, low potential and
low power factors.
3.        Schemes would be designed to provide adequate stand-by water
delivery capacity (e.g. by providing for stocks of spare motors).
4.        The conveyance system for irrigation water would be in buried pipes
or lined channels down to turnouts serving 10 to 15 farmers.
5.        Irrigation water would be provided at turnouts according to a fixed
and scheduled rotation. On completion of this facility, farmers within turn-
out commands would be organized into 'water users groups' to agree sharing of
water within the command, and each group would nominate a member to a 'tube-
well command committee' which would decide questions of water rotations and
allocations.
6.        In principle, the water rate charged to farmers would cover at least
operation and maintenance costs and capital recovery on components which are
renewable at fixed intervals (pumps, motors, switch gear, etc.). Where water
rates are insufficient to cover these costs, ARDC would obtain specific
assurances from State Governments that for the duration of the loan, adequate
funds would be provided for these purposes as well as to meet loan repayment
commitments.
B.   Augmentation Tubewells
7.        ARDC would ensure at appraisal that electrical power would be avail-
able for the requisite number of hours annually for economic operation of the
schemes.



- 55 -
Schedule C
Page 2
8.        The 11 kv power supply would be exclusive to the scheme and would
be properly protected against power surges, low potential and low power
factors.
9.        The State Irrigation Department would reimburse the Tubewell
Corporation for water supplies, at a, price which would cover the costs
of operation, maintenance, replacement and capital recovery, or the State
would subsidize the Tubewell Corporation against any shortfall.



- 56 -
Schedule D
INDIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Guidelines for Levels of Evaluation of Groundwater
Resources Appropriate to Levels of Resource Development
1.        If the projected net extraction in a scheme area in Year 5 is less
than 60% of recoverable recharge, technical approval by the State Groundwater
Organization, and appraisal by ARDC would be made on the basis of a taluk or
block level water balance.
2.        If the projected net extraction in a scheme area in Year 5 is
between 60 and 80% of the recoverable recharge, the scheme would be subject
to special scrutiny by ARDC at appraisal, and the State Groundwater Organi-
zation would be required to provide a block level balance as a minimum,
and an extraction projection through a planning period of 10 years.
3.        If the projected net extraction at Year 5 is in excess of 80% of
the recoverable recharge, the State Groundwater Organization would be required
to support its evaluation of resource adequacy with detailed hydrogeological
maps showing the distribution of all wells in the scheme area, extraction
distribution and recharge distribution together with projected extraction for
a planning period of 15 years, and an evaluation of the probable effects of
drought periods on water availability and farmers repayment capacity.
4.        For the purpose of applying these guidelines recoverable recharge
may be taken as 70% of the total mean annual recharge and net extraction
may be calculated as 70% of gross extraction that is total pumpage or draft.



57
Schedule E
INDIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Small Farmer Definition
1.        "Small Farmer" shall mean any farmer cultivating land providing a
pre-development net return to family resources to such farmer and his family
not exceeding Rs 2,000 based on 1972 prices (1977/78 All-India equivalent
Rs 3,100).
2.        For the purpose of determtining said net return, the following
criteria shall apply:
(a) "land" shall include all land actually cultivated by
the farmer notwithstanding the fact that ownership
of such land may vest in one or more persons;
(b) "net return to family resources" shall mean gross
family income from the land, less costs actually
incurred (including cash value of the farmer's own
input, including seed, fertilizer, hired human
labor, hired bullock labor, feed consumed by family
bullocks, irrigation cha-rges, land revenue, interest
on crop loan, and rent onl leased land); and
(c) the amounts for the current year shall be arrived at by
applying the current Agricultural Laborers Consumer Price
Index for the State in which the land is located to the
1972 base set forth in paragraph 1 hereto.



58
Annex I
INDIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
It em
1.   Preparation Report for a proposed Third Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation Project, ARDC/GOI, June 1978.
2.   ARDC Annual Report, 1977/78.
3.   RBI, Report of the Review Committee on Regional Rural Banks,
February 1978.
4.   RBI, Report of the Expert Group on the Multi-Agency Approach in
Institutional Finance, April 1978.
5.   RBI, Report of the Expert Group on the Agricultural Credit Schemes
of Commercial Banks, April 1978.
6.   RBI, Report of the Committee on the Functioning of Public Sector
Banks, April 1978.
7.   Consultant Report to U.S.A.I.D. (Donald R. Redden, Sr. Consultant)
on a proposed Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
Project, January 1979.
8.   IDA Appraisal Mission working papers, including a Review of the
Operations of Land Development Banks in 5 States, February 1979.



- 59-                                        Table 1
INDIA
THIRD AGRICUTITURAL REFINANCE ANI) DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
State and Primary Land Development Banks
Summary of Overdues A/
As at June 30            1974    1975    1976    1977    19789Y
I STATE LDB (with unitary structure)             ------------per cent--------------
Bihar                                          41.6    34.8    27.4    58.1    60.0
Gujarat                                        47.5    72.4    56.3    61.9    69.0
Himachal Pradesh                               56.1    58.4    50.4    36.7    57.9
Jammu and Kashmir                              35.8    33.2    38.0    47.1    43.5
Maharashtra                                    44.5    41.8    60.4    63.0    57.8
Uttar Pradesh                                  21.0    25.0    16.9    23.9    24.6
AVERAGEB!/           41.1    44.3    41.6    48.5    52.1
II STATE LDB (with primaries)
Andhra Pradesh                                 14.2      9.2      8.7      9.1    20.0
Assam                                          62.3    65.0    40.2    39.0    34.6
Haryana                                         nil      nil      nil      nil     nil
Karnataka                                      22.7    20.1    25.4    40.2    39.5
Kerala                                         39.2    16.1    12.3        8.0      5.0
Madhya Pradesh                                 39.5    24.3    22.4    44.8    51.0
Orissa                                         50.8    57.4    28.8    60.0    32.5
Punjab                                          7.2      1.4      2.7      8.5      2.7
Rajasthan                                      50.6    45.8    20.0    27.6    30.7
Tamil Nadu                                      5.1      9.8    17.7    31.4    67.5
West Bengal                                    24.9      1.5      0.6      nil      5.6
AVERAGE              28.8    22.8    16.3    24.4    23.8
ALL INDIA AVERAGE I & IIR/33.1    30.4    25.2    32.9    33.8
III PRIMARY LDB
Andhra Pradesh                                 23.3    18.2    25.2    15.7    28.8
Assam                                          72.0    61.6    40.0    44.6    40.6
Haryana                                         0.6      3.0      3.0      5.7      9.6
Karnataka                                      39.3    37.2    45.7    52.0    52.2
Kerala                                         45.8    27.6    20.7    17.8    17.8
Madhya Pradesh                                 50.1    37.4    31.9    53.4    45.0
Orissa                                         54.2    55.6    32.0    49.7    40.0
Punjab                                         11.5    14.5    15.2    22.1    15.3
Rajasthan                                      48.7    37.1    25.6    33.4    39.9
Tamil Nadu                                     20.0    39.8    36.4    51.1    67.1
West Bengal                                    43.8    24.8    13.4    17.5    25.4
ALL INDIA!              37.2    32.4    26.3    33.0    34.7
A: Expressed as percentage of demand (Principal and interest falling due during
the year plus overdues from previous years)
B: Arithmetrical average only
C: Provisional
Source: ARDC



INDIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Summary Data on IDA/IBRD assisted projects through ARDC
Credit/    Effect.   Closing   IDA Reim-    IDA as % Loans   Total   of which: Portion    IDA Disbursements
P R 0 J E C T               (Loar) No.     Date        Date    bursement    by Participa-    Loan/            Routed through       As at March 31, 1979
as /= ARDC    ting Banks         Credit        ARDC               (ARDC portion only)
Refinance
_ _ _ _ %  -  - -    - - -- -                          US $M - - - - - - - - - - -
1.  ARDC 1                            540        8/75         9/77        55                              75.0           75.0                     75.*
2.  ARDC II                           715        8/77        12/79        55                 -           200.0          200.0                     91.0
3.  Andhra Pradesh Ag. Credit         226        5/71         6/77          -              66             24.4           24.2                     24.2*
4.  Bihar Ag. Credit                  440        3/74         3/80          -               61            32.0           32.0                     24.9
5.  Gujarat Ag. Credit                191        9/70         6/75          -               60            35.0           34.7                      34.7*
6.  Haryana Ag. Credit                249       11/71         6/77          -              46             26.0           25.0                     25.0*
7.  Karnataka Ag. Credit              278        9/72         6/77          -               66            40.0           40.0                     40.0*
8.  Madhya Pradesh Ag. Credit         391       10/73        12/76          -               63            33.2           33.2                      33.2*
9.  Maharashtra Ag. Credit            293        1/73         6/76          -               60            30.0           25.4                     25.4*
10.  Punjab Ag. Credit                 203        9/70         6/77          -               64            27.5           27.5                     27.5*
11.  Tamil Nadu Ag. Credit             250       11/71         6/77          -               62/69         35.0           31.0                      31.0*
12.  Uttar Pradesh Ag. Credit          392       10/73        12/77          -               62            38.0           38.0                      38.0*
13.  West Bengal Ag. Devt.             541        8/75         3/80          -               55            34.0           15.0                      13.1
14.  Tntegrated Cotton Devt.           610       11/76        12/81         75                -            18.0           12.9                       1.9
15.  Bihar Markets                     294        7/72        12/79         75                -             14.8          13.8                      11.3
16.  Karnataka Markets                 378        9/73        12/79          -               80              8.0           7.9                       1.2
17.  Chambal (Madhya Pradesh)CAD   562             9/75       12/79         75                -            24.0            3.1
18.  Rajasthan Canal CAD               502       12/74         6/81         75                -            83.0           22.5                       3.1
19.  Himachal Pradesh AnDle            456        9/74        12/80          -               80/90         13.0            5.4                       0.2 8
20.  Gujarat Fisheries                 695         7/77        6/83         55                              18.0            47                       0.5
21.  Kerala Tree Crops                 680         6/77        3/85          -               50            30.0           20.8                       0.1
22.  National Seed I                 (1273)      10/76        12/80         70              _              25.0            18.2                      0.2
23.  Andhra Pradesh CAD              (1251)        9/76       12/82          -               66           145.0             9.1                      0.8
24.  Maharashtra Irrigation            736         1/78        3/83          -               60             70.0            5.5                         -
25.  Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD         (1011)       12/74        6/81         75                -             52.0            6.5 _
26.  Tarai Seeds                      (614)        9/69       12/77          -               75             13.0            1.1                      0.2
27.  Orissa Irrigation                 740         1/78        9/83         55              _               58.0            2.4                      1.1*
28.  Karnataka Irrigation              788         8/78        3/84         55             _              126.0             7.3 _
29.  Jammu & Kashmir Horticulture  806            12/78        6/84          -               50/100         14.0            9.6 _
30.  National Seed II                  816        12/78       12/84          -               60/100         16.0           14.5 _
31.  Andhra Pradesh Fisheries          815         9/78        9/84         55              _               17.5            3.9 _
32.  Haryana Irrigation                 843       12/78        8/83         55               _             111.0           41.4                        -    w
33.  Punjab Irrigation                 889         7/79        6/85         55                             129.0           46.0                        - X
TOTAL                                                            1615.4           857.6                    503.6
* Projects closed
April 1979
l 



- 61 -
Table 3
INDIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Cost of Equipment and Service.s for Strengthening SGO and ARDC
Unit             Total       Total    Foreign Exchange
Item                   No.           Cost             Cost        Cost            Cost
(Rs)             (Rs)       US$              (%)
Well loggers                  20       100,000         2,000,000    232,558             100
Vehicles I/                   20        60,000         1,200,000    139,535              0
Water level recorders        200         2,500           500,000      58,140             0
Current meters                38         3,000           114,000      13,256            0
Conductivity meters          70          3,000           210,000      24,418            0
Piezometers                  200         1,000           200,000      23,256             0
Tool and instrument sets   140           5,000           700,000      81,396            0
Total               4,924.000    572,559            26
1/ Vehicles for mounting loggers



- 62 -
Table 4
INDIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
1/
Estimated ARDC and IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter   Eligible ARDC Disbursements             IDA Disbursements
During Quarter   Cumulative   During Quarter   Cumulative
(Rs M)                        (US$ M)
1979/80
2/
July - September -
October - December                  100              100
January - March                     600              700               10             10
April - June                         750            1450               40              50
1980/81
July - September                     200            1650               30             80
October - December                  300             1950               10              90
January - March                      650            2600               15            105
April - June                         750            3350               50            155
1981/82
July - September                     200            3550               35            190
October - December                   300            3850               15            205
January - Marl                      450             4300               15            220
April - June                           -            4300               30            250
1/  Based on 50% IDA reimbursement against eligible ARDC expenditure at $1 = Rs 8.6.
2/  Estimated effectiveness date:  August 31, 1979.  (ARDC II Closes Dec. 31, 1979)
3/ Estimated closing date: June 30, 1982.



INDIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
ARDC - Condensed Balance Sheets 1973/74 - 1982/83
(Rs M)
- - - - - - - - - - - -  ACTUAL - - - - - - - - - - - -             - - - - - - - - - - -  PROJECTED -               - - - - - - - - -
1973-74      1974-75      1975-76      1976-77       1977-78        1978-79       1979-80      1980-81       1982-82      1982-83
ASSETS
Cash on Hand and at Banks                     1             2            4            2             1              5             5            7           10            10
IDA Loans and Debentures                  1,293        1,815        3,018         4,770        6,100           7,087        8,058        9,765        11,939       14,056
Other Loans and Debentures                1,804        2,248        2,476         2,452        2,636           3,512        4,808        5,759         6,548         7,421
Interest Accrued on Loans                     8           15            33           70           98             159          198           244          296           353
Interest Accrued on Debentures               83          114           158          206          244             238          296           365          445           530
Other Assets                                  2           12            10           54          260             249          197           154          218           155
Total Assets                      3.191        4     ,206    5.699        7.554        9.339            A13,562                  16.294       19, 456      IL=
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Liabilities
Bonds and Debentures                        662          992        1,377         1,817        2,023           2,473        2,963        3,508         4,143        4,643
Interest-Free Deposits                       14           18            23           45           85              51          -             -            -             -
Loans from GOI
(i)  IDA Loans                            839        1,170        1,705         2,604        3,598          4,665         6,009        7,443         8,957       10,582
(ii)  Other Loans                          296          796           796          796          678             535          511           732          693           663        1
Loans from RBI                                                                                                                                                                   a
(i)  Long-term                            540          882        1,384         1,726        2,168          2,480         2,848        3,186         4,000        4,600        1
(ii)  Short-term                           116           45            17          -            -               -            -             _            _             _
Other Liabilities                            59            76          103          145          198             276          327           394          472           648
Total Liabilities                 3.026         3.979        56405        7.133         8,750         10.480        2.5          1526         1  8. 265         136
Capital
Paid-up Shares                              150          200           250          350          475             575          611           647           700          786
Reserves and Undistributed Income            15            27           44           71           114 (i)        195           293          384           491          603
Total Capital                       165           227          294          421           589             770          904        1.031         1.191        1.389
Total Liabilities and Capital    3,191            4,206        5.699         7,554        9.339          11.250       13,562        16,294       19,456        22,525
(i) Including Special Development Fund
Debt/Equity ratio (Statutory 20:1)    18:1             17:1          18:1         17:1          15:1           14:1         14:1          15:1          15:1         15:1
March, 1979



INDIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Condensed Statement of Income and Expenditure 1973/74 - 1982/83
rRs Mi
- - - -   ACTUAL - - - - - - - - - - - -             - - - - - - - - - - - PROJECTED - - - -    - - - - - - -
1973-74      1974-75       1975-76       1976-77       1977-78          1978-79       1979-80       1980-81       1981-82       1982-83
INCOME
Interest Earned on Refinance                  150           211           287           400           523              652           811           967         1,149         1,342
Other Income                                     5            10            12           10             24              15            17            19            21            23
Total Income                             155           221          299           410           547              667           828           986         1,170         1.365
EXPENSES
4'
Interest Paid on BorrowinRs                   113           162           220           306           402              515           635           781           939         1,120
Salaries and Staff Benefits                      7           10             13            15            17              22            34            42             48            53
General Expenses                                 4             5             8            10             9              18             28           38             41            43
Total Expenaes                           124           177           241           331           428             555           697           861         L028          1.216
APPROPRIATION
Profit Before Tax                               31           44            58             79          119              112           131           125           142           149
-        -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ -                                                                
Transfer to Special Reserve                      3             4             6            20            30              - T/          -             -             -             -
Tax                                             16            23            31            34            52                            -             -             - _
Profit After Tax (inc. Special Reserve)   15                  21            27           45            67              112           131           125           142           149       , 
Dividend                                         7             9            11            17            25              31            33            34            35            37
Net Surplus                                      5             8            11             7            13              81            98            91           107           112         o
1/ Full tax exemption granted from 1979.
March, 1979



INDIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
ARDC - Summarized Cash Flows 1973/74 - 1982/83
(Re M)
- - -     - - - - - - - - - ACTUAL - - - - - - - - - - - -        - - - - - - - - - - - PROJECTED - - - - - - - - - - - -
1973-74     1974-75      1975-76      1976-77      1977-78        1978-79      1979-80      1980-81      1981-82      1982-83
Resources:
GOI/IDA                             387          331          535          900         996          1,080        1,550        1,765        1,915        1,965
RBI/Bonds                           586          734          990          940         856          1,035        1.190        1.285        1.925         1,900
Total Borrowings                    973        1,065        1,525        1,840       1,852          2,115        2,740        3,050        3,840        3,865
Repayments from Borrowers            42           93          246         480          829            937        1,088        1,335        1,726        1,997
Share Capital                        -            50           50          100         125             100           36           36           53           86.3
42         143          296          580          954          1.037        1.124        1.371        1.779        2.083
Net Revenue Surplus-                  8           12           17           27          43              81           98           91          107          112
Total Inflow                      1.023        1.220        1,.83        2 447  2,849               3,233     3,962                              5 5    6 .060
Disbursements:
IDA Schemes                         563          619        1,324       1,562        1,331          1,925        2,429        2,647        3,390        3,524
Non-IDA Schemes                     415          445          388          646       1,012             875         921         1,353       1.310         1.476
Total Schemes                       978        1,064        1,712        2,208       2,343          2,800        3,350        4,000        4,700         5,000
Repayments to:
GOI                                  -            -            -            -           118            160          230          110          440          370
Bonds                                -            -            -            -           -               -            -            -           110           90
RBI                                  45          156          126          158          298            273          382          402          476          600
Total Outflow                     12023                     lj 1,38        36         2,759:-        3 233        3,962        4.512        5,726        6,060
1/  Includes minor non-cash items, and transfers to Special Reserve.
2/ Difference between inflow and outflow represents mainly an exceptional increase in marketable securities at year end due to delayed disbursements.
3/  Increases in share capital from 1979-80 have been reckoned as the balancing item within the constraint of a debt-equity ratio of 15:1.
March, 1979



- 66-                                             P5 11
Cr        'A,                                
uh~ ~ ~~L 1g C,.C.Ca.-z3zscC            
~~~~~~J                                           I4  N o,0Ao><0oo...................t....X,o.,  ................ 
io~   4 ON 'N  
W   -S      t                        __~ C         _ *A      *,,, CC,,      (%A,U     C    - 
oC               : -1                                                     <_          _      _o
s tg 0R R,,,C,                                           4       A             - @X   
Z~ ~~~C C _                               -e AO                                              I
jg~~~C S                              :   A   ,              C    <  C  E
CA              C   A   O    O A   - A    C    hA    A    A   C   AC,  E.~4.~~0Cv.>~>t>~...-A  A4. 



TSblC 8
- 67 -                                                  42
F,   Z    5 O        ;                    04 ',             5 *       0 o   0-c
C, S        .'W SC *0                  S F  S -       4            4  E    1'.0
i ~~l               N           C N   ON             N       e  .O  .    0.    S I
F-F.   'N    -X 0                             -F N                           N      F'  Soo      t
0               -       O         N0          N           4 -0r 4o 
D|'FF                       '''N_  l      ,     "N    N' N,,,           ,N 
a 0, F-             O        N      N       N 4       __-4_NF'N                NONO         4 00    0 
0        ?'   . _     ,,      ,,          *N           N''           N        * 0           N
G C . _ NO                       _      ,    N           O              ,       . DN  0  .   N 0 b
CC~~~                  N,   NOO                     N    N __    N  N N  0
F'   S    F'                   4                                                               F-SC ;,V C b C   
-     04              =        f'        4                                                    4 c   **fDfEC
0 F''F                         NO  C      c5E EC*x                         0                   0      
F-    NSF                    04        F- ro OOSv?           1?    ?     c8agC    
00    00I0      gO_N   4   U.4    N   N>             0     0 . 5    F-F .01F0g-



AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
AS ON 30, SEPTEMBER, 1978
| Chai rmanc
Managing Diroctotr|
Dirocro -  Director  Grarary           G-errT,  aa  DietrDrcO  D Matter-   Dieco Pogoctlg                                                  Dieco
- Dreror ro       Dire    -                                                              D   airecto r      D       Seece      DetoT-tee
P-di& y                                                                                                 m- eva  PPyv0 Brcl  eooec-, o.r.Chniol
W-BX"l  --------                                                                                          X1X 
OirectDtorr                                                                         l Hv--  v-- -   rr  c
NKEashmir---------- -        C
A'Vo r 1!l{n  9300
------------    --- PD-1h'i,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



INDIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Principal Agricultural Credit Institutions
[    RBI/ACD
3
ARDC
DSTRITCENTALE                     CEUE                     EINLSAEC-PRTV
CO-OPERATIVE              U            AGRICULTURAL
BANKS                      COMMERCIAL                  RURAL              LAND DEVELOPMENT  BRANCHES
(BRANCHES)            BRANCHES         BRANCHES
DISRIMAENRAL
LARGE SIZED       AGRICULTURAL           FARMERS                                               PRIMARY CO-OPERATIVE
MULTI-PURPOSE          CREDIT             SERVICE                                                 LAND DEVELOPMENT
SOCIETIES        SOCIETIES (PACS)    SOCIETIES (FSS)                                           BANKS AND BRANCHES
World Bank - 19830



- 70 -
INDIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Major Institutional Funding for Agricultural Term Loans
_ \ 9~~~and 15 Years/
\ 6.0and 6.5%                               1 0 Years/                 
(Open Market Operations)
Institutional P
BOND MARKET
s                                   (in~~~~~~~~~cludes CB and LDB)
\5 to IS YearsI
6.5  and 7.5%
7 to IO5 Years ,                                    Ye,r,
6.5 and 7.5Arw    m L e t                      2r5r  Y
(Rates 7nd Maturits ae Ur, 1 )General - Purpose Term  Debt
6.5 and 7 .5Worl B     -8
i7to 15 Years/                 /
8 8and 9%| /
/          ~~~5 to 15 Yearsl   |
S          ~~~9.5 and 10 5%1 
/      ver 5 Years
PLDB                          /            9%
\ 7 to 15 Years         I    /
BRROWERS 
AND
DEPOSITORS
(Arrowv frorn Lender to Borrovv/er)
(Rates and Matuirities are Usual Terms at Decermber, 1978)
(Excludes RRB, SCB3)                                                                                           World Bank-198D9



lARD 12630R1
rAjernAIZRII T 151   FCr S-iE AIND DlSfERALCP!EIT CRnPOfRATIONI  CRFDIT POET
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                               Geeaie'curec    fGonwte,Rif0l  vaoainadAD0Rgoa   fie
AFGHANISTANI  -                                                                                         A entean y d
1~~~~~1- ~~~~~~C-n-o oared sed-mnnr san.d,I  tLo cm
hnr< o~r fd races Iqr-ite, acrotnLIC
E-- r 9 pk an-d -cd ,ard cin-n rild
07A-.orI,o nfe in on, -t-es
ARSPOT Rego-l Thre-
r  AIod-  J      -r
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                           
Ip~~~~SI
A.S.THA ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~H



