-   CREDIT NUMBER 947 IN
Project Agreement
(Third ARDC Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated                              , 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 947 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1979, between
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT ASSOMATION   (hereinafter called   the
Association) and AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORA-
TION (hereinafter called ARDC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India., acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to two hundred and fifty million dollars
($250,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ARDC
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement and other arrangements
to be entered into between the Borrower and ARDC, the proceeds of
the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
will be made available to ARDC on the terms and conditions therein
set forth; and
WHEREAS ARDC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARDC shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, agricultural and engineering practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) ARDC shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with the Borrower on terms and conditions (including,
inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement) satisfactory to the Association. ARDC shall duly
perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ARDC shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
(b) ARDC shall, for the purpose of on-lending to the Parti-
cipating Banks the funds lent to ARDC by the Borrower, enter into
agreements with such Participating Banks upon terms and conditions
which shall include those set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.03. ARDC shall, in consultation with the Associ-
ation, take all such steps as shall be necessary to ensure that
not less than $125,000,000 equivalent of the proceeds of the
Credit under Categories (1) and (2) under paragraph 1 of Sched-
ule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement shall be used to refi-
nance loans to Small Farmers.
Section 2.04. ARDC shall, by December 31, 1979 or such later
date as the Association may agree, appoint a Senior Officer with
suitable qualifications and experience to be next in command
to the Managing Director of ARDC.
Section 2.05. ARDC shall establish and maintain at all times
criteria satisfactory to the Association with respect to the eli-
gibility of LDB and SCB for refinance by ARDC under the Project.
Section 2.06. ARDC shall establish and maintain a Banking
Committee with such membership and functions as are mutually
agreed between the Association and ARDC, to advise ARDC on in-
creasing the capabilities of the Commercial Banks and developing
them into efficient instruments for agricultural investment.
Section 2.07. With regard to all lending under Part A of the
Project, ARDC shall ensure that Participating Banks apply such
lending terms and conditions as are mutually agreed between
the Association and ARDC including those set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.08. With respect to Part A of the Project, ARDC
shall apply (-) guidelines for evaluation of groundwater resources
and (b) guidelines for evaluation of loans for public deep tube-
wells and augmentation wells, as may be mutually agreed between
the Borrower, the Association and ARDC.
Section 2.09. ARDC shall refinance minor irrigation schemes
under Part A of the Project in a State only where ARDC is satis-
fied that the SGO in that State has been suitably strengthened to
enable the said SGO to carry out groundwater investigation pur-
suant to the guidelines for evaluation of groundwater resources
specified in Section 2.08 of this Agreement.
Section 2.10. ARDC shall review existing compensation schemes
for failed wells, and shall, on the basis of such review, recom-
mend by June 30, 1980 a model compensation scheme for failed wells
for adoption by all States.
Section 2.11. ARDC shall, prior to refinancing a loan made by
a Participating Bank to a State Electricity Board for pumpset
electrification, require the Participating Bank to obtain from the
State Electricity Board confirmation that the connection of the
pumpsets would not lead to overloading the local power system or
to any other effects detrimental to the State electrical power
system.
Section 2.12. With the objective of introducing, by Decem-
ber 31, 1981, an all-India program for the supervision and im-
provement of quality control over minor irrigation works under
Part A of the Project, ARDC shall:
(a) carry out pilot quality control programs in selected
areas in at least four States, such programs to be completed by
December 31, 1980;
(b) prepare, by June 30, 1981, a phased quality control
program satisfactory to the Association, for implementation
in other States; and
(c) appoint or cause to be appointed by Participating Banks,
such number of suitably qualified technical officers as may be
required to carry out the programs referred to in sub-Section (a)
and (b) of this Section above.


﻿-4-
Section 2.13. ARDC shall establish or cause to be established
such monitoring, evaluation and reporting procedures under the
Project as are mutually agreed between the Association and ARDC.
Section 2.14. (a) ARDC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work schedules for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) ARDC: (i) shall maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it and including
separate records for lending to Small Farmers), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between ARDC and the
Association, ARDC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by ARDC and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit.
(d) ARDC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of ARDC and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.15. (a) ARDC shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the pro-
gress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under


﻿-5 -
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) ARDC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by ARDC of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARDC
Section 3.01. ARDC shall: (i) at all times manage its af-
fairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion
and carry on its operations, all ia accordance with sound business
and financial practices and under the supervision of experienced
and competent management assisted by experienced and competent
staff in adequate number; and (ii) take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business or in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARDC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. ARDC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of ARDC and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.


﻿-6-
Section 4.03. ARDC shall: (i) require Participating Banks to
maintain separate accounts for Project lending; and (ii) ensure
that the annual audited accounts of such Banks are submitted to
the Association within four months of the end of their fiscal year
together with a statement of Project lending for such Banks certi-
fied by ARDC.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes,
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of ARDC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date fifteen years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify ARDC
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or


﻿-7-
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ARDC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation
Shri Niketan
F Block
Shiv Sagar Estate
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 400018
India
Cable address:
AGREFINANS
Bombay
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ARDC may be taken or executed by its Mana-
ging Director or such other person or persons as ARDC shall
designate in writing, and ARDC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Lending Terms and Conditions
A.   ARDC to Participating Banks:
1.   interest rate to be 6.5% per annum for minor irrigation,
6.5% per annum for diversified lending to Small Farmers,
and 7.5% for all other diversified lending;
2.   installment repayments to coincide approximately with
* collections from ultimate borrowers; and
3.   refinancing to be by purchase of debentures or by loans,
generally up to 90% of individual loans.
B.   Participating Banks to Ultimate Borrowers:
1.   Minor Irrigation and Land Development:
(a) interest rate to be 9.5% per annum;
(b) a once-and-for-all evaluation fee of 0.5% of the
cost of project investment may be charged; this fee
may be waived with the concurrence of ARDC;
(c) Farmers' contribution (including obligatory pur-
chase of LDB shares, own labor, and other contri-
butions in cash or kind):
(i) for lending to Small Farmers, a minimum of 5%
of investment cost;
(ii) for Farmers cultivating land providing a pre-
development net return to family resources to
such Farmer and his family ranging from
Rs2,001 to Rs3,500 based on 1972 prices, a
minimum of 10% of the investment cost;
(iii) for other Farmers, a minimum of 10%* of the
cost of pumpsets and 15%** for other minor
irrigation investments; and
7% for two or more Farmers in a group loan.
10% for two or more Farmers in a group loan.


﻿- 10 -
(iv) for corporate borrowers, public trusts, etc.
a minimum of 10%.
(d) repayment periods to be based on the ultimate bor-
rower's repayment capacity, but generally not to
exceed:
For lending to Small Farmers:
(i) 7 years on loans for pumpsets, whether fi-
nanced as separate loans or included in
other minor irrigation loans; and
(ii) 15 years on loans for all other minor irriga-
tion loans; and
For lending to other Farmers:
(i) 7 years on loans for pumpsets, whether fi-
nanced as separate loans or included in other
minor irrigation loans; and
(ii) 9 years on loans for minor irrigation, other
than pumpsets; and
For lending to other Beneficiaries:
15 years maximum for minor irrigation invest-
ment.
(e) grace periods may be granted at the discretion of
ARDC, provided that the repayment period of such
loans is not exceeded;
(f) technical standards, as laid down by ARDC taking
into consideration IDA guidelines where applicable,
to be observed; and
(g) if his own cultivated area is significantly smaller
than that which can be adequately irrigated by the
irrigation unit so financed, the borrower must
undertake to sell water surplus to his needs, or
to hire out his pumps6t.


﻿- 11 -
2.   Diversified Lending:
(a) annual interest rate to be 9.5% per annum for
lending to Small Farmers, and 10.5% for all other
diversified lending;
(b) a once-and-for-all evaluation fee of 0.5% of the
cost of investment may be charged; this fee may
be waived with the concurrence of ARDC;
(c) Farmers' contribution (including obligatory pur-
chase of LDB shares, own labor and other contribu-
tions in cash or kind):
(i) for lending to Small Farmers, a minimum of
5% of the investment costs;
(ii) for Farmers cultivating land providing a pre-
development net return to family resources to
such farmer and his family ranging from
RS2,001 to Rs3,500 based on 1972 prices, a
minimum of 10%* of the investment cost;
and
(iii) for other Farmers a minimum of 15%** of
the investment cost.
For the purpose of diversified lending, the terms "Small Farmer"
and "Farmer" shall include all Beneficiaries of Schemes other than
minor irrigation; for the purpose of determining the equivalent of
Small Farmers and Farmers among such Beneficiaries, the definition
of Small Farmer and the description of Farmers set forth in
sub-paragraph (ii) hereof shall be adapted to mean "any person
primarily engaged in an activity relevant to a Scheme other than
minor irrigation which provides a pre-development net return to
family resources not exceeding Rs2,000" and "ranging from Rs2,001
to Rs3,500" respectively. "Net return to family resources" shall
mean gross family income from the activity less costs actually
incurred; and
(d) repayment periods to be based on the ultimate bor-
rower's repayment capacity, but not to exceed 15
years (including grace periods where necessary).
* 7% for two or more Farmers in a group loan.
** 10% for two or more Farmers in a group loan.


﻿- 12 -
3.   General:
(a) ARDC and Participating Banks to maintain separate
accounts for lending to Small Farmers;
(b) security to be in accordance with arrangements
between Participating Banks and ARDC;
(c) ARDC shall refinance only sound schemes which, on
the basis of careful study are considered to be
financially viable, have a minimum financial rate
of return of 15% to total investment cost, and are
backed with satisfactory technical and administra-
tive management to be identified at the time of
scheme approval;
(d) ARDC shall forward all applications for refinance
of diversified lending schemes having total invest-
ment costs of $500,000 equivalent or more together
with appraisal reports and all other relevant data,
to the Association for its approval;
(e) where necessary, ARDC may approve rescheduling of
loans particularly when requests for rescheduling
of loans are from districts suffering from adverse
climatic conditions; and
(f) Lending Terms and Conditions from ARDC to Parti-
cipating Banks, and to ultimate borrowers, for
similar purposes to be identical irrespective of
source of funds.
C.   These Lending Terms and Conditions may be amended from time
to time as agreed between the Association and ARDC.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Definition of Small Farmer
1.   "Small Farmer" shall mean any Farmer cultivating land pro-
viding a pre-development net return to family resources to such
farmer and his family not exceeding Rs2,000 based on 1972 prices
(1977/78 All-India equivalent Rs3,100).
2.   For the purpose of determining said net return, the following
criteria shall apply:
(a) "land" shall include all land actually cultivated by the
farmer notwithstanding the fact that ownership of such
land may vest in one or more persons;
(b) "net return to family resources" shall mean gross family
income from the land, less costs actually incurred
(including cash value of the farmer's own input, includ-
ing seed, fertilizer, hired human labor, hired bullock
labor, feed consumed by family bullocks, irrigation
charges, land revenue, interest on crop loan, and rent
on leased land); and
(c) the amounts for the current year shall be arrived at by
applying the current Agricultural Laborers Consumer
Price Index for the State in which the land is located
to the 1972 base set forth in paragraph I hereto.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   40c20    day of
197A.
FOR SECRETARY


