CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 947 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Third ARDC Credit Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 20, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 947 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 20, 1979, between INDIA, acting by
its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Agricultural Refi-
nance and Development Corporation (hereinafter called ARDC) with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to ARDC the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
(C) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
ARDC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "'ARDC" means Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation, a statutory corporation established and organized
under the laws of the Borrower, or any successor thereof;


﻿-2-
(b)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ARDC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ARDC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(d) "LDB" means any State Cooperative Land Development Bank
established in accordance with the laws of a State or of the
Borrower. Where LDB is a federation of Primary Banks, "LDB" shall
include all such Primary Banks;
(e) "SCB" means any State Cooperative Bank established in
accordance with the laws of a State or of the Borrower;
(f) "Commercial Bank" means any Commercial bank operating
under the laws of the Borrower;
(g) "Participating Bank" means any LDB, SCB or Commercial
Bank making loans which are, or are proposed to be, refinanced by
ARDC under the Project;
(h) "Small Farmer" shall have the meaning assigned to it in
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the
Association and ARDC;
(i) "Beneficiary" means any person, group of persons, coop-
erative society, corporation or other entity which is eligible to
receive a loan from a Participating Bank under the Project; such
term shall include the term "Small Farmer";
(j) "Scheme" means an agricultural development project
approved or to be approved by ARDC;
(k) "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower;
(1) "SGO" means any State Groundwater Organization estab-
lished in a State or Union Territory of India;


﻿-3-
(m) "State" means any State in the Borrower's territory;
and
(n) "State Electricity Board" means any State Electricity
Board established in any of the States pursuant to the Electricity
(Supply) Act, 1948, as amended, of India.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to two hundred and fifty million dollars ($250,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule"may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Feb-
ruary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1989, and ending


﻿-4-
February 15, 2029, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause ARDC to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary o- appropriate
to enable ARDC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall reland to ARDC for purposes of Part A
of the Project the proceeds of the Credit to ARDC allocated to
Categories (1) and (2) of paragraph 1, Schedule 1 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ARDC under terms and condi-
tions which shall have been approved by the Association and which
shall include those set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d) In order to carry out Part B of the Project, the Bor-
rower shall, in accordance with the Borrower's normal arrangements
for development assistance to the Borrower's agencies, make avail-
able the proceeds of the Credit allocated in paragraph 1, Schedule
1 to the Development Credit Agreement: (i) under Category (3), to
ARDC; and (ii) under Category (4), to ARDC and any State.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Sertion 4z01- The Borrower shall review the progress made by
the cooperative credit system towards meeting the agricultural
credit needs of farmers through one source or closely coordinated
sources, and the Borrower shall, by December 31, 1980, or such
other date as the Association may agree, inform the Association of
the Borrower's findings and proposals arising from the said
review.
Section 4.02. The Borrower agrees to review the findings and
recommendations of the survey on interest rate spreads conducted
pursuant to Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement
(Second ARDC Credit Project), dated June 1, 1977, between the
Borrower and the Association, and to complete the review and
inform the Association by June 30, 1980 or such other date
as the Association may agree, of the Borrower's proposals on the
recommendations of the said survey.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
Act, No. 10 of 1963, as amended to the date of this Agreement,
shall have been further amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as, in the judgment of the Association, to materially
affect the carrying out of the Project or the operations or
financial condition of ARDC.
(b) ARDC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of ARDC under the Project Agreement or the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that ARDC will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿-6-
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ARDC or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) ARDC shall have become unable to pay any of its debts as
they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by
ARDC or by others whereby any of the property of ARDC shall or may
be distributed among its creditors.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and ARDC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of ARDC have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(b) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment on behalf of the Borrower and ARDC, respectively, have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and govern-
mental action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:


﻿-7-
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by ARDC, and is legally binding upon ARDC in accor-
dance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and ARDC and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and ARDC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date November 20, 1979 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary of the Department of
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECOFAIRS                           953-313546
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INDIA
By Is/ A. B. Gokhale
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Loans for minor            207,200,000      50% of the amount
irrigation (ex-                            disbursed by ARDC
cluding pumpset                            to refinance such
electrification),                          loans
land development,
and soil conserva-
tion/reclamation
(2) Loans for other             41,500,000      50% of the amount
agricultural                               disbursed by ARDC
investments                                to refinance such
loans
(3) Training                     1,000,000      50%
(4) Irrigation equipment           300,000      50%
TOTAL       250,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount 6f any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credi.t
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 10 -
3.   Disbursements under Category (2) in paragraph 1 above shall
be made only against expenditures for other types of agricultural
investments mutually agreed between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments for expendituren
made prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:    A two-year program to finance investments by Benefi-
ciaries in minor irrigation and other agricultural
projects through refinancing by ARDC of loans made by
Participating Banks.
Part B:   (i) A program of training primarily for staff of Parti-
cipating Banks.
(ii) Provision of irrigation equipment for ARDC, Parti-
cipating Banks and State Groundwater Organizations.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Lending Terms of Subsidiary
Loan Agreement
The following are the principal terms and conditions under
which funds under the Credit shall be lent to ARDC by the Bor-
rower:
(a) In respect of ARDC refinancing not exceeding 9 years:
(i) interest rate of 6.25% per annum, less 0.25% for
prompt payment; and
(ii) repayment at the end of 9 years.
(b) In respect of ARDC refinancing in excess of 9, but
not exceeding 15 years:
(i) interest rate of 6.75% per annuml, less 0.25% for
prompt repayment; and
(ii) repayment at the end of 15 years.
(c) The Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange risk.


