           Document of
        The World Bank



                                 Report No: 67250-BA




     RESTRUCTURING PAPER

             ON A

PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
             OF THE
   LAND REGISTRATION PROJECT
      CREDIT NO. 4167-BOS

         APRIL 27, 2006

              TO

   BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA


        MARCH 14, 2012
Regional Vice President:   Philippe Le Houerou
       Country Director:   Jane Armitage
 Acting Sector Manager:    Benoit Blarel
     Task Team Leader:     Gavin P. Adlington




                           2
                        BOSNIA LAND REGISTRATION PROJECT
                                     P096200
                                CREDIT NO. 4167-BOS

                                     Restructuring Paper


1.      The Land Registration Project is approaching the Closing Date currently scheduled for
March 31, 2012. This paper proposes an extension of the Closing Date until June 30, 2012.
There are no changes to the project development objective, environmental assessment (EA)
category, outcomes or the results monitoring framework. The project is currently rated as
satisfactory and most project outcomes and targets have been met. The request for this change
has been made by the Government in their letter dated February 16, 2012.

2.      The Aide Memoire and the Management letter from the World Bank November 2011
mission recommended the extension in order to bridge the gap between the Land Registration
Project (LRP) and the Real Estate Registration Project (RERP) currently under preparation and
to allow for the completion of all LRP project activities. The extra three month employment by
Land Registration Unit consultants will be sufficient to assist the government in completing
preparation of the RERP.

3.      The project has currently disbursed 81% of the Credit (US$ 13 million). The Government
has an action plan to complete the project during the extension period. In the Republic Srpska
(RS), the remaining activities related to the three cadastre and land register data harmonisation
pilots and to the land market study will not be completed by March 31, 2012 as planned. The
very bad weather experienced recently in Bosnia and Herzegovina has contributed to the
difficulty in completing the pilot work, but the recent institutional changes in the RS following
legal amendments have also necessitated a change of staff, equipment, office space, archives, etc.
from the courts to the Geodetic Administration. This has also delayed completion of project
funded work. The extension will also provide additional time for clearing the backlog of
applications and completion of the application module for the land registry in both Entities. In
the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (FBH), a further US$ 1.6 million will be disbursed
during the extension period and a further US$ 1.3 million in the RS. The additional extension of
three months would allow for these activities to be completed.

4.     There are no overdue audits and previous audit reports have been found satisfactory to
the Bank. Overall financial management is rated satisfactory.

5.     This will be the second extension of the project.




                                                3
