                                           LAND REGISTRATION PROJECT
Key Dates:
Approved : April 27, 2006
Effective: April 13, 2007
Closing: March 31, 2011
Financing in million US Dollars:*
 Financier                                         Financing
 IDA Credit                                  15.84
 Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina          2.96
 Total Project Cost                          18.80
World Bank Disbursements, million US Dollars*:
                                Total       Disbursed Undisbursed
 IDA Credit                      15.84             8.07              7.86
* as of August 4, 2010.
Note: Disbursements may differ from financing due to exchange rate
fluctuations at the time of disbursement.
Systems for the registration of property rights in BH have been in disarray since World War II when many of the records and
documents relating to property were destroyed. The situation was made worse during 1992-1995 war when more records
were lost and people were displaced, sometimes permanently, and the legal records often no longer matched the occupation.
Informal development of large areas occurred because of the difficulty in getting permission to build or occupy property. The
breakdown in institutional capacity and deterioration of land and property records make it very difficult to complete basic
real estate transactions, develop property or to borrow money based on property as collateral. Property development in urban
areas is also restricted because of inadequate urban planning documentation and the uncertainty caused by a real property
restitution initiative.
The Project Development Objective is to facilitate the orderly development of transparent land markets through
registration of real estate rights and complimentary policies that enable transactions to be made with security and efficiency.
The Project has addressed the issue of building effective registration and cadastre systems by (1) improving the
transparency, speed, and accuracy of registering property transactions; (2) improving the efficiency and speed of providing
data on property units for clients wishing to register their property rights; and (3) developing strategies and draft legislation
required for removing the impediments to business development and economic growth that exist in the land administration
sector.
Results achieved:
 New service standards developed and adopted – registration took many months prior to commencement of the project
     in 2007, but now in 16 courts, including Sarajevo, 80 percent of all transactions are resolved in five days or less and
     mortgages are registered within a day;
 92 percent of property folios digitized in RS and 89 percent in the Federation. 1.9 million hectares of cadastre maps have
     been digitized, exceeding the project target of 1.4 million hectares;
 Over 18,000 cases from the backlog have been resolved since 2007, at a time when new registration requests have
     increased by almost 100 percent. Improvements in service delivery and to the physical infrastructure of 37 offices, and
     corruption opportunities have been largely eliminated. Requests can be processed in a matter of minutes.
 New legislation covering land registration, spatial planning, cadastre, property taxation, and regularization of informal
     developments have been drafted and some enacted during the period of the project.

Key Partners: i) At the state level (BH), the Project works with the Advisory Board with participation of each entity and the
State Government; (ii) the Ministry of Justice at the Entity level; iii) Geodetic Administration (GA) in RS and Municipal and
Cantonal governments in FBH; (iv) Ministry of Finance at the state, entity and cantonal level; and (v) Ministry of Spatial
Planning (at various levels).

Key Development Partners: SIDA, and Austria‟s ADA, GTZ, USAID, EU.
