                                                                                                                     96360
                                                                                                               October 4, 2011
Easier Land Registration in Bosnia and Herzegovina
Jasmina Hadzic, Communications Assistant in the Bosnia and
Herzegovina World Bank Office, offers this story.
                                                                   Photo Gallery
Five years ago, the line outside Sarajevo's land registration
office started forming before dawn. People stood in the dark
hoping to get inside and take a number so they could file a
request for information or paperwork – paperwork that could
take months, even years to obtain.

Today, owners can register most properties at that same
registration office in two to five days. Since a third of all
property data is stored and handled here, this is a big
improvement for a significant number of people. The system         Related Links
is transparent, reducing bribe-taking and giving. The
renovated office is more welcoming, as are the clerks. And         World Bank in Bosnia and Herzegovina 
best of all, data is computerized.                                 Land Registration Project (2006-2012)

A lot of work was needed to turn around the system and the         Economic Newsletter (April 2010)  
people who work in it. Land registration records were chaotic
                                                                   Ministry of Justice of Bosnia and
in the aftermath of World War II and not reorganized
                                                                   Herzegovina
afterwards. More records were lost in the war from 1992 to
1995 – a war which displaced people, sometimes                     Ministry of Justice of the Federation of
permanently, so that legal records often did not match             Bosnia and Herzegovina 
occupancy.
                                                                   Ministry of Justice of Republika Srpska  
The same situation existed around the country. Lack of             Administration for Geodetic and Real
trained staff and deterioration of land and property records       Property Affairs of the Federation of
made it difficult to conduct basic real estate transactions,       Bosnia and Herzegovina
develop property or use it as collateral for a loan. Records
                                                                   Administration for Geodetic and Real
held by cadastre offices often did not match those in land
                                                                   Property Affairs of Republika Srpska
registry offices, and there was no clear procedure for
reconciling the two.

The Land Registration Project, implemented in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika
Srpska with World Bank support, aims to help citizens register real estate and exercise ownership rights
efficiently and securely, so a transparent land market can develop.

Thanks to the project, 37 land registry offices have been renovated and equipped, improving conditions
for staff and public. Customer service has improved around the country, and data, including information
on mortgages and sales transactions, are available online. Requests for extracts can be processed in
minutes. Backlogs have been eliminated in all offices save two.

Over 1.6 million property folios have been digitized to insure property records that are easily and quickly
accessible to everyone. So have cadaster maps covering 1.9 million hectares, half a million more than
was targeted.

The town of Gradacac is part of a pilot project to reconcile any discrepancies between the two sets of
paperwork that exist in cadaster and land registration offices. Cadaster records are based on surveys
taken in the 1980s while land registration records are based on written records from the Austro-
Hungarian period. This can make clear ownership hard to establish. Harmonizing the two eliminates
confusion.

                        Enes Iskric, Gradacac resident, applied for confirmation of the right of way
                        behind his house. “Because of the dual registration system, my right of way was
                        not clear. In order to harmonize the information in the cadaster and the land
                        registration offices, I applied for registration of the deed in the land
                        administration office. Unfortunately, the data in the cadaster and the land
                        administration in Bosnia and Herzegovina are often outdated and not
                       harmonized.”

                       Surveyors measured the path and drew a new map. Once it is done, records will
Enes Iskric            be amended so that cadaster and land registry offices have harmonized
                       information that reflects the reality on the ground.

The government has expressed interest in continued World Bank support to complete the harmonization
of cadastre and land registry records across the country. An accurate cadastre survey will help
municipalites to complete urban plans, regularize developments, implement a fair property tax, and
manage their own property more efficiently.
