Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6111 
Operation Name 
Second Development Policy Operation 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Central government administration (40%); Health (15%); General 
education sector (15%); Mining and other extractive (15%); 
General energy sector (15%) 
Project ID 
P116451 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
November 29, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 25, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
January 11, 2011 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Armenia was among the worst affected by the global crisis, notwithstanding its strong pre-crisis 
performance on growth and poverty reduction.  As exports, remittances and foreign direct 
investment (FDI) fell, GDP contracted by more than 14 percent in 2009 due mainly to a 
precipitous decline in the booming construction sector.  Nearly 40 percent of households suffered 
from losses of wages, farm income and remittances; incidence of poverty rose from 23.5 to 26.5 
percent of the population after more than a decade of continuing decline.  The crisis impact also 
revealed the urgency of improving competitiveness, especially in the tradable sectors, given that 
construction is unlikely to be the major growth driver as it has been in recent years. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The DPO supports the Government’s two strategic objectives: (i) addressing vulnerability by 
protecting the poor and supporting greater human capital development; and (ii) strengthening 
competitiveness for sustained post-crisis growth by providing a more favorable private sector 
environment and strengthening governance. To protect the poor, the operation supports spending 
levels of pro-poor and social protection programs and strengthening the management of 
education and health.  To strengthen competitiveness for recovery and post-crisis growth, the 
operation focuses on improving the business climate for SMEs, modernizing the regulatory 
framework for mining and telecommunications, reducing compliance cost for tax and customs 
administration, and enhancing the enforcement powers of the State Commission for the 
Protection of Economic Competition. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The World Bank Group is well placed to support the Government’s two strategic objectives of 
addressing vulnerability and strengthening competitiveness in preparations for post-crisis 
growth.  The DPO series is a key instrument of Bank support towards these two objectives under 
the CPS.  
The DPO program supports other Bank operations and at the same time is reinforced by them.  
Page  2
For example, for health, education, energy, e-society, public financial management, tax administration, 
conflict of interest and wage policies, ongoing or planned investment projects provide continuity in the 
reform dialogue and the needed institution building to ensure full impact of policy reforms.  At the same 
time, the DPO provides a framework for the authorities to monitor and move forward policy actions in 
areas where there is public investment. 
 
In addition, the IFC advisory group supports areas of the DPO related to the business environment.  In 
particular, IFC Advisory Services provides implementation support to the Ministry of Economy on the 
amendments to the Inspections Law on risk-based inspections in the three pilots supported by the DPO2 
(i.e. Fire Department, Standards and Food Safety), and on Tax Administration through the ongoing Cost 
Compliance Survey.  
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: 
 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
4 
International Development Association (IDA) 
21  
 
Total 25 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Government has tasked the Ministry of Finance as the main counterpart for the DPO series.  The 
Government has established a multi-ministerial steering committee to take responsibility for DPO 
implementation and monitoring, under the chairmanship of the Minister of Finance.  At the working level, 
the Deputy Minister of Finance (Macroeconomics) is the counterpart responsible for policy coordination 
and overall program implementation, together with assigned contact officials in each respective agency.
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits include greater protection of the poor and vulnerable during the crisis; strengthened management 
and financing systems in health and education; lower costs of doing business; improved governance and 
the investment environment for mining and telecom sectors; enhanced competitiveness of Armenian 
firms; and eased compliance with tax and customs administration.
 
The proposed operation is subject to several external and internal risks, including the following. First, the 
underlying macroeconomic framework is vulnerable to global developments.  Slow global economic 
recovery or volatility in commodity prices and remittances will result in a slow pace of recovery and 
medium-term growth, making it more difficult to carry out expected fiscal and external adjustments, 
which in turn would further increase the debt-to-GDP ratio.  High dollarization of deposits in the banking 
sector and unhedged corporate exposure to foreign exchange borrowings also pose potential currency 
risks. Second, commitment to continue implementing the program may falter if opposition to key 
measures gains strong polit
ical support.  The program’s outcomes may also be undermined if the key 
pieces of legislation that are being submitted to Parliament are not approved or are changed substantially 
during Parliamentary discussions. And third, reform efforts could be compromised by weak 
implementation capacity (particularly at mid-levels of the civil service), or if the legislative and 
regulatory changes are not followed up by proper institutional building in the implementing agencies. 
 
Page  3
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The policies and the programs supported by the DPO series are expected to help the poor and 
vulnerable.  In the short term, the DPO series aims to support the Government to withstand the 
social impact of the global economic crisis.  Over the medium term, the DPO series will assist 
the authorities in removing key binding constraints to more rapid and diversified growth in the 
post-crisis period, and promote poverty reduction.  There are three sets of DPO measures which 
are directed towards protecting the poor. 
First, DPO-2 prior actions protect funding for key social 
programs--the FB program, unemployment and pension insurance
—in the face of a major fiscal crisis. 
 
It 
also supports improved targeting of the FB program.  Second, the introduction of funding for 4.5 to 5.5 
year olds is targeted to start in the poorest regions of the country.  This measure seeks to prevent inter-
generational transfer of poverty in addition to increasing education access for all.  Third, the DPO 
supports measures to help support medium-term growth.  This will have an indirect effect on poverty 
reduction over time.  Some of the measures supported by the program—such as on the mining code and 
telecom reforms—address binding constraints to Armenia’s growth prospects and hold promise of new 
job creation.
 
It is expected that the DPO series will result in positive effects on the environment, which is 
discussed in the DPO-1 program document.  The DPO builds on the extensive analytical 
framework of the Armenia Country Environment Analysis (CEA, FY10) and addresses some of 
the specific shortcomings in environmental policy.  .Furthermore, the requirements of OP 8.60
—
to strengthen national environmental regulatory capacity—are addressed through the operation’s 
support of improved mining and EIA legislation.  Other policy actions supported by the DPO are 
not likely to result in significant environmental effects.  These include, inter alia, education, 
health, and telecommunications measures.  
 
Special attention was given to ensuring that the new Mining Code includes good practice 
requirements for environmental stewardship.  Consequently, the draft Mining Code includes 
requirements such as Environmental Impact Assessment and Management and Monitoring plan 
for both exploration and exploitation stages.  The Code also includes requirements on pre-
development social planning (social impact assessment and mitigation plan), and mine closure 
process (initial mine closure plan, covering physical, environmental and social closure aspects, 
financial surety for mine closure, and post closure monitoring plan).  Unfortunately, Armenia 
does not have a proper legislation on Environmental Impact Assessment, which is necessary to 
make effective the provisions included in the Mining Code.  In this regard, the Authorities have 
committed to prepare and submit to the National Assembly such piece of legislation and 
requested the Bank to monitor progress as a Benchmark for DPO-3. 
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Pedro L. Rodriguez 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5252+262 
Fax:  
Page  4
Email: Prodriguez1@worldbank.org 
Location: Tbilisi, Georgia (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
