Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6062 
Operation Name 
Armenia Second Development Policy Operation 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Central government administration (40%);Health (15%);General 
education sector (15%);Mining and other extractive 
(15%);General energy sector (15%) 
Project ID 
P116451 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
October 20, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 25, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 7, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
:
The Government of Armenia has developed a package of social reforms to protect the vulnerable, and a 
set of complementary measures to foster recovery and medium-term. The Bank has been requested to 
provide support towards the implementation of this policy package through the DPO series.  The 
proposed DPO-2 supports the shift in policies from immediate mitigating measures toward preparing 
conditions for post-crisis growth. The DPO-2 supports the gradual but steady phasing out of the counter-
cyclical fiscal policies that have been essential to addressing the crisis.  
 
Bank is well positioned to support this agenda, in light of its ongoing engagement in social, human 
capital and growth agendas via investment operations and EWS.  For some specific measures within the 
overall Government program, the Bank is better position than others to attract the required global 
expertise. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s):
 
The program development objective (PDO) for the series is to assist the Government of Armenia to 
weather the impact of the global financial crisis and in particular, to address vulnerability by protecting 
the poor and supporting greater human capital development, and to  improve competitiveness by 
alleviating a selected set of private sector and governance constraints. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description:
 
The DPO supports the Government’s two strategic objectives to address the global economic crisis: (i) 
addressing vulnerability by protecting the poor and supporting greater human capital development; and 
(ii) strengthening competitiveness for sustained post-crisis growth by providing a more favorable private 
sector environment and strengthening governance. To protect the vulnerable, the operation supports key 
spending levels of pro-poor programs and strengthening the management of education, health, and social 
protection programs. To strengthen competitiveness for recovery and post-crisis growth, the operation 
assists the Government in improving economic competition for the business climate in general and the 
mining sector, specifically.  Additionally, the operation improves public sector efficiency and 
effectiveness with an emphasis on tax and customs administration. 
Page  2
4. Environment Aspects 
 
It is expected that the DPO will result in significant positive effects on the environment, which is 
discussed in the DPO-1 program document. The DPO builds on the extensive analytical framework of 
the Armenia Country Environment Analysis (CEA, FY10) to support stronger environmental policy. 
5. Tentative Financing 
 
Source: 
 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
10 
International Development Association (IDA) 
15  
 
Total 25 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Pedro L. Rodriguez 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5252+262 
Fax:  
Email: Prodriguez1@worldbank.org 
Location: Tbilisi, Georgia (IBRD)
 
