                                          CONFORMED COPY




                                     CREDIT NUMBER 4838-AM




  Financing Agreement
     (Second Development Policy Operation)


                   between


          REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA


                     and


INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




            Dated January 26, 2011
                                                           CREDIT NUMBER 4838-AM


                              FINANCING AGREEMENT

        Agreement dated January 26, 2011, entered into between REPUBLIC OF
ARMENIA (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this
financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken
under the Program and which are described in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy
framework. The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows:

             ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to
        thirteen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
        (SDR 13,400,000) (variously, “Credit” and “Financing”).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the
        Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
                                           -2-


2.06.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment
        schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   The Payment Currency is Dollars.

                            ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end:

        (a)     the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
                of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
                framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
                Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
                achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
                shall reasonably request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any
                situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
                of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any
                action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


              ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following:

        (a)     A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
                or a significant part of it, will be carried out.


               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:

        (a)     The Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient
                in carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s
                macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02. The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
                                          -3-




                ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

        Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Armenia
        1 Melik-Adamyan Street
        Yerevan 0010
        Republic of Armenia

                                                         Facsimile:

                                                         +374-10-524282

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

        International Development Association
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:          Telex:                   Facsimile:

        INDEVAS                 248423(MCI)              1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.
                                          -4-


           AGREED at Yerevan, Republic of Armenia, as of the day and year first above
written.


                                        REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA



                                        By /s/ Vache Gabrielyan

                                                            Authorized Representative


                                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
                                         ASSOCIATION



                                        By /s/ Jean-Michel Happi
                                                             Authorized Representative
                                          -5-


                                     SCHEDULE 1

                Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.      Actions under the Program

A.      Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Recipient under
the Program include the following:

1.      The Recipient has ensured protection of social safety nets, pensions, and priority
        social spending programs for the poor and vulnerable by maintaining their shares
        in the 2010 State Budget (as compared to 2009) approved by Parliament on
        December 10, 2009 and by making available, via the Government Decrees # 275-
        N and 276-N dated March 25, 2010 and # 1238/N dated September 9, 2010, an
        additional 6.1 billion Armenian Drams for public spending for the poor and
        vulnerable.

2.      The Recipient has strengthened the management and monitoring of social safety
        net programs to improve targeting efficiency and increase public awareness by
        establishing an inter-agency working group through a Government Protocol
        Decree #23, dated June 17, 2010 and by the Order of the Minister of Labor and
        Social Issues #N86-A/1 dated July 9, 2010.

3.      The Recipient has issued Government Protocol Decree #38 dated September 30,
        2010 adopting financing mechanisms to cover recurrent costs for the one-year
        school readiness program for 4.5-5.5 years old children.

4.      The Recipient has issued a Government Protocol Decree #3 dated January 29,
        2010 on Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) and launched performance-based
        contracting at primary health care level, including defined NCD services.

5.      The Recipient has submitted to the National Assembly through Prime Minister’s
        letter #01/23.6/14392-10 dated November 16, 2010 revisions to competition-
        related legislation which aims at strengthening the autonomy and enforcement
        capacity of the State Committee for Protection of Economic Competition
        (SCPEC), and harmonizing key elements of the legislation with international best
        practice.

6.      The Recipient has conducted an assessment of the improvement in spectrum
        management and monitoring, has discussed it with all spectrum stakeholders, and
        submitted to the Bank the minutes of the Recipient’s Board of the Broad Band
        and IT Security meeting of October 27, 2010, which includes key next steps in
        this area.
                                          -6-


7.      The Recipient has submitted to the National Assembly through a Prime
        Minister’s letter #01/24.1/13011 dated November 10, 2010 a new Mining Code
        adhering to international best practice for fiscal, environmental, social, and
        licensing standards.

8.      The Recipient has achieved satisfactory progress towards business process
        reengineering (BPR) by:

        (a)     Contracting an external firm to advise on the BPR (contract # 09/101)
                with KPMG dated February 26, 2010 and submitting to the Bank on
                November 1, 2010 their full draft report after formal discussions within
                the State Revenue Committee.

        (b)     Issuing a Government’s Protocol Decree # 36 dated August 26, 2010 on
                the Relevant Legislative Changes to Streamlined Tax Registration
                Procedures and sending to Parliament by the Government letter #
                01/23.2/1899-10 dated September15, 2010.

        (c)     Developing a Concept Note on Risk-based Audit Selection and adopting
                it through Government Protocol Decree # 23 dated June 4, 2010.

        (d)     Submitting to the National Assembly through a Government letter #
                01/23.2/3412-10 dated March 31, 2010 Amendments to Legislation or
                Procedures on the Review of high risk value added tax refund claims.

9.      The Recipient has approved a Government Protocol Decree # 36 dated August
        26, 2010, the necessary legislative framework for improving functioning of
        Green-Channel operation, including allowing the incorporation of the e-signature
        module to the trade world manager software.

10.     The Recipient has approved by a Government Protocol Decree #42, dated
        October 28, 2010, a Public Finance Management (PFM) Reform Strategy.

Section II.     Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.      General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in
        accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as
        the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.      Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing (except for amounts required
        to repay the Preparation Advance) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche,
        from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Financing. The
        allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table
        below:
                                       -7-


                                             Amount of the Financing Allocated
               Allocations                         (expressed in SDR)

      (1) Single Withdrawal Tranche                      13,020,000

      (2) Preparation Advance                               380,000

      TOTAL AMOUNT                                       13,400,000


C.   Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

     1.     No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless
            the Association is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the
            Recipient, and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s
            macroeconomic policy framework.

D.   Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise
     agree:

     1.     the withdrawal from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
            Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable
            to the Association; and

     2.     the Recipient shall ensure that upon the deposit of an amount of the
            Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
            Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
            Association.

E.   Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
     Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association
     determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a
     payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice
     from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to
     the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be
     cancelled.

F.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2011.
                                            -8-


                                      SCHEDULE 2

                                   Repayment Schedule

                                               Principal Amount of the Credit repayable
           Date Payment Due                          (expressed as a percentage)*

On each February 15 and August 15

    Commencing February 15, 2021                                    5%
    to and including August 15, 2030:




* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid,
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General
Conditions.
                                          -9-


                                     APPENDIX

Section I.     Definitions

1.      “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

        (a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the Association or
               the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or
               the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or
               loan;

        (b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
               by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
               (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
               revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the
               Recipient:

              Group            Sub-group                  Description of Item

                 112                            Alcoholic beverages
                 121                            Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco
                                                refuse
                 122                            Tobacco, manufactured (whether or
                                                not containing tobacco substitutes)
                 525                            Radioactive and associated materials
                 667                            Pearls, precious and semiprecious
                                                stones, unworked or worked
                 718                 718.7      Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof;
                                                fuel elements (cartridges), non-
                                                irradiated, for nuclear reactors
                 728                 728.43     Tobacco processing machinery
                 897                 897.3      Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
                                                group metals (except watches and
                                                watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                silversmiths’ wares (including set
                                                gems)
                 971                            Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
                                                ores and concentrates)

        (c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
               consumption;
                                       - 10 -


     (d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
             which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
             agreements to which the Recipient is a party;

     (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
             Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
             United Nations; and

     (f)     with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
             collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
             Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the
             Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate
             action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they
             occur.

2.   “Loan Agreement” means the agreement between the Recipient and the Bank in
     support of the Program, of the same date as this Agreement, as such agreement
     may be amended from time to time. “Loan Agreement” includes all appendices,
     schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.

3.   “General Conditions” means the “International Development Association
     General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 31, 2010 with the
     modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

4.   “KPMG” means an international firm providing auditing, tax and advisory
     services.

5.   “Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.05 of the
     General Conditions (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section II
     below), granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letter
     agreement signed on behalf of the Association on July 2, 2009 and on behalf of
     the Recipient on July 21, 2009.

6.   “Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
     promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
     referred to in the letter dated November 16, 2010 from the Recipient to the
     Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the
     Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the
     Program during its execution.

7.   “Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
     category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
     Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
                                          - 11 -


Section II.     Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
        in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
        accordingly.

3.      Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
        Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly.

4.      Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
        and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.      Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
        above) is modified to read as follows:

                “Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

                …       (c)      The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
                under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient
                shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.”

6.      Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to
        read as follows:

                “Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

                …       (c)     The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
                furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing
                Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by
                the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under
                the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
                Financing.”

7.      The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
        deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
        alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
        accordingly:
                               - 12 -



(a)   The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
      follows:

       “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in
      support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
      pursuant to the Financing Agreement.”

(b)   The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the
      Appendix are deleted in their entirety.

(c)   The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is
      modified to read as follows:

      “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in
      support of which the Financing is made.” All references to “Project”
      throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
      “Program”.
