Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2011 SU
                       Development Credit Agreement
                 (Emergency Flood Reconstruction Project)
                                  between
                           THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated May 25, 1989
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2011 SU
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 25, 1989, between THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   Parts A.1 through A.3 of the Project will be carried out by the
Agricultural Bank of Sudan (ABS) and Part D of the Project by the Sudan
Telecommunications Public Corporation (STPC) with the Borrower's assistance,
and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to ABS and
STPC, respectively, part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreements of even
date herewith between the Association and ABS and STPC, respectively;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
Page  2
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "ABS Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ABS of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the ABS Project Agreement;
      (b)   "ABS Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ABS pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the ABS Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (c)   "STPC Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and STPC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the STPC Project Agreement;
      (d)   "STPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and STPC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the STPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (e)   "NRIU" means the National Reconstruction Implementation Unit;
      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement; and
      (g)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of
letters, dated October 25, 1988, November 17, 1988, and February 22, 1989,
between the Borrower and the Association.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-four million
nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 54,900,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special account in the Export-Import Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Page  3
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 1991, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each March 1 and September 1 commencing September
1, 1999, and ending March 1, 2029. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on March 1, 2009, shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
Page  4
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and,
to this end: (i) shall carry out Parts A.4, B, C, E, F and G of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, engineering, educational, environmental, public health,
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
those Parts of the Project; and (ii) without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement,
shall cause ABS and STPC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
respective Project Agreements all the obligations of ABS and STPC,
respectively, therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ABS and STPC, respectively,
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall relend, out of the proceeds of the Credit:
            (i)   an amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 11,130,000
                  to ABS under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
                  into between the Borrower and ABS, under terms and
                  conditions which shall have been approved by the
                  Association and which shall include charges at the rate
                  of fourteen percent (14%) per annum, repayment over ten
                  years, including two years of grace, and the foreign
                  exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower; and
            (ii)  an amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 8,550,000
                  to STPC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
                  into between the Borrower and STPC, under terms and
                  conditions which shall have been approved by the
                  Association and which shall include charges at the rate
                  of nineteen percent (19%) per annum, repayment over
                  twenty years, including five years of grace, and the
                  foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the ABS and STPC
Subsidiary Loan Agreements, respectively, in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
      (a)   procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for Parts A.4, B, C, E, F and G of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
      (b)   procurement of the goods and works required for Part A.1-3 of
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the ABS Project Agreement;
      (c)   procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for Part D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the
STPC Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) shall be carried out by ABS and STPC, respectively, pursuant
to Sections 2.03 of the ABS and STPC Project Agreements, respectively, for
Parts A.1-3 and D of the Project.
      Section 3.04. In carrying out Part A.4 of the Project, the Borrower
shall:
Page  5
      (a)   make available the fuel acquired under the Project to its
Ministry of Agriculture to replace stocks used during the flood emergency
activities;
      (b)   sell the fertilizers, spare parts and jute sacks acquired under
the Project to agricultural corporations; and
      (c)   deposit the Sudanese Pounds generated by such sales into
separate account to be opened in the name of the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning with the Bank of Sudan and to be used to finance the local
costs of development projects included in the Borrower's budget.
      Section 3.05. In carrying out Part E.2 of the Project, the Borrower
shall cause the Khartoum Commissionerate to distribute the low-income
housing construction materials to beneficiaries who meet the eligibility
criteria agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
Page  6
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   ABS or STPC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the respective Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that ABS or STPC will be able to perform its
obligations under the respective Project Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower's Agricultural Bank of Sudan Act, 1957,
establishing ABS or the Borrower's Sudan Telecommunications Public
Corporation Act, 1978, establishing STPC shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of ABS or STPC, respectively, to perform any of its obligations
under the respective Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ABS or STPC
or for the suspension of their operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has appointed to at least four NRIU staff positions
candidates whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to the
Association; and
      (b)   the Borrower has employed consultants to NRIU in accordance with
the provisions set forth in Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            National Reconstruction Implementation Unit
            Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
            P.O. Box 2092
            Khartoum
Page  7
            The Republic of Sudan
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  EIMAR                         22324
                  Khartoum
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
                  By /s/ Hassan Elamin Elbashir
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
       Amount of the
     Credit Allocated                % of
       (Expressed in             Expenditures
CategorySDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
Part A of the Project:
(1)     Agricultural inputs,       4,170,000        100% of foreign
    machinery and spare                             expenditures and
    parts for farmers                               65% of local
    and cooperatives                                expenditures
    under Part A.1-2
    of the Project
(2)     Agricultural inputs        6,960,000        90%
    and services under
    Part A.3 of the
    Project
Page  8
(3)     Fuel, fertilizers, spare   2,640,000        100% of foreign
    parts and jute sacks under                      expenditures and
    Part A.4 of the Project                         65% of local
                                            expenditures
Part B of the Project:
(4)     Civil works                3,390,000        75%
(5)     Construction               3,150,000        100% of foreign
    materials                                       expenditures
(6)     Furniture                    360,000        100%
(7)     Teaching/learning           200,000)
    materials                              )        100% of foreign
             )              expenditures and
(8)     Consultants'              2,160,000)        65% of local
    services )                  expenditures
             )
(9)     Operating expenses          110,000)
             )
Part C of the Project:
(10) Drugs and chemicals          1,830,000)        100% of foreign
             )                              expenditures
             )
(11) Equipment and                  950,000)        100% of foreign
     vehicles                              )        expenditures
             )              and 65% of local
(12) Consultants'                   360,000)        expenditures
     services                              )
Part D of the Project:
(13) Equipment, tools,            7,630,000)        100% of foreign
     spare parts and                       )        expenditures and
     vehicles                              )        65% of local
             )                              expenditures
(14) Consultants'                   920,000)
     services                              )
Part E of the Project:
(15) Civil works                   5,230,000        100% of foreign
                                            expenditures and
                                            75% of local
                                            expenditures
(16) Construction materials,
     equipment and vehicles:
    (a) under Part E.1               45,000)
        of the Project                     )
             )
    (b) under Part E.2-4          7,785,000)        100% of foreign
        of the Project                     )        expenditures and
             )                                      65% local
             )                  expenditures
             )
(17) Consultants'                 3,070,000)
     services                              )
             )
(18) Operating expenses              40,000)
Part F of the Project:
(19) Equipment and vehicles          70,000)        100% of foreign
             )              expenditures and
             )                  65% of local
(20) Consultants'                   400,000)        expenditures
Page  9
     services
Part G of the Project:
(21) Equipment and vehicles          40,000)
             )               100% of foreign
(22) Consultants'                 1,100,000)        expenditures and
    services )                  65% of local
             )                  expenditures
(23) Operating expenses             220,000)
(24) Refunding of                    860,000        Amount due pur-
     Project Pre-                                   suant to Sec-
     paration                                       tion 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                of this Agree-
                                            ment
(25) Unallocated                   1,210,000
        TOTAL                     54,900,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower; and
    (c)   the term "operating expenses" means the office expenses incurred
for local salaries, rent, utilities, transportation and supplies.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that: (i) withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 370,000 may be made in respect of Category
(1) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
October 25, 1988; and (ii) withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of SDR 1,460,000 may be made in respect of Category (2) on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after October
25, 1988;
    (b)   expenditures under Categories (1) and (2) unless ABS has met the
conditions set forth in Section 5.01 of the ABS Project Agreement;
    (c)   expenditures under Categories (10), (11) and (12) unless the
Borrower has submitted to the Association an implementation plan
satisfactory to the Association covering the first year of implementation
activities under Part C of the Project, including the management structure
and the appropriate staffing of the National Malaria Control Directorate in
the Ministry of Health;
    (d)   expenditures under Categories (13) and (14) unless STPC has met
the conditions set forth in Section 5.01 of the STPC Project Agreement; and
    (e)   expenditures under Categories (15) and (16) (a) unless: (i) a
Project Management Office has been established within the Khartoum
Commissionerate with terms and conditions acceptable to the Association; and
(ii) the director of the Project Management Office with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Association has been appointed.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in implementing
its Emergency Flood Reconstruction Program by: (i) restoring the productive
facilities and essential infrastructure; (ii) relieving human suffering and
Page  10
deprivation through the restoration of social services and reconstruction
of houses destroyed by the flood; (iii) strengthening the institutional
framework for the reconstruction efforts; and (iv) preparing an early
warning system for future floods.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Agricultural Sector
1.  Acquisition of farm machinery, tools, pumps, spare parts and
agricultural inputs, including fertilizer and jute sacks.
2.  Distribution of the items referred to in paragraph 1 above to farmers
and cooperatives in the Northern, Central and Eastern Regions on a cash sale
basis or through the provision of credit.
3.  Making of cash loans to farmers in the Northern Region for the purchase
of agricultural inputs and the hiring of agricultural services.
4.  Acquisition of fuel, fertilizers, spare parts and jute sacks for the
Ministry of Agriculture and the agricultural corporations.
Part B:   Education Sector
1.  Construction of about 50 primary schools, including the acquisition of
furniture and teaching/learning materials.
2.  Operation of the Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of
Education, Higher Education and Scientific Research established for previous
education projects financed by the Association.
Part C:   Health Sector
1.  Acquisition and distribution of drugs and chemicals for the control of
malaria and other endemic diseases.
2.  Acquisition of equipment and vehicles for the malaria control program.
Part D:   Telecommunications Sector
1.  Acquisition of equipment and spare parts for the rehabilitation of the
power and air-conditioning equipment in the exchanges in Khartoum, Nyale,
Kadogli, Malakal, Sennar and Medani.
2.  Replacement of overhead lines in eight rural centers.
3.  Acquisition of tools, test equipment and vehicles.
Part E:   Urban Sector
1.  Rehabilitation of the most severely damaged parts of Khartoum's street
and drainage system, using labor-intensive methods.
2.  Acquisition and distribution - on a grant basis - of low-income housing
construction materials.
3.  Preparation of an urban development plan for Khartoum and the
acquisition of equipment and vehicles therefor.
4.  Establishment and operation of a project management office in the
Khartoum Commissionerate, including the acquisition of equipment and
vehicles therefor.
Part F:   Flood Early Warning Study
    Preparation of a study for an early warning system for future floods and
acquisition of equipment and vehicles therefor.
Part G:   National Reconstruction Implementation Unit
Page  11
    Operation of the NRIU, including acquisition of equipment and vehicles
therefor.
                               *   *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 1991.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid
packages so as to enable bulk procurement.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Sudan may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
    In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to
domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Fuel under Part A.4 of the Project may be purchased directly from the
General Petroleum Corporation on the basis of negotiated contracts
acceptable to the Association.
2.  Civil works under Part B of the Project may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.  The printing of the textbooks under Part B of the Project may be
undertaken by the Government Printer on the basis of a negotiated contract
acceptable to the Association.
4.  Drugs and chemicals which shall have been approved by the Association
and equipment under Part C of the Project may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
5.  Civil works under Part E.1 of the Project relating to the repair of the
street and drainage systems may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
6.  Civil works under Part E.1 of the Project relating to the repair of the
El Afun road may be carried out by force account.
7.  Office equipment, supplies and vehicles under Parts B, C, E, F and G of
the Project may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
Page  12
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contracts are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section
4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts B, C, E, F and G
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (23)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, provided, however, that expenditures to be financed under
Categories for which disbursement conditions are specified in paragraph 3
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement are only eligible after the respective
disbursement conditions have been met; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
Page  13
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been made out of the Special
                Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
Page  14
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
