Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2011 SU
                          STPC Project Agreement
                 (Emergency Flood Reconstruction Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                    and
                SUDAN TELECOMMUNICATIONS PUBLIC CORPORATION
                            Dated May 25, 1989
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2011 SU
                          STPC PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 25, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and SUDAN TELECOMMUNICATIONS PUBLIC
CORPORATION (STPC).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between The Republic of Sudan (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to fifty-four million nine hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 54,900,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition, inter
alia, that STPC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and STPC, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to STPC on the terms and
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      WHEREAS STPC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. STPC declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and,
to this end, shall carry out Part D of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for Part D of the Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part
D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. STPC shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the STPC Project Agreement and Part D of the Project.
      Section 2.04. STPC shall duly perform all its obligations under the
STPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, STPC shall not take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the STPC Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) STPC shall, at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the STPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   STPC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by STPC
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the STPC Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                     Management and Operations of STPC
      Section 3.01. STPC shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and public
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. STPC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering, financial and public utility practices.
      Section 3.03. STPC shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) STPC shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and
Page  3
financial condition.
      (b)   STPC shall:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
                  (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                  related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association its unaudited financial
                  statements for each respective year as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of FY 1988, six months after the end of FY 1989 and four
                  months after the end of FY 1990 and the following years;
            (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than twelve months after the end of FY
                  1988, nine months after the end of FY 1989 and six months
                  after the end of FY 1990 and the following years:
                  (A)   certified copies of its financial statements for
                        such year as so audited; and
                  (B)   the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                        scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                        have reasonably requested; and
            (iv)  furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the
effectiveness of this Agreement:
      (a)   the Development Credit Agreement has been declared effective;
      (b)   the STPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and STPC; and
      (c)   the Association has received an opinion or opinions satisfactory
to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing: (i)
that the STPC Project Agreement has been duly executed by STPC and is
legally binding upon STPC in accordance with its terms; and (ii) that the
STPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed by the Borrower and
STPC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and STPC in accordance with
its terms.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of STPC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
                  terminate in accordance with its terms; or
            (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Association shall promptly notify STPC of this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in
full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under
the General Conditions.
Page  4
                                ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given
or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      For STPC:
            Sudan Telecommunications Public Corporation
            Khartoum
            Sudan
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  GENTEL                        22299
                  Khartoum
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of STPC may be taken or executed by the Director General or such
other person or persons as the Director General shall designate in writing,
and STPC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                  SUDAN TELECOMMUNICATIONS PUBLIC CORPORATION
                  By /s/ Hassan Elamin Elbashir
                                                Authorized Representative
Page  5
                                 SCHEDULE
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid
packages so as to enable bulk procurement.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Sudan may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, STPC may grant a margin of preference to
domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods under Part D.1 of the Project may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.    Proprietary items may be purchased on the basis of negotiated
contracts acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section
Page  6
4.01 (a) (ii) of the Development Credit Agreement.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist STPC in carrying out Part D of the Project, STPC
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
