Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                       FLE _     p 
Report No. P-3818-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRES IDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO T HE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CRED IT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$36.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A
SEVENTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY (SOFIDE) PROJECT
May 10, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit           =      Zaire (Z)
September 12, 1983 - February 24, 1984
Zaire 1.00              =      US$0.04 (0.03)
US$1.00                 =       Z 26.93 (29.93)
February 24, 1984
Zaire 1.00              =      US$0.03
US$1.00                 =       Z 33.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)             =      3.28  feet
1 kilometer (km)               0.62  mile
1 sq kilometer (km2)           0.386 square miles
1 metric ton (ton)             :2,204 pounds (lbs)
1/ On September 12, 1983, Zaire introduced a transitional
dual exchange rate regime, comprising an official rate
and a free market rate shown between brackets above.
The two rates were unified on February 24, 1984;
thereafter the rate has floated on a weekly basis.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS AND ABREVIATIONS
BDZ       -  Banque du Zaire
(Central Bank)
CCCE      -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
(Economic Cooperation Fund)
CEPETEDE  -  Centre de Perfectionnement aux Techniques de Dgveloppement
(Training Center in Economic and Financial Analysis)
EDI       =  Economic Development Institute
EIB       -  European Investment Bank
FAC       -  Fonds d'Aide et de Coopgration
(French Aid and Cooperation Fund)
INS       -  Institut National des Statistiques
(National Institute of Statistics)
KfW       -  Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau
(The Development Credit Organization of
the Federal Republic of Germany)
ONATRA    -  Office national des Transports
(National Transport Bureau)
OPEZ      -  Office de Promotion des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises
Zairoises
(Office for the Promotion of Small and Medium
Enterprises in Zaire)
OR           Office des Routes
(Highway Authority)
PIP          Public Investment Program
SNCZ         Socigt4 Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois
(National Railway Company)
SOFIDE       Socigtg FinanciAre de D4veloppement
(Development Finance Corporation of Zaire)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






ZAIRE
SEVENTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY PROJECT (SOFIDE)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary:             Soci6tg Financiere de D6veloppement (SOFIDE),
Centre de Perfectionnement aux Techniques de
D6veloppement (CEPETEDE) and Government.
Amount:                  SDR 34.0 million equivalent to US$36.0 million.
Terms:                   Standard IDA terms.
Relending Terms:         The Government would onlend US$33.5 million to
SOFIDE at a minimum interest rate of 8.5 percent
per annum with a flexible amortization schedule
that would substantially conform with the
aggregate of the amortization schedules of
subloans made by SOFIDE and financed under this
proposed project, subject to a maximum of 15
years, including a grace period not exceeding 3
years; SOFIDE would relend the funds at a minimum
rate of 15.5 percent per annum to its borrowers,
who will bear the foreign exchange risk. US$0.25
million would be passed on to CEPETEDE as a
grant. The remaining US$2.25 million would be
used by the Government for policy related
studies.
Project Description:   The Credit would finance the foreign exchange
component (US$33.5 million) of the capital
investment requirements of subprojects approved
by SOFIDE in the agricultural, transportation,
industrial and agro-industrial sectors. At least
US$5.0 million would be for export oriented
projects and at most, US$4.0 million may be
reserved for SOFIDE's equity participations,
provided SOFIDE finds measures satisfactory to
IDA to protect itself against the foreign
exchange risk. The remaining US$2.5 million of
the Credit would finance (a) technical assistance
and studies to improve industrial sector policy
formulation and project selection (US$2.25
million); and (b) training and other assistance
needed by CEPETEDE to help it improve its
effectiveness as a training institute in project
analysis and implementation (US$0.25 million).



- ii -
Project Benefits:        The main benefits of the project would be to
continue strengthening SOFIDE, help improve
formulation and implementation of industrial
policies, and preserve Zaire's productive
capacity diuring a difficult adjustment period.
The main risk r,elates to the impact on SOFIDE and
its clients of the recent macro-economic reforms,
which could, in the short-run, affect the quality
of SOFIDE's portfolic. This risk, however, is
limited (a) becaiuse many of SOFIDE's borrowers
are long established companies with good
financial resilience; and (b) because of the
strong acition SOFIDE has already taken to improve
its supervision and loan collection efforts, and
the comprehensive measures proposed in the
context of this project to limit portfolio
deterioratFion (these measures will be implemented
in close consultation with IDA).
Estimated Dusbursements
IDA Fiscal Years         1985     :1986     1987      1988      1989     1990
--(US$ Million)---------------…--
Annual                    0.3       7.9     13.2       8.2       5.5       0.9
Cumulative                0.3      8.2      21.4      29.6      35.1     36.0
Appraisal Report         No. 4943-ZR, daied May 9, 1984.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUJBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A SEVENTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY (SOFIDE) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to the Republic of Zaire in the amount of
SDR 34.0 million (US$36.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to
help finance a Seventh SOFIDE Project.  The Republic of Zaire would
onlend US$33.5 million equivalent to SOFIDE at a minimum interest rate
of 8.5 percent per annum with a flexible amortization schedule conform-
ing to the aggregate amortization schedule of SOFIDE's sub-loans,
subject to a maximum of 15 years, including a grace period not
exceeding three years; US$0.25 million would be passed on to CEPETEDE
as a grant; and the remaining US$2.25 million would be used by the
Government for financing policy related studies.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        An economic mission visited Zaire in March 1982; its report
was distributed in January 1983 (Report No. 4077-ZR). Its major
findings and those of a follow-up visit in February-March 1983 are
summarized below.
Background
3.        Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area
and the fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita,
estimated at about US$210 in 1981, ranks among the lowest in the
continent. Approximately one-third of its population of about 30
million live in urban areas, and the population density is 12 persons
per sq. km. Urbanization has been proceeding at a rate of about 7
percent per annum, or more than twice the rate of population growth.
Although agriculture (commercialized and subsistence) normally accounts
for 30 percent of GDP, it provides employment and income for more than
three-quarters of the population. Mining and mineral-processing
normally account for about 18 percent of GDP; this sector has
traditionally been the largest source of public revenue and provides
more than two-thirds of the country's export earnings.
4.        When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared
for the change, both technically and institutionally. The first six to
1/  This section is reprinted verbatim from Report No. P-3787-ZR, of
April 23, 1984; (Report and Recommendations of the President for
a Second Railway Project).



-2-
seven years following independence were! marked by violent political
strife and a severe disruption of the economy.  But after the
restoration of political order and stability in 1967, GDP grew by about
7 percent in real terms annually until 1974. Since then, however,
Zaire has been experiencing serious economic difficulties which are
attributable to both external and internal factors. The weakness of
world copper prices through most of this period was a major contributor
to both the severity and the duration of the crisis.
Evolution of Current Difficulties
5.        Until the late 1970s, Zaire's attempts to cope with the
crisis were uneven and uncoordinated. As a result, by 1978,
commercialized GDP contracted to about 10 percent below the pre-crisis
(1972-74) level; the overall budgetary deficit attained a record level;
and deficit financing, together with the worsening shortage of basic
consumer goods, fuel and intermediate products, pushed the annual
inflation rate to about 50 percent. Although the decline of GDP was
arrested in 1979, the economy continuedl to face serious difficulties
that year. The expansion of credit to the Government (to finance the
budgetary deficit) and to the rest of l:he economy continued to exert
pressure on prices, which rose by more than 100 percent in the capital
city during the year. The balance of payments also remained under
strong pressure, as evidenced by the continued accumulation of external
payment arrears -- a trend which had started in 1975. Although two
stabilization programs, supported by the IMF, were adopted and three
debt rescheduling agreements under the Paris Club were concluded during
the 1975-79 period, these could not be implemented and therefore
brought limited relief.
6.         The year 1979 saw the beginning of more systematic efforts by
Zaire and its major donors to deal withi the crisis. These included a
new stabilization program supported by the IMF; debt rescheduling
agreements with the Paris Club (December 1979) and the syndicated
private banks (April 1980); the preparation of a public investment
program (PIP) for 1979-81 with the help of the World Bank; the
installation of external adviseris at the Central Bank and the Ministry
of Finance; the revamping of some institutions (the Customs Office, the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Investment Commiission), and the creation
of others (a Central Pay Directorate at the Ministry of Finance).
These and other efforts produced considerable improvements in 1980.
GDP expanded by 2.4 percent in real terms, aided by a strong recovery
in copper production.  The budgetary deficit was reduced substantially,
and the inflation rate was cut by more than half -- to about 44 percent
-- despite the devaluation of the zaire by aLbout 30 percent vis-a-vis
the SDR early in the year. At the sames time, Zaire observed all the
performance criteria under the new IMF-supported stabilization program
and complied with the debt rescheduling agreFements with the Paris Club
and the syndicated private banks.



-3-
7.        Largely on the strength of this improved performance, in
mid-1981 Zaire adopted a three-year program of economic and financial
adjustment supported by an "Extended Fund Facility" (EFF) from the IMF
in an amount equivalent to SDR 912 million. Zaire also concluded (in
July 1981) a new debt rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club.
However, economic performance during the year fell below expectations
because of external and internal factors.  The weakening of the copper
and cobalt markets caused Zaire's merchandise exports to fall by about
US$540 million (or 26 percent) in nominal terms. Real imports were
lower than at any year during the crisis and amounted to 40-50 percent
of the pre-crisis level. As a result of these developments as well as
a weakening of fiscal discipline, the budgetary deficit expanded
four-fold in nominal terms -- to the equivalent of 7 percent of GDP.
Zaire could not comply with either the criteria under the EFF or the
July 1981 debt rescheduling agreement; it began accumulating external
debt arrears in the third quarter of 1981; and the EFF was formally
cancelled effective June 21, 1982.
8.        World copper prices fell sharply in 1982 -- to the lowest
level (in real terms) in more than 30 years -- thus accentuating
Zaire's economic difficulties. By year end, external debt arrears
totaled about US$940 million, of which US$690 million were on public
debt and US$250 million on commercial debt and invisibles. The
budgetary deficit expanded, too, to about twice the level of 1981 (in
nominal terms), and was equivalent to about 10 percent of GDP. After
recovering by 2.4 percent a year in 1980 and 1981, GDP contracted
marginally (by about 1 percent) in 1982; the inflation rate edged
upward, averaging 37 percent; and the exchange rate came under strong
pressure, the spread between the parallel market rate and the official
exchange rate of the zaire rising to 3.5 to 1.
Government Action
9.        In mid-1981, in conjunction with the medium-term program
supported by the EFF (paragraph 7), the Zairian authorities took a
number of interrelated steps toward stimulating supply, keeping the
growth of demand within appropriate limits, and improving foreign
exchange management: the zaire was devalued by a further 40 percent
vis-a-vis the SDR; interest rates were adjusted upward; and the
existing price controls on most goods were removed in order to
stimulate the private sector. In addition to completing a revised PIP
for 1981-83, Zaire began preparing an Agricultural Action Plan designed
*           to bring about improvements in the following areas:  (i) strengthening
of institutions; (ii) policies for pricing, marketing, credit, and
foreign exchange allocation; (iii) implementation of on-going projects;
(iv) investment programming for the sector; and (v) research, extension
and training. The Action Plan was discussed at a meeting of the
Consultative Group for Zaire held in June 1982. The Zairian
authorities cooperated with the IMF and the Bank in the preparation of
a fiscal study which comprised the budgetary process, (with emphasis on



-4 -
the control over expenditures), tax reform and the tax regime of
Ggcamines (the state-owned company producing most of Zaire's copper and
all of its cobalt). This study was comipleted in May 1982, and since
then, a number of reforms recommended by the study have been adopted by
the Government.
10.        In 1982, Zaire made additional attempts to improve economic
management and institutional performance. The Ministry of Agriculture
was significantly reorganized as part of a broad program of
institutional reforms for the sector. The Government appointed new,
more broadly-based Executive Boards for G&cataines and SOZACOM (the
state-owned company marketing the bulk of GMcamines' output); important
changes were made in the top management of G6camines; and a new
marketing arrangement between the two firms was approved. Furthermore,
the Government announced the decision to "pr:Lvatize" the ownership
and/or management of 37 public enterprises, and it further relaxed the
remaining price controls. The Government proceeded at the same time to
implement a policy of "decentralization" whose apparent objective is to
give Zaire's regions more autonomy.
11.        The year 1983 witnessed more systematic efforts to
reestablish the conditions for recovery. First, in order to facilitate
the negotiation of a new agreement with the IMF, Zaire implemented a
"shadow" program  for six months, focused on reducing the budgetary
deficit and improving financial maanagement.  Second, as part of a
program of major changes affecting the mining sector, the tax regime
applying to G6camines was substantially revamped in line with the
recommendations of the IMF/Bank study referred to above (paragraph 9).
Third, in September 1983, Zaire started implementing a series of
economic and financial measures .as a prelude to a formal agreement with
the IMF and a debt rescheduling linked to it.  In support of these
measures, in December 1.983, the IMF approved a 15-month Stand-by
Arrangement in an amount of SDR '228 million (US$246 million),
equivalent to 100 percent of quota. The IMI' approved concurrently the
purchase of SDR 114.5 million (US$124 million) under the Compensatory
Financing Facility. This was immediately followed by a meeting of the
Paris Club at which the creditors agreed to reschedule outstanding
arrears and maturities falling due in 1984 at terms compatible with the
IMF agreement. In the meantime, the authorities prepared an Interim
Economic Recovery Program which brought together under the same
framework the program of economic and financial adjustment and an
updated three-year pub:Lic investment program. The Interim Program was
presented to a meeting of the Consultative Group which was held on
December 21-22, 1983. The participants concurred with the
appropriateness of the measures taken by Zaire as well as with the
priorities of the public investment program, and they indicated their
willingness to increase their support to Zaire in the medium term.
12.        The adjustment measures announced in September 1983 and
incorporated in the IMP program compri.se tne following: (i) the
immediate devaluation of the zaiLre by about 80 percent vis-A-vis the US



dollar; (ii) the introduction of a transitional dual exchange rate
regime consisting of an official rate and a free market rate, leading
to the unification of the two rates (i.e., a total "float") in February
1984; 1/ (iii) a substantial liberalization and simplification of the
exchange and trade system as a whole; (iv) a comprehensive revision of
customs duties involving significant reductions in tariffs on essential
foodstuffs, raw materials and intermediate goods and major increases on
luxury goods; (v) a considerable adjustment and liberalization of the
interest rate structure, including the lifting of all administrative
controls on lending rates of commercial banks (except for those
applicable to the non-coffee agriculture sector, for which they are 15
percent); (vi) the further decontrol of prices, including producer
prices of all agricultural commodities; (vii) the adjustment of
petroleum prices to take full account of the change in the exchange
rate; and (viii) the decision to limit wage increases in the public
sector to about 40 percent through 1984, well below the estimated rate
of inflation. The objective of the program is to improve Zaire's
balance of payments position and to begin reviving the economy. On the
fiscal side, the program aims at eliminating the budgetary deficit (not
counting external debt payments) in 1984, thus bringing down
substantially net government borrowing from the domestic banking
system.
13.       Zaire's latest public investment program covers the years
1983-85. The thrust of the program continues to be rehabilitation of
existing capacity and infrastructure. The new program represents a
step forward in several respects. In particular, it is the product of
an attempt for the first time to tailor the program to resource
availabilities using a macroeconomic scenario. It is 13 percent
smaller (in real terms) than its predecessor for that reason and the
projects have been selected with a view to minimizing foreign exchange
requirements. As a result, the new program's external financing gap
(US$290 million over 1983-85) is much smaller than that of the last one
in both absolute and relative terms. Furthermore, the program is
consistent with both the stabilization program and the investment
budget for 1984. The program has benefitted from a continued effort by
the Zairian authorities since 1979 to identify and either improve or
eliminate "problem projects". The monitoring effort was strengthened
in 1982 and 1983 and is to be intensified with the on-going
introduction of a new project control and supervision system and
strengthened inter-ministerial coordination. At the Consultative Group
meeting held in December 1983, the participants took two important
steps relevant to the execution of the Public Investment Program. They
agreed on the appropriateness of convening co-lender meetings on
transport (highways) and Gecamines around May/June 1984, and they
endorsed Zaire's decision to reactivate the External Resources
Coordination Committee (which had not met for about two years) partly
in order to review progress in providing Zaire with assistance,
financial and technical, required in the crucial and difficult years
ahead.
1/ The two rates were unified on February 24, 1984 at US$1 = Z 33.0



--6-
Current Situation and Direction
14.       The difficulties experienced by Zaire since 1975 have had a
heavy economic and social cost. Much of the country's productive
capacity and infrastructure has deteriorated, and real wages and
salaries have declined by more than half. In the last two years, with
the cooperation of the internatiornal comimunity, significant progress
has been made in defining the policies and actions necessary for
recovery, and a number of important decisions have already been taken
by Zaire.  The developments of 1983 in particular represent a net
gain. This can be demonstrated by taking stock of the cumulative
changes achieved with respect to the liberalization of the economy.
Three years ago, all commodities (industrial and agricultural) were
subject to controls at the producer, whclesale and retail levels.
Today controls apply only to petroleum products, public utilities and
domestic transport. Virtually all commercial bank lending rates have
been liberalized. The exchange rate has been brought to its most
realistic level in recent years, and a pihased program toward a total
float has been implemented.
15.       Overall, Zaire seems in a better position to make progress
than two years ago for several reasons. First, the measures taken
recently are more comprehensive, more coherent and better prepared than
before.  A case in point is the adoption of t'he new fiscal regime for
Gecamines, which enables both the Government and the company to improve
resource planning, and the revision of the Customs Code to complement
changes in the exchange rate regime. Second, some of the improvement
which has taken place, especially in the budgetary sphere in 1983, is
structural in nature: some expenditures have been curtailed for good
(e.g., through efforts to rationalize the government payroll); and some
categories of revenues (e.g., customs, tax contributions by G6camines)
have received a permanent boost through the exchange rate adjustment.
16.       Although Zaire's exports are expected to improve in the next
three years largely because of the anticipated recovery of copper
prices, Zaire's resource constraints will remain severe.  This is
partly due to the external public debt burden. The latest Paris Club
agreement affects only arrears and. 1984 maturities; although as a
result of the agreement the debt service ratio in 1984 has been reduced
to 18 percent, the contractual debt service due in 1985-89 is
equivalent to nearly 35 percent of projected exports of goods and
nonfactor services -- a ratio which would seemn incompatible with even a
modest economic recovery. Moreover, as a reslult of thne sharp drop in
commitments over the last few years, the undisbursed project pipeline
-- the source of future disbursements -- has been reduced to US$670
million, compared to US$112 billion in 1.975. T4hile the donors have
indicated their disposition to increase their aid to Zaire
progressively, this will take time and depend on the improvement of
external confidence.



-7-
17.       The Zairian authorities are aware that in these circumstances
they will need to make a determined and sustained effort to execute the
new stabilization program, implement the debt rescheduling agreement,
continue to improve economic management and stimulate the private
sector.
PART II - BANK GROIJP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE 1,
18.       From 1969 to date, the Association has approved 34 credits
totalling about US$498.0 million for agriculture, transport, develop-
ment finance company operations, water supply, power, petroleum techni-
cal assistance and education projects. The Bank Group has also extend-
ed grants totalling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two
planning assistance projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan
of US$100 million for the Gecamines Mining Expansion Project, which was
cofinanced by the European Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab
Foreign Bank, and which provided for special repayment arrangements
linked to the project's export earnings. A Technical Assistance Credit
was recently approved to assist Gecamines with its efforts to restruct-
ure its organization, improve its manpower and prepare a long-term
rehabilitation and expansion program. The IFC, which has a US$760,000
equity participation in the Societe Financiere de Developpement Econo-
mique (SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million loan in 1978 for an offshore
oil production project and a US$230,000 loan in 1982 for studies
related to the development of an aluminium complex at Banana.   Annex
II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1984.
19.       A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been
institution building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was
established in 1970 with assistance from IFC and IDA. The major
transport agencies, ONATRA, Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer
Zairois (SNCZ), Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF), Regie des Voies
Maritimes (RVM) and Office des Routes (OR), have received technical and
financial assistance from the Association, which also helped
establish the National Livestock Development Authority (ONDE). In the
case of Gecamines, the Bank loan originated a dialogue, still ongoing
and now supported by a technical assistance credit, intended to define
ways and means to strengthen the management, financial position and
planning of the company.
20.       In general, project implementation has been difficult due to
the country's inadequate manpower and management capability and, in
recent years, because of the economic crisis. In the last two or three
1/ This section is reprinted verbatim from Report No. P-3787-ZR, of
April 23, 1984, on a Second Railway Project.



- 8 -
years, release of the required budgetary funds has been difficult
periodically because of budgetary constraints.  Lack of foreign
exchange to finance spare parts and fuel, and the deterioration of the
transport network and marketing system have resulted in severe supply
problems for most projects. Recruiting and retaining adequate staff
has also been difficult. In January 1980 the Bank undertook with
Zairian officials an overall review of Bank Group projects which, for
the first time, provided an integrated view of implementation problems;
this resulted in an acceleration and improvement in the utilization of
Bank Group assistance, particularly in the agricultural sector. A
second overall review, focussing on macro-economic and sectoral issues
and on their impact on project implementation, took place in May 1983
and assisted the Governmlent in formulating the important economic
measures of September 1983 (para. 12).
21.       Fourteen credits and one loan have been totally disbursed:
Credits 152, 292, 536 and 916-ZR (First, Second, Third and Fourth
Highway Projects); Credit 255-CK (River Transport Project); Credits
272-CK and 264-ZR (First and Second Education Projects); Credit 398 and
697-ZR (Livestock Deve'Lopment and Ituri Livestock Projects); Credits
190, 271, 463 and 710-ZR (First, Second, Third and Fourth SOFIDE Pro-
jects); Credit 625-ZR (Water Supply) and Loan 1090-ZR (Gecamines).
Completion reports have been issued for all projects except Gecamines.
Performance Audit Reports have been issued for the First SOFIDE, the
First, Second and Third Highway Projects, the River Transport Project,
the Rail/River Project and the First Education Project. The conclusion
of the audit and completion reports was that the Bank Group's impact on
institution building had been mixed. SOFIDE was evolving as an
effective and competent institution, and the Office des Routes, the
highway agency, had been able to establish an effective administra-
tion. On the other hand, ONATRA's performance had not improved as a
result of the first River Transport Project but did improve under the
Rail/River project; implementation by RVF and RVM had disappointing
results. As for education, more attention to institution building
activities would have been beneficial; administrative weaknesses in the
Department of Education were cited as partly responsible for poor
performance under the First Project and the inability to implement
investment components under the Second Education Project which resulted
In cancellation of US$18.8 million in February 1983.  A proposed
Education Technical Assistance and Training Project would strengthen
administrative, financial and planning practices in the Department of
Primary and Secondary Education. All project entities had encountered
operating difficulties beyond their control as the economy deterio-
rated, financial resources grew scarcer and the problems besetting the
investment environment were exacerbated by Government's zairianiza-
tion/radicalization measures.  Bank Grcup support to SOFIDE and the OR
is continuing under the Fourth and Fift:h SOFIDE projects (Crs. 710 and
998-ZR) and Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects (Cr. 916-ZR and Cr.
1290-ZR).  ONATRA is benefitting from the ongoing Modernization (Cr.
1180-ZR) and Matadi/Kinshasa Ports Rehabilitation (Cr. 1335-ZR)
projects..



22.     The rate of disbursement to Zaire is average for the Eastern
Africa Region. For fiscal years 1981-83, disbursements totalled US$92
million compared with new commitments of US$218.6 million. The
disparity between disbursements and commitments is a result of a
significant increase in commitments in FY82 and FY83. In this same
period, the average annual disbursement rate was 20 percent, only
slightly lower than the rate for other countries of the region. While
disbursement performance in general is satisfactory, difficulties have
arisen in several projects. In the case of early credits for
transport, education and livestock (Credits 255-ZR, 272-ZR and 398-ZR),
the lack of a strong project entity caused implementation delays.
Economic conditions were also a factor in slowing project programs in
instances where government counterpart funds were not available (Third
Highway, Credit 660-ZR; Second Education, Credit 624-ZR) and where the
investment environment experienced slow recovery from the aftermath of
abrupt nationalization (Fourth SOFIDE, Credit 710-ZR). Future project
implementation should be less affected by the above influences given
the strengthening of institutions under subsequent projects and efforts
by the Government to improve budgetary support of IDA-financed
projects. At the end of 1982, the Bank Group's share of Zaire's total
debt disbursed and outstanding was about 10 percent.
23.     In the past three years, the Bank Group's main efforts have
been directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development
of the agriculture and transport sectors, in part through the design
and implementation of appropriate new policies. Investments in
industry were also emphasized through assistance to SOFIDE. Initial
efforts in support of the energy sector include the Shaba Power System
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1224-ZR) and the Ruzizi II Regional
Hydroelectric Power Project. Our lending will continue to support the
transport sector (in particular the Voie Nationale); to assist the
development of the agriculture sector within the framework of the new
Agricultural Action Plan (see para. 9 above); and to promote the
development of the industrial and mining sectors. In addition, further
support will be considered for the energy sector to develop power and
petroleum resources.
Part III.  THE MANUFACTJRING AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
A. The Manufacturing Sector
Structure, Ownership and Location
24.       The manufacturing sector (including agro-industry but
excluding mining, ore processing and construction) is relatively small,
representing in 1981 about 3% of GDP and providing employment for some
120,000 persons. Medium and large enterprises (over 100 workers)



- 10 -
account for nearly 90% of total manufacturing value added and over 80%
of employment.  The sector is dominated by agro-industrial firms, many
of which are vertically integrated and process the production of
plantations. As in the rest of industry, mLany processing plants are
old, and have suffered from inadequate replacement investment and
shortages of spare parts.
25.       As in many other countries at the same stage of development,
manufacturing activity is inward oriented, consisting essentially of
the production of consumer goods for the domestic market.  Processed
exports are limited to coffee, palm and palm kernel oil, chinchona,
papaine and, recently, cement. These products represent about 12% of
total merchandise exports.
26.       Most of the agro-industrial and basic consumer good producing
firms, which constitute the main core of Zaire's manufacturing sector,
were established before independence. These firms generally rely on
local raw materials and are oriented towards satisfying the basic needs
of the population. Newer industries, set up mainly in the late sixties
with foreign interests, depend to a larger extent on imported inputs
and in general have a lower domestic value added than the first
category.
27.       Until 1973, almost all major industrial enterprises were
owned by foreign and locally-based expatriate interests. The
zairianization and nationalization measures of 1973-75 transferred to
Zairian hands ownership of about two-thirds of firms in the manufactur-
ing sector. These measures had damaging eiffects on production. In
1976, Government rescinded these measures and decided to return 60% of
the equity in zairianized and nationalized enterprises to their former
foreign owners.  The zairianization and nationalization measures also
led to a severe deterioration in the distribution network and infra-
structure (mainly roads previously maintained by the large agroindus-
trial enterprises and which linked the urban and rural areas) and
severely undermined private sector confidence. As a result, investment
in the sector has bee-n lowS and equipment in many enterprises has not
been regularly renewed.
28.        Over the past 15 years, there has been no significant change
in the structure of the sector or the location of enterprises, except
for a heavier dependence on imported inputs, given the deterioration in
agricultural production and the consequent insufficient supply of local
inputs.  Zaire's manufacturing industry is still closely linked to
commerce, with many enterprises having substantial commercial opera-
tions. The urban centers of Kinshasa and Lubumbashi account for about
70% of production.
Past Performance and Present Situation
29.       Manufacturing output grew at an annual average rate of 7%
between 1970 and 1974, but dec:Lined thereafter at an equally rapid pace



- 11 -
s0 that by 1982 output at constant prices was about 11% below its 1970
level. Since 1970, the performance of the various subsectors has
differed considerably with basic consumer products (food, beverages,
soaps) registering some growth, and other sectors such as leather
goods, plastics, metal products and transport equipment, declining
sharply.
30.       In recent years, Zaire's manufacturing industry has been
faced with (a) a declining demand for most manufactured products as a
result of falling real wages and salaries; (b) shortages of local
inputs; (c) difficulty in obtaining foreign exchange for spare parts
and raw materials; and (d) the tight liquidity situation of many
firms. These factors and persistently high inflation (averaging about
45% p.a. from 1979 to 1982), had a serious impact on industrial
capacity utilization (which now averages about 30% of installed
capacity) and on the financial situation of most enterprises. While
most enterprises were still able to generate a positive cash flow
(because of the cost plus 20% pricing formula) and show some accounting
profits, in the absence of asset revaluation, the profits of most
enterprises were not enough to generate the resources needed to replace
equipment or to remunerate equity.
Industrial Policies
31.       Except for the period of the zairianization measures and its
immediate aftermath, government policy has been not to invest in
manufacturing but to limit its direct investment mainly to the
provision of basic infrastructure. To regulate and promote industrial
development, the Government has used a number of policy instruments
such as (a) a cost-plus price control system, and (b) an investment
code under which enterprises can be granted tax exemptions and
guarantees for repatriation of capital investment, profit and
interest. In view of the distortions constraining manufacturing
development and consistent with the recent move toward a freer,
market-based economy, the Government initiated, in 1981, a number of
measures aimed at (i) increasing price incentives; (ii) encouraging
rehabilitation/reconstruction of existing industrial plants as the main
priority in the short to medium-term; and (iii) strengthening the
country's investment planning capacity. Prices have been gradually
decontrolled over the last three years. They are now set by the
enterprises themselves, the only obligation being to report increases
to the Ministry of National Economy within 30 days. Government has
also reduced import controls.  The exchange rate regime which, until
September 1983 had been characterized by many distortions, is now
functioning as an interbank market with the rate floating on a weekly
basis (para. 12). These policy measures have improved the environment
in which firms operate in Zaire. Other important policy aspects
affecting industrial development which the Government is determined to
improve with IDA assistance are highlighted in the following
paragraphs.



- 12 -
32.       The Tariff Structure.  In September 1983, the Government, in
consultation with the IMF, simplified and changed the tariff struc-
ture. Duties payable were reduced to two (customs duty and a turnover
tax on imports), and nominal rates on raw materials and intermediate
goods were reduced to 3%-10%. The lower tariff rates combined with the
higher value of imports in local currency (because of the devaluation)
result in tariff payments which, for many goods, are about the same (in
nominal terms) as before the devaluation. i)uties on finished goods,
particularly those on luxury products were increased and now carry
rates of up to 200%. The main purposes behind the changes were to
encourage manufacturing activity in Zaire and ensure at the same time
that government revenues do not fall. With the new tariff structure
some industries with low local value added (e.g., car assembly) could
now be sheltered by very high effective protection; this could, in
time, encourage activities with poor e!conomic justification. To
address this issue, a detailed evaluation ofE the present tariff struc-
ture is needed to ensure that in,dustries with actual or potential
comparative advantage are encouraged. Such a review would aim at (i)
reducing the overall level of effective protection; and (ii) establish-
ing a more neutral incentive system fc,r all enterprises. At negotia-
tions for the proposed Project, the Government agreed to (i) carry out
such a review before December 1985, under Terms of reference approved
by IDA, and (ii) discuss the results with IDA together with a program
to implement the agreed recommendatiorts of the study. The study (to be
carried out by the Ministry of P'lanning in consultation with the
Ministry of Finance) would cover the structure of tariffs, the system
of import licensing, export incentives and disincentives, and the
structure of effective protection. Some tariff adjustments may,
however, be introduced while the study is in progress. This
possibility will be explored with the Government as the preliminary
findings of the study become available.
33.        The Treatment of Asset Revaluation for Tax Purposes.  In the
light of the high levels of inflation in Zaire in recent years, the
depreciation allowed by the Tax Code,which is based on historical
costs, does not provide sufficient funds for asset replacement and
overstates profits subject to tax. Particularly for manufacturing and
mining firms, which in general have a much higher asset to revenue
ratio than commercial or service firms, the small depreciation
allowances for tax purposes constitute a deterrent to investment and
have adversely affected the financial situation of enterprises. The
law introduced in early 1983 allowing companies to revalue assets is
not adequate. It only provides for a one time revaluation to take into
account the movement of the offiLcial parity of the Zaire up to June
1981 and has a 10% tax payable on the extent of the revaluation;
furthermore, the revaluation is optionial. There is a need for revision
of the provisions of this law, in such a way as to allow efficient
companies to build up the necessary reserves to replace equipment. A
study on the issue has already been completed for Gecamines (the State
mining company) and the Zairian authorities have decided to carry out a



- 13 -
similar study regarding the manufacturing sector, which would be
financed out of the Studies/Technical Assistance Component of the
on-going sixth IDA line of credit for SOFIDE. Terms of reference for
the study, prepared by the Ministry of Planning, as well as arrange-
ments for the execution of the study were discussed and agreed during
negotiations for the proposed credit. The results of the study should
be available for discussion with IDA before March 1985 and agreed
recommendations implemented by mid-1985.
34.       The Indirect Taxes System and its Impact on Industrial
Structure. Besides corporate income tax (50% of profit), firms pay a
sales tax with an effective rate on local production of about 13.5
percent. In addition, firms are subject to a number of other indirect
taxes, the most important of which is the tax to support the Economic
Development Fund. These indirect taxes are cumulative and amount to
about 10% to 25% gross income. This system of indirect taxation has
negative effects on industrial efficiency since (i) it discourages
inter-industry exchanges, and (ii) is uneven, with enterprises paying
different rates - which distorts incentives. Consideration should be
given to simplifying the regime and making the system more neutral. An
economic analysis of the various aspects of indirect taxation would
help identify recommendations for changes in the system. As a start,
the Government has agreed to review in detail the application of the
tax which finances the Economic Development Fund. The financing for
such study has already been provided for in the on-going IDA-financed
Kwango-Kwilu Project (Credit 1152-ZR). Terms of reference for the
study, which is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985, have been
drawn up with IDA's assistance and these, as well as arrangements for
follow up, were agreed at negotiations for the proposed Credit.
35.       Promotion of Small Scale Enterprises (SSEs).  The Government
is trying to revive OPEZ (the office for the promotion of small
enterprises created in 1973 with UNDP assistance) and has prepared a
study which could be used as the basis for an assistance program to
SSEs. IDA's role will be to help Government formulate an action
program for promoting SSEs. Specifically, one of the studies to be
carried out under the technical assistance component of the proposed
project would explore ways to revitalize OPEZ, and establish
appropriate financial assistance channels and mechanisms for SSEs,
/             including a guarantee fund.
36.       Strengthening of Zaire's Capacity to Formulate and Implement
Sector Policies.  The Government has requested IDA assistance in this
area, and the proposed project would include a Studies/Technical
Assistance component to the Government in the amount of US$2.25 million
to help it strengthen its capability to formulate sector policies, to
improve the statistical base and to identify and carry out subsector
reviews; in addition to the studies already mentioned (paras. 32 and
35), this component would finance sub-sector specific studies, tech-
nical assistance and data processing facilities (para. 72).



- 14 -
Bank Group Strategy
37.       In the present difficult economic situation in Zaire the
strategy of the Bank Group in the sector is to (i) extend the ongoing
dialogue on macro-economic policies to include industrial sector policy
issues and specific actions needed for the sound development of the
sector. Because of the weak technical capaclty of Government and the
limited information base on the sector, an essential element of this
strategy would be to help Government build up its capacity in these
areas; (ii) support SOFIDE in a difficult period of adjustment and help
it design and implement an improved operating strategy; and (iii)
provide foreign exchange resources for investment needed to help the
rehabilitation of Zaire's existing industria'. base and to stimulate
manufactured exports.
B. The Financial Sector
38.     The financial sector in Zaire consists mainly of the Banque du
Zaire (BDZ) which is the country's central bank, nine commercial banks,
and one development bank (SOFIDE). In 1983, the Government established
an Agricultural Credit Bank which has just started operations. There
is also a Social Security Fund (INSS - the Institut Nationale de
Securitg Sociale) and a National Insurance Company (SONAS - the Societe
Nationale d'Assurance). Savings and credit cooperatives are not
important. The Central Bank is responsible f-or regulating all the
financial institutions in the country and for establishing and
administering national monetary and credit policies. Of the nine
commercial banks, seven have 50% or more part:icipation by a foreign
bank. Three of the banks have minority state participation. The
commercial banks play a particularly important role in the financing of
imports and exports in which they act under regulation of the Central
Bank. The main source of long-term finance and the only non-government
source of term foreign exchange resources is SOFIDE (paras. 43 to 47).
Credit Controls and Interest Rates
39.       In conducting monetary and credit policy, the Central Bank
(BDZ) generally relies on global and selective credit ceilings, prior
approval of all credit not subject to ceilings, reserve requirements,
and the rediscount tool. By far the most important instruments are the
global and selective ceilings on most short-term credit. These
ceilings are set for the whole banking system In the first instance,
and then for each of the nine commercial banks. These ceilings are set
on a quarterly basis, and the allocations per bank depend on their
deposit and capital resources. For each bank the global ceiling is
divided into (i) freely usable and (ii) regulated. The latter normally
makes up about 90% of credit subject to ceilings and is subdivided into
five categories: agriculture, industry, tranlsportation, distribution



- 15 -
and other services. These sectoral allocations are justified by BDZ by
the need to ensure that, in this period of tight credit, priority
sectors also receive sufficient bank resources.  BDZ also uses a
rediscount tool to reinforce the selective credit controls; as of
September 12, 1983, the basic rediscount rate was increased from 15
percent to 20 percent. BDZ also imposes a minimum reserve requirement
which, since 1979, has been fixed at 25% of the demand deposits for
each commercial bank.
40.       Traditionally, commercial banks have been free to set their
own commissions, while BDZ regulated interest rates on both deposits
and loans. Over the past two years, however, BDZ adopted a more
flexible policy and in September 1983, it freed all lending rates with
the exception of those on loans for non-coffee agriculture (set at
15%). The rates paid by commercial banks on time deposits of 3-24
months were set at 8%-30% per annum. Interest rates on deposits of
over 24 months are now freely negotiable.
41.       Despite these recent liberalization measures interest rates
are still negative in real terms, with lending rates ranging from 25%
to 35% including commissions and other charges while inflation is
expected to be around 30% to 45% in 1984-85.  This situation however is
expected to change, as the banks move towards allowable higher interest
rates and as inflation levels off.
Part IV. THE PROJECT
42.       The staff appraisal report for this project, entitled "Zaire,
Staff Appraisal Report of a Seventh IDA Credit for Socifte Financiare
de Dgveloppement" No. 4943-ZR, is being circulated separately. The
appraisal mission visited Zaire in October 1983. Negotiations were
held in Washington from April 9 to 13, 1984. The Government delegation
was led by Mr. Massakidi Lusilao, Adviser, Ministry of Finance, Budget
and Portfolio.
Background on the Institution
43.       SOFIDE was established as a limited liability company in 1970
with IFC subscribing 18 percent of its initial share capital.  It has
so far received six IDA credits totalling US$75.0 million. SOFIDE's
objectives at its inception were to foster the development of a capital
market and to finance investments in the productive sectors. In the
difficult economic situation prevailing in Zaire since the early 1970s
SOFIDE concentrated on meeting the second objective. It has thus
successfuly established itself as the main term lending institution in
Zaire and has been able to mobilize significant amounts of resources
from several foreign lenders. Much of SOFIDE's investments over the
past ten years has been for the rehabilitation and modernization of



- 16 --
existing industrial capacity and for irLcreasing agricultural produc-
tion. More recently SOFIDE started to increase its financing of small
scale enterprises. SOFIDE's loan portfolio is composed of loans to
privately (or private majority) owned companies.
44.       Two Project Performance Audil: Reports (PPAR) covering the
first three Credits to SOFIDE were prepared by OED in 1976 and in
1982. The first PPAR concluded that SOFIDE had succeeded in rapidly
building up a competent organization and in maintaining its independ-
ence in a difficult environment, but pointed out that there was scope
for improved performance, particularly in appraisal and economic
analysis of projects. The second PPAR covering the second and third
credits to SOFIDE (271-CK and 463-CK) zommented positively on the
institution building achievements of both projects but noted again the
negative effects of the environment, particularly of inflation on
SOFIDE's profitability. It also concurred with the views of IDA staff
that SOFIDE needed to further strengthen supervision efforts and
improve its organizational structure and accounting system to better
cope with the increasing volume and diversil:y of operations. SOFIDE
moved rapidly to address these issues by increasing supervision and
instituting better cost controls, by reorganizing its structure along
the lines suggested in the PPAR and by raising interest rates. In
connection with the sixth credit, SOFIDE made further progress in
improving arrears collection and its supervision and accounting
procedures. Progress made to date, as described below, has been
satisfactory. The proposed Credit aims at assisting SOFIDE further in
these areas.
Share Capital and Ownership
45.        SOFIDE's authorized share capital at December 31, 1983, stood
at Z 12.0 million (US$0.4 million) all of which was paid in and was
held as follows: public sector shareholders (including Government and
the Central Bank) 40 percent, local private shareholders 35 percent,
IFC 4.7 percent and other foreign shareholders 20.3 percent. In
addition to its share capital SOFIDE has long-term, low interest
subordinated loans from Government whLch have quasi equity characteris-
tics. As of December 31, 1983, these loans amounted to Z 376.6 million
(about US$12.5 million). To restore the value of SOFIDE's equity base
following the September 1983 devaluation of the Zaire, on April 19,
1984, SOFIDE's Board approved a general capital increase to Z 260
million (US$8.7 million). This will enable SOFIDE to increase its loan
limit per client (set at 20 percent of its equity and quasi-equity) and
thus better serve the needs of industry, including the larger
industrial firms in Zaire. A condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit (Section 5.01 (c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement) is that the share capital would be increased by at least Z
200 million -- which has already been authorized at Z 260 million -- of
which Z 100 million would be paid-in.



- 17 -
Management, Organization and Staff
46.        SOFIDE's Board consists of ten members and is chaired by
SOFIDE's President and General Manager. SOFIDE also has an Executive
Committee, composed of the five locally based directors, which meets
more frequently than the Board and approves all loans below Board
limits. Both the Board and Executive Committee act in a sound and
businesslike manner. IFC's continued presence on the Board remains
important, as it brings to it IFC's wide experience and helps to
*            provide guidance and oversight.  Other institutions represented on the
Board consider IFC the informal leader of SOFIDE's non-governmental
shareholders. SOFIDE's President and General Manager, a Zairian
national, joined SOFIDE in 1973. He is capable and well respected by
the Government and business communities in Zaire. The position of
Deputy General Manager had been held by various Bank staff on
secondment until 1981 when it was filled by a high level expatriate
manager whose contract was recently extended to 1985. SOFIDE's top
management has performed well in a difficult environment. In this it
has been supported by its middle management consisting of seven
Department Directors who are all Zairian and have been with SOFIDE for
several years, some since its inception. They are all competent and
highly motivated and constitute the backbone of the institution. The
quality of SOFIDE's other staff is also good.
47.        SOFIDE's organizational structure is relatively simple,
consisting of seven operational departments reporting to top manage-
ment. Overall this structure is satisfactory. SOFIDE also has four
regional offices. In 1981 SOFIDE established, in association with
Government and the Central Bank, a training center (called CEPETEDE)
for its professional staff and that of Government, other para-public
bodies and the private sector. This center has performed well and has
enabled SOFIDE's partners to offer their staff a more comprehensive
training program than they could provide themselves. Assistance
provided under the sixth IDA credit to SOFIDE enabled the CEPETEDE to
improve its capabilities. Because of its success and continued needs
it is proposed that this assistance be continued under this project.
Policies and Procedures
48.       SOFIDE's operating and financial policies are set by the
Board and documented in a formal policy statement which was approved by
IDA and which remains a sound basis for operations under the proposed
MI            project.  SOFIDE's promotion, appraisal, procurement, disbursement and
loan administration procedures are adequate. Over the past two years,
SOFIDE has considerably strengthened and improved its supervision and
loan recovery efforts, and these are also now satisfactory.
Accounts and Audit
49.       Accounts are produced on time and are accurate.  TJnder the
Sixth IDA credit SOFIDE drew up a plan to improve its accounting



- 18 -
system, to correct deficiencies which became evident in 1980/81.  The
plan is being implemented and SOFIDE's accounting system is now
satisfactory. The audited annual report and accounts for 1981 and 1982
were received on time. Both were unqualified and of a quality
acceptable to IDA.
Lending Terms
50.        SOFIDE's loans have maturities typically ranging between two
and ten years.  The average loan maturity is about 6.5 years.  SOFIDE
takes adequate security and does not accept subordination to any other
lender.
51         About 10% of SOFIDE's present port:folio is in local currency
and the rest is in foreign currency, with the final borrower carrying
the foreign exchange risk. About 15% of the portfolio is financed out
of foreign lines of credit with conditions regarding interest rates.
On foreign currency loans financed out of other resources, SOFIDE was
charging, until recently, an interest rate of 20% p.a., a commitment
fee of 1.5% on the undisbursed committed amount and an appraisal fee of
5%, with the full exchange risk being passed on to the client. Follow-
ing the recent devaluation and the establishment of a floating exchange
rate SOFIDE's board decided to reduce the interest rate charged on new
loans to 18% p.a. and the appraisal fee to 2%. This level of interest
rates is positive in real terms as internatJional inflation is expected
to be below 10% over the next few years.
52.        SOFIDE's interest rate on local cuirrency loans is 30% p.a.
with commissions similar to those on foreign exchange loans. This rate
is negative in real terms as Zaire's inflati.on rate is forecast to be
45% to 50% in 1984; but is projected to decrease to about 20% - 25% in
1986-87. SOFIDE agreed to exchange views regularly with IDA on the
adequacy of its lending rates and to adjust them if conditions require
(Section 2.01 (b) of the draft Project Agreement). Thus far, the
demand for term lending for investment purposes in local currency has
been limited, because most SOFIDE loans had been for equipment
rehabilitation and thus necessitated foreign currency with little local
currency content. However, local currency Lending is expected to
increase following the September 1983 reformas.
53.        Prior to 1979, Government bore the foreign exchange risk on
all foreign loans to SOFIDE. In 1979, however, the Government informed
SOFIDE that in future it would no longer be willing to carry the
foreign exchange risk on SOFIDE's foreign debt, other than on an
exceptional basis. Accordingly, SOFIDE started passing on the foreign
exchange risk to its sub-borrowers and agreed with Government on a
mechanism to protect it from the foreign exchange risk on loans
contracted prior to that time. This mechanism also covers the residual
foreign exchange risk where repayments by sub-borrowers are earlier
than SOFIDE's repayment schedule to outside creditors. These arrange-
ments have worked well and adequately protect SOFIDE.



- 19 -
Operations
54.       As of September 1983, SOFIDE had approved 699 loans and
equity investments amounting to Z 1.4 billion, equivalent to about
US$261 1/ million. Although by 1983 the share of manufacturing
(including agro-industry) still accounted for about 53 percent of total
*            approvals, SOFIDE has been increasing its activities in the
agricultural sector and approvals to that sector by 1983 reached about
23 percent of total. Construction (9 percent), transport (8 percent),
mining and services (7 percent) make up the rest.  A substantial part
of SOFIDE's investments, both by number and value has been for
rehabilitation and expansion (77 percent in 1983). All of SOFIDE's
loans are to private (or majority private) firms. SOFIDE has
progressively increased regional diversification of its investments.
Thus in 1983, lo-ans to firms in Kinshasa accounted for 24% of total
lending, compared to 36% in 1980. Bas Zaire was second, with 19% and
Shaba was third, with 14% and the rest in other regions.
Loan and Equity Portfolio
55.       As of December 31, 1983, SOFIDE had a very small equity port-
folio of Z 25.2 million outstanding in ten companies and a loan port-
folio of Z 803.9 million in 264 projects of which 110 representing 45
percent of the total portfolio were still being implemented. Total
arrears of more than three months at the same date amounted to 4 per-
cent of the total outstanding loan portfolio and affected 79 projects
representing 17 percent of the value of the total loan portfolio. Most
of these projects were small agricultural and industrial projects.
Despite the substantial increase in operations over the last three
years, arrears of more than three months relative to total portfolio,
as well as the percentage of the portfolio affected by arrears, were
reduced almost by half between September 1980 and December 1983.
SOFIDE's portfolio is basically sound. The impact of the recent
economic reforms, however, while beneficial for the economy in the
medium- and long-term, could result in some short-term difficulties for
some companies among SOFIDE clients: this could affect SOFIDE's
portfolio health. A major objective of this project would therefore be
to assist SOFIDE implement an action program, agreed with IDA at
negotiations, to limit the extent of any portfolio deterioration. The
program consists of a series of specific actions based on the detailed
analysis of the financial situation and prospects of individual
borrowers; such actions include reduction in the scope or redesign of
individual projects, obtaining additional security from some borrowers,
sale of some assets, and loan rescheduling.
Financial Situation
56.       Although SOFIDE's nominal profitability increased from Z 0.6
million in 1980 to Z 14.6 million in 1983 when it represented a return
1/ At the average exchange rate for each year.



- 20 -
on equity of 26%, this was not e!nough to compensate for the erosion of
SOFIDE's equity by inflation.  Thus, diespite the serious efforts SOFIDE
made to increase profitability by raising interest rates and cutting
costs, its equity base (including reserves) decreased from the
equivalent of US$4.7 million in 1979 to about US$1.2 million following
the devaluation of September 1983. This low level of profitability,
despite SOFIDE's general efficiency and competence, is due mainly to
the effect of sustained high inflation on a fixed rate, term lending
institution. The increase in administrative costs, which climbed
roughly in line with domestic inflation, could not be readily passed on
in higher interest charges. Although much of the portfolio carried the
foreign exchange risk,devaluations did not take place regularly enough
to compensate for the increase in costs. Moreover, the limited spreads
that some foreign lenders allowed SOFIDE on subloans financed out of
their lines of credit was not sufficient to cover (i) the administra-
tive costs, overheads and related provisions for risk and (ii) to allow
SOFIDE to earn a reasonable return on equity. Recently, SOFIDE has
succeeded in obtaining higher spreads from its most important foreign
creditors. Prospects for SOFIDE's future profitability are now
brighter following the recent exchange rate and other reforms.
57.       SOFIDE's long term debt to equity (including quasi-equity)
ratio as of December 31, 1983 stood at 1.0:1--well within the maximum
5:1 agreed to with IDA (Section 3.03 of the draft Project Agreement),
mainly because of the substantial quasi-equity contributed by the
Government as SOFIDE's pure equity was eroded by inflation and
successive devaluations, including the massive devaluation of September
1983. However, as described above (para. 45), SOFIDE's Board has
approved a general capital increase (to Z :260 million) to take place
before the end of 1984. This should substantially strengthen SOFIDE's
capital structure. Overall, SOFIDE's, financial situation remains sound
and creditworthy despite low profitability. Its liquidity situation is
good, and its asset/liability structure (with most of its debts being
of a much longer duration than its loans) provides the flexibility to
cope with portfolio problems that migtht develop in the next two to
three years.
Resources
58.       As of December 31, 1983, SOFIDE had the equivalent of US$21.6
million equivalent available for approval, of which US$1.9 million was
in local currency and US$19.7 million in foreign exchange. SOFIDE has
been remarkably successful in diversifying its borrowing sources. The
close and constant support of IDA played an important catalytic role in
enabling SOFIDE to attract resources from eight different foreign
creditors. SOFIDE, however, cannot fully satisfy the demand for
rehabilitation/renewal investments (para. 60).



- 21 -
Prospects
59.       SOFIDE's Strategy:  SOFIDE is likely to remain the only
financial institution providing term foreign exchange resources to the
productive sectors in Zaire. Its investment strategy will continue to
stress the rehabilitation of enterprises producing basic goods and its
fe           investments will remain concentrated in the manufacturing, commercial
agriculture, agroindustry and transport sectors. SOFIDE has also
adopted a comprehensive business plan aimed at achieving sufficient
profitability to maintain intact the value of its capital base. An
important element of this strategy calls for SOFIDE to pursue a more
active policy of equity participation: SOFIDE is considering making
equity investments in a number of profitable firms with good growth
prospects; this would help protect SOFIDE's own equity base from
erosion by inflation and therefore part of the funds under the proposed
project may be used for this purpose if ways can be found to protect
SOFIDE against the related foreign exchange risk (para. 67).
60.       Credit Demand and Project Pipeline.  The recent stabilization
measures adopted by the Government of Zaire had a major impact on the
productive sectors in Zaire and could adversely affect investment plans
and thus investment credit demand in the short term. It is unlikely
that this will affect SOFIDE's level of operations however because: (i)
the needs of the productive sectors for rehabilitation and moderniza-
tion by far exceed the resources that SOFIDE could possibly mobilize.
In the textile sector alone, a Bank report prepared in 1981 estimated
the rehabilitation needs to be more than US$100 million; (ii) many
companies want to make investments to lessen their dependence on
imported inputs (particularly energy related); (iii) the increase in
SOFIDE's lending limit per client should improve its ability to assist
large firms in Zaire which have substantial investment needs. SOFIDE
already has a strong pipeline of 43 industrial (including agro-
industry) and transport projects which would require financing of about
US$21.0 million and 50 agricultural and forestry projects which would
require about US$15.0 million. These projects are expected to be
appraised and approved within the next year or so. Most of them are
for rehabilitation or modernization of existing concerns.
Forecast Operations and Financial Condition
61.       SOFIDE expects its approvals to increase from about US$25
million equivalent in 1984 to about US$34 million in 1987. Commitments
over the same period (which covers the commitment period of the
proposed Credit) would total US$116 million of which about 80% would be
in foreign exchange. Disbursements over the period would total about
US$103 million.
62.       SOFIDE's financial projections, which are based on conserva-
tive assumptions, show that the recent devaluation of the zaire (which
increased SOFIDE's portfolio threefold in zaire terms) has



- 22 -
significantly improved its profitability prospects. The projected
increase in interest income will outpace the rise in administrative
expenses which are expected to attain, by 19835-86, a level of about 2%
of average total assets, comparable to similar development banks
elsewhere (the ratio in recent years was about 7-8%). During the
coming years, SOFIDE will have to improve its financial performance to
build up adequate provisions and to retain its local and foreign
private shareholders, who in the past, have lost most of their equity
in SOFIDE because of high inflation andl periDdic devaluations. For
this reason, it was agreed at negotiations that funds from the proposed
Credit would be onlent by the Government at a minimum rate of 8.5% per
annum and that SOFIDE would be requiredl to charge at least 15.5% per
annum on sub-loans financed under the Credit. At present, SOFIDE
charges 18% p.a. on its foreign exchange loans, but is under pressure
to reduce interest rates as its clients bear the foreign exchange risk
under a floating exchange system. The recommended onlending conditions
are intended to give SOFIDE the flexibility to adjust interest rates in
the future if it appears that the cost of its loans inhibits demand, or
if overall economic conditions improve.  Should SOFIDE set its interest
rate at a level higher than 15.5%, the onlending rate by Government
would be similarly adjusted, so as to maintain a 7 percent spread
(Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). This
would allow SOFIDE to show a return on equity, in real terms, of about
15% over the 1984-90 period.  To ensure that SOFIDE continues to give
priority to the constitution of its provisions for risk, it was further
agreed that, as in Credit 1273-ZR (SOF'IDE VI), SOFIDE would not declare
any dividend unless provision fcr risk attained at least 4% of the
total loan portfolio (Section 3.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
The projections also show that the financial structure of SOFIDE will
remain sound, particularly with the projected capital increase and the
quasi-equity contributed by Government:. In fact, SOFIDE's net worth
would increase from about US$8 millioni in 1984 to US$11 million in
1987.
Resource Requirements
63.        SOFIDE's projected foreign exchange resource requirements
show that it would need about US$62 million for new commitments in
foreign exchange through end 1987. The recommended amount for the
investment component of the proposed Credit (US$33.5 million), would
provide 54% of SOFIDE's needs. SOFIDE plans to cover the balance of
its requirements through further borrowings from EIB (at least US$12
million), KfW (an indicated US$4 million) and from the African
Development Bank. SOFIDE is also pursuing other sources of funds such
as CCCE (France). Local currency resource requirements would be met
out of "rolled-over" IDA and ot:her funds, and a loan from the Economic
Recovery Fund.



- 23 -
Objectives and Justification of the Proposed Credit
64.       The principal objectives of the proposed Credit would be to
(a) provide the foreign exchange needed to finance the rehabilitation/
reconstruction and modernization of high priority projects; (b)
continue to support SOFIDE to enable it to retain its effectiveness as
the only institution in Zaire providing term investment finance to the
productive sectors; and (c) improve the dialogue with Government on
sector issues and policies.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
65.       For more than a decade IDA has been associated with SOFIDE,
providing resources, advice and technical assistance and has closely
monitored its progress in developing into a strong institution capable
of financing sound projects. SOFIDE has performed well, but given the
difficult environment in which it has operated since 1973, it will
continue to need support and assistance to maintain and improve its
effectiveness. In the immediate future, as the Zairian economy goes
through major adjustments, SOFIDE will require IDA's assistance to help
implement an action program aimed at maintaining the quality of its
portfolio and increasing profitability (para. 55). At the same time,
the project would also enable IDA to initiate a dialogue with
Government on policy issues related to the industrial sector and to
help build up the capabilities of the Zairian Government in this area.
Amount, Use and Terms of the Credit
66.       The proposed IDA credit of US$36.0 million would be made to
the Republic of Zaire, which would onlend US$33.5 million to SOFIDE
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, providing for a maximum term of 15
years, including a grace period not exceeding three years, a commitment
charge of 0.75 percent and a minimum interest rate of 8.5 percent per
annum, or such other rate as will give SOFIDE a seven-point spread
between the onlending rate and SOFIDE's lending rate for sub-loans
(Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
signing of a Subsidiary Agreement satisfactory to the Association,
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Section
5.01 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Credit would
include the following components:  ( a) Investment Component (US$33.5
million): to finance the foreign exchange costs of SOFIDE's subpro-
jects; (b) Technical Assistance/Industrial Policy Studies Component
(US$2.25 million):  to finance the cost of technical assistance to
Government, sector policy and subsector studies, and a limited amount
of equipment to improve the collection and treatment of statistical
data on industrial sector performance (US$200,000); (c) Technical
Assistance to (i)CEPETEDE (US$0.25 million): to finance the foreign
exchange cost of internationally recruited experts to run high level
courses in project appraisal and related subjects, overseas training of
CEPETEDE staff and a limited amount (US$80,000 maximum) for equipment



- 24 --
(mainly for data processing), and (ii) INS (the National Statistical
Office) a maximum of US$200,000 to help improve its data gathering and
processing ability.
The Proposed Line of Credit for .Investments
67.       This component would finance the foreign exchange costs of
capital investments, including initial working capital, in subprojects
approved by SOFIDE. The funds would be available to finance
subprojects in the industrial, transpoirt, agroindustrial and
agricultural sectors. Projects financed would be selected by SOFIDE in
accordance with its investment strategy and justified on the basis of a
full economic analysis, including calculation of the economic rate of
return on all non-service sector projects. Priority would be given to
projects for the rehabilitation of existing industrial and agricultural
capacity and for export. At least US$5.0 million equivalent would be
reserved for projects which are expected to export at least 25% of
their production (Section 2.02 (a) (iii) (A) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Subject to finding ways of protecting itself
against the foreign exchange risk, up lto US$4.0 million equivalent may
be used by SOFIDE for equity pariticipations. Any such participation
would require the prior approval of IDA (Section 2.02 (a) (B) and (C)
of the draft Development Credit Agreemtent).
68.       SOFIDE's Lending Terms:  SOFIDE would lend to sub-borrowers
at an annual interest rate of nolt less than 15.5 percent, (if the
interest rate charged to sub-borrowers were higher, the onlending rate
would be adjusted upwards so as to keep a seven-point spread between
the Government's onlending rate and SOFIDE's rate to sub-borrowers); a
commitment fee of at least 0.75 percent per annum on the undisbursed
amount of the sub-loan, a term of not more than 15 years and a grace
period not exceeding 3 years.  The foreign exchange risk would be borne
by the sub-borrowers (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
69.       Free Limit.  The individual subproject free limit would be
raised from US$300,000 applied under the sixth IDA Credit to US$500,000
equivalent in recognition of the general quality of SOFIDE's
appraisals; the aggregate free limit would be US$12.0 million
equivalent (Section 2.02 (b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement), representing 35% of the amount of the line of Credit. With
this free limit, it is estimated that about 20-25 subprojects would
require IDA review prior to approval. This is sufficient for the
purpose of effective subproject imonitoring by IDA.                                      S
70.       Amortization Schedules.  The Subsidiary Loan Agreement
(Government to SOFIDE) would have a flexible amortization schedule that
would substantially conform to tlhe aggregate of the amortization



- 25 -
schedules of the subloans made by SOFIDE and financed under the
proposed Credits. In order to inhibit prepayment, SOFIDE would impose
its normal prepayment commission on any subloan financed out of this
investment component that is repaid earlier than the initial
amortization schedule agreed upon between SOFIDE and the sub-borrower.
71.     Commitment Period.   The funds would be available for
commitment by SOFIDE until December 31, 1987 (Section 2.05 (a) of the
draft Project Agreement).
Technical Assistance/Industrial Policy Studies
72.     The funds from this component, lent to Government and managed
by the Ministry of Planning and SOFIDE, would finance the costs of (i)
technical assistance to Government (essentially Ministry of Planning)
to improve its capability to formulate and implement industrial sector
policy and to improve the statistical data base on the productive
sectors, (ii) policy studies aimed at addressing specific sector issues
such as existing distortions in the incentive system (para. 32), (iii)
sector and sub-sector studies aimed at identifying and preparing pro-
jects for possible financing by external donors, and (iv) data process-
ing and related equipment for INS (the National Statistical Office) to
enable it to improve its ability to gather and process data on sectoral
performance on a regular basis. At negotiations, Government and IDA
agreed on a priority list of specific tasks to be carried out under the
technical assistance program as well as a list of studies to be
financed under this component. Among the studies already identified,
the most important ones are the tariff structure study (para. 32), the
promotion of Small Scale Enterprises (para. 35), a review of export
prospects, and an assessment of the textile sub-sector. In addition
the Government agreed to carry out a study of asset revaluation under
the ongoing SOFIDE VI Project (Credit 1273-ZR) and confirmed its
intention of undertaking a study of the Economic Recovery Fund, as
agreed under the Kwangu-Kwilu Project (Credit 1152-ZR). These studies
would enable the Government and IDA to pursue a more meaningful
dialogue on sector issues, following the major improvements in
macroeconomic policies carried out in late 1983.
73.       Terms and Conditions.  Each request for financing under this
component would be submitted to IDA for review and approval along with
a brief justification, detailed terms of reference, cost estimates and
financing plans for the local currency counterpart (Section 2.04 (b) of
the draft Project Agreement). Consultants financed out of this compo-
nent would be recruited in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines
(Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The findings
of all the studies undertaken would be discussed with IDA and
appropriate follow up arrangements agreed upon. Within the context of
the supervision of this project, IDA would also retain the right to
review the work and progress of all experts financed under this
component.



- 26 -
74.        Administration and Administrative Eixpense Fee.  SOFIDE would
be responsible for submitting all the relevant requests for
disbursements in respect of this component to IDA.  SOFIDE would charge
a one-time fee of 3.5% of the approved amount of each study accepted
for financing to cover the expenses it incurs  in administering this
facility (Section 2.04 (d) of the draft Project Agreement).
750        Maximum Amount for Each Study.  In view of the limited amount
of this component, no more than US$300,000 would be allocated to any
single study/technical assistance project (para. 2.02 (A) (d) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
76.        Commitment.  'he funds under this component would be
available for commitment until December 31, 1987 (Section 2.04 (e) of
the draft Project Agreement).
Technical Assistance to CEPETEDE
77.        CEPETEDE is emerging as a well run institution that is
helping Government, SOFIDE and private enterprises to train staff in
project evaluation and -management techniques. Up to US$0.25 million of
the proposed IDA credit would be provided to enable the CEPETEDE to:
(i) recruit foreign experts to run short-term high level courses for
SOFIDE, Government and Banque du Zaire officials and private sector
executives in project analysis and management and on industrial sector
policies and related issues; (ii), provide, on a selective basis,
training abroad for CEPETEDE staff; and. (iii) finance the purchase of
data processing (micro-computer) equipment aad pedagogical material.
This component would assist in the long-term task of developing Zaire's
human resource base. CEPETEDE is also expected to continue receiving
significant assistance from FAC aLnd CCCE.
78.        The funds allocated for this component would be passed on as
a grant from Government to CEPETEDE and would be available for
commitment until December 31, 1987.  To facilitate administration of
the Credit, SOFIDE has agreed to administer this component on behalf of
CEPETEDE and to submit all disbursement requests to IDA in respect of
this component. SOFIDE would charge a one-time fee of 3.5% of the
amounts withdrawn as administrative fees (Section 2.05 (b) of the draft
Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
79.        Reporting Requirements.  SOF'[DE would be required to submit
quarterly reports, as it has done under previous Credits, which would
include financial statements, resource position, statement of arrears
and notes on subprojects encountering serious operational difficul-
ties. SOFIDE would also be requiLred to submit its annual report and
audited annual accounts prepared by qualified accountants for its
operations, as it has done in the pasts, as well as for the Technical
Assistance/Studies and CEPETEDE components that it has agreed to manage
on behalf of the Government (Section 3.02 of the draft Project
Agreement).



- 27 -
80.       Procurement and Disbursement.  Procurement for subprojects
(US$33.5 million) financed under the investment component of the Credit
as well as goods financed under the TA/industrial policy studies and
the CEPETEDE components would be on the basis of competitive quotations
from at least three of different suppliers (including foreign), a
procedure acceptable to IDA. Given the relatively modest size of
procurement packages, there is little scope for international
competitive bidding. The proceeds of the proposed Seventh Credit would
be disbursed as follows:
(a) On the technical assistance/studies and the
technical assistance to CEPETEDE components: (i)
100% of the costs of technical assistance and
policy studies related to the industrial and
agro-industrial sectors, and the foreign exchange
costs of eligible equipment up to an aggregate
amount of US$2.25 million; and (ii) 100% of the
foreign exchange costs of staff training, technical
assistance, and supplies required by CEPETEDE up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to US$0.25 million.
(b) On SOFIDE subloans: (i) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of
imported goods or services for eligible subpro-
jects; (ii) up to 85% of the cost of previously
imported equipment purchased locally in Zaire for
the subprojects; (iii) up to 70% of the cost of
equipment produced in Zaire from previously
imported components or raw materials; and (iv) up
to 55% of the local cost of construction works
included in subprojects and carried out by Zairian
contractors.
81.       The projected disbursement schedule is based on the disburse-
ment profile for DFC projects in Eastern Africa modified to reflect the
experience with the fourth and fifth credit of relatively quick dis-
bursement. Disbursements are expected to be completed over seven
years, by December 1990.
Project Benefits and Risks
82.       The proposed project would provide term investment resources
to the productive sectors in Zaire to help rehabilitate industrial and
agro-industrial projects, improve private transport facilities and
increase agricultural production. It is expected that the investment
component (US$33.5 million) would support productive investments
totalling about US$60 million and would help rehabilitate or improve
productive capacity of a much higher value. The project would enable
IDA to continue helping SOFIDE, the main term lending institution in
Zaire, to improve its effectiveness and institutional strength and thus
help it to retain financial independence and autonomy. The action



- 28 --
program for portfolio improvement. and maonitoring would also enable IDA
to assist SOFIDE in containing any short-term deterioration in
portfolio quality as a result of the recent macroeconomic policy
measures. As in the past, continued IDA support would enhance SOFIDE's
capability to mobilize additional foreign exchange resources from other
external lenders and enable it to play a more significant role in
assisting the recovery of the productive sectors in Zaire. Finally, by
financing a number of studies on key sector issues and by helping
improve the capability of Governmaent in sector policy formulation and
implementation, the project would open the way for Government and IDA
to engage in a comprehensive dia:Logue on sector issues, such as trade
policies, export promotion, and small-scale industry development in
Zaire.
83.       The September 1983 pol:icy reforms have removed many of the
policy distortions which had hitherto affected the industrial sector
and SOFIDE. The devaluation and floating of the Zaire currency, in
particular, have improved the outlook :for SOFIDE's profitability in the
medium term. Because of these changes and 'SOFIDE's proven management,
the risks associated with this project are acceptable. These risks
relate mainly to the impact on SOFIDE's borrowers of the difficult
economic situation as Zaire goes through the current adjustment
process. Cases of corporate financial difficulties could become more
frequent, and could thus adversely affect the quality of SOFIDE's
portfolio and overall financial situation. This risk is however
limited (i) because many of SOFIDE's borrowers are long established
companies with good financial resilience, and (ii) because the strong
action SOFIDE has already taken to improve its supervision and loan
recovery efforts and the comprehensive measures proposed in the context
of this project aim to limitportfolio deterloration. These should
ensure that SOFIDE will remain creditworthy and that it will continue
to be an effective term lending institution that promotes economically
justified investment projects. This risk is further justified by the
contribution that SOFIDE's operations are expected to make to increased
production of basic manufactured goods and agricultural products, and
to exports.
PART V.  LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
84.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic
of Zaire and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and SOFIDE, and the Recommendations of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
85.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III
of Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the Credit



- 29 -
would be that (i) the share capital of SOFIDE had been increased by at
least Z 200 million and at least Z 100 million of such increase had
been paid in (para. 45); and (ii) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement had
been signed (para. 66).
86.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
87.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 10, 1984
Washington, D.C.



30 -
ANNEX I
A B L E  3A                                              Page    1  of  5
BURUNDI                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BURUNDI                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) |a
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b6116  197 lb  RECENT  /b              LOW INCOME                MIDDLE INCOME
1 9 6L-b     197,0-   ESTIMATE-         AFKICA S. OF SAHARA        AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. 1Ot)
TOTAL                                    27.8          27.d         27.8
AGRICULTURAL                             18.2          18.8         22.2
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                         60.0        100.0         230.0                254.6                       1147.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           11.0          IL.u         16.U                 79.d                         724.2
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULAT1ON,AiID-YEAX (THOUSANDS)    2851.0           3350.0       4229.u
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)             2.2           2.2          2.3                  19.5                         28.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MIlLL)                                    7.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                      26.1
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                    2155
POPULATLON DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           12.4        120.4         147.8                 29.5                         56.5
PER StQ. EM. AGRI. LAND               153.1        178.2         185.7                 94.1                        131.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (7)
0-14 YES                              42.6         43.8          44.1                 45.0                         45.9
15-64 YRS                              54.6         53.2          52.9                 52.1                         51.2
65 AND ABOVE                            2.9           3.0          3.1                  2.9                           2.8
POPFLATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                   1.6           1.6          2.1                  2.8                           2.8
URBAN                                   1.6           1.6          2.7                  6.2                           5.3
CRUDE BIETH RATE (PES THOUS)             46.9          44.4         46.3                  47.9                         47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PEK IHOUS)             26.7          24.1         20.3                  19.2                         15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.0           2.9          3.2                   3.2                          3.2
FAilILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (2 OF MARRIED WOMEN)
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                           103.0         10D.0         99.0                 S7.i                          95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REyUlREMESTS)           97.0         9d.0          96.0                 88.0                         97.1
PEOTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               60.0         61.0          59.0                 51.2                         56.0
OF WHICH AN1IAL AND PULSE             30.0         30.0          3L.0/c               18.1                         17.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE              32.8          29.4         24.0                 25.7                          23.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            37.2          39.7         45.0                  47.4                         51.9
INFANT F1ORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          150.3         138.7        119.6                126.5                         117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (oPOP)
TOTAL                                    ..            ..           ..                 24.7                         25.4
URBAN                                    ..          77.0         94.0                 56.8                          70.5
RURAL                                    ..            ..           ..                 18.3                          12.J
ACCESS TO EXCRETA JISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..            ..           ..                 2S.1
URBAi                                    ..         96.0          95.0                 65.7
RURAL                                    ..            ..           ..                 21.9
POPULATION PER PIYSICIAN              96570.0      55830.0       45020.0/d            27423.6                      12181.6
POP. PER NURSING PLRSON                4530.0        7490.0      6Blo.oWd              3456.2                        2292.0
POP. PER dOSPLIAL BED                                                   _
TOTAL                                 880.0         740.0           *-               1ld3.2                       1075.4                                  4
URBAN                                  30.0        110.0            ..                38.6                        402.3
RURAL                                3720.0       1070.0            ..               3177.3                       3926.7
Ai*NESSUONS PER iiOSPITAL BED              ..            ..B
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL.
URBAN                                    ..
RURAL                                    ..            ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..            ..
URBAN                                    ..            ..
RURAL                                    ..            ..
ACCUSS rO   EdLET. (Y. OF  WEELLINUIS)
TOTAL                                    ..
URBAN
RURAL                                    ..            ..
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  _      _      _     _      _      _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _ -_ _ -_ _   _ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ -_ -_ _ -_ - _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ _ - -_ -



- 31 -
ANNEX I
T     A B L  S 3A                                Page  2  of  5 
BLIRUNDI                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SREET
BURUNDI                                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOS5T                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATgE) lb
'6 R/b           KECENT  /b            LOW INCOME                MIDDLE INCOME
19LO-b       1970/E-b  ESTIMATE-       AFRiCA S. OF SAHARA        AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                       18.0         29.U         29.0                 63.9                         97.2
MALE                      27.0         39.U          35.0                 73.6                       103.1
PEMALE                     9.U         19.O          23.0                 51.6                        88.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                        1.0          2.U          3.0                 12.5                         17.2
MALE                       1.0           3.0          4.0                 16.7                        23.5
FLl;ALE                    L.u           1.u          2.U                  d.1                        14.2
VOCATIONAL (1 OF SECOU4DARY)             35.0         13.6         18.0/e                7.3                          5.2
-PUPIL'EACLrR RATIO
PREMARY                               3d.u          37.0         37.0                 46.4                        42.9
SECDNuARY                             15.0          11.U         14.0/f               25.1                        23.7
ADULT LI'rRACY RATE (1)                  13.9/g         ..         25.0                 36.5                         37.1
CONSUiMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/T;bOUSAND POP              1.1          1.1          1.3/h                3.3                         18.8
RADIO tECEIVLRS/TROUSAND POP             20.0         19.4         37.3                 45.3                         97.8
TV RECEIVLRS/TllOUSAND POP                 ..           ..            ..                 2.2                         18.6
iEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
IUTEREST-) CIRCULATIO,i
PER IdOUSAND POPULATION                   ..          0.1          0.4/i                4.7                         18.2
LlN;EMA ANNUAL ArTENDANCE/CAPITA          U.1/g         *-          0.0                  1.0                          0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FPRCE (THOUS)             1494.0        1676.0       1995.0,
FE.MALE (PERCENT)                     45.9          45.3         44.1                 34.5                         36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 90.0          87.0         84.0                 76.9                         56.8
I:iOUSTRf (PEtRCENT)                   j.U          4.U           5.0                  9.8                         17.5
PARTLCLN'TI0D KATE (PERCEST)
TOtAL                                 52.4          50.0         47.2                 40.9                        37.0
MALE                                   56.3         56.0         53.6                 53.0                         47.1
FEMALE                                46.9          44.4         41.1                 28.9                         27.0
ECU.NIIIC OL;PENUENCY R.Atl              0.9           U.9          I.0                  1.2                          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
FtRLiN.f OF PKLVAFL I;GUoML
KECEIVED D5Y
HIG,LEST 5N 0L NiOUSr8(/LLS              . .          ..           .
h:LGdEST 2OR OFP AuIOSIIOLJS             ..           ..
LOWEST  0Z. OP HOUS4EOLDS                ..
LOWEST 407. OP dOUSOSEOLDS               ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
iisDrTMATUD ABSOLUTU PO VEKIY liCC;41
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..        213.0_j              165.9                        534.2
RURAL                                    ..           ..        136.0/1               87.4                        255.9
ESTIŽIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (3S$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..            ..           ..                100.8                        491.5
RURAL                                    ..           ..         37.0/j               64.6                        188.1
ESTIEATED POP. DELOR' ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (U)
URBAN                                   ..            ..         55.oQ                39.5
RURAL                                    ..           ..         85.O7                69.U
..NUT AVAILA3E-
NOT AP?LICAELE
/a  The group averages for each indicator are populatioe-weiglkted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators uepe-ds on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Onto for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 197U  between *969 and
1971; and data for '"ost decent Lstimate& between 1I79 anc 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1975; /e This improvement is based un increase to technical education sector; /f Including secondary
teacner s vocatlonal education; /g 1962; /b 1976; /i 1975; /j 1973.
May 1983



-32 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
ityfOTyLio op SOCIAL, ttitflchhR
flte:   lhouh rh  too  no. drtu  Iri   poths      -enrle jola   ti  ans -       u.sotsiasd ce.ilubis.  ho shoud   -m  to totd that thuy tar not he I-oonuciuii
opsrisbu-mo  of theA Lack ofsonedie  deiitos  o   cosa                     se  by dtffrsn   o-mtrims in oniotiog  th  d-t.   Th. daaea,ontnia,sedit
d-soibs   d orsr  of snio       o. dl-la   -sod, s-hoeororaeosoin mjo  dfiots i- Mano_                            eris
Tm . soru...     oos..   sCL o   hsZ-  nos  outry group of ohs eres-  onutty and C2) A coutry Ureor with s-sntl: higM,Istwseg   isha- thuK t t tonaiCy grsa P   theb
grop= bo ...o fop thet04kchn   hit   h  Onro  of o.ots  'nn   h- ludisno    dapstlda     'h.  -niisbLitn   of                                   J.a  a   isttoifoe   uta   etb
ssorhaidin  t.lning  neoges  f On.. u Lod atorcoonoth-c  ffbs    -srgs  art only oefni to taprin   thut calus. of  Ju 'todtutro   tius sf                g  h  n_sty
Sf1 C-oeo a.qIn.)           -     Piio   .o             .dW.                                          rfo%4gpo,yf                    .  rupLst1n  d1iotid be n--uc  of  oatii
- Tots    ufc   iscsran    adesedtho    sss   no                                                  tddliiulilr                    naditol e1hod ut mei-yit  isal
no  IM  dta.                                                                                   Z.     -t  Ps.tttw. dteidsd by a*ae  of PhanaLtuq
ftrinultocI - Osthant  of  sttitcira                .sd                                                -L.oa fMr     rnsti  si   sod     .t grlut  nus,neautnssspstui   es    s
C or 0g., pntoran,nurhs  sod kltohu   eSrdsoso  to  its ftiios; uhf,                          nuring ..oeLi-tecims
LM)0 eud into dot.                                                                                Cpps                      A~jMeia    od-nt     uw-u ua  r-uI    eplses  anl
GM? C     Ct(diA {it     -LPpt  aiaasins  s   utnters  pit.awlai  In public usd r~n    sse  uSs                                                              =ciitsdsAytl 5
--IoSloCb Pewoooio _mehod as  nrd Lak  Mie   C7M9-ML heals);                                           csaiitiio   atas   tositel   r   nohi"eo   posasuty statfs
1960  1970, sod 1991 dnts.                                                                                  t b  soI_en    "L heit.    =4tbli0 -o  prundiac  pniecipeIlly stndiul
tar  ea  otOtinod   tRsi1 bopitets, Mosost  iwoint  ba,ks end
KUttY  toj"t7igPTN PtIK C.nrTAi   MoAt       p,st-ulotuyto   f   -osrci-                                 adni ntsct P.sraatsntL               . atfid by A Fphsicte  (1ha  by u rtdetoan
priser  snug  Lc-ui sod Linis.., poosp   cuEi  e  en  hydre                    .I-,o e                 .s..tnt  sue- m, sidoife, etc.) ubLob of, spi-punso   oeneia    d
mud guofiai s1-otriciyL  in "ILngr-  of co- s.orion    rcaiupont  W_LPi.iai     reng  of sed "ni ftiliotm_.  Fot sttutni                                                          p_e
L9n0. 1970, sod LM8L dehu.                                                                            oris  bnsptai  .wid            n l yisniptICs-uri hupnt,u   rece
huspttsis, LocL o  r-1n hnapiti  sod. andi-ut 55srrao   mnm
COtiioIpt AND VITAL. STATISTICS                                                                          tpsoei.itad  hapi"iaL    r  ioludnd osly under tnts.
nTmi1 yylptionii, f1Ud-Ts_rtChouwods) -  eo  Joly i; LML, LM7L, nod LML19ata  srt1f5j                                                 T-1TtLwse  u,fteosi            noriahr a
Inhen foonutio          ..tmns   of l.ini) - teic   ofareotos-si pupietion;
diff-rn   miiin   fohnaesm  sffcccunsrhiioyof  nt                                                wiatih
- oorrrcn   opilutioncroleoctus  era hewe  no LM*C             end thuic safe  a.a.  A hoader or Ldgr -Y oruYmo  be dnitnd to
tone) pognIof fu  by es sod sa ,sd thoir nor-lity and fortuity                                    ohs heauhed furs.        iste   poirpsnae
root.  Prjaifo putnasfo   oil    reth                  hopieo   yhea                            otygf  pngr  of7 pseus  par I     onu      ee,uO, n   oe              nr
essusod Isine   i fmoiiitys....rdtne  to i-cso  i-a  nAm  pest fantiy                       sm  to EI-sott,os  Ce-osi of dosimsn) - tetui. apa. and reI 
pLetoia emroaeto,   'uc  toutr   In 'boasioa   oun- of ohn   nsC.nmoo.  deiiisaihsirriiy in ihele   neartar  Mepran
Ota -osc  n tiLsoiu To-fus tlonacY prit    tharm  is me er--h
dsniiowootatwriuoano   LsosL   f .nif  -o  r"odttotio rats  shtPtincy  oIno  - - tie.:maim nd f-oal  - iruem  -ot1, sei. ne  fsmsi
anti  onsoicunof o    "nIraL... ioneLf  -ouiL.  Th   ctiar                                    nrLen  ofaL   gsn  thu s         p-,so  loa a-       aranes    f rop-ties
popoitiutsineas tti-sna   on the hesis of tVe etJs....d chrett-yiasysfoo-g  PoPgInieto ;   -ut 1ii  tocioda   mci.d-  "a  6-li
iLoit  of th oM      Lio   in nod faut LiD), and oNs rts of  Zndi   of                              yrLot adjusted Coo dotffa-it Lmo5t  of prtuy odsnu-aa  ftc
feY itioasos tiacmsui.  iwn..                                                                        coun.r... w,ith       -  inurs   -  bdcato    anoisu  sa  soediipr1       a
222ilsono  silur tilh   ece.scnsrehal-ntl   aeadfsi  - eoar                                                                                                      le  baa   manui-r
fp Mjs      l-y,-  ropoLaion par-    ur q-.   ilosryCt  he0 Mtiaras Cf                         prnds$0-fL   talni-. or isttr imbue  iwetrunuln  for
00051 ensa; LMhL, Leot, sit LM'ti. I'l      1,to dun17ti   salyo   Li   LI  ost  of sg;ooracaso                                             ar5 
hr  w.  a. ari,iLoos~~.~o"I Lea - to"ite  as. shoot forarcios  Lnlaani  suniLadad.
oi,fS,CL  alLSdt.uteitlsmlsniCsnn   faondrl-MdioaiIatoim
cognisniut; LMML, inCh. end LMML doom.                                           Conoti-isunhur ratio - trissey. sod sotoodmen - LuteS students aaooiieId ta-- - - - -  
yPrryhaitft  fi-h,Ln-t  and8 Lhld-MC                                                               ftesr1odl, Isetia.                 . - d1                  I
pototo   teh  usXyrmt  - -ohe  -   .-oIs proth  riss-o  orhecAdoi  is                                                 ut       ct    litra         duLts (able to omed ad ria) m
P.tltin   foe iMOA,   OI).  en  iOh-.                                                                      - acet-p  of  .totL adnitPowpaisti    sd Li mac  sa.W so
truda tInih toot Cuntho-nnd    ~- hns  Iio- hirohn par thouen  of mLd-                             CR
Paso-  npiot;IMi. gLMIt ed 1bh1 dat.-                                                           cfltW Of1
Clou. DKtib  tot  Coon he1so-d   - doos  umtho pat oh-sso  of ai-at                                  ageanCtsCo  ohossa  npulutho-   Caum-ge  ours osois  mass
.:    t    tato    A-Atrgono    cd-ohhru5 t           u-    si  hash1 in                    all liy -shlim-
he&iiill#iohouiI§c      ltC   h  turrtodi  rain  se-prfc I,oMthsa(a   hena   snale   ALL oyyua uf raeete  Par, indI
fnriiltortn;aslL   Lo-tano-teotLt IILh  iDL0, and                                                   bodats nos             Ioa  pobi  it  thos-nd of peiton   mlIm
91MM;                                                                                                icansud   -in-oer  is o-atria  an  in year  nbnrsliot                 of aSIA
ral   inia- dAtaccor --  dno.usL  thusnd)I-heus  nhe  of  -op-or                              ses-a  to sofa; dla  foo caot -ut  ay out h.  epseimmneaa
orfrn          -                                                                                  TOii   '-i  heala-  Loa 1 hease  totuIlgtth-T aserofrbodeet
ramlie fientina   (m oct00 oh ouctit ansec) - Parcanags nO saprieL                 gemrei patiic  par housand pa nisoln  p       ocindas oniloeamd pad renoteor
nasa   f chod-bertooeam   51-il  acnC   ho ca  biob-co -ru   dnuics   c                Loco--ritac  in.ar  eM    aisrto   of TV mt  am   taafmt.
oLl. estro F    noccowntauro r.l "L         196u-ncacaI'd                                               bl-tirco-luo   ortome   ooahn   - t-hdea  the aarago                        -
P00  scMCpLco                                                                                          ciroLio ofdfyonrluers   esprndfudtoaoedc
ntni  odoto n of aLl1 focd  -cadiciam.  rr-otL aa-             us    mad an)toh  ade1yn  If it upypar  -t I-as  forIe t- mmk.
fend ond Is 00usada  ha  Moi.  CtooedLnticoes - lpoi-ay eunds (.ae.                               Ciomm   M-1oa doitoduno  o    Carita Pao T-  - hand no th   uar of
sogora_  instant of sueo   ouch am  adibL. end cohin -ti.... Csa                                      cet  ai  dooLn  the yer   ni-           igs'lmoat  drie-I   eisa  sad
cof       %-01  a  sw outLded .  ARgEogn   ploducoico at  eth countr  is                     0hL abil   int.
he    __onnu ioa   a..ra. r~ontc-c   -Ic  o,tt5t; 19h6-c. IM70, mod L9t)
FIr.eoieotofuofo    ..r...s  os_iahIr in c.-"Y Per capita gao                                     foccn  au  nusylyn bhu  m-cdiwa heue-in- musn,  tO.,ouor
dor.   oollhia aceiim  c-pr-   d-ossoic nrod-oluo, isposless I...latP.                                    of alL its.  hfioltotl     to  -nriou   -oollia acm san
porta.  uf then us in  noch.  tt sopoius anids a-i-ui fed, toads,                       taperehi.; Ib60. 1970 nodCIii1 data.
oryocoasta wre simeslbh  rut head on phy1ito.i-g1s mends for  -n iriotntrot   L.nho  Poma. in fIncao    f-ratry, On-tog   W
acii  d n  henith ota..udotiog  -nica--1a itusyn-tur. body  shts,                                fihn          ooouao  itllhrfrs                       .1,910 s  W"       daMn.
ya =t   nte ooloIf 1rnoo  o 0o peIdy -, rrtaionstofproytaLL   n  IMb  Iot.,   do                                                                                 1LM     - ;I
slio -utcm    c0  ooao   oa   cr-blin~  ber  "s  DIl  -l grs  oI  misll  noPaooer  0   oo,sL  sdfsi   aeintoo   l   ga   sNnt
ro     60rhc,o   hc   0  cn   hndh   naiprii.tssLS,1b  noid LSiRInt.  timm   nom heaI                                                      d no 1t'   peniefs  en
shtndo.ie  en boorthen   nc  o   CS g-a of tois1 p-otin a-   O  rs -sicla  g-a Ir_ iu oif thec                                          ielt  and Lang na trend.  A
Thrdholh  od h.. cny; CM9L-h5, 1070 end L9b0 Ist.l.aEosmic tuop    enttiy  - hello of p.upolatino  colo   CS ssd Miea    -   to
for tarO    rci   coyfa  anima  an  cd   -Prtlo lopy of food                                        the  -oelbo   ore
dosra    tIs noisult ant tolo.m  in som   par day; 1961-6i, 197h sod 195)7
dats.                                                                                            INICCt! OLSTRLCfIdUTol
thudCue. 1-) toch  ocoCoo  thousnd    M- hna  &-aho   e  thouen  It.                          Pocoso-ta   ZrIFITeut  ina  Choh i   nhen   ind) - tattle    hyrlba
it  gon   7-0  ar, to cblllla   inthn  o  gotop; forsan  da-eiuing                             Per.n. rceTO "C t-l00  p-oras  Wfrmao. u    ore  i    oa
toerLss dunn d-rio-  fins Life cuhisa; i9b0, LO7h sad 19L dtta.                                   h.-eh.l 5,.
MIALT                                                                                               COVERTY TARisC   GROUPS
,UPLnaronnuf t  icnt Conos C-  o-rau   oushe  of hour  of life   aann .utlo                                 aoon   er. -eyapnoleast   of poosoy L.-Ia, al
ec. ~biro; uhf  1010 un  IMO I deg. e-huLd ho istarpr-ca   ouib  -asder-bia usunhe
CWt..totair st    puo th-ouad)   --unsI Istlhs of, innt,nw    o                                     ntstd Mo-I-un  P-omte faua  Ie-I Ct  e  caia)-aha   n  re
Y_r  f  e P  par "heu.-  Lie  births; Lhh, 1010 And  OM  Iot.1baout  Peemot  in_   Lund  Is thn1                                                       las   eaySa   5a
..ha of  goo.   Conal  obd, odcoaLlrthrusothi  shea  o   et                                        sfodahd
isetor piyCltia  ltcnand  -nfoc  sens.  o  atat  botIimtdiltn    oot  iculni(lo   ulo     ftm  -An  teal
usontaaioisdemoo  tus  sethet fcspotndhculaapoinog, sod                                     MRe_.oIate        oe       mine  m~14iniI  o-hidof          -erg  pawea
antroLII)mmpeoocgm        _o ,-srra a -co          Apindo.   oo                               psrmue  moose of the o tty tr        MM.frI  ..o  L .e do   I.Wne   fra  the rsn
ocheosrean AoLcfotoo               atuotom L-ste  n-  sor  ibs   000 stars                           s-n  with adjnst-s   f- higi-  -os  of               ftiaIAubs  sn
fro  n h-om  say hoL iosurd.  no hin  u.hio   ... bineis ncmof otMto                              tmtisid frPito    au    bet   o,ttelo,                a  hao  ssbsi     nt
inoau.  Inrorut s  -n asobie Aca    -ctd ispLy ohen  the hen-snih  nosd rriCatn    opntIu. Curhet an  trnri                                                   raamnt
osnocaofotolonnoelddo  ettuo  tospol   uiycpariomtspart of                        po
th  dy  a   coiongthu funiiy's oto     eds..
lassi   uohU doaosa  )prMn  nf ptiuton        ot l.brhn_s,
one  -htero Innl   toa,crwI            ndrrIhsrm nyur
prioco  and olil-r in-tLCafn.-                                                                                                                            fay Leh3



- 33 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ZAIRE EXXJMIC INDICATOIRS
NATIONAL ACXXS
Anm,mt          hare of CDP at
(million US$ at    Market Prices (%)        Amnral Growth Rates (x)
current prices    (at current prices)      (at constant 1970 prices)
1981                1981             1979       1980      1981
Gross Domestic Product l/    5383.9                100.0              0.3       2.5        2.4
(GDP CCmmercialized)        (4222.3)              (78.4)             (0.2)     (2.4)      (2.4)
Agriculture                 17Z2.2                32.0              3.1       2.8        2.7
industry                    1269.5                23.6             -6.1        4.4       4.8
Services                   2183.7                 38.7              4.6       0.1        0.4
Comaanption                  4312.0 2t             80.0               4.3      -0.2        6.1
Gross Investment              1410.3 7/             26.2             56.8      81.8      -35.2
Exports of GNFS               1575.4                29.3            -21.0       23.8     -44.6
Inports of GNFS              1913.8                35.5              21.8      95.8      -46.0
Gross National Savings        985.8                 18.3             62.8     -19.6      128.7
PUBLIC FIDUNA     (Central Goverrment)
(million Z)                            x of GDP
A c t u a 1                        (at market prices)
1980        1981        1982         1980       1981      1982 P
Current reveres              3738.6       4858.8      6259.1         21.7      20.6       19.5
Current expenditures         3948.5       5832.1      8448.1         22.9      24.7       26.3
Current deficit              -209.9       -973.3     -2189.0        -1.2       -4.1       -6.8
Capital experditures          246.4        744.9      1084.9          1.4       3.2        3.4
Overall deficit              -456.3      -1718.2     -3273.9         -2.6      -7.3      -10.2
MIEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1980      1981       1982
(million Z outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi xney                                               3367.3    4644.9    8015.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector                                       2329.4    3783.6    7057.3
Bark Credit to Private Sector                                      1014.3    1342.4    1971.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Mbe and Quasi Motey (as % of GDP - market prices)                    19.6      19.7       25.0
Consumer Price Index (1975 = 100)                                  1339.0    1813.1    2487.9
Anal percentage changes in:                                        46.7       35.4      37.2
Consrer Price Index                                                  13.0      62.4       86.5
*               Bark Credit to Public Sector                                         37.1       32.3      46.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector
NOTE: All cmversions to dbllars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
1/ Zairina national accounts have rierous shDrtcanings and should be
interpreted with caution.
2/ At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to tie
ewlusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
3/ Estimate.
4/ Based n national accounts data. Balance of payments estimates given in
page 2 are more reliable.



- 34 -
AI0EX I
Page 5 of S
ZAIRE - EC(1C INDICA2URS
BALANCE OF PAYMllTS (Mill US$)         1979        1980       19gL        1982
Exports of goods and services         1926.3      2185.2      1632.0      1537.9
of which: Merchandise F.O.B.       (1834.6)   (2038.1'    (1499.9)   (1454.0)
Imports of goods and services         2056.9      2523.6      2300.6      2385.5
of which: Merchandise F.O.B.       (1213.2)   (1472.0)    (1290.0)   (1128.3)
Private transfers (net)                -63.3       -79.4       -3.5       -15.5
Ourrent Account Balance               -193.9     -417.8      -672.1      -563.1
Official grants (net)                  226.1       266.8       247.6      187.7
Public capital (net)                  -115.0      -22.1      -168.6      -156.8
Private capital (net) and errors and
oirissions                          -173.1      -82.0      -147.4      -128.1
SIR Allocation                          20.7        20.8       18,9         -
Other Financing                        267.5       282.4      608.4       624.8
Change in net international reserves
(- = increase)                       -32.3      -48.1       113 2        35.5
EXCHANGE RATES:                       (Z/US$)    (US$/Z'    (SUR/Z)
August 24, 1979-February 22, 1980        2.05        0.49       0.375
February 22, 198D-June 19, 1981          3.05        0.33       0.2625
June 19, 1981-Septesber 12, 1983         5.62        0.18       0.1575
Septemher 12, 1983 1/                   26.93       0.04        0.03542
(29.93)     (0.03)
February 24, 1984 1/                    33.0         0.0^3      0.028
AVERALE EXCHANGE RATES:
(Z/Ys$)
1978                                     0.836
1979                                     1.729
1980                                     2.80n
1981                                     4.384
1982                                     5.750
MRZCHANMISE EXPORTS
Minerals and Petroleum                1407.5      1626.8     1178.4      1235.2
Others                                 427.1       411.3      321.5       218.8
Total                               1834.6      2038.1      1499.9     1454.0
REXIERAL DE8T, (As of Dec. 31, 1982, Mill. US$)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                                            4087
Nmk-Guaranteed                                                            250
Total outstandirE & Disbursed                                            4337
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1982
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                                              10.7 3/
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                                                 9.7
IBRD/TA LEIDING
(As of March 31, 1984, Mill. US$)
Outstanding & Disbursed                279.55
UrAsibursed                            216.85
Outstarnding, incl. Undisbursed        46.40
1/ On SeDtember 12, 1983, Zaire introduced a transitional dual exchange rate
regime, consisting of an official rate and a free market rate, saon in
parenthesis above. The twa rates were unified on February 24, 1984:;
henceforth, the rate will float on a weekly basis.
2/ Estimate.
3/ Reflects external public debt service actually paid.
EA2
April 23, 1984



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
SrATUS OF BANK CGRUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A. SEAnE  OF BANK IOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1984)
loan or
Credit   Year                                              Amnxt in US$ Million
Nmiber   Siged   Borrower                             Bark      IDA 1/   Undisxursed
Prior
to June  Congo &    Transport                91.58 2/
1960     Otraco      Infrastructure
One Loan Fully Disbursed                              100.00
Fourteen Credits Fully Disbirsed                                167.10
571      1975     ZAIRE      Rail-River II                      26.00         0.47
660     1976      ZAIE       Cotton Rehabilitaticn               8.00         1.17
796     1978      ZAIRE      Oil Palm                            9.00         7.29
902     1979      ZAIRE      Railways                           20.00         6.45
998     1980      ZAIRE      Fifth Dev. Finance                 18.50         5.57
1040     1980      ZAIRE      Snmllholder Maize                 11.00          8.61
1089     1981      ZAIRE      Kwilu Ngongo Sugar                 26.40 3/      6.19 4/
1152     1981      ZAIRE      Kwango-4wilu Technical Assistance   2.90 3/      1.71 4/
1180     1982      ZAIE       ONATRA Mxdernization              26.0073/      22.06 4/
1224     1982      ZAIRE      Shaba Power System Rehabilitation  19.00 3/     15.24 4/
1241     1982      ZAIRE      Water Supply II                   18.00 3/      12.584/
1244     1982      ZAIRE      Agriculture T.A.                    5.0073/      3.844/
1264     1982      ZAIRE      Second Cotton                      11.30 3/     10.38 4/
1273     1982      ZAIRE      Sixth DFC                         21.50 3/      18.454/
1290     1982      ZAIRE      Highway V                         43.50 3/      33.37 4/
1325     1983      ZAIRE      North East Rural Development      13.00 3/      12.48 4/
1335     1983      ZAIRE      Ports Rehabilitation              25.00 3/      24.49 4/
1336 5/  1983      ZAIRE      Gecamines T.A.                     7.00 3/       7.00
1409     1983      ZAIRE      Petroleum Sector T.A.              4.50 3/       4.50 4/
1421 5/  1984      ZAIRE      Ruzizi II Hydroelectric            15.00 3/     15.00 4/
Total less cancellations):                  191.58   497.70         216.85
- of ufich has been repaid                  126.63      1.62
Total now outstanding:                       64.95    496.08        216.85
Anount sold:                     54.47
of which has ben repaid        54.47
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/            64.95    496.08
Total Undisbursed:                            0.0                   216.85
1/ Prior to exchange adjustnert.
2/ auaranteed by the Kingdan of Belgium.
3/ US dollars anrts caouted at the rate of approval dates.
4/ US dollars anounts conputed at the March 31, 1984 rate.
5/ Signed by not yet effective.



-- 36 -
ANEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. SAET OF IFC INVESEr, (As of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                            Type of            Amonxt in US$ Millions
Year    Obl-igor                 FRisiness          Ian   Equity   Total
1970    Soci&t6 Financiere de     DFC                  -      0.76    0.76
DCveloppemnt (5DFIDE)
1979    Zaire Qilf Oil Company    Oil prcducticr.    2.50              2.50
& expl. Comparny
1979    Zaire Petroleixn Company   Oil prcductiort    1.61             1.61
& expl. Campary
1983    Nord-Sud Irdustrie-
R)HSIOFF QRBH, for studies
on an aluiniun project                     0.23      -      0.23
Total gross commitments                      4.34    0.76     5.10
Less repyments                               3.70      -      3.70
Held by IFC                                  0.64    0.76     1.40



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
ZAIRE
SEVENTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY (SOFIDE) PROJECT
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Because this Credit (the seventh to SOFIDE) is a repeat
operation with an institution which has been closely monitored by the
Bank Group since it was created in 1970, the project did not require
special preparation before the appraisal mission visited SOFIDE in
October 1983. The planned date of effectiveness is September 30, 1984.
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Borrower would carry out a number of studies,
including studies of the incentives system; the treat-
ment of asset revaluation and of indirect taxes
(paras. 32, 33 and 34);
(b)  SOFIDE would exchange views with IDA on the adequacy
of its lending rates (para. 52);
(c) SOFIDE would carry out an action program to limit the
deterioration of its portfolio (para. 55);
(d) SOFIDE would not distribute dividends until it has
reconstituted its provisions for risk to at least 4
percent of its loan and equity portfolio (para. 62);
(e) SOFIDE would maintain its debt/equity ratio below 5:1
(para. 57);
(f) at least US$5.0 million equivalent of the proposed
line of credit for investments would be reserved for
projects which are expected to export at least 25% of
their production (para. 67);



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g)  SOFIDE would onlend at a mninimum of 15.5% per annum
and pass on the foreign exchange risk to
sub-borrowers; and, subject to finding ways of
protecting itself against the foreign exchange risk,
up to US$4.0 million may 'be used for equity
participation with the prior approval of IDA (paras.
67 and 68);
Special Conditions of Effectiveness are:
(a) increase in SOFIDE's share capital of at least Z 200
million and paying-in of at least Z 100 million of
such increase (para. 45); and
(b) signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para. 66).



