Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24947
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-38650; TF-20272)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 114 MILLION
TO
UKRAINE
FOR A
HYDROPOWER REHABILITATION AND SYSTEM CONTROL PROJECT
12/24/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of November 1, 2002)
Currency Unit = 1 Hrivnya = 100 kopeks
UAH 1 = US$ 0.19
US$ 1 = 5.33 UAH
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CFP            Coal-Fired Plant
CHF            Swiss Franc
CIDA           Canadian Agency for International Development
DHE            Dniprohydroenergo
EBRD           European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIRR           Economic Internal Rate of Return
EU             European Union
FSU            Former Soviet Union
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GEF            Global Environment Facility
GoU            Government of Ukraine
GWh            Gigawatt hour
HPP            Hydropower Plant
IAS            Intemational Accounting Standards
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDC            Interest During Construction
kWh            Kilowatt hour
MW             Megawatt (I0^6 W)
MUV            Manufacturing Unit Value
NDC            National Dispatch Center
NERC           National Electricity Regulatory Commission
NPP            Nuclear Power Plant
NPV            Net Present Value
O&M            Operations and Maintenance
PPI            Producer Price Index
PSP            Pump Storage Plant
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SCADA          Supervisory Control and Data System
TA             Technical Assistance
TWh            Terawatt hour (1012 Wh)
UAH            Ukrainian Hrivnya (1 Hrivnya = 100 kopeks)
UE             Ukrenergo
UPS            Ukrainian Power System
VAT            Value-Added Tax
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:     Luca Barbone
Sector Manager/Director:    Hossein Razavi
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Nikolay Nikolov



UKRAINE
HYDROPOWER REHAB
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            9
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             16
6. Sustainability                                                                 19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  20
8. Lessons Learned                                                                24
9. Partner Comments                                                               26
10. Additional Information                                                        40
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              56
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              58
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              60
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             111
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             113
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                114
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            115
Annex 8. Summaries of project completion reports from the DHE and UE             116
Map IBRD 32185






Project ID: P038820                                       Project Name: HYDROPOWER REHAB AND
SYSTEM CONTROL
Team Leader: Nikolay Nikolov                              TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 24, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: HYDROPOWER REHAB AND SYSTEM                    L/C/TF Nzmber: CPL-38650; TF-20272
CONTROL
Country/Department: UKRAINE                                              Region. Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: Power (100%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD.   06/24/1994                             Effective: 12/27/1995         05/24/1996
Appraisal:  09/14/1994                                MTR: 09/30/1997            11/11/1997
Approval:  04/11/1995                              Closing: 12/31/2000          06/30/2002
Borrower/Inmplementing Agency:  GOVT OF UKRAINE/DNIPROHYDROENERGO & NATL. DISPATCH CTR.
Other Partners:  Governments of Canada, Norway, Switzerland
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johanes Linn                              Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Luca Barbone                               Basil Kavalsky
Sector Manager:       Hossein Razavi                            Dominique Lallement
Team Leader at ICR   Nikolay Nikolov                            Laszlo Lovei
ICR Primary Author:  Nikolay Nikolov with
contributions from Dennis
Creamer - consultant (economic
analysis); Simos Kamchis -
consultant (financial analysis);
Yun Miroshnichenko; Yolanda
L. Gedse; Maria Koreniako
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustarnabilety. L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background
The Ukrainian Power System (UPS) was developed and operated as a part of the integrated power system
of the FSU. The efficient performance of the system was severely affected by (i) a vertical state-owned
monopoly structure; (ii) high energy intensity; (iii) limited domestic energy endowments, and (iv) a deep
economic and institutional crisis which followed the disintegration of the FSU in 1991.
The separation of the Ukrainian Power System from the Russian power system revealed serious structural
and functional weaknesses which affected the overall system operation, security, reliability and quality of
power supply. These weaknesses concemed the insufficient amount of load-following generation capacity,
capable of maintaining flexible production schedule and providing frequency regulation, i.e., the lack of
plants which operate in the mid and peak sections of the load duration curve. This critical function was
provided by the hydropower plants on the Dnieper and Dniester rivers. Most of the Ukraine's thermal
plants were base load, especially the coal-fired ones. Some larger gas units were more flexible, but were
suffering from difficulties in fuel supply as the Ukrainian power sector had difficulties paying for gas
imports.
To address these issues, the GoU adopted a two-pronged strategy of institutional reforms and investments
in priority areas. The development of the Government's energy strategy was supported by the Bank since
1992 through technical assistance and an Energy Sector Review (Report No. 11646-UA). During this
process, the Bank reached an agreement with the Government and other international donors to enhance
support to power generation and gas transmission and distribution as sectors in which the Bank could make
a significant difference in Ukraine. In this context, the Government, assisted by the Bank and other donors,
started the preparation of the Hydropower Rehabilitation and System Control Project. A comprehensive
feasibility study outlined the overall rehabilitation needs of the Dnieper cascade. In view of the large scope
of identified rehabilitation works, the project was designed to include as a first phase a portion of the
needed overall hydropower plants rehabilitation. The remaining rehabilitation works at the Dnieper
cascade were to be pursued in the context of the outcome of the first rehabilitation phase, the further
advancement of the Governments priorities in the power sector and the continuation of a project enabling
framework.
The project aimed at addressing some of the important priorities in the Ukrainian power system:
rehabilitation of hydropower plants meant maintaining the most flexible generation plants at their maximum
productive levels. The project also provided a moderate leverage for implementation of broader sector
reforms, especially in its preparatory stage. The early stage of the project's implementation was affected
by a severe economic and financial crisis which caused a precipitous decline of electricity payments.
Nevertheless, through sustained efforts of the Bank, the GoU, the project beneficiaries Dniprohydroenergo
and Ukrenergo, and with support from the governments of Canada, Norway and Switzerland, the project
was successfully implemented, within an unbundled power sector with much improved financial discipline,
advancing privatization of electricity companies and a developed regulatory framework.
Obiectives
The project had the following objectives: (i) improve the efficiency, reliability, safety and environmental
performance of hydropower plants - this objective included enhancement of the dam safety monitoring
system, improvement of the water quality of the Dnieper River through reduction of oil leakages into the
- 2-



river to minimal level due to installation of new ecologically safe turbines, and improvement of the
management of the multi-purpose Dnieper reservoirs, (ii) increase hydropower generation capacity, which
implied increasing peak capacity and power generation in peak time zone; (iii) improve the quality of
electricity supply by upgrading load and frequency control; and (iv) reduce fuel costs by facilitating the
economic dispatch of generating units.
The objectives of the project were clear and important for sector development. They were responsive to the
priorities of the least cost investment plan for the power sector which included the rehabilitation of the
hydropower plants. The project objectives were also supportive of the Bank's overall strategy to facilitate
Ukraine's effort to carry out structural reforms and to promote efficiency investments in high priority
sectors such as energy in order to complete the transition to a market economy and to accelerate economic
growth. The project was designed to respond to the needs of the power sector in a critical period of
Ukraine's history, shortly after the country gained independence and suffered a deep economic crisis at the
same time.
The project was quite demanding on the two implementing agencies (Dniprohydroenergo and National
Dispatch Center/Ukrenergo) because of its broad institutional, geographical and technical scope, the related
complexity and risks, and the beneficiaries' limited experience in dealing with projects financed by
international institutions. In this context, the good technical expertise of the implementing agencies was
considered an important counterbalancing factor.
Complex institutional and organizational aspects
The rehabilitation of the hydropower plants (one of the two main investment components of the project),
carried out by Dniprohydroenergo, required coordination of the work of eight large power plants on the
reservoirs of the Dnieper cascade with a total capacity of 3,799 MW, 18 design institutes, more than 100
equipment manufacturers, over 30 installation and commissioning companies, and about 100 other
contractors. The upgrade of the system control and dispatch (the other investment component of the
project) was carried out by an entity - National Dispatch Center (NDC) - which, during the project
implementation period, was subject to more institutional changes than any other entity in the electricity
sector. NDC has endured a series of major reorganizations, starting up just as a dispatch center, then being
a part of the company providing transmission, dispatch and market operation services, and ending up as a
part of the Ukraine's unified transmission and dispatch company (Ukrenergo).
Broad geographical scope
The dams of the Dnieper cascade are some of the world's longest, located in six of the most industrialized
and heavily populated regions of Ukraine along the basin of the third largest river in Europe. The upgrade
of the system control and dispatch encompassed works throughout the country.
Complex technical aspects.
Rehabilitation on such a large scale was not carried out before in Ulraine. In view of the importance of the
Dnieper cascade for the power system load and frequency regulation, the turbines and generators had to be
rehabilitated without discontinuing the operation of the remaining equipment at the power plants.
Maintaining normal operational parameters of the power plants even during rehabilitation of individual
generation units was a pioneering approach in Ukraine.
- 3-



Risks
Low cash collections in the electricity sector represented huge financial risk to the project. The need to
rehabilitate turbines and generators while continuing to generate posed difficult scheduling requirements
and continuously risked delaying the project. The requirement to operate as many units as possible during
the spring flood seasons put significant pressure on the rehabilitation works as well.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the project were not revised.
3.3 Original Components.
The achievement of the project objectives was ensured by the adequate design of the original project
components, listed below:
(i)    Rehabilitation of hydropower plants on the Dnieper cascade;
(ii)   Installation of a dam safety monitoring system at the main reservoirs on the Dnieper river;
(iii)  Upgrade of communications, dispatch, and system control;
(iv)   Technical assistance.
The first two components, implemented by Dniprohydroenergo, supported the first two project objectives of
improving the efficiency, reliability, safety and environmental performance of hydropower plants; and
increasing hydropower generation capacity. The third component, implemented by NDC/Ukrenergo,
supported the other two project objectives (improving the quality of electricity supply by upgrading load
and frequency control; and reducing fuel costs by facilitating economic dispatch of generating units).
Although demanding, the project design capitalized on the beneficiaries' good technical and engineering
capabilities.
Key aspects of the project components are presented below:
(a) Rehabilitation of hydropower plants on the Dnieper cascade.
Cost: US$ 84.2 million.
This component included rehabilitation of the eight HPPs on the Dnieper River. (See attached map). The
rehabilitation of the system control and monitoring at HPPs on the Dnieper cascade was also included.
The component addressed critical performance aspects of aging HPPs such as derating of the units, low
efficiency and availability. The oldest HPP, Dnieper-l (Dniproges-l) was built in 1932 and reconstructed
in 1947, five of the plants were more than 30 years old and the other two were more than 20 years old.
-4-



(b) Installation of a dam safety monitoring system at the main reservoirs of the Dnieper River (Kiev,
Kanev, Kremenchug, Dniprodzerzhinsk, Dnieper, Kakhovka).
Cost: US$ 2.5 million.
This component aimed at rehabilitating the existing dam monitoring system in order to improve the safety
of about 100 km of dams and dykes for the multipurpose reservoirs on the Dnieper river. The reservoir
dams have low heads and long embankmnents with dykes protecting the surrounding land from floods.
(c) Upgrade of communication, dispatch, and system control.
Cost: US$ 55.2 million.
This component included an upgrade of the following key elements of the UPS:
(i)    communications systems;
(ii)   frequency regulation, dispatch and control systems;
(iii)  relay protection devices of the main transmission network.
The rehabilitation of the system control and monitoring at the Dniester HPP was also included.
This component aimed at overcoming the deficiencies across the UPS that compromised the reliability,
quality and security of electricity supply. The poor frequency regulation represented an increased risk for
operation of the nuclear power plants, since their protection system would trip them off if the system
frequency were to go beyond certain range.
(d) Technical assistance.
Cost: US$ 5.0 million.
Building on a lesson learned from an earlier World Bank - financed Institution Building Project in Ukraine
(Loan 3614-UA), a technical assistance (TA) component was included in the project to compensate for the
beneficiaries' inexperience in implementing projects with donor financing and international procurement.
This was to be done through supporting technical services for preliminary engineering design, preparation
of technical specifications and tender documents, conducting international tendering, contract negotiations
and administration, and helping in project monitoring and reporting. Training by equipment suppliers was
envisaged in the tender documents. Training in management and procurement was also provided by Bank
staff.
In addition, in view of the importance of the multi-purpose use of the reservoirs on the Dnieper river, the
technical assistance component included a review of the procedures in managing the river basin's
reservoirs.
3.4 Revised Components:
The number and the type of the components were not revised, but the schedules and physical quantities of
some of the components were modified. The main revisions concemed the number of turbines and
generators subject to rehabilitation which was financed from Dniprohydroenergo's revenues rather than
from the IBRD loan.
- 5-



The schedule for the installation of dam safety monitoring system experienced major delays as a result of
the desire by DHE to have this system delivered by a local contractor and financed from internal funds.
However, it turned out that the local contractor at the end was not able to deliver the system with
satisfactory technical performance. Consequently, DHE then decided to procure the system internationally
and finance it from the IBRD loan, but much time had been lost in the meantime. As a result, dam safety
monitoring equipment was installed only at the most critical and longest Kiev dam of the cascade.
The length of the fiber optic conmmunications lines was slightly increased together with the scope of
equipment for hydro generators to better respond to the evolving system needs. The scope of system
control and monitoring equipment was significantly increased and installed on two additional plants to
fully accommodate the needs of the entire Dnieper cascade. Such equipment was additionally installed at
Kremenchug and Dneprodzerzhinsk HPPs in view of their importance for regulating operations of the
plants in the cascade. A component for installing thermal power plants (TPPs) governors (technical
devices which regulate the output of the TPPs) was replaced by a relevant study to respond to the reduced
incentives in the power market for installing such governors. The scope and timing of the TA were
adjusted to the overall changes in scope and timing of the project works.
Turbine and Generator Rehabilitation
(a) The original project scope foresaw the rehabilitation of 23 turbines and 37 generators. Upon beginning
of the project works, larger than expected wear and tear of the generating units called for a greater level of
local works per each unit. Consequently, the number of turbines to be rehabilitated was reduced from 23 to
22 in the early stage of the project
(b) In addition, the deterioration of electricity payments continued from 1998 to early 2000 and affected
local project financing. It was therefore agreed to further scale down the turbine/generator rehabilitation
works, which critically depended on local funds. Thus, the number of turbines and generators to be
rehabilitated was reduced from 22 turbines and 37 generators to 13 and 15 respectively. At the end of the
project, DHE had managed to exceed this target, rehabilitating 16 pairs of turbines and generators.
Dam Safety Monitoring System
(c) In the beginning of the project, locally financed national manufacturers could not ensure the required
specifications of the dam monitoring equipment. It was then decided to launch an international competitive
tender for a pilot contract for supply and installation of such equipment for only the Kiev HPP. The
experience gained from this pilot contract was supposed to be used in procuring monitoring equipment for
the other dams of the cascade. The unexpected replacement of the local supplier with an intemational one
delayed the implementation schedule of the dam safety component. Consequently, the scope of installing
monitoring equipment was reduced from 100 km along all HPPs to 50 km at Kiev HPP, which is most
critically located at the beginning of the cascade. The experience from preparing tender documents for
Kiev HPP was used for the design and technical specifications of the dam safety upgrade at the remaining
plants.
Control and Monitoring System
(d) During the installation of the system control and monitoring equipment at Dnieper HPPs, additional
possibilities were identified for a better adaptation of the equipment to the needs of the cascade. Therefore,
the original scope of equipment was significantly expanded with modified software, electrical protection
-6-



systems, metering equipment and spare parts, and included two more plants -- Kremenchug and
Dneprodzerzhinsk - in view of the importance of their regulatory capacity for the entire cascade. At the
same time, system controls at Kiev PSP and Dnieper HPP-2 were rehabilitated partially in response to the
specific needs at these plants.
(e) One hundred and sixty km of fiber optic communications line were laid in addition to the original scope
of 1,000 km in order to connect the Central and Western communications networks of the UPS.
Auxiliary Equipment
(f) The quantity of the equipment for hydro generators was also slightly increased.
(g) The Ukrenergo's component for upgrade of frequency regulation, dispatch and system control included
originally a sub-component for upgrading the governors of the generation units of the thermal power plants.
This activity was designed to improve the capability of the power system to regulate frequency. However,
this sub-component was canceled due to (i) lack of financial incentives for the thermal plants to participate
in load frequency regulation, since payments for this service were not recognized by the electricity market;
(ii) the requirement for the plants to finance local costs associated with insta1ling new governors, while the
plants lacked such funds due to non-payments in the electricity market; (iii) the status of the plants as
independent legal entities, which hampered the management of this project sub-component outside the
structure of the implementing agency Ukrenergo; (iv) the unique water technology of the governors, not
supported by mranufacturers outside the former Soviet Union; (v) physical ware-and-tear of the thermal
generators and the auxiliary TPP equipment together with outdated boiler automation called for much
larger investments than expected.
(h) The Bank proposed instead, that a study on the automatic frequency regulation by the thermal power
plants be carried out in order to partially compensate for the cancellation of the sub-component for
installing governors at these plants. The findings were used by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy as a basis
for preparing official guidelines for providing economic incentives to the thermal power plants involved in
automatic frequency regulation.
Audits and Technical Assistance
(i) The scope and timing of the technical assistance were modified to follow the changes in the actual scope
and timing of the project work. In addition, in view of the insufficient local funds, the project beneficiaries,
with the Bank's agreement, chose to use more than half of the technical assistance funds from the Bank to
cover the cost of. annual audits under the project. Technical assistance from the Canadian and Swiss
governments compensated for the reduction of the Bank's TA funds as a result of the audit funding
arrangements.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is judged to be satisfactory because the project objectives were consistent with (i) the
government priorities; (ii) the CAS, and (iii) the Bank's safeguard policies. In addition, the project
components were designed to enable the achievement of the project objectives.
The project was consistent with the Government's strategy of rationalizing energy use through
rehabilitating hydro and thermal power plants, increasing reliance on renewable energy, and improving
safety of the power system within the context of overall sector restructuring.
-7-



Bank sector work was used in the project preparation. In addition, the project was also responsive to the
Bank's strategy to promote efficiency improvements and adapt the energy utilities to the requirements of a
market economy. The project objectives were clearly outlined, and although demanding, were achievable in
the context of the counterparts' implementation capacity and commnitment for results. The project was
designed to respond to the priorities of the power sector and the funding arrangements were commensurate
with the project scope and needs. Project conditionality focused on ensuring proper structure and
operations of the implementing agencies in terms of consolidation of the Dnieper HPPs into a single joint
stock company, transfer of the ownership of the regional dispatch centers to the National Dispatch Center,
establishment of Project Implementation Units, signing adequate agreements for electricity sales and
contracts with strategic domestic turbine and generator manufacturers, observance of proper financial
reporting and auditing standards.
The Bank ensured that the Ministry of Energy and the implementing agencies were actively involved in the
relevant sector work and feasibility studies. The technical, financial, economic and environmental aspects
of the project were thoroughly assessed. Sensitivity of project sustainability to cost overruns, decline of
economic value of electricity and fuel savings was assessed as well.
Readiness for implementation was also analyzed in detail: the implementation capacity of the project
beneficiaries was reviewed along with the manufacturing potential of the local suppliers, critical to the
project. On the basis of this analysis, technical assistance was envisaged to provide support in the areas of
engineering, procurement and project management. The engineering design was based on detailed
feasibility studies. The project performance indicators were designed to ensure adequate monitoring of
progress towards achieving project objectives in terms of increasing generating capacity, improving
efficiency and frequency, reducing oil leakages and enhancing dam safety. Major risks related to pricing
and non-payments were addressed through relevant loan conditions, political risk of reversal of reforms was
also outlined.
In compliance with the Bank's safeguard policies, an environmental analysis was carried out and no
implications for intemational waterways were identified. Although the former Operational Manual
Statement (OMS) 3.80 on dam safety safeguards was applicable only to the construction of new dams, and
not to the already existing dams included in the project at the time of appraisal, relevant safeguard
measures, required under the current more rigorous safeguard policies, were actually designed and
implemented in an effort to bring more dam safety benefits to the project company Dniprohydroenergo.
Most of the assumptions made during project preparation were reasonable with the notable exception of
those related to the timely improvement of the payment collections in the sector and the subsequent
improvement of the financial situation of the project implementing agencies. Non-payments persisted until
early 2000 when the govemment initiated efficient measures to resolve this issue. These measures
coincided with the actual beginning of the economic recovery, which was forecasted at appraisal to begin
much earlier in 1997.
In addition, the electricity demand forecast and the related least-cost development program were more
optimistic at appraisal than their revaluation towards the project's end in 2001. Nevertheless, the final
outcome was overall satisfactory.
-8-



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective*
Summary assessment of outcome
The overall outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory. As noted in the following sections, all
envisioned objectives were achieved, although with delays, and on occasion, on a reduced scale. The
project objectives are in line with the current CAS objectives to attain job-creating sustainable economic
growth, solve enviromnental issues in the energy sector and move Ukraine closer to the European Union's
standards, fostering environmentally sustainable development. The development impact has been also
satisfactory since the two project components brought desired quality, efficiency, safety and environmental
benefits to the entire power system, although within the smaller scope of turbine/generator rehabilitation
works at commensurate lower total costs. The assessment was facilitated by the performance indicators in
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
Achievement of objectives
Achievement of objective (a) improve the efficiency, safety, and environmental performance of the
hydropower plants:
Efficiency of the hydropower plants:
The nominal target efficiency parameters have been achieved for all rehabilitated units at the hydropower
plants. (See Annex 1)
Safety of the hydropower plants:
The installation of a dam safety monitoring system at the Kiev reservoir dam, situated upstream at the head
of the Dnieper cascade, has improved the safety and reliability of the Kiev reservoir and the downstream
reservoirs, all situated along very densely populated and industrialized areas.
In addition, the installation of electrical protection devices and microprocessor-based control systems for
turbine/generators units and entire plants has contributed to improved the safety of equipment maintenance
and operation.
Environmental performance of the hydropower plants:
Environmental improvements have been also enhanced by upgrading the dam safety instrumentation at
Kiev HPP. Oil leaks into the Dnieper River have been eliminated by installing new environmentally safe
turbines. Environmental risks have been further reduced by improving the water management of the
Dnieper reservoirs as a result of the installation of modem control and monitoring system equipment and
the follow up on the TA recommnendations of a water management study.
Achievement of objective (b) increase of hydropower generation capacity:
Additional total capacity of 88.1MW (2% increase of total capacity of the Dnieper cascade) was obtained
within the reduced project scope vs. 130 MW (3% increase of total capacity of Dnieper cascade) expected
under the initial full project scope. The lower capacity increase at project completion was commensurate
with the overall reduction of the scope of rehabilitation works under the project.
-9-



Achievement of objective (c) improving the quality of electricity supply by upgrading load and frequency
control:
Frequency, a key criterion of the quality of electricity supply, has improved. Deviations of maximum and
minimum frequency from the 50 Hz target have been reduced to acceptable ranges. Also, the monthly
maximum accumulated time error has been reduced from minutes to seconds. The number and the amount
(MW) of load curtailments per year have been also reduced.
These results have been achieved from the joint effect of (i) the parallel operations of the Ukrainian power
system with the power system of Russia since August 20, 2001, where Russia regulates frequency based on
exchange of power flows with Ukraine; (ii) relatively lower demand and consequently lower system load
which allows easier maintenance of adequate frequency; (iii) the further upgrade of load and frequency
regulation under the project which is expected to bring about a substantial improvement of the scheduled
inter-state exchange of active power flows.
Achievement of objective (d) reduction of fuel costs by facilitating the economic dispatch of generating
units:
The project sub-component of upgrading the regulation and management systems of the TPPs was
cancelled mainly because of the lack of a friamework for pricing ancillary system services such as
frequency regulation. At project completion, this has contributed to somewhat lower estimates of 0.4%
savings of fuel consumption in the UPS, (except nuclear fuel), compared with the original estimates of
0.9% of such savings as a result of the upgrade of the communications, dispatch and system control.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) Rehabilitation of hydropower plants on the Dnieper cascade;
Cost: US$ 84.2 million at appraisal, US$ 74.3 million at completion.
The rehabilitation of the hydropower plants on the Dnieper cascade was satisfactory although in reduced
scope. Out of 23 turbines and 37 generators, originally planned for rehabilitation, a total of 16 turbines
and generators were rehabilitated at project completion. Hydraulic auxiliary and electric equipment was
replaced or rehabilitated at all eight HPPs on the Dnieper cascade. The rehabilitation works resulted in
increased efficiency, capacity, reliability, and safety, improved environmental performance and extended
life of the power plants equipment. Oil leaks into the Dnieper River were eliminated from the rehabilitated
turbines.
In addition, the installation of a new control monitoring and protection system on 5 of the HPPs (Kiev,
Kremenchug, Dniprodzerzhinsk Dnieper-l and Kahovka) has optimized the HPPs' output and has further
enhanced their availability and lifetime due to the system's pre-waming capability in case of abnornal
operation parameters. The ongoing integration of the control, monitoring and protection systems -of the
hydropower plants with the SCADA system of the National Dispatch Center will further optimize the
performance of the hydropower plants and will also enhance their load and frequency regulating role in
response to the needs of the entire power system. Improved frequency regulation also allows to operate the
nuclear power plants (NPP) at the right frequency and thus enhances their safety.
- 10-



(b) Installation of the dam safety monitoring system;
Cost: US$ 2.5 million at appraisal, US$ 1.9 milhon at completion.
The installation of a computer-aided safety monitoring system at Kiev dam has been rated satisfactory in
view of the complexity and umqueness of the component This has been the first such type of equipment
installed in Ukraine and the other CIS countries. The uniqueness of this pilot project has been further
enhanced by the fact that the Kiev 50 km earth dyke is one of the longest in the world, critically situated
upstream at the head of the Dnieper cascade. The upgrade of the control instruments, the automation of
information processing, and the reading of the safety meters all have contributed to improving the safety in
the Kiev dam flood zone along with the safety of the downstream HPPs which are all located in densely
populated and industrialized areas.
As a part of the dam safety works and in compliance with the Bank's new safeguards on dams, (i) a local
institute has assessed the discharge capacity of the entire Dnieper cascade; (ii) flood assessment
information is regularly conveyed to DHE; (iii) inspections of the sediments in water storages in front of the
HPPs have been carried out; (iv) drainage devices have been rehabilitated where needed; (v) the emergency
action plans of the HPPs have been updated; (vi) new guidelines have been developed for the exploitation of
the reservoirs of the Dnieper cascade; and (vii) the preparation of project designs for installing dam safety
equipment on the remaining HPPs on the Dnieper River is underway.
(c) Upgrade of communication, dispatch, and system control;
Cost: US$55.2 million at appraisal, US$46.9 million at completion.
These activities were also rated satisfactory since the initially envisaged equipment was installed. The
introduction of automated load and frequency control and the enhanced protection of the high voltage (HV)
transmission network will improve the quality of electricity supply which will then enhance the system's
capacity to integrate with the neighboring power systems. System efficiency will be also enhanced by the
reduced fuel consumption from improved dispatch. The installation of an uninterrupted power supply
system, including batteries, charging appliances and diesel generators, enhanced the operations of the
power system by counteracting the impact of the emergency outages.
(i) The upgrade of the communications system of the UPS was successfully achieved by laying 1,160 km of
new fiber optic comrnmunications lines and installing digital automatic telephone stations. The introduction
of a modem digital communications system on the basis of fiber optic cable increased considerably the
speed and volume of the transmitted information among the subdivisions of the unified power system of
Ukraine. The installation of digital automatic telephone stations at the regional dispatch centers increased
the reliability of the power dispatch communications.
(ii) The upgrade of the frequency regulation, dispatch and system control has been implemented
satisfactorily by installing:
*      an integrated package for automated load and frequency control which replaced outdated inefficient
manual control functions;
*      a protection, management and control system at the Dniester HPP (702 MW) which enhanced
maneuverability and life of the plant equipment and integrated its regulating ability into the load and
frequency regulation of the entire power system of Ukraine; and
-1 1-



*      relay protection devices on the high voltage transmission lines of the UPS main network, including
transmission lines connected with the nuclear power plants. These devices further enhanced the reliability
of the system, including the reliability of operations of the nuclear power plants (NPPs).
(d) Technical assistance.
Cost: US$5 million at appraisal, US$7.0 million at completion.
Although this component has been completed in an overall satisfactory manner, the level of success of
separate TA components varied.
The Swiss consulting company Stucky S.A. assisted in a satisfactory manner in the procurement of project
switchgear equipment financed by the Swiss government with a grant to the Government of Ukraine,
on-lent to DHE. (see note I at the end of this section)
The Norwegian Government financed a study on improved water management and hydropower generation.
The study's recomnmendations were taken into account for the development of a new version of the Dnieper
cascade water reservoir exploitation rules.
A study on the automatic frequency regulation of the thennal power plants, financed by local funds, was
completed as well. The Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine used the findings of the study as a basis to
prepare guidelines for providing economic incentives to the thermal power plants involved in automatic
frequency regulation.
The local research institute Ukrhydroproekt together with DHE participated in developing the dam safety
concept and preparing technical specifications for the procurement of project equipment.
The Canadian Agency for International Development (CIDA) financed technical assistance services for the
first 3 years of the implementation of the project. The technical assistance services were provided by
Hydro Quebec Intemational (HQ]) in the areas of engineering, procurement and project management.
These services initially suffered some difficulties related to the extremely limited number of experienced
specialists available to work in a Russian and Ukrainian languages environment. However, after solving
progressively this major recruitment problem, the situation notably improved after mid-1996 when more
experienced consultants joined the project and at the same time a better interaction was reached with the
beneficiaries. The situation was completely normalized in 1998 when the beneficiaries hired HQI with
funds from the World Bank loan to provide further TA services.
DHE's needs for project management assistance declined during the second half of the project period as a
result of the reduction of the physical scope of some project components. In this regard, and in view of the
improved local financing, DHE opted for hiring local consultants with its own funds until the project's
completion.
Audits by PriceWaterhouse and KPMG were also financed with technical assistance funds.
The project design was appropriate for achieving the project's objectives.
a/ technical aspects: adequate rehabilitation works and modem equipment were included in the project
scope to ensure the envisaged improvements in the power system.   Project sites and specific
turbine/generator units were selected for rehabilitation in view of ensuring maximum benefits from the
- 12 -



project works. Technical assistance was expected to compensate for the implementing agencies' lack of
previous experience with Bank-financed projects.
b/ country needs and Bankpriorities: the project provided critical support to the power sector in line with
the government's priorities and the Bank's CAS.
cl sustainability: the project was designed under the enabling famework for sector reforms, envisaged by
the govemment. The benefits from improving the financial discipline in the power sector under the reform
process, although delayed, trickled down to the project level and restored the financial stability of the
project implementing agencies beginning in 2000, which consequently ensured successful project
completion.
dl project monitoring and reporting: the project performance criteria and the loan covenants were
designed to enable adequate measurement and reporting of project progress and to provide a leverage for
corrective actions, when needed. The performance indicators for minimizing frequency deviations,
increasing operating capacity and turbine/generator efficiency were reasonably quantified to enable the
assessment of project achievements during supervision and at completion. The logical framework tool did
not exist at project appraisal. Therefore project outcomes and outputs were outlined at completion on the
basis of analysis of the actual project results. The loan covenants related to auditing requirements, debt
ratio, and self financing ratio facilitated the monitoring of compliance with the Bank's fiduciary
responsibilities and financial requirements for the project's agencies. The loan covenants related to
compliance with the power purchase agreement between DHE and NDC, and the contracts between NDC
and its downstream clients were deleted from the respective project agreements with the Bank. Instead,
during each following supervision mission, requirements for specific allocations of funds from the newly
established Energomarket (the wholesale electricity market) to DHE and NDC were agreed and closely
monitored thereafter. This change took place as a result of introducing a new mechanism of allocating
payments for electricity transactions directly through Energomarket to all participants in the power sector,
including DHE and NDC, which made irrelevant the earlier bilateral payment arrangements between DHE
and NDC, and NDC and its clients.
Note 1: Under the conditions of a Grant Agreement between the Governments of Switzerland and Ukraine, the Swiss
Government extended a CHF 13.7 rnillion grant to Ukraine. The Grant Agreement also stipulated that the Ministry of Finance
of Ukraine should then extend the Swiss grant proceeds as a loan to DHE. DHE has already used this loan to finance the
supply and installation of Swiss switchgear equipment under the project. DHE was supposed to repay the loan with interest to
the Mimstry of Finance. The Mmistry of Finance was expected then to use DIE's loan repayments for setting up fiunds to
support environmentally friendly initiatives in the energy sector. However, DHE has repaid so far only a mmor portion of the
loan due to earlier difficulties in payment collections. On November 14, 2002, the parties agreed on revised loan repayment
options.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Economic returns upon project completion were sustainable, although lower than the ones at appraisal due
in large part to the lower benefits as a result of reducing the project scope. The SAR showed an estimated
economic intemal rate of return (EIRR) for the total project at 18.1%. The re-estimated EIRR for the total
project at completion was 13.6%.     A  separate EIRR was estimated for the Hydropower Plants
Rehabilitation component: 17% at appraisal and 13% at completion, and for the System Control and
Communications Upgrade component: 22.7% at appraisal and 17.7% at completion.
- 13 -



Hydropower Plants Rehabilitation Component
The lower EIRR of the hydropower plants rehabilitation component at completion was mainly due to lower
gains in capacity and energy as a result of the reduction of the project scope, the revised smaller impact of
improved reliability and availability of the HPPs.
The reduction of the number of the turbines and generators, which were rehabilitated under the project,
resulted in lower net benefits from additional energy output under the project. The original scope envisaged
the upgrade of 23 turbines and generators which represented some 33% of the total energy capability of the
hydropower plants. Only 16 turbines and generators, were actually rehabilitated representing about 18% of
the total energy capability. Had the original number of turbines and generators been rehabilitated, EIRR
would have increased by about 1%.
In addition, at completion, gains in capacity and energy from improved reliability and availability of the
HPPs were lower than expected - at about 0.15 % per year. Had the larger appraisal estimate of 0.4%
annual gains been materialized, EIRR would have increased by about 2%.
System Control and Communications component
The cancellation of the component for govemors of the thermal power plants led to reducing the benefit of
fuel savings from improved frequency regulation to 0.4% of the thermal fuel cost of the UPS, compared
with the estimated 0.9% of such fuel saving at appraisal. This reduction in fuel savings was the main
reason for obtaining a lower EIRR at completion for the System Control and Communications Upgrade
component, despite the effect of new benefits from fiber-optic-based communication services which were
not identified at appraisal.
Environmental benefits from reducing emissions from fossil fuels as a result of additional hydropower
generation under the project were estimated at completion. This has led to higher EIRRs at completion as
follows: Total project: 17.7%, Hydropower Plants Rehabilitation component: 16.2%, and System Control
and Communications Upgrade component: 23.7%.
The original and completion EIRR estimates were based on total project costs. The appraisal and
completion analysis included the cost of the technical assistance and dam safety components without
quantifying any relevant benefits.
4.4 Financial rate of rehirn:
The financial intemal rate of return (FIRR) for DHE's hydropower plants rehabilitation component is
currently estimated at 9.9% (in real terms) which is lower than the appraisal estimate of 13%.
Nevertheless, the FIRR at completion still compares favorably with DHE's cost of capital, 8.5%, reflecting
the cost of borrowing under the project (1.5% on-lending interest rate, plus 7.0% estimated World Bank
rate).
As in the case of the EIRR, the lower FIRR of the hydropower plants rehabilitation component at
completion was also due to lower gains in capacity and energy which altogether resulted in a lower
additional average annual electricity output at completion - 270 GWh/yr, compared with the expected 567
GWh/yr appraisal.
- 14-



Key assumptions for the analysis at appraisal and completion do not differ. The same cost-recovery
principle in tariff formation and the taxation rules relevant to enterprise income were followed at appraisal
and completion. Savings from operation and maintenance costs did not differ significantly.
The FIRR is sensitive to changes in project cost, level of electricity output, and rate of inflation. These
changes can be absorbed under the present tariff mechanism based on cost recovery. Adding US$ 8.8
million equivalent of the Swiss Grant to the project cost (See footnote 3 in Section 4.2), which is 10% of
total DHE's project cost) would require at least an additional average tariff increase of 0.4% per year
during the project life in order to ensure the project's financial sustainability. The estimated level of project
electricity output can be reduced by no more than 1.7% within financial sustainability limits. Any larger
reductions will have to be compensated by commensurate tariff increases. Any changes in rate of inflation
can be also absorbed by corresponding tariff increases.
No FIRR was calculated for NDC (Ukrenergo) at appraisal since the quantified benefits from fuel savings
as a result of more efficient economic dispatch did not accrue to the company, but to the entire power
sector. Nevertheless, at completion, the financial viability of Ukrenergo was assessed on the basis of the
corresponding framework for the company's operations, reflected in the assumptions on tariffs for UE's
services, and the electricity transmitted through UE's high voltage lines. The assumptions regarding
taxation, the expected inflation and exchange rate in subsequent years are the same as those used for DHE.
The FIRR for UE was calculated at 15.9% on a current basis and 13.4% on a real basis which also
compares favorably with UE's cost of capital, 8.5%, the same as the one for DHE. The UE's FIRR is
critically sensitive to even very minor to changes in the tariff for UE's services, and less sensitive to
changes in the amount of electricity transmitted through the UE's lines. (See section 10 for details on FIRR
calculations and sensitivities).
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Background
As the first Bank investment operation in the energy sector of Ukraine, the project was successful. It
complemented the Bank's Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL) and the IMF's Extended Fund Facility
(EFF) mainly in the area of improving cash collections in the power sector.
The original project design depended on progress of sector reforms, and coupled with the requirements for
financial viability of the project implementing agencies, contributed to creating an initial basis for the
pursuit of key elements of the current joint Bank/GoU strategy to improve institutions and governance
through (i) design of a regulatory environment with a level playing field in the energy sector; (ii) creation
and protection of property rights, and (iii) improvement of fiscal and financial discipline, public
accountability and management of social and environmental risks.
- 15 -



Sector level impact
The project was designed and implemented in the context of the first steps to improve management of the
electricity sector through restructuring of the hydropower plants into a joint stock company and
consolidating the regional dispatch centers into a National Dispatch Center, followed by sector unbundling,
establishment of a National Electricity Regulatory Commission and a Wholesale Electricity Market and
privatization of electricity distribution companies to strategic investors. The improved quality of electricity
supply and stability of the power system, achieved under the project, improved the safety of the NPPs and
enhanced Ukraine's possibility for interconnection with neighboring power systems, thus moving the
country closer to EU standards.
Since 2000, efficient government measures to improve collections and restructure arrears in the power
market, in addition to all of the above institutional improvements, further contributed to increasing private
interest in the sector and enhanced the financial stability of the project companies, a key factor for
successful project completion.
Company level impact
The project had a direct beneficial impact on improving corporate govemance of the implementing agencies
by (i) involving them in intemational project management, accounting and procurement practices, (ii)
ensuring transfer of advanced technologies and know-how, and (iii) enhancing national key scientific
research and industrial capacity. In addition, the project covered important social and environmental
aspects of the country's policy priorities by generating additional employrnent and reducing environmental
hazards along the Dnieper basin.
The project helped Dniprohydroenergo and Ukrenergo acquire experience in management and
implementation of projects financed by international financial institutions. The companies' accounting
improved by adopting standards closer to international practices.
Project procurement experience contributed to incorporating sound procurement principles of economy and
efficiency, international competition, transparency, equity and fairness in the national procurement
legislation. Intemational competitive bidding enabled DHE and Ukrenergo to acquire at least cost
equipment which was best suited to the project needs and resulted in transfer of most advanced technology.
Transfer of project know-how was ensured by proper training of Ukrainian experts by suppliers. This
enabled further transfer of knowledge. Inovative technological experience from the project was shared
with the programs of two key engineering institutes in Ukraine which train high caliber experts for the
hydropower industry.
In support of the joint Bank/GoU strategy to ensure employment-generating growth, 10,000 new jobs were
created in the course of project implementation. In addition, amid the economic crisis, project design works
preserved the existence of research and design institutes.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors ou2tside the control of government or implementing agency
Lengthy Parliamentary ratification procedures and an international economic crisis were the main factors
outside the control of the Government, DHE and LJkrenergo which affected project implementation.
-16 -



Inclement weather and spring floods additionally constrained project works on occasion. In this context,
close flank supervision and intensive work of local contractors mitigated adverse impacts on the project and
facilitated the completion of physical works under a tight schedule.
Parliamentary ratification, and respectively the date of effectiveness of the project Loan Agreement,
approved by the Board of the Bank in April 1995, were delayed by more than a year. This postponed
accordingly the start of project implementation. Lengthy and repetitive internal government procedures
also contributed to the delayed approval of the Loan Agreement by Parliament
Economic instability: Intensified economic problems in East Asia and Russia in 1998 destabilized debt
service dynamics in Ukraine by causing yields on Ukrainian T-bills, issued to foreign investors to finance a
large budget deficit, to rise to unsustainable levels. In this regard, the effort to pay off or restructure the
T-bills debt alnost depleted the country's foreign exchange reserves and triggered a severe financial crisis,
which then, among other adverse impacts, brought to a halt payments in the power sector and led to an
interruption of local project financing.
Force-Majeure: On occasion, winter blizzards led to icing and damage of power transmission lines and
related equipment. The unforeseen need to repair these damages imposed an additional strain on the scarce
local project funds and related project works. Longer than usual spring flood periods, when as many
turbine/generator units as possible have to operate, occasionally delayed project rehabilitation schedules
5 2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The main factors subject to government control that critically affected the project were (i) overall
inconsistent economic and reform policies, and (ii) poor payrnent discipline in the electricity sector.
Project implementation was also negatively affected by additional factors subject to government control
such as (i) varying profit tax and VAT regulations; (ii) burdensome customs and export-import rules; (iii)
lack of clear regulations on contract liabilities; (iii) lack of national standards for new project equipmnent
and (iv) the 1998 merger of the of the project implementing agency National Dispatch Center (NDC)
together with the National Power Transmission Company into a new National Power Company Ukrenergo
which also encompassed the establishment of the Wholesale Electricity Market within the new company.
Economic policies and non-payments in the electricity sector: Adverse extemal economic developments
only aggravated persisting domestic economic imbalances caused by a relaxed fiscal stance and weak
financial discipline, particularly in the power sector, in the context of the overall reversal in the
government's drive for economic reforms between 1996 and 2000. As non-paymnents, coupled with barter
and promissory notes (veksels) transactions, continued during this period, scarce collections in
Energomarket were re-allocated primarily to ensure emergency purchase of fuel for the thermal power
plants during the winter, to the detriment of the needs for local project financing. Consequently, the overall
project implementation delay, relative to the initial schedule, rose to about 20 months in early 2000 and
affected primarily turbine/generator rehabilitation and installation of already imported equipment, as these
activities entirely depended on sufficient local financing.
In 2000 the new reform-oriented government undertook active measures to irnprove electricity payments.
The cash collections consequently rose from only 9% in April 2000 to 71% in May 2001 and 90% in May
2002. The concerted govemment's effort to improve electricity payments provided grounds for extending
the loan closing date for another 18 months which allowed for overall achievement of project objectives,
although with delay and reduced scope of rehabilitation works.
- 17 -



Tax legislation: Introduction of an accruals form of accounting for tax calculations in 1997 resulted in
much higher accounting profits and consequently higher profit tax obligations for the power sector
enterprises. This measure was enforced without consideration of the actually low revenues of the power
companies due to non-payments for their output and lack of tax exemptions for their mandatory
contributions to various state funds, unrelated to the companies' activities. In addition, the availability of
local project funds was further constrained by the temporary introduction of VAT (1998 and 2002) on
imported equipment and electricity sales (1999) under the project.
Customs and import-export regulations: Lengthy and complex procedures for customs clearance of
project equipment compressed subsequent installation and commissioning schedules.  Import-export
regulations did not contain provisions for exporting earlier imported project equipment for repairs at the
supplier's site. This limited the possibility for repairs of project equipment under suppliers' contract
guarantees.
Lack of clear stipulations in the national legislation regarding local liabilities of foreign contractors and
suppliers, engaging in project activities in Ukraine, hampered preparation of tenders.
Lack of national standards for project equipment which was new to the country required additional time
for testing and acceptance procedures for such equipment.
Restructuring of the National Dispatch Center and frequent changes of its management. The 1998
merger of the original project implementing agency (the National Dispatch Center) with the National
Transmission Company and the Energomarket (the wholesale electricity market) into a new entity
Ukrenergo seriously constrained the review of the financial performance of the resulting project entity. The
situation improved since 2000 when Energomarket was separated from Ukrenergo. However, further
re-organizations within the sector affected the project implementation schedule. Complex project equipment
had to be contracted and delivered first to the project implementing agency Ukrenergo which then had to
lease it for installation, commissioning and operation to other entities which have remained outside
Ukrenergo's structure. In addition, throughout project implementation until 2000, changes of Ukrenergo's
directors (there have been four directors of Ukrenergo during project implementation) and staff involved in
project implementation adversely affected the project.
5 3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Slow, burdensome and inaccurate intemal procurement review processes within both project agencies
throughout the project, particularly at its beginning, along with seriously delayed project status reporting
from UE during the first half of the project, compounded overall project implementation difficulties. In
addition, some project works were constrained by UE's intemal difficulties to optimally schedule
disconnections of transmission lines to install project equipment.
Nevertheless, the strong ownership and drive for results of DHE's top management and staff at all power
plants throughout the entire project period, along with improved project ownership at UE since 1999, upon
the advent of the company's present management, have altogether compensated for the initial lack of
knowledge of Bank procedures, have mitigated negative external impacts and have ensured overall
successful completion of the project works.
- 18-



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project costs, including interest during construction (Il)C), were about US$141.5 million equivalent,
or 66% of the appraised estimate of US$215.1 million. The difference of US$73.6 million equivalent in
project costs resulted from:
(i)    the reduction of the number of rehabilitated turbine/generator units;
(ii)   the cancellation of the TPP governors sub-component,
(iii)  and generally lower than estimated local costs of the System Control component.
In addition, actual interest paid during construction was lower than estimated due to cancellation of unused
Bank funds.
The above reductions of costs have outweighed increases in the cost of installing dam safety equipment per
km of dam, the cost of higher volume of local works related to a turbine/generator unit along with the
increase in contract values because of additional project quantities of fiber-optic cable, switchgear, system
control and monitoring equipment and extended technical assistance.
The brunt of the project financing was based on a 17-year IBRD loan with a 5-year grace period and a
level repayment pattern. Seventy two percent -US$ 82 million- of the original amount of US$ 114 million
of the Bank loan was used. The Canadian Government more than doubled the funds for the project-related
consulting services which were extended to cover additional needs for such services as a result of the
almost one year delay in the start of project implementation due to late Parliamentary ratification of the
Loan Agreement. The grant from the Swiss government in the amount of CBP13.7 million was used for
the supply and installation of high voltage (HW) equipment at the hydropower plants. The US$ 0.6 million
grant from the Norwegian government was used for a study on the management of the reservoirs on the
Dnieper River.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The benefits from the project are sustainable in view of the improvements in the power system's efficiency,
stability and safety, the system's enhanced possibility for interconnections with the neighboring systems,
achieved in the context of macro-economic improvements, coupled with positive trends in the overall
business environment, sector privatization, improving cash collections, debt restructuring and GoU's
continuing commitment to further sector reforms with active support from donors and international
financial institutions.
Continued adequate financial discipline in the sector remains a critical factor for ensuring project
sustainability. Current competition among thermal generators, their expected privatization and the
continued process of divesting electricity distribution companies are expected to enhance overall
performance of the power sector through attracting new investments.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
DHE and UE will continue the work to (i) ensure proper financing of their operations; (ii) integrate
completely the project equipment in their systems; (iii) draft internal regulations for equipment operations
and maintenance and train relevant staff accordingly; (iv) ensure arrangements with suppliers for proper
servicing of the project equipment beyond the contract guarantee period, and (v) monitor key physical and
financial performance indicators.
- 19 -



DHE and UE will also pursue improvements in their financial management and accounting practices based
on the auditors' recommendations received during project implementation. Both companies will continue
training staff to improve preparation of their consolidated financial statements based on National
Accounting Standards (NAS) format, will work on introducing proper registry and software systems along
with streamlining their tax records and tax payments forecasts. (See details on transition arrangements in
Section 10, paragraph V)
UE has estimated that the project impact on the entire power system will be fully felt in about 5-10 years in
view of the large size of the system and the additional time needed to fully integrate the project equipment
into overall system operations. The project rehabilitation improvements in terns of hydropower plants'
efficiency, capacity and oil leakages have been already assessed, although it will take more time to
completely materialize the benefits of better cascade operations as a result of improved system control and
monitoring.
Dniprohydroenergo and Ukrenergo are satisfied with the results achieved under the project, which in
addition to responding to the needs for upgrading dispatch, communications, and system control, also
covered about 20% of the rehabilitation needs of the Dnieper cascade equipment. Further support to the
remaining rehabilitation works at the hydropower plants will enhance the benefits to the power system
provided (i) the Government's overall reform efforts remain on track; (ii) proper financial discipline in the
sector is consistently maintained, and (iii) completion of the hydropower plants rehabilitation, and further
dam safety improvement remain a Government's prionty.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Identification
The Bank's performance in project identification was satisfactory. The project was identified in line with
the Bank's country assistance strategy which responded to a far-reaching reform program advanced by the
Govemment in 1994-1996. The Bank carried out an Energy Sector Review to assist the Govermment in
crafting its strategy for the energy sector. The Bank also agreed with the Govemment and other
international donors that power generation was an area in which the Bank's support could make a notable
difference. In this context, the Hydropower Rehabilitation and System Control Project was proposed in
consideration of the Bank's comparative advantage in the sector. An earlier Power Demand and Supply
Options study of 1993 (report No.1 1561-UA) indicated that the rehabilitation of thermal and hydropower
plants was likely to result in the most significant net benefits for the power system. The priority of
reforming and upgrading the power sector was clearly outlined in the Government's strategy. The Bank
provided critical investment to the power industry along with donors' co-financing in a crucial period of the
country's transition from a centrally planned to a market economy. At the same time, the Bank also
initiated the coordination of the donors' technical assistance to implement the Government's energy sector
strategy, which was conducive to a proper enabling environment for this investment operation.
-20-



Preparation assistance
The Bank's performance in project preparation was satisfactory. The Ukrainian counterparts benefited
from early Bank involvement in the preparation process soon after project identification. The Bank
undertook appropriate coordination with donors and Ukrainian counterparts. Feasibility studies were
carried out to prioritize the Government's hydropower rehabilitation programs and analyze the
rehabilitation needs of system-wide control and dispatch facilities. The studies were carried out by
consultants financed by trust funds of the governments of the Netherlands and Switzerland under the
supervision of the Ministry of Energy. The project investment activities were linked with specific policy
measures regarding tariffs and arrears in connection with the project entities.
Appraisal
The Bank's performance at appraisal was satisfactory. The Bank's appraisal team included experts with a
comprehensive skill mix. The Government's and implementing agencies' commitment to the project was
analyzed. Major risks related to pricing and non-payments were addressed through relevant conditions of
effectiveness and loan covenants. The political risk of reversing sector reforms was also outlined.
Capitalizing on the lesson learned from the first Bank project in Ukraine about the importance of technical
assistance (TA), technical assistance from the Govemments of Canada, Norway and Switzerland was
incorporated in the project scope to complement rehabilitation and water management activities and
compensate for the Borrower's insufficient experience with procurement and project management. All
relevant safeguard policies were reviewed and discussed within the Bank and with the Government.
Continuity from identification through appraisal was good. Important project benefits were outlined and
the goal of achieving and preserving them served as a key incentive for the implementing agencies and the
Government to pursue project sustainability.
The loan amount was commensurate with the project scope.
The performance indicators were designed to ensure adequate monitoring and reporting of project
implementation progress. The institutional and commercial conditions of installing governors at the TPPs
could have been assessed in greater detail in order to ensure that the system is ready for such investmnent
and avoid cancellation of this sub-component. On the other hand, the project was brealing new grounds as
the first Bank investment operation in Ukraine.
7.2 Supervision.
The Bank's performance during supervision was satisfactory in terms of (i) ensuring regularity of
supervision missions and adequate skill-mix of Bank staff; (ii) providing timely responses to project issues
and involving management when called for by the complexity of the project matters; (iv) actively involving
the field office in maintaining close working contacts with the local project counterparts; (v) applying
realistic project performance ratings.
-21 -



The skill-mix and frequency of missions was aligned with the needs of implementation and responsiveness
to the issues as they emerged. Close supervision and interaction with the Ukrainian counterparts facilitated
constructive agreements on amending contracts, loan covenants and project scope in response to evolving
company needs, changes in sector structure and adverse external impacts. This approach prevented project
cancellation, and later allowed the extension of the loan closing date by 18 months to ultimately achieve
project objectives, although with delay and reduced physical scope of some components.
In addition, close and regular supervision enabled the Bank to take a pro-active stance and follow up on
cases of serious noncompliance with Bank requirements, and even issue a threat to suspend the UE's
component when the company continuously failed to present a mid-term progress report and an updated
implementation plan. The Bank's proactivity continued throughout the project through regularly following
up on key agreements on project financing, audits and completing project works under a realistic time
schedule.
Performance ratings were realistic and when required, "unsatisfactory" and "high risk" flags alerted sector
and country management about critical problems with project implementation and facilitated constructive
discussion to find solutions.
The Bank went to great lengths to ensure high quality advice to the Borrower. A world class dam safety
expert assisted DHE in implementing current Bank safeguards on dam safety and solving difficult and
unique dam safety issues related to some of the major and the longest dams in the world along the Dnieper
cascade.
The Bank developed a very good working relationship with the management and staff of the implementing
agencies during supervision missions, site visits, and regular follow-up communications.  A good
interaction was also developed with the National Electricity Regulatory Commission, Energomarket
administration and the Ministry of Finance to ensure proper project financing. The Bank also maintained
close contacts on project-related issues with the Ministry of Fuel and Energy despite frequent changes in
the Ministry's leadership.
The Bank should have been more proactive in guiding DHE about formally closing the process of selection
of project management consultants.  Although the changes in project scope and the uncertainties
surrounding the closing date of the project during the second half of 2000 may have made the intended TA
inappropriate and unnecessary after the selection was initiated, the process could have been terminated
earlier.
7.3 Ot'erall Bankperformance:
In view of the above assessments, overall Bank performance was satisfactory throughout the project cycle.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during project preparation is assessed as satisfactory. The Borrower
demonstrated a high level of commitment and responsibility during project preparation since the
Government assigned high priority to improving electricity supply as a main prerequisite for modemizing
the country's industry. Rehabilitation of the HPPs on Dnieper cascade was considered a key factor for
improving electricity supply in view of the important role of the HPPs in regulating frequency of the power
system. In this context, there was close cooperation during preparation between the Government and the
- 22 -



Bank. The earlier work on preparing a comprehensive Government strategy for the energy sector ensured
that the project was appropriate to Ukraine's needs.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is assessed as satisfactory since the project objectives
were ultimately achieved with critical Government support, despite the deep financial crisis suffered during
project implementation. The low level of payment collections in the power sector -the key constraint to
project implementation-- was overcome as a result of the Government's decisive measures aimed at
financial recovery through elimination of barter and promissory note transactions, enforcing disconnections
of delinquent electricity consumers along with other measures conducive to improving cash payments in the
sector. In addition, the Government and the National Electricity Regulatory Commission adopted specific
measures to ensure sufficient allocation of local funds to the project companies through Energomarket's
funds distribution mechanism. The Government's effort to enhance economic growth and continue energy
reforms within a broad program to improve institutions and govemance in the economy, with support from
the Bank and donors, provided a framework which facilitated satisfactory completion of the project works.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies is rated as satisfactory because they managed to complete
the revised scope of project works agreed with the Bank within the extended loan closing date.
Both DBE and UE suffered the adverse influence of a deep financial crisis in the sector which paralyzed
implementation of the DHE's component for more than six months and delayed for more than 20 months
the installation of some equipment under UE's component.
Despite the extemal difficulties, DHE demonstrated strong commitment and ownership with respect to the
project throughout the entire preparation and implementation periods. The company did its best to ensure
that all possible actions within the scope of its capacity and authority were undertaken to enable project
completion, including provision of adequate management and staffing. Interaction with Bank and
Government counterparts on project issues was active and contributed to finding solutions to problems.
Project reporting and audit compliance were adequate except for delays at the initial stage due to lack of
knowledge of Bank procedures.
NDC/UE's audits suffered delays due to irreconcilable discrepancies of accounts caused by the temporary
inclusion of Energomarket in the structure of the project agency. . UE's management was less persistent at
the early stage of the project in exploring all possible means to mitigate the impact of the external financial
crisis on project implementation.
UE's project staff had the necessary skills and experience which contributed to the final successful project
completion.
- 23 -



DHE and UE managed to comply with the agreed self financing ratio only after 2000 as a result of the
improved cash collections and local financing for the project. The companies did not incur any other major
debts except for the borrowing from the World Bank. This ensured compliance with the relevant project
covenant not to incur debt unless a reasonable forecast of the beneficiaries' revenues and expenditures
indicates an agreed debt service ratio throughout the term of the debt.
Both companies, and especially Dniprohydroenergo, had certain problems in conducting procurement
efficiently throughout the project, particularly during the early stages of project implementation. In a
number of cases there were significant delays in concluding procurement due to protracted or improper
evaluation of bids, vagueness in technical specifications, etc. Subsequently, these deficiencies were
corrected -- with significant involvement of Bank staff, - and did not result in violation of procurement
policies and procedures, except the case of not properly closing the consultant selection process at DHE.
These deficiencies did adversely impact on the project schedule. Despite this setback, DHE management
and current UE management did not spare efforts to coordinate the complex project works in a largely
successful manner.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
In view of the above assessments, overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Assessment of the Government's long term commitment and ability to carry out reforms is a key aspect of
analyzing overall project sustainability. It is important to have a reform-oriented government not only
during project preparation, but throughout the entire project cycle as well. The experience in Ukraine has
shown that a reversal of the initially progressive course of economic reforns has adversely affected the
implementation of the Bank's investment project
Ensuring the enabling environment for a large scope investment operation is a critical success factorfor
the operation: The experience in Ukraine has shown that initial government commitment to provide such
an environment through comprehensive reforms requires sustained support from the international financial
institutions and bilateral donors throughout the entire reform process. In this context, cross-sector
adjustment operations have led to most tangible results on the ground. Although during project preparation
the Government indicated that improving financial discipline in the energy sector was a priority of its
reform program, and the project itself generated specific pressure on the Government to deliver in this
regard, cash collections reached their highest levels only when included as specific targets in the IMF's
Extended Fund Facility Program and the Bank's Programmatic Adjustment Loan.
Donor coordination and "distribution of labor" in project finance has allowed to exploit the comparative
advantages of each of the donors' contributions. Thus, the Bank's experience in power sector rehabilitation
has been complemented by Canada's support with technical assistance in project management, Norway's
support in reservoir management and Switzerland's supply and installation of switchgear equipment The
governments of the Netherlands and Switzerland have generously contributed to the preparation of the
project feasibility studies. The donors' working group on energy sector reforrns has provided valuable
assistance to the Government's sector reform efforts.
-24-



Very good technical skills, strong project ownership and commitment to results on the side of the project
beneficiaries have been critical success factors. Such ownership and commitment have partially mitigated
the adverse impacts of the financial crisis, the initial lack of experience with the Bank's project cycle, and
have provided the Bank with grounds for extending the closing date to ensure successful project
completion.
Flexibility and adaptation to changes in the project environment helped the Bank and the Borrower
overcome adverse external impacts and achieve the project development objectives. The Bank's flexible
approach to the Borrower's request to reasonably reduce the physical scope of some project components,
adjust loan covenants, amend contracts and extend the loan closing date in response to changes in the
power sector and the entire economy have ultimately preserved the project benefits and ensured
achievement of the development objectives.
Conclusions:
(i) The first phase of the rehabilitation of the hydropower plants of the Dnieper cascade and the upgrade of
the system control of the UPS have been successfully completed.
(ii) The installation of a computerized dam monitoring system at Kiev HPP, at the head of the Dnieper
cascade, enhanced the safety of the entire cascade which is situated along densely populated and
industrialized areas. The installation of new ecologically safe turbines with adjustable blades eliminated
leakages of lubricating oil from these turbines into the Dnieper River, thus contributing to overall
improvement of the quality of the river water shared for multiple purposes by numerous household, urban,
industrial and agricultural users along the Dnieper basin.
(iii) The turbine/generator rehabilitation led to improved efficiency and increased capacity of the
hydropower plants. This, coupled with the installation of system control and monitoring equipment and
specialized TA, improved hydropower plants maneuverability, management of the Dnieper reservoirs and
overall power system regulation.
(iv) Improved load and frequency control enhanced the quality of electricity supply. This improved the
UPS capacity for interconnections with neighboring power systems and brought the UPS performnance
closer to relevant EU standards.
(v) Important social issues were addressed by opening new job opportunities during project implementation.
Know-how was transferred from foreign suppliers to project beneficiaries. Local research and development
capacity was enhanced during project preparation and implementation.
(vi) The overall project and its two main components, hydropower rehabilitation and system control
upgrade, are sustainable. In addition, benefits from improved safety and environmental performance of the
power system significantly enhance project sustainability.
(vii) Completion of the remaining hydropower rehabilitation works will bring further benefits to the power
system provided the Government's overall reform efforts remain on track and adequate financial discipline
is maintained in the power sector.
- 25 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments from the Borrower, implementing agencies and donors were as follows:
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND EUROPEAN INTEGRATION OF UIKRAINE
12/2 M. Hrushevskyi St, Kyiv 01008 Ukraine
Tel: 293-93-94, fax: 226-31-81;  www.me.gov.ua        E-mail: meconomy@me.gov.ua
Mr. Luca Barbone                                                           December 5,
2002
Country Director
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova
Europe and Central Asia Region
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Barbone:
The Ministry of Economy and European Integration of Ukraine has examined the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) for the Hydropower Rehabilitation and System Control Project prepared by the
World Bank and approves it in the whole.
As evidenced by the materials presented in the report, the result of project implementation is
assessed as satisfactory. The goals envisaged by the project have been achieved, although with some delays
and reduced physical volume under some components.
Under conditions of the reduced amnount of work, an additional total capacity of 88.1 MW was
achieved under the project as compared to 130 MW, which was planned with the initial full amount of
work.
On completion of the project, the economic gains proved to be stable, although smaller than
planned at the appraisal stage due to reduced gains as a result of the decreased project volume. Based on
the results of project implementation, the lower than calculated rate of return under the hydropower station
rehabilitation component is explained by the lesser volumes of increased capacities and additionally
generated electricity due to reduced amounts of work under the project, lesser gains from the increased
reliability and available capacities of hydropower stations, and by the revision of the system load forecast.
As a result of project implementation, the efficiency of the rehabilitated turbines of the Kyiv,
Kakhovka and DniproHES-1 hydropower stations has increased by 4.3%, 4.1% and 4.2% and constitutes
91.8%, 83% and 92.2%, respectively.
The total expenditures under the project, including the percentage paid during the construction
period, amounted to nearly $141.5 million (or 66% of the calculated sum that constituted $215.1 million).
The difference totaling $73.6 million was the result of:
- 26 -



a)    reduced number of rehabilitated turbines/generators;
b)     cancellation of the subcomponent of installing governors on thermal power plants, and
c)    lower than planned local expenditures.
In addition, the actual percentage paid during the construction period was lower than planned due
to the withdrawal of undisbursed funds of the Bank. As regards financing, 72% of the initial sum of the
World Bank loan was used and $82 million was disbursed out of $114 million.
The report further notes that the proper financial discipline to be maintained in the future continues
to be an extremely important factor in ensuring the viability of the project results. The existing competition
among the thermal power enterprises, their expected privatization, and continued privatization of
oblenergos are to facilitate the general improvement of the power sector performance by attracting
additional investments to it.
The financial rate of return and internal economic rate of return in rehabilitating the
Dniprohidroenergo hydropower station (up to 2031) and the financial rate of return of Ukrenergo (up to
2020) are deternined in the annexes to the report.
In summing up the material presented in the report, it should be noted that at the appraisal stage,
the matunty of the project loan was 17 years, including the 1995 to 2002 period during which the project
was implemented, with the loan and interest on it to be repaid from 2000 to 2012.
Therefore, it would be appropriate to supplement the report with a mechanism of loan and interest
repayment to the World Bank providing for more precise terms and schedules of loan redemption. In doing
so, the actual fulfillment of the schedule of loan and interest repayment should be shown as of December 1,
2002, as well as the expected loan redemption for 2003. Problems should also be outlined that arise, as the
World Bank sees them, in connection with the loan repayment. In our view, concrete reasons for the
general decrease in the amount of project works should also be noted in the report.
In addition, we would like to stress that given the results achieved and taking into account the
shortcomings that occurred during the carrying out of the above-referenced project, the implementation of
the second phase of the project associated with the rehabilitation of hydropower stations will bring further
benefits to Ukraine's power system.
Sincerely,
(signature)
L. Musina
Translated by V Ivchenko                        Deputy State Secretary
Response to the recommendations from the Ministry of Economy and European Integration of
Ukraine:
Comment 1: Supplement the report with a mechanism of loan and interest repayment to the World
Bank providing for more precise terms and schedules of loan redemption. In doing so, the actual
fulfillment of the schedule of loan and interest repayment should be shown as of December 1, 2002, as
well as the expected loan redemption for 2003.
Attached below are Amortization Schedule and Statement of Account for Loan 38650 UA for the
Hydropower Rehabilitation and System Control Project. The interest rate is applied to the principal
- 27-



amount outstanding. For more details on this matter please refer to the World Bank Debt Servicing
Handbook for Borrowers which can be made available to the Ministry through the World Bank Country
Office in Kiev. In addition, Mr. Oliver Rajakaruna, Loan Accounting Officer, can be reached for
consultations  on  issues  related  to loan  repayment at 202473-4326, e-mail address:
Orajakaruna@worldbank.org
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Run Date   11-DEC-2002                AMORTIATION SCHEDULE        Report Id:      RDM900
Rtun Tinle  12 50:16 PM               (AmLounts in USC }            Page:
Country  UKRAINE                                         Loan Number     IBRD 38650
Borrower MINISTRY OF FINANCE                           Original Amount  1114,000,000.00
First Matunty 1-AUG-2000                                    Cancellatlions  31,494.629.79
Last Malurity 1-FEB-2012
Maturity         Original          Cancellations/     Prepayments           Revised
Date          Maturity             Tmsfers                                Maturity
1-AUG-2000      4,750,000.00               0.00                 0.00       4,750,00.C
1-FEB-2001      4,750,000.00              0.00                 0.00        4,750,000.C
1-AUG-2001      4,750.000.00        (643,700.00)                0.00       4,106.300.C
1-FEB-2002      4,750,000.00        (643,700 00)               0.00        4,1061300 (
1-AUG-2002      4,750,000.00       (1,395,500.00)               0.00        3,354,500.(
1-FES-2003      4,750,000.00       (1,516,60000)               0.00        3,233,4W.C
I-AUG-2003      4,750,000.00       (1,516,600.00)               0.00       3,233,400.(
1-FEB-2004      4,750,000.00       (1,516,600.001              0.00        3,233,400.(
1-AUG-2004      4,750,000.00       (1,516,60000)                0 00        3,233,400 (
1-FEB-2005      4,750,000 00       (1,516,600.00)              0 00        3,233,400.(
1-AUG-2005      4,750,00000       (1,516,600.00)               0.00        3,233,400.(
1-FEB-2006      4,750,000.00       (1,516,600m)                0.00        3,233,400 (
1-AUG-2306      4,750,000 00       (1,516,600.00)               0.00        3,233,400X
1-FEB-2007      4,750,000.00       (1,51.6,600 00)             0.00        3,233,400 (
1-AUG-2W07      4,750,000.00       (1,51.6,600.00)              0.00        3,233,400.(
1-FEB-2008      4,750,000-00       (1,516,600.00)               0.00       3,233,400.(
1-AUG-2008      4,750,000.00       (1,5T6600=00)                0.00        3,233,400 C
1-FEB-2099      4,750,000 00       (1,516,600.00)              0 00        3,233,400.(
1-AUG-2009      4,750,000.00       (1,516,600.00)               0.00        3,233,400.(
I-FEB-2010      4,750,000.00       (1,516,600.00)              0.00        3,233,400 C
I-AUG-2D10      4,750,00000        (1,516,600.00)               0,00        3,233,400.
1-FEB-2011      4,750,000.00       (1,516,600.00)              0.00        3,233.400.(
1-AUG-2011      4,750,000.00       (1,51i6,600 00)              0.00        3,233,400 C
1-FEB-2012      4,750,000 00       (1,512,929.79)              0 00        3,237,C070C
TOTALS:        114,0U00,0000       (31.494.629.79)              0.00       82,505X,3m.
i'YUtt. rut r-' 1vue IUdlbI ,tu IItUILa triI tiigI dI LIIUIl I IOdfI altI Ili4UUD dInv LiIdrUU  ;dtl.tU
- 28-



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT
As of 30-Nov-2002
Loan No 38650 UA
Borrower                 UKRAINE                                          Cuirency of Commiment         iUSO
Guarantol                                                                 Oignmal Principat             1140001(
Interest Rate            S.02                                             Cancellation                   31 494
Commitmone  Rate         0 26                                               sbursed'                     825135
Matuity Dates            1-Aug-2000, 1-Feb-2012                           Recalted/Prepatd               21.067
Paynmenr Dates           Aug 01, Feb 01                                   Unwithctrawn Balance
Pool/Ird Units       Unit Vatue     Ccy            Amount     Histokcal USD Eq
Principal
Outstanding               4.824.68358425   12,629.5787740070  USD       61.0S0.017.17      61.438,270.21
Interest
Accued                   81 101687863556   12,629 5787740070  IJSD       1,024,345 71
Commitment
Accrued                                                      IJSD             781 44
Credit Balances                                                EUR            98.148.01
Note
1 Pnncipal outstanding amount is shown in US$ currency, even though the actual currency obligation is composed of the loans share of the currencies
in the Pool Central Disbursement Account
2 Accrued interest amounts do not include the effect of the partial waiver of loan charges, which may be apphed at the time of loan bllimg.
I I-Dec-2002
LOAN ACCOUNTING & BORROWER
SERVICES DIVISION
Comment 2: Problems should also be outlined that arise, as the World Bank sees them, in connection
with the loan repayment
The main problem for the repayment of the World Bank loan by the project beneficiaries
Dniprohydroenergo (DHE) and Ukrenergo (UE) can arise in case of deterioration of the payments
collections in the power sector. This could result in reduction of the Energomarket's allocations to DHE
and UE. Therefore, continued adequate financial discipline in the sector remains a critical factor for
ensuring project sustainability, including loan repayment.
In this context, it is important that the ongoing measures to improve collections are maintained together
with the commitment of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) and Energomarket to
maintain sufficient payments to DHE and UE. The latter implies that (i) the algorithm for allocating
Energomarket's payments will not be changed to adversely affect payments to DHE and UE; and
-29-



(ii) if factors outside the control of Energomarket's participants or National Electricity Regulatory
Commission- such as hydrology or system demand - were to change in a way which would result in
reduced payments to DHE and UE, the payments would be adjusted to meet project needs either through
increase in DHE/UE tariffs, or through the allocation algorithm.
Comment 3: Concrete reasons for the general decrease in the amount of project works should also be
noted in the report.
The original project works were reduced mainly in terms of (i) reducing the number of the turbines and
generators subject to rehabilitation and (ii) canceling a sub-component for upgrading the governors of the
generation units of the thermal power plants.
Reduction of rehabilitated turbines and generators
Non-payments in the energy sector continued from 1996 until 2000. In addition, scarce collections in
Energomarket were re-allocated primarily to ensure emergency purchase of fuel for the thermal power
plants during the winter, to the detriment of the needs for local project financing. Such practices led to
Dniprohydroenergo and Ukrenergo not receiving sufficient payments from the Energomarket. Therefore
the project beneficiaries, and Dniprohydroenergo in particular, were unable to pay for critical project works
performed by local contractors. Thus, Turboatom, a major local contractor for the turbine and generator
rehabilitation under the project, discontinued rehabilitation works from November 1999 until May 2000.
Overall project implementation delay, relative to the initial schedule rose to 20 months in early 2000. In
this context the Bank and DHE agreed to reduce local financing requirements by reducing the number of
turbines and generators subject to rehabilitation. Thus out of 23 turbines and 37 generators, originally
planned for rehabilitation, a total of 16 turbines and generators were rehabilitated at project completion.
Cancellation of a sub-component for upgrading the governors of the generation units of the
thermal power plants
The Ukrenergo's component for upgrade of frequency regulation, dispatch and system control included
originally a sub-component for upgrading the governors of the generation units of the thermal power plants.
This activity was designed to improve the capability of the power system to regulate frequency. However,
this sub-component was canceled due to (i) lack of financial incentives for the thermal plants to participate
in load frequency regulation, since payments for this service were not recognized by the electricity market;
(ii) the requirement for the plants to finance local costs associated with installing new governors, while the
plants lacked such funds due to non-payments in the electricity market; (iii) the status of the plants as
independent legal entities, which hampered the management of this project sub-component outside the
structure of the implementing agency Ukrenergo; (iv) the unique water technology of the governors, not
supported by manufacturers outside the former Soviet Union; (v) physical ware-and-tear of the thermal
generators and the auxiliary TPP equipment together with outdated boiler automation called for much
larger investments than expected.
- 30-



(Unofficial translation)
MINISTRY OF FUEL AND ENERGY OF UKRAINE
30 Khreshchatik str., Kyiv, 01601
tel. 221 4333, fax: 462 0561, E-mail: kanc@mintop.energy.gov.ua
Mr. Luca Barbone
Director
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova
Europe and Central Asia Region
World Bank
RE: Comments on the Draft Implementation Completion Report -
Hydropower Rehabilitation and System Control Project
Dear Mr. Barbone,
Thank you very much for the attention the World Bank pays to the development of energy sector. I
hope that you share my opinion that the successful implementation of the joint Hydropower Rehabilitation
and System Control Project is a bright evidence of our fruitful cooperation.
We fully recognize the valuable efforts the Bank made to support the project and meet the outlined
objectives in a timely manner, despite of serious obstacles during the whole period of project's
implementation. We would like to thank you in person, Mr. Barbone, as well as the Bank's project team for
cooperation and constructive work.
Implementation of this project was an important stage for Ukraine in power sector development.
And not only since this project was the first large-scale investment project at the sector, while the first step
is usually uncertain and doubtful. But since the successful completion of the project confirmed that
Ukraine is able to perform as a reliable partner in meeting its intemational commitments, and has a
powerful economical, technical and highly-qualified staff capacity for implementation economic reforms,
outlined by the Govemment for improving the social status of Ukrainian citizens.
We are thankful to the Bank's specialists for making the detailed analysis of project
implementation outcomes and clear forming of positive and negative aspects of project institutions activity.
We are very pleased to know that the Report's conclusions demonstrate the significant positive impact of
the project to the enhancement of energy system performance and improvement of technical and
environmental indicators of hydropower plants.
The Ministry of Fuel and Energy does not have comments on the Report in general. However, we could not
fully agree on some sections, where the Bank's conclusions are based on the power sector development
indicators, taken from the Stone & Webster's report (pages 18, 62, 72, 75). Taking into consideration that
the above work was not presented at the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and forecast indicators used there for
planning are completely different to the indicators, on which the main forecast calculations of the Ministry
are based, their use needs additional discussion and agreement.
- 31 -



In addition, page 19 mentions that key assumptions for the analysis at assessment and completion
stages do not differ at the part of taxation rules. Meanwhile, during the preparation of SAR, the existing
legislation of Ukraine envisaged preferential taxation for goods/services, funded by international loans,
provided under ratified intemational agreements. As you are aware of, during the project implementation
these preferences were canceled. Thus, we propose in para 2 after the words " and the taxation rules" add
the words "in the part of the taxation of enterprises income."
Let me thank once again for the opportunity to review the draft ICR. I would also like to express
my hopes that the reached outcomes of the first stage of the Dnieper cascade HPP rehabilitation, which is a
component of this project, is a significant background for continuing of our common cooperation in
completing the rehabilitation of the rest of Dnieper hydro power plants.
Sincerely,
Minister                   (signed)              S. Yemilov
Response to the recommendations from the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of UJkraine
The Ministry has indicated that the forecast indicators for system planning, used for the project economic
analysis in the ICR need additional discussion and agreement. The ICR analysis is based on the findings of
the Stone & Webster (S&W) study of 2001, commissioned by the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development. This is the most recent least-cost generation expansion plan developed in accordance with
standards acceptable to the Bank. The least cost generation expansion plan was used to determine the
economic benefits from the additional hydropower generation capacity obtained as a result of the
turbine/generator rehabilitation under the project
It is very important to note that according to the ICR economic analysis the benefits from this additional
hydro-generation capacity represent only 21% of the total value of the benefits from the hydropower plants
rehabilitation and do not have a critical importance for ensuring the overall economic viability of the
rehabilitation works. Far more important are the benefits from additional energy generated with the project
which contribute to 71% of the total value of the rehabilitation benefits. The remaining 8% of the
hydropower rehabilitation benefits are attributed to O&M savings. (See table 3 on Summary results of the
economic analysis of the HPPs rehabilitation in Annex 3 of the ICR.)
The sensitivity analysis in the ICR has also concluded that even without capacity benefits the outcome of
the hydropower rehabilitation remains viable -with a positive NPV and EIRR higher than the 10% discount
rate. (See tables 7 and 7.1 on Sensitivity analysis in Annex 3 of the ICR.).
With the current lower load growth used in the S&W study, the S&W study indicated that the existing
system would be technically sufficient to meet peak demand until 2007 and that rehabilitation of existing
thermal power plants was an optimal way to help meet peak demand until 2010. In this context, the
additional hydro capacity as a result of the project was conservatively assigned value for operations
starting in 2012 when additional peaking capacity would probably be required.
The comments from the Ministry of Fuel and Energy suggest that in the Ministry's view additional peaking
capacity is needed much earlier than 2012. Dniprohydroenergo has indicated the need of additional
- 32 -



operational peaking capacity even at present. In this context, and in view of the real constraints of the
thermal power plants to currently provide sufficient peaking capacity because of equipment wear and tear
and lack of good quality fuel, the finalized ICR indicates that the additional hydro capacity from the project
could be assigned value for operations earlier in the project life, assuming also somewhat higher load as
well. Under such a more opfimistic scenario, similar to the one in the SAR, EIRR could increase by about
another 1.5%. (See section on SAR comparison in detail, point 3 on Load forecast in Annex 3 of the ICR).
(Unofficial translation)
MINISTRY OF FINANCE OF UKRAINE
12/2 Hrushevsky str., Kyiv, 01008, Ukraine
tel. 293 7466, fax: 293 8243, E-mail: infomf@minfin.gov.ua
December 11, 2001
# 074-321/015/581
World Bank Country Office in Ukraine
RE:: Ukraine - Hydropower Rehabilitation and System Control Project -
Draft Implementation Completion Report
The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine reviewed the draft Implementation Completion Report for
the Hydropower Rehabilitation and System Control Project and informs that it has no comments and
proposals for the above-mentioned draft report.
Head of State Debts Department       (signed)            V.Vysotsky
- 33 -



DNIPROHYDROENERGO
To         World Bank
Washington D.C.
USA
Atten.    Mr. N.Nikolov
Subject  "Partners' remarks"
Section 9 "Partners' remarks" World Bank "Implementation Completion Report"
DniproHydroEnergo and its Ukrainian partners (manufacturers of main water-power, hydraulic-mechanical
and transforming equipment, designing, mounting and commissioning enterprises) highly estimate the
process and the results of implementing stage 1 of Dnipro Cascade HPPs reconstruction, the absolute
necessity of which was proved cooperatively by the World Bank and Ukrainian specialists. The grounds are
the following:
Dnipro Cascade HPPs play a special role in Ukrainian economics, providing daily load curve peak zone
covering, generating the cheapest and ecologically clean energy. Being highly maneuverable, they solve
emergency reserve of frequency regulation issue and power flows issue in the power system of Ukraine,
which is very important when we take into account the existing structure of generating capacities.
Dnipro reservoirs of multiple utilization solve such important issues as discharges regulation during flood
periods, drinking and industrial water provision, transportation, dry southem country regions watering, fish
industry problems and others.
The overall length of Dnipro river HPPs' hydraulic constructions is more than 100 km. On Cascade HPPs
safety depend about 30 million persons lives.
Allowing for all these factors, HPPs safety, reliability and operational efficiency provision is one of the
most important and priority targets. This is especially important when we take into account the fact that
HPPs operation time is: 30 years for the youngest one HPP, Kaniv HPP, and Dnipro HPP constructed 70
years ago has been in operation already for 50 years after its rebuilding. HPPs equipment is physically
wom-out and morally outaged, requires reconstruction or replacement with simultaneous production
technology upgrade.
Thus, successfully implemented 1st stage of Dnipro river HPPs rehabilitation is a technically indispensable
and economically reasonable process of renovating mobile generating hydropower capacities of Ukraine.
The scope of the 1st stage of the project included a complex of works (including 16 units turbines and
generators reconstruction) at Kyiv HPP (about 50% of equipment), at Dnipro-1 HPP (about 70% of
equipment) and at Kakhovka BPP (about 20% of equipment). At other company HPPs in the process of the
1st stage of project implementation there has been performed a huge amount of works such as
reconstruction of excitation, governing, control, monitoring and diagnostic systems and substation
equipment. Besides that there have been performed unique works on 2 blocks (8 hydrounits) of Kyiv HPP
for transition to generator voltage 6,3 kV, and new power transformers have been installed.
Computer-aided safety monitoring system has been introduced at Kyiv HPP.
- 34 -



All this allowed getting additional output and peak capacity, HPPs operational reliability increase,
operational expenses decrease, ecological situation in Dnipro river improvement by eliminating turbine oil
leakages into the water on reconstructed units, personnel working conditions qualitative change, a complex
of social problems solving, first of all, by maintaining hydro-turbines and hydro-generators manufacturing
at the two biggest Ukrainian plants, and also by providing working places for design institutes,
construction, erection and commissioning enterprises.
It is evident that the 1st stage of project implementation became possible thanks to the World Bank
financial participation and comprehensive active professional assistance provided by Project coordinators
and Bank specialists. To our opinion, it was this cooperation that allowed us successful implementation of
the I st stage of such a difficult and unique project.
DniproHydroEnergo would like to express its gratitude to the World Bank for active participation in
solving such an important state issue. We are thankful for effective cooperation, mutual understanding to
the World Bank Mission participants who provided direct assistance in technical and administrative issues
and in very difficult financing problems solution.
DniproHydroEnergo and all its Ukrainian counterparts who participated in this important project highly
estimate the results that were reached not only from the point if view of achieved additional economical,
technical and social benefits, but also as a unique possibility of successful application of rules and
standards of intemational technical, commercial, financial and trade cooperation with international
financial organizations and equipment manufacturers. Gained experience of performing a complex
reconstruction simultaneously at eight operating HPPs with the condition of all industrial and economical
mdicators fulfillment engaging many Ukrainian and foreign firms is in a way DniproHydroEnergo's
"know-how" that will be applied during the next stage of Dnipro river HPPs rehabilitation.
Economical effectiveness analysis performed after project stage 1 completion confirms its effectiveness.
Allowing for ecological effect connected with computer-aided safety monitoring system commissioning at
Kyiv HPP and Dnipro river water quality improvement, this project significance becomes even more
important for the whole sector and state in general.
Taking the above into account and also the fact that the whole project effectiveness (Ukrhydroproject
calculations) significantly exceeds I st stage effectiveness (due to majority of hydrounits rehabilitation and
getting additional energy and capacity output), it is necessary to solve as soon as possible the issue of
Dnipro cascade HPPs rehabilitation continuation. The company hopes for further fruitful cooperation with
the World Bank and for its participation in the 2nd stage of project implementation.
With gratefulness,  SI. Potashnik,  Chairman of the Board - General Director
of the                              X
- 35 -



UKRENIERGO
Miuir.epcj    o DanJDHa Ta eHeprweru       YcPaTHH
AepzaBne ubupTcmo
"Ha L4ioHanmHa OH9preOTmI4 KomnfaHiR "YKPEHEPro"
01032, m. KuWt-32, KoWmiVy.25, m8mi6 227-6747,
=VralmnI65 10   IUD . dU,u                   ','X EUX
D A T E December 05. 2002
To: Mr. Nikolay Nikolov
Task Team Leader
Energy and Infrastructure Departnent
Europe and Central Asia
THE WORLD BANK GROUP
Re: Ukraine Hydropower Rehabilitation and System Control Project,
Loan 38650 UA, General comments
Dear Mr. Nikolov,
Thank you for sending us the draft Implementation Completion Report on the Ukraine
Hydropower Rehabilitation and System Control Project
Upon preliminary review of the Report, NPC Ukrenergo considers it overall
satisfactory. We would like to point out that the Report reflects the main results
achieved during project implementation.
The rehabilitation of the hydropower plants and system control under the project have
contributed to the economic development of Ukraine in general , as well as to the
improvement of the quality of the power system control and reliability of electricity
supply to consumers.
The implementation of part B of the project allowed the original objectives to be
achieved and to obtain positive results, which contributed to a certain extent to
improving the situation in the country' s energy sector.
We would like to emphasize the role of the World Bank during project
implementation. Problematic implementation areas were identified in the course of
constant cooperation during regular World Bank supervision missions. Decisions
-36-



were made about influencing internal and external conditions in order to ensure project
completion in accordance with planned schedules and financing. In view of the lack
of experience in implementing such projects, the constant cooperation with the World
Bank experts allowed the Ukrainian counterparts to carry out their responsibilities for
implementing a series of works with higher quality and without substantial delays.
Thus, the World Bank played a stabilizing role, which was very important at all stages
of the project.
In view of the above, NPC Ukrenergo considers the Bank' s work successful.
Sincerely,
,/N
vA/    f
Vladimir Luchnikov
Director
(b) Cofinanciers:
Canadian International Development Agency - Nicole Rivardroyer
NICOLE_RIVARDROY         To: Nnikolov@Worldbank.Org
ER@acdl-cida.gc.ca       cc:
12/0212002 01:18 PM  Subject: Re: Ukraine Hydropower Rehabilitation and System Control Project
Dear Mr. Nikolov!
As discussed few mninutes ago, I wold like to confirm that CIDA finds
acceptable your report on the Ukraine Hydropower Rehabilitation and System
Control Project. This project, according to our field staff, has been a
real success and Hydro Quebec has been instrumental in this.
Many thanks for having consulted us and have a great afternoon!
Nicole
-37 -



Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Norway - Mari Skaare
Skire Mari               To: "'Nnikolov@Worldbank.Org'" <Nnikolov@Worldbank.Org>
<marl.skaare@mfa.no      cc: Sandhaland Harald <Harald.Sandhaaland@Mfa.No>,
>                           '"Amt.Bugten@Nvk.No' <Amt.Bugten@Nvk.No>
11/28/2002 09:23 AM  Subject: RE: FW: Co-financing from the Govemment of Norway to a World Ban
k pr oject in Ukraine for Hydropower Rehabilitation and System
Control
Dear Mr. Nikolov,
We have no comments on the report as such (which we have studied only
briefly). We are pleased that the overall outcome of the project is
considered satisfactory and that the recommendations in the Water Management
and Hydropower Generation study carried out by Norwegian experts have been
considered useful and taken into account in the development of the project.
Yours sincerely,
Mari Skare
State Secretariat for Economic Affairs - Switzerland
Von:          Tavema Claudia SECO
> Gesendet:          Donnerstag, 28. November 2002 17:37
> An:         'Nnikolov@worldbank.org'
> Cc:         Derron Jacques SECO; Gruber Werner SECO
> Betreff:           Ukraine: Hydropower Rehabilitation and System Control
> Project
> Wichtigkeit:       Hoch
> Ukraine: Hydropower Rehabilitation and System Control Project
> Dear Mr. Nikolov,
> We would like to thank you for sending us the draft implementation completion report of the Hydropower
Rehabilitation and System Control Project. After careful study of the report, we would like to send you our
contribution:
In 1995, the Swiss Government has provided the Ukrainian Govemment with a grant of a maximum of
CHF 14 Mio. for the rehabilitation and the modemisation of nine hydropower plants. The Government of
the Ukraine has concluded an onlending agreement with the Hydropower Company, Dniprohydroenergo
(DHE) for the financing of Swiss equipment on the basis of the feasibility study of SGI Engineering Ltd,
approved by the World Bank and the Ukrainian Government. That project lead had been set up as a
parallel co-financing with the World Bank project.
-38 -



> Our Project
The Swiss component of the Hydropower Rehabilitation and System Control Project has been successfully
terminated in August 2002, with a last delivery of spare parts by the Swiss suppliers and a final mission of
the Swiss consulting firm, Stucky Consulting Engineers, Lausanne. In general, the project has been
implemented to Dniprohydroenergo's (DHE) and seco's satisfaction and overall project objectives have been
fulfilled:
> the reliability of the high-voltage circuit breakers was considerably increased, expenses and frequency of
maintenance and repair reduced or eliminated, accounting of disbursed power was improved. From an
ecological point of view, the new equipment allowed for a decrease of sound effects.
> The new circuit breakers are ecologically safe, and work without oil.
> There were some delays, which were mainly due to the late conclusion of the necessary frame agreements
and to bureaucratic obstacles with regard to certification problems of the equipment that had to be resolved
by diplomatic means.
> Problems remain with regard to the loan agreement between the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance and DHE.
Because of insufficient reforms in the energy sector, including tariff reform, and the economic crisis, the
beneficiary company did not have the expected income and faces difficulties in repaying the contracted
debt. Negotiations for a rescheduling of the debt and discussions for the allocation of the means are ongoing
to find a satisfactory solution.
Cooperation with the World Bank
The Swiss component and the World Bank project have been implemented in a very independent manner.
There were fewer co-operations than expected, because the Swiss component started before the recruitment
of the intemational consultant. Nevertheless, project contents have been complementary and have lead to
big improvements in the energy sector.
Energy Sector Reforms
Unfortunately, the policy dialogue between the Ukrainian govenmuent and the donor community established
at the beginning of the program was later interrupted by the Govermnent because of a lack of political
support and did not lead to the expected results with regard to the implementation of an accompanying
comprehensive sectoral reform program. Therefore, tariffs have not been raised accordingly and DHBE
consequently still seems not to be in a position to pay out of its own resources for appropriate operation,
maintenance and replacement of equipment.
Yours sincerely,
Claudia Tavema
Infrastructure Financing
State Secretariat for Economic Affairs, Development and Transition
Note from the World Bank project team:
During the period of project design and implementation (1994 - 2002) the power sector in Ukraine evolved
from a system of vertically integrated regional utilities to an unbundled system of generating, transmission
and distribution companies, interacting through a wholesale electricity market and regulated by a separate
- 39 -



National Electricity Regulatory Commission. Six electricity distribution companies (oblenergos) have been
already privatized to strategic investors, while another seven oblenergos were divested to local investors.
An international Task Force with representatives of EBRD, USAID, the European Commission, IMF and
the World Bank is working with Ukrainian counter parts at present on furthering sector reforms.
Low level of payment collections in the power sector until mid-2000 was the main factor affecting the
financial performance of the power sector in general and the project beneficiaries in particular.
Dniprohydroenergo and Ukrenergo were not receiving adequate payments from the wholesale electricity
market Consequently, the two companies, and Dinprohydroenergo in particular, were unable to provide
sufficient counterpart financing for project needs and therefore project works were temporarily
discontinued.
In 2000, the new reform-oriented government undertook active measures to improve electricity payments.
Cash collections in the wholesale electricity market consequently rose from only 9% in April 2000 to 71%
in May 2001 and 90% in May 2002. Improvement of payment discipline and progress in energy assets
privatization were key conditions of the IMF's Extended Fund Facility (EFF) program and a World Bank
Programmatic Adjustment Loan to Ukraine. These developments allowed the project beneficiaries to
improve their liquidity towards the end of the project and honor their obligations to employees, state budget
and local suppliers, including the requirements for local project financing. DHE has repaid so far only a
very minor portion of its accumulated debt to the Ministry of Finance under the conditions of the Swiss
grant on-lending agreement between the company and the Ministry.
On November 14, 2002, Agreed Minutes were signed between representatives of the Swiss State
Secretariat of Economic Affairs (SECO), the Ministries of Finance, Economy and Fuel and Energy and
DHE. The Agreed Minutes outlined a framework for restructuring DHE's schedule of repayment of the
grant-related loan to the Ministry of Finance and usage of the corresponding accumulated funds.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
The project financial analysis at completion was carried as required by the ICR guidelines and details of the
analysis are presented in this section. Highlights about the past financial performance of the project
implementing agencies and their financial management systems are also provided in order to complement
the presentation of the dynamic environment in which the project was implemented. Details about the
transition arrangements for the implementing agencies after project completion are also presented in this
section in view of the importance of these transition arrangements for ensuring sustainability of the project
results.
I.     FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF THE PROJECT
DHE
The Financial Intemal Rate of Retum (FIRR) for the hydropower rehabilitation component was calculated
on the basis of incremental financial cash flows - defined as the difference between the "with' and
"without" project scenarios. FIRR at completion was lower, 9.9% vs. 13.5% at appraisal in real terms,
mainly as a result of lower than estimated energy gains with the project.
-40 -



Below is a comparison of the key assumptions used for the financial analysis at appraisal and at
completion.
1.     Output
In the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), carried out in 1994, it was assumed that there would be an additional
average annual output of 567 GWh as a result of the project. This difference would be gradually achieved
over the life of the project, as the new equipment would be gradually installed at the power stations. A
lower increase of 270 GWh/yr was however achieved in reality due to lower energy gains at the power
plants under the project. In consistence with the economic analysis in annex 3, electricity output estimates
were based on extrapolating historic series of multiannual averaged data including highest and lowest levels
of water flows. (See Annex 3 on economic costs and benefits for details).
2.     Tariff Structure
Under the "with the project" scenario, actual average annual tariffs were used in the calculations for the
period 1996-2002. At appraisal and at completion a cost-recovery mechanism was assumed to cover the
local investment cost of the project and the capitalized interest during project implementation, which
included a 5 year grace period. After the end of the grace period, the amounts equal to the beneficiary's
actual loan-service obligations were recovered through tariffs as well.
For the period 2002-2031, the energy prices were assumed to increase based on the projected average
annual inflation rates for both the "with" and "without' the project scenarios.
3.     Taxation
As in the SAR, it was assumed at completion that all revenues associated with the cost-recovery
mechanism are subject to the same taxation regime as other revenues of DHE. Thus, 100% of incremental
revenues will be subjected to profit tax, road maintenance assessment and unemployment fund distribution
at a total rate of 32%.
4.     Operating and Maintenance Costs
Neither the SAR nor the new analysis adopted any substantial cost savings. For the eight plants as a whole
the SAR used a savings of $120,000/yr in 2001 which increased to $710,000 by 2010. By comparison, the
new analysis has a larger initial savings of $400,000 in 2001 increasing at a lower rate to $780,000 by
2010.
5.     Project Costs
The project costs are in current US dollars equivalent to the local and foreign investment costs and the
capitalized interest (commitment fees and interest during construction).
-41 -



6.     Macro-economic assumptions
a.     Rate of Inflation:
At appraisal inflation was expected to be 5% annual in 2000-2001. It was actually higher 25.8% in 2000
and 11.9% in 2001. Nevertheless, during the last years, the government has made significant efforts to
stabilize the Ukrainian economy and control the level of inflation, reducing it from 182% in 1995 to 11.9%
in 2001 (Table Al).
Table Al: Inflation Rate Source: National Bank of Ukraine.
1995      11996      11997      11998      1 999      2000       2001
181.7%     39.7%      10.1%     20%        19.2%      25.8%      11.9%
Inflation is expected to decline from 11% in 2003 to 7.4% in 2005, remain at the levels of 7% on average
until the year 2010 and further decrease to 5% from 2010.
Table A2: Inflation Rate - Projections Source: World Bank (Projections 2002-2004)
1 2002    12003       2004       2005 -2010   12011-2031
8.5%     110.9%      8.1%      7%            15%
b.     Exchange Rate:
The Ukrainian currency had been considerably vulnerable and weak until fiscal 2000, when the Ukrainian
economy was stabilized (Table A3). Since then the Ukrainian Hrivnya has remained rather stable due to
the strict monetary policies that the Central Bank has been applying. During the following years, the
Ukrainian currency is expected to slowly devaluate vis-a-vis the US dollar at a rate of 3% on an annual
basis.
Table A3: UAHIUS$ Exchange Rate Source: National Bank of Ukraine and the WB.
1995      11996      11997      11998     11999      12000      12001
1.473      1.829      1.862     2.450      4.130      5.440      5.372
7.     Project life
In the SAR, the Financial Internal Rate of Retum was calculated for the period 1995-2020 on the basis of
1994 constant US dollars. In the ICR, however, FIRR was calculated for the period 1996-2031 based on
1996 constant US dollars. The first project investments started in 1997. Only minor capitalized interest
expenditures were incurred in 1996. The extension of the project life until 2031 was based on the
assessment of the economic analysis of the project. (See annex 3 for details).
8.     Sensitivity has been discussed in section 4.4 in the main text of the ICR.
-42 -



DRE HYDROPOWER REHABILITATION - FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN (RHl figures In current USS unless otherwise noted)
1996     1997    1998     1999     2000    2001     2002     2003    2014
0        1        2       3        4        5        6       7       18
REVENUE WITHOUT PROJECT
Electncity Output                        GWh/yr         7337     8933    8933     8933     8933     8933    8915     8897    8704
Tanff in UAH (yearly average)          UAHkop/IcWh       1.06    1.24     0 65     0 92    1 21     1 25     1 74    1 93    3 81
Tarff in US$                             $SkWh        0 0058   0 0067   0 0027   0 0022  0 0022   0 0023   0 0032  0 0035  0 0050
Revenue                                  $million      42.43    5954     23.87    19.98   19.92    2073     2878    3092    43 09
WITH PROJECT
ElectricityOutput                        GWhlyr         7331     8933    8963     9011     9042    9150     9137     9124    8985
TariffinUAH(yearlyaverage)             UAHkop/kWh        106     134      0.96     133     1.89     192      208     231     456
Tanff in USS                              SlkWh       0 0058   0 0072   0.0039   0 0032  0 0035   0 0036   0 0039  0 0042  0 0059
Revenue                                  Smilihon      42 52    64 30    35 13   29.02    31 41    32.70    35.25   37 90   53 16
Incremental tax                          Smillion       0 03     1.52     3 60     2 89    3 68     3 83     2 07    2.23    3 22
REVENUE INCREASE (after tax)             Smillion       0.06     3.23     7.66     6.14    7.81     8.14     4A0     4.75    6.85
O&M COST REDUCTION                       Smillion          0     0 08     0 22     0 19    0 22     0 40     0 52    0 68    0 85
PROJECT COSTS
Local Investment Cost                    Smillion                4.54    10 77     8 11   10 19    10 72     5 09
WB Loan Disbursements                    Smillion                1.92     2 16     5.68    4.35     7 51    10 17
Capitalised Interest                     Smillion       0 09     0.21     0 37     0 67    0 93     0.48     0 52
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      Smillion       0.09     6.67    13.30    14A6     15A7    18.71    15.79
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW                   (Current S)    -0 03    -3 36    -5.42    -813     -7.44   -10 16  -10 86    5 43    7 70
FINANCIAL IRR                                         12.3%
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW                    (S 1996)      -0 03    -3 29    -5 19    -7 62   -6 82    -9.12    -9.53    4 66    5 20
FINANCIAL IRR (real)                                   9.9%
Discount Rate (USS Infl. Rate)            2.20%
ExchangeRate(USS/UAH)                                    183     1.86     245      413     544      5.37     540     556     770
Inflation Rate                                         3977%    1011%   20.0%    192%     25.8%    11.9%    85%     109%     50%
-43 -



DHE - continued - HYDROPOWER REHABILIATION - FiNANCLAL RATE OF RETURN (all flgures in current USS unless otherwise noted)
2015    2016     2017    2018     2019    2020    2021     2022   2031
19      20       21      22       23      24      25      26      35
REVENUE WITHOUT PROJECT
Electncity Output                       GWh/yr        8686    8669     8651    8634     8617    8600    8601     8602   8611
Tariff tn UAH (yearly average)        UAHkop/kWh       4.00    4.20    4 41     4 63    4.86     5 11    5.36    5.63    8 74
Tarff in USS                             SlkWh       0 0050  0.0051   0.0052  0.0053  0.0055   00056   00057   00058   00069
Revenue                                 Smillion      43.84   44 60   45 38    46 16   46 97    47.78   48 72   49 67   59 11
WITH PROJECT
Electneity Output                       GWh/yr        8972    8960     8947    8935     8922    8910     8911    8912   8921
Tanff in UAH (yearly average)         UAHkop/kWh      4 78     5 02    5 27     5.54    5.81     6.10    6.41    6 73   10 44
Tanff in USS                            V/kWh        0 0060  0 0061  0 0063   0 0064  0 0065   0 0066  0 0068  0 0069  0 0082
Revenue                                 Smilhon       5412    55.09   56.09    57.09   58.12    59.17   6032    61.50   7320
Incremental tax                         Smillion      329      336     343      3.50    3.57     364     371     379     451
REVENUE INCREASE (after tax)            Smilnlon       6 99    7 14    7 28     7 43    7.59     7.74    7 89    8 05    9 58
O&M COST REDUCnON                       $million       086     0 88    0 90     0 92    0.94     0.95    1 95    2 95   11 95
PROJECT COSTS
Local Investment Cost                   Smillion
WB Loan Disbursements                   Smilhion
Capitalised Interest                    Smillion
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     Smilhon
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW                  (Current $)     786     802     8 18     835     8 52     8.70    985     11 00  2153
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW                   (S 1996)      5 20     5.19    5 18     5 17    517      5 16    5 72    6.25   10 05
Exchange Rate (USSIUAH)                                7.93    817     8 41     8.67    8 93     9.19    9 47    9 75   12 73
Inflation Rate                                        0.05     0 05    0 05     0.05    0.05     0.05    0.05    0.05    0 05
UKRENERGO
In the original Staff Appraisal Report there was no FIRR calculated for the system control component,
since the quantified benefits do not accrue only to Ukrenergo but to the entire energy sector. Nevertheless,
at completion, the financial viability of Ukrenergo was assessed on the basis of the corresponding
framework for the company's operations, reflected in the analysis assumptions.
Assumptions
1.       Output
During the period 1996-2001, the actual electricity which was transmitted by UE's high voltage lines was
the one used in the calculations of both the "with" and "without the project" scenarios. It averaged about
117-120 TWh on a yearly basis. This output was applied in both scenarios for the subsequent years up to
fiscal 2020. It was conservatively assumed that the electricity transmitted by UE will not increase during
the project period.
2.       Tariffs
Under the "with the project" scenario, actual tariffs were used in the calculations for the period
1996-2001. UE's estimates were used for the tariffs under the project after 2001.
-44 -



Under the "without the project" scenario - as in the case of DHE - it was assumed that tariffs would have
remained at lower levels if the project had not been implemented.
The difference between the "with project" and "without project tariffs" provided the additional tariff
increase needed to cover the additional investment costs under the project. Thus, the UE's own forecast
about the company's tariffs "with project" has been assumed to cover additional project costs. The
required additional tariff increase to cost recovery level under the project has been also established. The
results of this simulation are presented below:
UE's tariffs
YEAR                                1996(1)  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002    2003  2014  2020
with project
tanff(kopecks/kWh)                      0.11  012   0 14  0.25  021  026    0.5    063   2.03    2.8
without project
tanff(kopecks/kWh)                    01095  0110  0127 0.211 0169  0206   0,487  0614  1.977  2727
tariff increase to                    0.0005  0 010  0 013 0 039 0.041  0 054  0 013  0 016  0.053  0 073
"with project" tariff level (kopecks/kWh)
(I) Bank staff estimates
At appraisal in 1994, the original project company the National Dispatch Center, in its capacity of a sole
purchaser of output from the hydropower and nuclear plants, was supposed to generate its revenue through
reselling electricity at cost - based tariffs form these plants to the then existing eight regional power
companies and a few large industrial concerns. However, early in project implementation, the newly
established Wholesale Electricity Market (Energomarket) assumed the electricity trading function. NDC
became then dependant on receiving payments from Energomarket for its services - initially dispatch,
which was later coupled with transmission within a new company.
Since 1998, upon the merger of the National Dispatch Center with the transmission company
Ukrelectroperedacha, the tariff for the services of the newly formed National Power Company Ukrenergo
included a transmission and a dispatch component. The dispatch component did not change with the
project. Consequently, additional costs under the project were covered by increasing the transmission tariff
component.
As of the first quarter of 2002, a unified tariff for transmission and dispatching services was set at 0.5
kopeks/kWh. This unified tariff is still far below the average European level and is therefore expected to
further increase during the following years to 1.5 kopeks/kWh by 2010 and 2.8 kopeks/kWh by 2020.
Thus, for the period 2002 - 2020, it was assumed that Ukrenergo's tariffs will increase at a rate higher than
the inflation rate in both the "with" and "without" the project scenarios.
3.      Taxation
It was assumed at completion that all of the UE's incremental revenues associated with the cost-recovery
mechanism will be 100% subjected to profit tax at a rate of 30%.
-45 -



4.     Operating and Maintenance Costs
During the project period, it was assumed that there would be no incremental difference in O&M expenses
between the "with" and the "without" the project scenarios other than rninor specific savings from the
installation of the fiber-optic cable and other project components, as described below by Ukrenergo's
consultants:
a.     Savings from not renting any more communications channels, as a result of installing fiber-optic
cable under the project, estimated at UAH 29,359/ year.
b.     Reduction of expenditures on the current maintenance of relay protection installation, estimated at
UAH 19,752/ year.
c.     Reduction of expenditures on adaptation of relays protection due to the changed operations
conditions, estimated at UAH 3,840/ year.
5.     Project Costs
The project costs are in current dollars based on the US$IUAH exchange rate during the years 1996-2002.
6.     Macro-economic assumptions
The assumptions regarding the expected inflation and exchange rate in subsequent years are the same as
those used for DHE.
7.     Project life
FIRR was calculated for the period 1996-2020 based on 1996 constant US dollars. The first major project
investments started in 1997. Only minor expenditures for equipment and capitalized interest were incunred
in 1996.
8.     Sensitivity
Maintaining UE's tariff at the expected "with project" level is critical for the company's financial viability.
Even a 0.0 1% reduction of the "with project" tariffs results in a FIRR lower than the Ukrenergo's cost of
capital of 8.5%, reflecting the cost of borrowing under the project (1.5% on-lending interest rate of the
Ministry of Finance, plus 7.0 % World Bank rate). FIRR is less sensitive to changes in UE's output
(transmitted electricity) which can decline by 37% within the company's financial viability limits. O&M
savings are insignificant and FIRR remains unchanged even without accounting for these savings.
RATE OF RETURN
Based on the above assumptions, the financial intemal rate of return is calculated at 15.9% on a current
basis and 13.4% on a real basis.
- 46 -



UKRENERCO - Financial Rate of Return (all flgures In current USS unless otherwise neted)
1996   1997   1998    1999   2000   2001   2002   2020
INCREMENTAL REVENUES
Electncity Transmitted                                        Twhfyr       117    118    123     113     118    116    117    117
Tariff increase to cosi-recovery level with project         kopecks/kWh   0000   0010   0013    0039   0041   0054   0013   0073
Incremental revenues fromtariff mcreasetocost-recovey level  UAH mill      058   12.24  1561    4546   4818   6252   1532    8579
Savings from not renting communication channels              UAH mill     0 000  0      o000  0000  0 0 o 0 000  0 000  0 029  0 029
Reduction of expenditures on the current maintenance of relay protection
installation                                                 UAH mill     0000 0o000 o    oo   o  oo   oooo  0000  0000  0 020  0 020
Reduction of expendioitures on adaptation of relays protection due to
changed operations conditions                                UAH mill     0.000  0.000  0 000   0 000  0 000  0 000  0 004  0 004
Total incremental revenues                                   UAH mill     0582 12241   15611   45463  48 183 62523 15 373   85 844
Total incremental revenue inS                                 S million   0318   6.575  6373   11 007  8 857  11 493  2 847  9 338
Incremental tax                                               Smillion     0.10   2.10   204     3.52   2 83   3.68   091     299
REVENUE INCREASE (after tax)                                 Smillion      0.22   4.47   4.33    7.48   6.02   7.82   1.94    6.35
PROJECT COSTS
Local Investment Cost                                         Smillion       0   0.489  1 303   0755   1 359  0651   0 197
WB Loan Disbursements                                         Smullion    0138   5926    493   10172   7448   10822  2640
Commitment Fee                                                Smilhon      018    0 16   014     0.08   005    002       0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                           Smillion    0.318  6.575  6.373  11.007  8.857 11.493  2.837
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW                                        (Current S)  -0 10  -2 10  -2 04   -3 52   -2 83  -3 68  -0 90   6 35
FINANCIAL IRR                                                            15.9%
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW                                         (S 1996)     -010  -2 06  -I 95   -3 30   -2 60  -3 30  -0 79   3.77
FINANCIAL IRR (real)                                                     13.4%
Discount Rate (USS infl. Rate)                                2.20%
Exchange Rate (USStUAH)                                                    1 83   1.86   245     4 13    544    5 44  540     9 19
Inflation Rate                                                            10.1%  20.0%  19 2%  25 8%   11 9%   8 5%  109%    5 0%
H.       PAST FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF DNIPROHYDROENERGO (DHE)
2.1      The State Energy Generating Joint Stock Company "Dniprohydroenergo" (DHE) operates eight
hydropower plants located along the Dnieper River with an available capacity of 3779 MW at design head.
2.2.     Production volumes of the hydropower plants are coordinated by Ukrenergo and the electricity
produced is sold to Energomarket. Tariffs are regulated by the National Energy Regulation Commission
(NERC) and are set on a monthly basis in consultation with DHE's management.
2.3.     In general, DHE's past financial performance has been negatively affected by the low               collection
rates in the Ukrainian energy sector. DHE's collections averaged about 70% during the years 1997-1999
and were at even lower levels of 30 to 45% during fiscal years 1995 and 1996. As a consequence, the
company faced considerable liquidity problems resulting in the increase of its accounts receivable to 411
days of sales by the end of fiscal 1999. Nevertheless, the company's liquidity significantly improved since
-47 -



fiscal 2000 when collections were increased. DHE's collection rate during fiscal 2000 rose to 91% and
reached levels of 100% during fiscal year 2001, allowing the company to overcome its cash flow deficits
and to meet its financing requirements to suppliers, contractors and the Bank.
2.4.   Although condctions in the sector have improved, DHE's financial position still remains highly
dependent on the allocation of funds through the MFA (Market Funds Allocation) algorithm that is
currently applied by Energomarket. MFA is the mechanism that allocates all funds available in the market
to energy producers on a daily basis. It is a function of mainly two elements: a) Production volumes of
each supplier adjusted in money terms based on the corresponding tariff set by the National Electricity
Regulatory Commission (NERC) every month; b) The level of debt of Energomarket to each producer, as a
result of arrears that were accumulated when the market suffered from very low collection rates.
2.5.   Two factors have mainly contributed to the improvement of DHE's liquidity, allowing the company
to fulfill both its obligations to employees, the state budget and suppliers, as well as its requirements to
finance the local component of the project:
a.     The above-mentioned MFA algorithm was modified last year giving more weight to the level of
production volumes against accumulated debt, in an effort to motivate energy suppliers to increase their
capacity factors and thus achieve higher production volumes.
b.     In addition, a new regulation No. 1098 /2000 of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission
provided for increased daily inflows from Energomarket to special project accounts of entities financed by
intemational financing institutions in order to meet their local financing needs and their debt-service
requirements.
2.6.   Summary Income Statements of DHE are presented below:
Table 2.1: DHE - Summart Income Statement (UAH million)
1996  1997   1998   1999  2000  2001  2002
semi-
annual
Electdricity Sales (TWh)    7.4   8.4   13 8    12.6  10.0  10.4  5.6
Revenues                    78    113    132    168   189   203   112
Total Expenses              37    74     107    148   164   150    95
Net Eamings before Tax      41    39      25     19    25    53    17
Net Eamings afterTax        35    22     -1      15     5    31   -1.7
EBT as % of Revenues      52 6%  34 5%  18.9%  11.9%  13 2% 261%  15.1%
EAT as % of Revenues      44 9%  19.5%  -0.8%  8 9%  2 6%  15.2%  -1%
ElectricityTarnf (kopekst kWh)  1.06  1 34  0.96  1.33  1.89  1.92  2.08
2.7.   DHE has been generating between 8 and 10 TWh on average every year depending on electricity
demand and Dnieper's water levels. As shown in the above table, DHE's revenues have been increasing
during the last years mostly as a result of higher tariffs, which rose from less than 1.3 kopeks/lkWh in 1997
to about 1.92 kopeks/ kWh in 2001. This increase is mainly attributed to the high inflation rates that
Ukraine experienced until fiscal year 2000.
2.8.   Operating expenses have been increasing at somewhat similar rates reflecting mainly higher
depreciation and labor costs, as well as increased material expenses and interest payments.
-48 -



2.9.    As illustrated above in Table 2.1, the company managed to remain profitable (by IAS) throughout
the period under consideration. During the first six months of 2002 DHE had a UAH 17 million profit,
which was however subjected to higher taxes in the amount of UAH 18.7 million. Nevertheless, DHE's
cash flow remained positive during the same period. In fiscal 2001, the company demonstrated profits of
UAH 53 million, attaining a net margin of 26% compared to 12% and 13% in fiscal years 1999 and 2000
respectively. DHE's net profits in fiscal 1999 reached UAH 19 million and increased by about 30% in
fiscal 2000 (UAH 25 million). DHE's profitability in fiscal 1999 was negatively affected by increased
maintenance expenditures, as well as increased depreciation expense. Fiscal 2000 higher profits are mostly
attributed to considerably higher tariffs and a containment of maintenance expenditure.
2.10.   Summary Balance Sheets of DHE are presented below:
Table 2.2: DHE Summary Balance Sheet (UAH million)
1996   1997   1998    1999     2000   2001    2002
semiannual
Total Assets                 993    1002   971     1022    1197   1300     1296
Fixed Assets                 878    810    736      744     748    793      856
Incomplete Constructions      36     45     58       52      86    101       55
Current Assets                78     143   158      209     348    392      371
of which accountsreceivableu'  67   110    139      189     190    183      179
Other Assets                   0      4     19       17      15     15       14
Total Liabilites             993    1002   971     1022    1197   1300     1296
Equiy & Reserves             867    900    867      878     858    946      946
Long-termrdebt                 0     11     31       57      79    116      140
Current Liabilities           67     44     74       87     260    238      210
of which accounts payable?     5     13     23       26      38     21       15
Other Liabilites              59     47      1        0       0      0        0
Current Ratio                 1.2    3 3    2.1     2.4      1 3   1 64    1 76
Days of Receivables          314    355    384      411     366    329      292
W The rehabilitation of the Dniester pump storage station, which does not belong to the DHE's organizational structure, used
to be financed through an additional surcharge of I kopek/kWh on the DHE' s tariff. DHE was supposed to collect this I kopek
surcharge and pass it further on to the Dmester pump storage station. The I kopek/kWh surcharge was recorded in the DHE's
financial statements. Therefore, DHE's receivables formally mcluded any receivables related to the Dniester pump storage
station This arrangement inflated overall receivables recorded in DHE's financial statements. This practice has been
discontinued since the beginning of 2002
' Same as above.
2.11.   As shown in Table 2.2 above, the net book value of fixed assets decreased until fiscal 1998 mainly
due to high depreciation rates. Since then, however, fixed assets increased reflecting the capital investments
that the company has been undertaking in relation to this project.
-49 -



2.12.  As in the case of Ukrenergo, current assets significantly rose until fiscal 2000 due to the increase in
accounts receivable from UAH 67 million in fiscal 1996 to UAH 189 million in fiscal 1999 or 411 days of
sales. These accounts represented all the arrears accumulated in Energomarket during the previous years.
Since fiscal 2000 however, when DHE's collection rates increased to levels close to 100%, the company
managed to halt this increasing trend and has gradually begun to reduce its accounts receivable from 411
days in fiscal 1999 to 329 days in fiscal 2001.
2.13.  Similarly, current liabilities also grew until fiscal 2000, but at lower rates, due to increased
accounts payable mostly attributed to the financing of the Dniester Pump Station. DHE's financial
statements also used to include accounts payable to Dniester pump storage station which consequently
inflated the overall accounts payable and the corresponding current liabilities recorded in the DHE's
financial statements. (See notes 1 and 2 to table 2.2 above). Since then, however, accounts payable were
brought back to fiscal 1998 levels of UAH 23 million compared to UAH 38 million at the end of fiscal
2000. This decrease in accounts payable reflects the company's ability to meet its requirements to
suppliers and to contractors in relation to this project.
HI. PAST FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF UKRENERGO
3.1.   The National Power Company "Ukrenergo" is one of the largest energy companies in Ulkraine
employing more than 10,000 people. Its main activities today include the provision of transmission and
dispatching services via its high voltage lines on the Ukaainian energy grid.
3.2.   Since September 1995, when IBRD and the Government of Ukraine agreed on the loan to finance
the Hydropower Rehabilitation and System Control Project, Ukrenergo has experienced major
reorganizations. On April 15, 1998, the National Dispatch Center (NDC), which initially carried out Part
B (System Control component) of this Project, merged with the National Electric Company
"Ukrelectroperedacha". The merged company was named Ukrenergo assuming all assets, liabilities and
contractual obligations of the two predecessor companies. Ukrenergo's activity consisted since then of two
main divisions: a) "Energorynok" or Energomarket, responsible for the coordination of electricity
production as well as for the collection of payments from customers and the distribution of funds to
electricity producers, acting more or less as a trading company and an intermediary between consumers and
producers; b) Transmission and Dispatching, responsible for maintenance, transmission and dispatching of
electricity from energy producers to consumers.
3.3.   In May 2000, however, Ukrenergo faced a de-merger, when the Government of Ukraine ordered
the spin-off of the "Energomarket" division of Ulkrenergo into a separate legal entity. All assets and
liabilities of Ukrenergo relating to electricity purchases and sales were assumed by "Energomarket" and
Ukrenergo focused solely on transmission and dispatching activities. Nonetheless, Part B of this Project has
continued to be executed by Ukrenergo.
3.4.   Further to the above developments, the evaluation of Ukrenergo's past financial performance
became a rather difficult task. In general, the company has been very much dependent on the overall
performance of the Ukrainian energy sector, which faced significant setbacks since 1995.  Most
importantly, sector-wide collections had been at very low rates (20-30%) creating a very illiquid energy
market. Huge arrears were gradually accumulated in the Energomarket resulting in major cash flow
problems for most Ukrainian energy companies.
- 50 -



Cash flow deficits have brought Ukrenergo into a weak financial position, unable to meet its financing
requirements by delaying or often withholding payments to its suppliers. Ukrenergo also consistently failed
to promptly fulfill its obligations to its employees, the state budget and the various funds.
3.5.    Since fiscal 2000, however, the financial performance of Ukrenergo has significantly improved, a
development that can be attributed to the following reasons:
a.      The spin-off of Energomarket into a separate entity resulted in significantly reduced operating
expenses, which increased the company's gross margins. Payments to the so-called "innovation fund," for
example, that were at around UAH 30 million on average every quarter were almost eliminated when the
split was effected.
b.       Collection rates were gradually increased creating more liquidity in the energy market reflecting the
overall improvement of the Ukrainian economy.
c.      Finally, as in the case of DRE, the new regulation of NERC, No. 1098 / 2000 provided for
increased daily inflows from the Energomarket to special project accounts of the companies financed by
international financing institutions (i.e. World Bank, EBRD, etc) in order to meet their local financing
needs and their debt-service requirements. This regulation has to a large extent contributed to the
improvement of Ukrenergo's cash flows and the company had been able since then to fulfill both its
obligations to employees, the state budget and suppliers, as well as its requirements to finance the local
component of the project.
3.6.    Summary Profit & Loss Statements of Ukrenergo are presented below in Table 1. 1.
Table I I Ukrenergo Summary of Income Statement hy IAS (UAHmillion)
1997     1998      1999  2000 i 2001 2      2002
sff,aietl
Electricity Transmitted (TWh)                 118.0    122.7     117.8   117.6   116.3       57
Revenues from Energomarket                      n/a    10045    12650    6335       0         0
Revenues from Transmission                      n/a      168      294     230     305      2323
Revenues from Dispatching                       n/a      218      260      156     78
Total Revenues                               76164     10431    13204    6721     398       229
Total Operating Expenses                      7455     10637    13492    6672     360     194.3
Net Operating Income (lAS)                      161     -206     -288      49      38      37.7
NetIncomeaftertax                               155     -219     -292       32     22      21.3
Operating Income as % of Revenues             2.1%     -2.0%    -2.2%    0.7%    9.5%     16.2%
Net Income as % of Revenues                   2.0%     -2.1%    -2.2%    0.5%    5.5%      9.2%
Average Transmission Tariff (kopeks/ kWh)       n/a     0 14      0.25    0.21    026    04(Qi)3
AverageDispatchingTariff(UAHmil/month)          n/a     18.1      21.6      13     6.5
I ) Fiscal 2000 incorporates Energomnarket's financial results for one semester until the spin-off of Energomarket into a separate entity was effected on
July 1 2000.
2 ) Fiscal 2001 includes only UKRENERGO's financial results reflecting solely transmission and dispatchmg activittes.
3 ) As of the first quarter of 2002 1t was decided to introduce a unified tanff for transmission and dispatch The unified tanffs was at 0 5 kopeks/kWh
InQ2
4) Revenues in 1997 represent NDC's results befhre its merger with UkTelectroperedacha.
-51 -



3.7.   As shown in Table 1.1, Ukrenergo transmits about 120 TWh on average every year in the
Ukrainian energy system. Since the spin-off of Energomarket, its revenues are based on transmission and
dispatching tariffs which are submitted to the NERC for approval every month (every quarter since 2002).
Transmission tariffs have risen from 0.14 kopeks/ kWh in 1998 to 0.26 kopeks/ kWh in 2001. The
company also charged a fixed monthly tariff for dispatching services on the basis of its expenditures during
that month. As of the first quarter of 2002, however, it was decided to introduce a unified tariff for
transmission and dispatching activity, which is still far below average European prices and is expected to
further increase, as until reaching the level of 1.5 kopeks/kWh by 2010.
3.8.   Ukrenergo's revenues grew from UAH 7.6 billion in fiscal 1997 to UAH 13.2 billion in fiscal
1999. At the end of the first semester of fiscal 2000, the Energomarket division of the company was split
into a different legal entity. Thus, Ukrenergo's results during that fiscal year incorporate Energomarket's
activity for only one semester, whereas in fiscal 2001 the company's financial results reflect solely
transmission and dispatching activities.
3.9.   During fiscal years 1998 and 1999 the company demonstrated considerable losses by International
Accounting Standards (IAS). These losses were mostly attributed to smaller margins on electricity sales,
increased operations and maintenance expenses, and increased depreciation and fines imposed on the
company for its failure to promptly pay its tax obligations. Losses were also affected by sizeable
contributions to various Funds (e.g. Innovation Fund or the Wind Energy Fund).
3.10.  Financial recovery began in fiscal 2000 for the reasons described above in paragraph 3.5.
Moreover, since fiscal year 2000 Ukrenergo introduced the National Accounting Standards (NAS), which
has contributed to a more transparent presentation of their financial statements. Since then, the company
has managed to stabilize its financial position and remains profitable.
3.11.  Summary balance Sheets of Ukrenergo are presented below in Table 1.2
Table 1.2: Ukrenermo Summary Balance Sheet (UAH million)
1997   1998     1999     2000    2001     2002
sem-annual
Total Assets                      4295   6361     9315    2664     2515     2514
Fixed Assets                      1372   1351     1398    1431     1424     1377
Current Assets                   2919    4998     7895    1216     1054     1116
of which accounts receivable     2772    4990     7768    1092      982     1004
Long-term Investments               4      12      22       17      23       21
Total Uabilities                  4295   6361     9315    2664     2515     2514
Equity&Reserves                   1368   1186     1096    2288     2311    2295
Long-term debt                      3      24     104      130      151     174
Current Uabilifles                2924   5151    8115      246       53      32
of which accounts payable        2638    5018     7778     203       34      17
Current Ratio                      1.0   0.97     0 97     4.94    19.89   34 87
Days of Receivables               127     168     211      967      888     908
3.12.  As shown in Table 1.2, fixed assets gradually increased reflecting the capital investments which the
company undertook under this project
3.13.  Current assets have grown considerably up to fiscal 2000 due to the dramatic increase in accounts
receivable from UAH 2,772 million in fiscal 1997 to UAH 7,768 million in fiscal 1999. These accounts
-52 -



represent all the arrears accumulated in Energomarket from the distribution companies, which were not
able to meet their obligations as they suffered from very low collection rates. After the spin-off of
Energomarket in fiscal 2000, Ukrenergo was still left with considerable amounts of receivables equal to
UAH 1,092 million or 967 days of sales. Improved collection rates, however, during the last 18 months
have contributed to the gradual decrease of these receivables to UAH 982 million or 888 days of sales at
the end of fiscal 2001. Nevertheless, a sizeable part of those accounts should be considered doubtful and
reclassified as an accrued expense in the company's Income Statement, as the auditors have suggested in
their reports.
3.14.  Similarly, current liabilities have grown at very high rates up to fiscal 2000 due to an increase in
accounts payable, attributed to Energomarket's inability to pay the generation companies as long as the
market remained illiquid. Since then, however, and due to Ukrenergo's split from Energomarket, accounts
payable were brought down to only UAH 34 million at the end of fiscal 2001 and further down to UAH 17
million at the second quarter of fiscal 2002, compared to UAH 203 million in fiscal 2000. This decrease in
accounts payable demonstrates the company's ability to meet its requirements to suppliers and to
contractors in relation to this project.
3.15.  The above developments in Ukrenergo's net current assets have resulted in the significant
improvement in the company's liquidity. Notably, at the end of the first semester of fiscal 2002, current
assets were 34 times greater than the company's current liabilities, whereas before the split from
Energomarket the current ratio used to be lower than one.
IV. REVIEW OF FINANCIAI MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
4.1.   When the project was appraised in 1995, the two implementing agencies, NDC (currently
Ukrenergo) and DHE, still employed a cash accounting system with some elements of accrual accounting.
More specifically, revenues were recorded in the income statement on a cash basis only after payment was
received, and costs associated with producing revenue were not booked until revenues arrived. This
accounting system - still based on Soviet accounting policies - had created serious problems in the
evaluation of the financial performance of these two entities. Especially during periods when collection
rates were at low levels, the statutory accounts could seriously misstate financial performance. A related
problem was that neither of the compames tracked their receivables and payables on a dated basis, and thus
there was no basis for recognizing inflationary losses. Moreover, there was no recognition of uncollectible
or doubtful debt.
4.2.   Since fiscal 1996, however, Ukrainian companies were required to apply new accounting standards
based on accrual accounting (Ukrainian Accounting Regulations). Until fiscal 2000, the two project
implementing agencies have maintained their accounting records in accordance with these new Ukrainian
Accounting Regulations (UAR). Nevertheless, there were still major differences from Intemational
Accounting Standards (IAS) that hindered the evaluation of the companies' financial performance. For
example, costs, which should be recorded under IAS as cost of sales or general expenses, were often
recorded as "use of profit" or as direct charges to shareholders' equity under UAR.
4.3.   To provide a more meaningful presentation of the two companies, the Bank had required
modifications of their historical financial statements in order to approximate IAS. In addition to their
financial statements, the beneficiaries were required to prepare project accounts identifying the sources and
uses of funds in carrying out the project. Financial statements, records and project accounts for fiscal
years 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001 have been audited by independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers (for fiscal 1997) and KPMG (for the following years) based on IAS. The audit
- 53 -



reports also contained business recommendations and a separate opinion on the compliance by DHE and
Ukrenergo with the legal and financial covenants under the Bank loan.
4.4.   Completion of the audits had often fallen behind schedule by several months - not complying thus
with the relevant loan covenant - until fiscal 2000, mainly due to considerable difficulties that the auditors
faced in adjusting Ukrenergo's and DHE's records and statements from UAR to IAS. Especially during
the first audits of fiscal years 1997 and 1998, the accounting personnel of the two beneficiaries were not
familiar yet with the new accounting standards and still had considerable difficulties in comprehending the
concepts of accrual accounting. Gradually, however, the cooperation between the two parties improved
significantly and since fiscal 2000 the audit reports were released within six months of the end of each
financial year (with some delays in relation to Ukrenergo's audits).
4.5.   On January 1, 2000, new National Accounting Standards (NAS) were introduced in Ukraine that
approximated to a large extent IAS. Although there are still some differences between IAS and NAS, the
financial statements of Ukrenergo and DHE during fiscal years 2000 and 2001 reflect to a large extent their
financial performance, which has further facilitated the auditors' task.
4.6.   The accounting personnel of the two companies are trained in NAS through internal or external
workshops and seminars organized either by the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Fuel and Energy.
Moreover, they gain useful experience during the project auditing process carried out by KPMG.
V. TRANSITION ARRANGEMENTS FOR DHE and UE
1.    In order to ensure transition to regular operations, DHE will pursue the following activities:
(a)    Training of relevant staff at all hydropower plants with support from suppliers and DHE's
qualified staff.
(b)    Signing one year contracts with equipment suppliers, which can be extended, for servicing about
70% of the project equipment for which guarantees have already expired.
(c)    Carry out equipment tests to outline all operational modes and parameters as a basis for
establishing mandatory guidelines for equipment operations.
(d)    Prepare designs for installing dam safety monitoring equipment on the remaining hydropower
plants following the experience at Kiev HPP.
(e)    The following indicators will be registered periodically:
(i)    oil leakages (quarterly)
(ii)   emergency outages (annually)
(iii)  electricity output (monthly)
(iv)  turbines efficiency (annually) - to be agreed with JSC "Turboatom"
(v)    allocations from the Wholesale Electricity Market (monthly)
(vi)   company debt service ratio - net revenue divided by debt service requirement (quarterly).
2.     UE will pursue the following activities, by key types of project equipment:
Relay protection sets for HV transmission lines: work with supplier on (i) expanding the technical use of
- 54 -



the equipment, (ii) interconnecting technical processes with system control for improved information flows
within Ukrenergo.
SCADA: (i) streamline interaction within UE units regarding SCADA use; (ii) integrate technological and
business processes; (iii) concentrate relevant SCADA experts in one SCADA operating unit; (iv) prepare
guidelines for interaction between UE and wholesale electricity market (WEM) on SCADA matters; (v)
train relevant staff.
Fiber optic cable: (i) sign a contract with a supplier for technical maintenance and staff training; (ii) obtain
license for leasing fiber optic cable services; (iii) draw key additional connections to the existing fiber optic
communication lines.
System Control and Monitoring at Dniester HPP: (i) sign a contract for service maintenance with supplier;
(ii) establish additional control system for reactive capacity; (iii) install new protection sets for the
transmission lines:
2.1.   The following UE indicators will be registered periodically:
(i) system frequency (monthly)
(ii) emergency outages (monthly)
(iii) allocations from the Wholesale Electricity Market (monthly)
(iv) company debt service ratio - net revenue divided by debt service requirement (quarterly)
(v) overall fuel consumption/savings in the sector (semi-annually)
(vi) transmission losses (quarterly).
- 55 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected In last'PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Improved collechons In the power sector                                   Cash collections Increased from 8-10% in
early 2000 to 94% in September 2002.
Minimum System Frequency (Hz)        49 8                                 49 95
Deviabons from the 50Hz target before                                     Deviabons from the 50Hz target after project
project +0.3 Hz and -0.8Hz.                                               +1-0.05Hz
Improved efficiency, safety, quality and                                  Improved efficiency, safety, quality and
reliability of the performance of the power                              reliabildy of the performance of the power
system.                                                                   system
Improved connecbons capabilities with                                     Improved connections capabilities with
neighboring power systems                                                 neighboring power systems.
4.3% increase in nominal effidiency of the  4 3% increase to 91 8%        4.3% increase to 91.8%
rehabilitated turbines at Kiev HPP.
3 5% increase in nominal efficiency of the  4.2% increase to 92 2%        4 2% increase to 92 2%
rehabilitated turbines at Dnipro-1 HPP
3 9% increase in nominal efficiency of the  4.1% increase to 83%          4.1% increase to 83%
rehabilitated turbines the Kahovka HPP.
Increase in operabng capacity of hydro plants 88.1 MW increase            88.1 MW increase
by 130 MW.                           (685 8 MW-total capacity of rehabiltated  (685.8 MW - total installed capacity of
generating units reached for Kiev, Dnipro-l,  rehabilitated generating units reached for
and Kakhovka)                        Kiev, Dnipro-4, and Kakhovka)
Operatng capacity of a single generating unit 22.0 MW                     22.0 MW
at Kiev HPP at 19 9 MW at appraisal.
Operatng capacity of a single generatng unit 72 MW                        72 MW
at Dnieper-1 HPP at 65 MW without project.
Operabng capacity of a single generating unit 55 8 MW                     55.8 MW
at Kahovka HPP at 52 2 MW at appraisal
Improved accounting prachtes of the prject                                Natonal accounting practices brought closer
agencies Dniprohydroenergo and Ukrenergo.                                 to lAS.
Improved technological capabilities of the                                Know-how transferred through contract
project implementng agencies.                                             implementation and relevant training from
suppliers.
Improved environmental performance of the                                 Eliminated oil leakages from the rehabiritated
Kiev and Kahovka HPPs                                                     turbines at Kiev and Kahovka HPPs
-56-



Output Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                      Jad ii lasti PSR                  ActualLatestEstimate
Rehabilitated 23 turbines and 37 generators,                               Rehabilitated 16 turbines and generators:
switch gear equipment and system control                                   nine turbine/generator units at Kiev HPP, six
and monitoring at the Dnieper HPPs.                                        unit at Dniproges-1 and 1 unit at Kahovka
Installed new environmentaly safe turbines                                 HPP.
with low pressure turbine runner oil seals.                                Rehabilitated switch gear equipment and
system control and monitoring at the Dnieper
HPPs.
Instalged new environmentally safe turbines
with low pressure turbine runner oil seals at
Kiev and Kahovka HPPs.
Computer dam safety monitoring system  Yes                                 Yes
installed at Kiev HPP.
Upgrade of the following key elements of the                               Upgrade of the folowing key elements of the
UPS.                                                                       UPS:
- communications systems; laid 1000 km                                     - communications systems; laid 1160 km
new fiber optic communications lines;                                      new fiber optic oommunications lines;
- frequency regulaton, dispatch and                                        - frequency regulation, dispatch and
control systems;                                                           control systems;
- relay protection devices of the main                                     - relay protection devices of the main
transmission network                                                       transmission network.
Installed protection, management and control                               Instated protection, management and control
system at Dniester HPP.                                                    system at Dniester HPP.
End of project
A system capacity increase of 88.1MW was achieved at completion vs. expected 130 MW increase in
system capacity at appraisal. These results translate into 2% system capacity increase at completion vs.
the expected 3% increase in system capacity at appraisal.
Nominal turbine efficiency at Kiev HPP rose by 4.3% as expected. Nominal efficiency increases at
Dnipro-l HPP and Kahovka HPP were higher than expected: 4.2% achieved vs. 3.5% planned at Dnipro-1
HPP and 4.1% achieved vs. 3.9% planned at Kahovka HPP. These % increases are valid at rated or
maximum output. They were calculated in order to ensure a comparison with the nominal efficiency
parameters estimated at appraisal. Weighted average efficiencies were used in the economic analysis
presented in Annex 3 in order to determine the increase in energy attributable to improved efficiency.
- 57-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component              Appraisai   ActualILatest  Percentage of
' L~t+"~- ' F>ath  --r,,  = ' '  J ~7   | 'Estimate  Estimnate  Appraisal
','.. ProjectJBy                    US$,m0iHion  --US$ million
Hydropower rehabilitation                         84.20          74.30            88
Dam safety                                         2.50           1.90            76
System Control and Communication                  55.20          46.90            85
Technical Assistance                               5.00           7.00           138
Total Baseline Cost                              146.90         130.10
Physical Contingencies                           21.20           3.30            16
Price Contingencies                              22.10                            0
Total Project Costs           190.20        133.40
Interest during construction  24.90         8.15          33.00
Total Financing Required           215.10         141.55
Note: interest during construction is presented together with commitment fees.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
,   ,  -,-  - ',"~ ProcuFeremnt Method' -
Expenditure Categoiy     ICa          NCB          Ohe -                  Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         26.80       26.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    91.40        0.00         2.50         64.20       158.10
(91.40)      (0.00)       (2.50)       (0.00)      (93.90)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00          1.80        3.50         5.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.80)       (0.00)      (1.80)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                    91.40         0.00         4.30        94.50       190.20
(91.40)      (0.00)        (4.30)      (0.00)      (95.70)
-58 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Catego9ry -                          ll                      l NC B  2  N.8.F.  Total Cost
NCB___         Othe r.
1. Works                       0.40          0.00         0.00          10.10        10.50
(0.40)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.40)
2. Goods .                    72.55          0.00         0.00          43.35        115.90
(72.55)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (72.55)
3. Services                    1.40          0.00         0.00          5.60          7.00
(1.40)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (1.40)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       74.35         0.00          0.00         59.05        133.40
(74.35)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (74.35)
Interest during construction  (8.15)
Total Bank Financing  (82.50)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/Equipment and Goods to be procured through Intemational Shopping (up to an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million)
and Direct Contracting (up to an aggregate amount of US$ 1.0 million) and Procurement under Bank's Guidelines for
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981).
N.B.F. = Non Bank Financing (Governments of Canada, Norway and Switzerland and local funds).
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
- _ L --t t[ [L ,,_ / --+||Sliz "' '' ""; '2- -"l 81 t-] ' IPercentage. of Appraisah
Component       ~     Appraisal Estimate    l  ..Ata/et Estimate          e
Bank      Govt.    CoF.      Bank     Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Go'IG .  CoF.
Hydropower rehabilitation  28.60  45.10    10.50    26.45     39.45     8.40    92.5   87 5   80.0
Dam safety              1.60      0.90     0.00      1.40      0.55     0.00     87.5   61 1   0.0
System Control and      41.80     13.40    0.00     41.80      5.05     0.00    100.0   37.7   0.0
Communications
Technical Assistance    1.80      0.80     2.40      1.40      2.70     2.90    77.8   337.5  120.8
Physical contingencies  12.40     8.90               3.30                       26.6    0.0
Price contingencies     7.60     14 40                                           0.0    0.0
Interest during         20.70     4.20               8.15                       39.4    0.0
construction
Total Financing        114.00    87.70     12.90    82.50     47.75     11.30   72.4   54.4   87.6
- 59 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
This analysis provides a separate assessment of the two main project components: hydropower plant
rehabilitation and power system control improvements, plus a combined assessment In addition, the
hydropower plant rehabilitation component contains assessments of the eight individual hydropower plants
on the Dnieper River - Kiev, Kiev PSP, Kanev, Kremenchug, Dnieper I and Dnieper H, Dniprodzerzhynsk
and Kakhovka. The present analysis also includes a comparison with the original analysis presented in the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) of March 1995.
METHODOLOGY
The general approach is similar to that adopted in the SAR, i.e. the application of the discounted cash flow
technique to 'with and without' project scenarios. An economic evaluation, based on incremental costs and
benefits was carried out for the two main project components and the project as a whole. The analysis at
completion also included a separate valuation of environmental benefits, which were considered as
intangible in the SAR. All figures in the analysis were expressed in constant 1996 US$, the year preceding
the first project investment
The SUMMARY OF RESULTS is shown in Tables 1 and 2 below:
Table 1.
Investment Cost (Smillion'96) NPV ($million'96) EIRR
Hydro Rehab                       $95.7                $21.87        13.0%
System Control                    $52.0                $26.4         17.8%
Dam Safety                        $2.2                  NA            NA
Techmncal Assistance              $8.8                  NA            NA
TOTAL                            $158.6               $40.3***       13.6%
Total (incl. environmental       $158.6               $95.9***       17.8%
benefits)
***Note that 'total' results include the cost of dam safety and technical assistance but allow for no related benefits.
Table 2.
EIRR (SAR)         EIRR       EIRR (incl. env.benefits
(completion)      (completion)
Hydro Rehab                  17.0%           13.0%             16.2%
System Control               22.7%           17.8%             23.8%
TOTAL                        18.1%           13.6%             177%
The differences in the EIRRs at appraisal and at completion resulted mainly from changes in the project
scope combined with a revised lower load forecast and a smaller impact of reliability and availability
improvements which altogether affected the corresponding project benefits in terms of energy and capacity
gains. The most relevant changes in this regard were already discussed in section 4.3 of the ICR.
- 60 -



PROJECT COSTS
Current costs of imported project equipment and services, free of taxes and duties, in US$ equivalent, have
been adjusted by the manufacturing unit value (MUV) index to 1996 constant US dollars. The local costs,
free of taxes and duties, have been also adjusted to a 1996 basis by the producer price index (PPI) and then
converted into 1996 US dollars at the average 1996 exchange rate (UAH/US$). Project costs, local and
international, free of duties and taxes, have been discounted at a 10% rate.
H[YDROPOWER RERABILITATION COMPONENT
The scope of the analysis covers the eight plants on the Dnieper River. Key inputs are the total energy
generated and capacity available from which the "with" and "without project" comparison derives the net
energy and capacity added under the project. The inclusion of the respective energy and capacity values
and O&M cost savings provides a measure of the economic benefits. With the inclusion of the project
investment costs and discounting over the expected project life (30 years), the Net Present Value (NPV)
and Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) are obtained. The same approach was applied to each of the
eight plants and then totalled. Since no estimates of economic costs of electricity were available at project
completion, the approach adopted therefore was to use power system replacement costs, i.e. the more
readily available economic costs of generating alternative thermal energy which, without the project, would
have been required to compensate for the equivalent of the additional hydro energy and capacity provided
by the project.
Dniester HPP operates outside the management of the Dnieper HPPs and the rehabilitation of the Dniester
HPP was included in the System Control component. However, due to its similarity with the Dnieper
HPPs, the technical aspects and basic analysis of the Dniester HPP rehab are covered in this section.
Changes in project scope at completion:
Table 3. Project scope
Scope Item                   Original Scope (SAR)           Actual Scope
Turbine and generator        Dnieprodzerzhinsk -            Dnieprodzerzsinsk - no units
replacement.                 1 of 8 units;                  Dnieper I - 6 of 9 units
Dnieper-l - all 9 units;      Kiev - 9 of 20 units
Kiev - 8 of 20 units;         Kakhovka - 1 of 6 units
Kakhovka - 4 of 6 units;      Kremenchug - no units
Kremenchug - 1 of 12 units;   (a total of 16 units)
(a total of 23 units)
Additional generator rehab and  At Kiev PSP and Dnieper-2 HPP:  None
related work.                total 14 units
Switchgear equipment replacement All plants.                Similar
and related work.
Upgrading control systems and  At Dnieper-I and -2, Kakhovka,  Dnieprodzerzhinsk and Kremenchug were
monitoring equipment.        Kiev HPP and Kiev PSP.         added in view of their importance for system
regulation. System control at Kiev PSP was
rehabilitated partially.
The scope of project works and the quantity of installed equipment were modified during project implementation
because of insufficient local funds and adjustments in the technical design. The physical scope of the project as
presented in the SAR and as actually completed is summarized in Table 3.
-61 -



Additional items included instalation of a dam safety monitoring system and technical assistance in improving
reservoir management and plant operation.
BENEFITS
The tangible benefits are sumnmarized below:
Improved efficiency of the generating equipment is primarily the result of the replacement turbines
which are of more modem design. The replacements also provide as-new performance in contrast to the
significantly poorer performance from the old units (typically the units replaced are over 40 years old).
As a result, with the same water flow, energy is increased on average by about 3 to 8%"'.
* Increased capacity. The replacement turbines and upgraded generators generally increase the
installed (maximum) capacity by 10 to 30%.
*   Improved reliability and availability is largely attributable to the as-new physical condition of
the replacement equipment - not only the turbines and generators but also transformers, circuit
breakers, switchgear and protection equipment.
*   Improved management and control. The application of updated controls and management
systems (including for reservoirs) together with related personnel training is expected to increase
the amount of energy and also enhance its timing and value relative to power system demands.
Reduced O&M costs - due not only to the new equipment but also to the improved control and
monitoring systems which wiU optimize repairs and reduce labor requirements.
* Reduced environmental pollution associated with replacement of thermal generation with
hydropower generation and HPP capacity.
The intangible benefits i.e. not quantified or valued here, are the improved safety and extended plant life
and improvement of water quality in Dnieper river as a result of elimination of oil leakages from the
rehabilitated turbines into the river. For details on the context of the current analysis see Attachment 1 on
Development of the Ukraine Power System.
QUANTIFICATION OF BENEFITS
It is important to recognize that the benefits represent inherently small incremental improvements and
cannot generaly be quantified precisely. In the SAR, for example, only the increased efficiency due to the
rehab (notably turbine runner replacement) was quoted specifically. All other benefits were simply reflected
in the assumed rates of performance (i.e. energy) loss over time. Moreover, even the increased turbine
efficiency is not measured directly but has to be largely inferred from model test results. The present
approach attempts to improve the analysis by quantifying each specific benefit but of necessity the
assessment remains to a large extent judgmental.
Summary of quantified benefits: The overal increase in energy and guaranteed capacity under the project
is summarized in the folowing table:
-62 -



Table 4. Energy and capacity increase
Project           Average Energy         Increase in 2002           Increase In 2020
Added (GWh/yr   Energy     Guaranteed/Firm  Energy    Guaranteed/Firm
from 1998-2031)  (GWhIyr) capacity (MW)     (GWh/yr) capacity (MW)
Kiev PSP          1               <1         5                1         8
Kiev              33              29        30                37        39
Kanev             8               3          9                10        15
Kremenchug        29              22         10               33        17
Dniprodzerzhynsk  23               17       6                 26        10
Dnieper-I         123              116       68               136       86
Dnieper-2         20               8         17               26        29
Kakhovka          34               27        10               40        15
Total             270             222        156              310       220
Dniester***       12               12        7                12        7
*** Although it is allocated to the System Control component, the Dniester hydro plant is included here
since the evaluation is similar to that for the other HPPs.
The overall increase in energy and guaranteed capacity at completion has resulted from the following
combined impacts of the HPPs' rehabilitation:
1.    Testing-based efficiency improvements of 8.2.% at Dnieper-1; 3% at Kiev and 3.4% at Kahovka
HPP.
2.    Additional energy output of 107 GWh/year due to improved turbine and generator efficiency.
3.    Increase of installed capacity by 88.1MW (an average increase of 14% on the original capacity of
the rehabbed units) due to the upgrade of the 16 units of turbines and generators. Under the critical
conditions prevailing in winter (generally lower heads) the capacity increase as a result of the project is
limited to 73MW when system demand is at a maximum. However, during the periods of maximum daily
load of the power system (morning and evening hours) the whole additional capacity of the rehabilitated
units could be used for about 30 minutes to one - two hours)
4..    Improved reliability and availability resulting in:
a/ lower loss of capacity at 0.2% per year from the fully rehabilitated units, compared with a 0.5%
capacity loss from units without rehabilitation;
b/ lower annual loss of capacity of 0.4% from units with partial upgraded equipment only,
compared with a 0.5% capacity loss from units without rehabilitation;
c/ lower 0.1% loss of energy output per year from the fully rehabilitated units, compared with a
0.2% loss of energy output from units without rehabilitation;
d/ lower annual 0.15% loss of energy output from units with upgraded equipment only, compared
with a 0.2% loss of energy output from units without rehabilitation.
- 63 -



5.    Improved operations of the power plants leading to a 1.5% increase of energy generation at the 5
plants with a complete system upgrade: (Kiev, Dnieper-1, Dniprodzerzhynsk, Kremenchug, and Kakhovka)
and a smaller 0.3% increase for the plants with a partial system upgrade: Kiev PSP, Dnieper-2 and new
switchgear at Kanev HPP.
Details of the quantification of the project benefits are presented in Attachment 2.
BENEFIT VALUES'
The main quantifiable benefits are the additional energy and capacity obtained under the project The
additional hydro energy was valued as the cost savings resulting from replacing the equivalent energy
output with a combination of a gas and coal/gas fired plant (there is only minimal generation with oil).
The equivalent fuel cost savings are assessed at 2.33c/kWh in 2001, increasing progressively to 2.83c/kWh
in 2010, and remaining constant thereafter. Both values are averages for the Dnieper HPPs; adding
variable O&M, the respective values are 2.68 and 3.18c/kWh.
The fuel costs used to estirate the cost savings from replacing thermal energy with additional hydro energy
under the project are presented in Attachment 4.
The additional hydro capacity was valued as the cost of the avoided installation of new gas turbine
capacity which would be needed without the project to meet system peaking demand after 2012 as per the
latest estimate of the electricity demand and the least cost investment plan for the system. The adopted cost
for gas turbine (GT) was $375/kW plus 15% for the lower reliability of GT compared to hydro turbines.
Benefits from installing dam safety monitoring equipment at Kiev dam were not quantified and not
included in the economic analysis because it has not been practical to assign any specific probability of
failure - either to the situation prevailing prior to the implementation of the safety monitoring program or in
the context of the expected reduced risk attributable to the new monitoring system. However, the monetary
value of downstream damage in the event of a catastrophic failure of Kiev HPP has been estimated to be of
the order of US$3.5 billion - excluding any value allowed for loss of life or human injury. The population
immediately at risk downstream is about 100,000. In this context, although no economic benefit can be
quantified, the benefit is nonetheless real and substantial - certainly some millions of dollars on a present
value basis.
The main environmental benefits were derived from the reduction in polluting emissions attributable to
the reduction in energy generated from thermal plants replaced by the added hydro energy. Three harmful
pollutants have been identified: sulphur dioxide (S02), nitrous oxide (NOX) and carbon dioxide (C02).
Data from thermal plants in Ukraine has established representative amounts of these emissions. The
benefits associated with reducing S02 and NOX emissions have been valued at the corresponding
mitigation costs, based on the results in the (Global Environmental Facility) GEF Klaipeda Geothermal
Demonstration Project, Report No. 14614 LT. The benefit of reducing C02 emissions was based on
estimates provided by the Prototype Carbon Fund (PCF). The results are shown in Table 5. Ukraine is
eligible to participate in carbon emissions trade and therefore can directly benefit from reductions in (C02)
emissions.
-64-



Table 5. Valuation of emissions reduction
Emission                               S02      NOX     C02
Average rates of emission (g/kWh)
Coal                                   12.5     3       1143
Gas                                    13.7     3.4     444
Benefit Values ($/t of emission)       $600     $250    $3
Average unit benefit for 60/40 coal/gas  0.78   0.08    0.26
split (c/kWh)
Net present value ($M in 1996)         $14      $1      $14
The net present value of the three types of emissions totals $29 million, a little more than the NPV of the
project without allowing for emissions. (See spreadsheet table 3). The benefit from reducing carbon
emissions is expected to increase at some 10% annually, thus offsetting the impact of economic
discounting. The environmental benefits have been additionally enhanced by the non-quantified benefit from
installing environmentally safe turbine runners, and the subsequent elimination of oil leakages into the
Dnieper river from these turbines, thus improving the water quality. See details on load forecast and
valuation of project benefits in Attachments 3 and 4.
BASIC RESULTS
The numerical analysis is performed in a series of spreadsheets including one for each HPP and several
summary sheets. All of the key input parameters such as efficiency improvements, performance loss rates,
energy values and emission parameters etc. are provided in the spreadsheet table 4 on Input Parameters and
Summary of Results. In the results spreadsheets the economic benefits are summarized under four
categones: added energy, added capacity, O&M cost savings and environmental benefits. Annual values
are tabulated from 1997 to 2031 allowing for a 30-year evaluation period from project completion in 2002
(capacity benefits were valued only for 20 years to 2020). Economic viability is defined by two resulting
values: the Net Present Value (NPV) in US$ as discounted to 1996 (the year immediately before the first
project investment) at the reference discount rate of 10%, and the Economic Intemal Rate of Return
(EIRR). These results are also quoted both with and without environmental benefits.
The results obtained with the base case input parameters (see spreadsheet table 4 on Input Pararneters) are
summarized in table 6 below:
Table 6. Summary results of HPPs rehabilitation
Project      Investment Cost    NPV (excl.     EIRR (excd.      EIRR (with      Average Added
($million     environmental   environmental   environmental    Energy (GWh/yr
undiscounted)    benefits $M)     benefits)        benefits)       1998-2030)
Kiev PSP               $1.5            -$0.0           9.7%            10.4%               1
Kiev                   $28.9     -$5.7 (negative) or  69% (or -10%)      9%               33
(-so 0)
Kanev                  $2.1            $1.22           14.3%            16.1%              8
Kremenchug             $10.9           $0 5            10.6%           13.7%              29
Dmprodzerzynsk         $6.6            $2 08           15.1%           20.2%              23
Dnieper I              $34.8           $15.9           15.9%           20.1%              123
Dnieper 2              $2.8            $4.5            23.9%           27 8%              20
Kakhovka               $8.0            $3.3            15.6%           20.2%              34
Subtotal               $95.7           $21.9           13.0%           16.2%             270
Dniester               $5.6            $0.6            11 7%            14.9%             11
- 65 -



The present value of the benefits is $89.9 million in total (excluding Dniester) and (excluding
environmental benefits). Of this amount some 71% ($63.5M) is derived from the added energy, 21%
($19M) from the added capacity and 8% ($7.3M) from the O&M cost savings. (See spreadsheet table 3 on
Sumrnary Analysis). The Kiev HPP is viable if more optimistic, but still reasonable, evaluation parameters
are adopted - notably for the rate of loss of energy over time. Kiev PSP is marginally viable, only in
consideration with environmental benefits, which reflects the impact of the reduced scope of equipment
installed at this plant. However, this result is not very significant given the relatively minor investment.
Further comments on viability results are provided in the later section on Comparisons with the SAR.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Sensitivity analysis was carried out following the base and low load scenarios identified in the most recent
study of the UPS by Stone and Webster (S&W study). These load scenarios are presented in Attachment
3. Under both load scenarios, the switching values indicate that the Hydropower Plants Rehabilitation
component is viable even if there were no benefits from additional capacity or O&M savings. This project
component is most sensitive to reductions in energy output which provides 71% of the total component
benefits. The component is also sensitive to changes in gas price which measures benefits from replacing
thermal power with hydro power generated under the project. The component is sensitive to reduction in
coal prices only under the low load forecast. (See tables 7 and 7.1 on Sensitivity analysis)
Table 7. Sensitivity analysis (w(o environmental benefits) - base load
Impact Assessed                  Hydropower rehab       System Control         Total Project
Base Load                      NPV($M)     EIRR(%)   NPV($M) EIRR(%)      NPV($M) EIRR(%)
No change of parameters        21.9        13%       26.4       17.8%     40.3       13.6
No capacitybenefit from hydro  2.83        10.4      26.4       17.8       21.3      12.1
rehab
No O&M savings from hydro rehab 14.49      12%       26.4       17.8       33        13%
Reduction of hydro energy by 15%  12.35    11.7%     26.4       17.8      30.8       12.8%
No energy and capacity benefit from 21.9   13%       21.7%      16.6%      35.7%     13.2%
Dniester HPP
No energy and capacity benefit from 15.52  12.1%     21.7       16.6%      29.3      12.7%
Dniester HPP and 10% reduction of
energy output from Dnieper HPPs
No telecom (fiber optic cable)  21.9       13%       5.9        11.7%      19.8      11.8%
benefits
No telecom (fiber optic cable)  21.9       13%       2.8        11.2%      16.8%     11.7%
benefits and 60% reduction of fuel
savings
No fuel savings                21.9        13%       -12.5      4.8%       1.5       10.1%
S Switching values (NPV=C; EIRR=10%)
Reduction of hydro energy              -33%         if                             -63%
Reduction of fuel savings                 l                  -68%                    l
Reduction of gas price                  -51%                                       -88%
-66 -



Table 7.1 Sensitivity analysis (w/o envronmental benefits) - low load
Impact Assessed                  Hydropo er rehab       System Control        Total Project
Low Load                       NPV($M)     EIRR(%)   NPV($M) EIRR(%/)    NPV($M) EIRR(%)
No change of parameters        11.74       11.6%     25.9       17.7%     29.8       12.7
No capacity benefit from hydro  1.58       10.2%     25.9       17.7%     19.6       11.9%
rehab
No O&M savings from hydro rehab 4.36       10.6%     25.9       17.7%     22.4       12%
Reduction of hydro energy by 15%  2.41     10.3%     25.9       17.7%     20.4       11.9%
No energy and capacity benefit from 11.74  11.6%     21.7%      16.6%     25.5       12.3%
Dniester HPP
No energy and capacity benefit from 5.52   10.7%     21.7       16.6%     19.3       11.8%
Dniester HPP and 10% reduction of
energy output from Dnieper HPPs
No telecom (fiber optic cable)  11.74      11.6%     5.4        11.5%     9.2        10.8%
benefits
No telecom (fiber optic cable)  11.74      11.6%     2.4        10.9%     6.2%       10.6%
benefits and 60% reduction of fuel
savings
Switching values (NPV=0; EIRR-10o%)
Reduction of hydro energy              -19%                   1                    -52%
Reduction of fuel savings                 I                  -65%
Reduction of gas price                 -28%                                        -68%
Reduction of coal price                -82%
COMPARISON WITH THE SAR
The most significant viability factors at project completion which differ from those adopted in the SAR are
(i) a longer project evaluation period; (ii) a reduced physical scope; (iii) a lower load forecast; (iv) reduced
added energy in terms of lower energy and capacity gains from enhanced reliability and availability of the
HPPs; (v) higher fuel prices; (vi) larger initial O&M savings increasing at a lower rate.
The key viability factors discussed above have similar quantitative impacts:
a/     The longer evaluation period (30 versus 20 years) and higher fuel prices both improve
viability.
b/     The reduced project scope, lower load forecast (and consequent delayed capacity benefits)
and reduced added energy (due to the lower loss factors) all have an adverse effect on viability.
In addition, the conversion of current project costs to 1996 base equivalent resulted in a higher US$
equivalent which affected the EIRR levels, as described below:
c/     The appreciation of the US$ since 1996 has resulted in a higher US$ equivalent of the
foreign project costs in 1996 terms (adjusted by the MUV index), compared with current US$ equivalent.
d/     During the same period, the higher rate of devaluation of the UAH, relative to the
applicable domestic rate of inflation (PPI), also lead to a higher US$ (1996) equivalent of local cost
relative to the current US$ equivalent. See Table 8:
-67-



Table 8. Indexes, exchange rate
Year             1996    11997     1998     1999      2000     2001     2002
MUV index        116      107.9    103.8    103.5     101.5    100      99.5
Exch. rate UAH/$  1.83     1.86    2.45     4.13     15.44     5.372    15.3
PPI              100       1.08    1.22     1.48      1.93     2.1      2.13
SAR comparison in detail
1.     Evaluation period: the SAR assumed full project completion by 2001 and adopted a 20-year
evaluation period to 2020 with the first investment in 1995, discounting extended over 26 years
(1995-2020). Monetary values were expressed in constant 1994 US$. Due to the initial implementation
delay the project was completed in mid-2002 (first investment in 1997). The completion assessment has
adopted a longer 30-year life for the major physical components and hence discounting is from 1997
through 2031. The sole exception are the capacity benefits which were extended for 20 years only.
Monetary values are now expressed in constant 1996 US$. The change in base year is not significant as
far as comparing the project's ELRRs at appraisal and at completion is concemed. The extended life is
however significant: with the adopted 30-year life the NPV is $21.9 million. With a shorter 20-year life the
NPV is reduced by 36% to $13.86 million and EIRR is also reduced by about 1.7%.
2.     Physical scope: the single most costly physical component is the almost complete rehab carried out
on some of the units. The SAR allowed for rehab of 23 units (out of a total of 93 among the eight plants)
which accounted for about 60% of the total investment These units represented some 33% of the total
energy capability of the Dnieper plants. In contrast only 16 units were fully rehabbed and these comprised
only about 18% of the total energy. Hence, since the principal benefit is provided by added energy, the
revised reduced scope will have an adverse impact on economic viability. The reductions were applied at
three HPPs (Kremenchug, Dniprodzerzynsk and Kakhovka) which had the highest net benefits and EIRR at
appraisal. The actual scope of the other project work was similar though naturally tailored to the actual
physical conditions encountered - more work was carried out on essential replacements to equipment
(circuit breakers etc.), and additional new control systems were installed at Kremenchug and
Dniprodzerzynsk. At the same time system control equipment was upgraded in a limited scope at Kiev PSP
to respond to specific needs of this power plant.
3.     Load forecast: the SAR adopted a base case forecast with gross energy demand bottoming out at
180 TWh in 1997 and growing to 222 TWh by 2005, and 258 TWh in 2010 - an annual growth rate of
about 3%. The current base case forecast is much lower, current demand is less than 170 TWh and is
expected to reach only 221 TWh by 2010. (These load forecasts are shown in Attachment 3 in this
report). The impact of the load forecast is largely confined to the assessment of the benefit attributable to
the added hydro capacity. The SAR analysis was based on a least-cost expansion plan which provided for
substantial generation plant additions from 2008, to meet the peak demand of about 46,000 MW in 2010.
The plant additions included a substantial amount of peaking capacity - in terms of both gas turbine and
Dniester pumped storage. Although not specifically stated, the apparent conclusion was that the added
hydro capacity would be valuable by 2008 if not earlier. With the current lower load growth (used in the
S&W study), the S&W study indicated that the existing system would be technically sufficient to meet
peak demand until 2007 and that rehabilitation of existing thermal power plants was an optimal way to help
meet peak demand until 2010. In this context, the additional hydro capacity as a result of the project was
conservatively assigned value for operations starting in 2012 when additional peaking capacity would
probably be required.
-68 -



However, in view of the real constraints of the thermal power plants to provide sufficient peaking capacity
at present because of equipment wear and tear and lack of good quality fuel, the additional hydro capacity
from the project could be assigned value for operations which would start several years earlier, in 2008, for
example, assuming also somewhat higher load as well. Under such a more optimistic scenario, similar to
the one in the SAR, EIRR could increase by about another 1.5%.
4.     Added Energy and Capacity: the SAR derived the added hydro energy as a function of two
factors: first, the improved efficiency expected from the 23 fully rehabbed units, and second, the reduction
in performance over time - estimated at 0.5%/yr under the 'without' scenario, but only 0.1% reduction
with the project.w As a result the amount of added energy increases quite rapidly over time, for example
from 376 GWh in 2001 to 962 GWh by 2020. The initial gain from the 23 units was estimated at 123
GWh, an average increase of 3.75%. The new analysis is based on a somewhat different approach: the
rehabbed units.are treated in the same manner - the actual efficiency increase is similar (although as much
as 8% at Dnieper-1) - but a much lower reduction in performance over time is now thought reasonable. In
partial compensation the new analysis allows for a specific improvement in operational efficiency due to
the new control systems installed fully at five of the plants. (In the SAR improvements of this nature were
of course also expected but presumably accounted for within the different adopted 'loss' rates.) The
following table compares the two approaches:
Table 9. SAR comparison
Source of Added Energy (GWh/yr)   SAR                    New Analysis
Initial unit rehab (improved efficiency)  123 GWh (23 units)  95 GWh (16 units)
Allowance for additional flow used b NA                  24 GWh
rehabbed units and reduced spill
Allowance for improved operation  NA                     97 GWh
Allowance for different rates of  344 GWh                54 GWh
performance loss over time
Total average annual              567 GWh (over 25 years) 270 GWh (over 35 years)
The SAR did not refer to any added capacity - however, the original SGI feasibility study for the project
quoted an increase of some 92 MW in nominal capacity from the 23 rehabbed units. The apparent reason
for this is that benefits were assigned to energy only and referred to as "..the estimated economic value of
peak power... ". This value was presumably derived from the least-cost expansion plan already referenced
and included both an energy component (essentially thermal plant fuel and O&M costs) plus a capacity
component (logically related to the capital cost of peaking gas turbine plant). In practice the actual
increase in capacity was considerably greater than 88 MW (nominal) from only 16 units.
5.    Fuel prices:
Table 10. Comparative fuel prices
Fuel Prices ($/GJ)       SAR                 New Analysis
In 2000  Iln 2010   In 2000 and 2010
Coal                     $0.96     $0.96     $0.74 to 1.69 (function of quality)
Natural gas              $1.62     $2.36     $2.70
Typical coal/gas mix     $1.20        $1.40  $1.86
- 69 -



The SAR allowed for significant cost escalation (in real terms) from 1994 (the base year) to 2000 for coal,
continuing to 2010 for natural gas. Allowing for the fact that the actual evaluation period is generally from
2000-on, a reasonable approximation is that the new prices are effectively about 20-30% higher.
6.    O&M Cost Savings: neither the SAR nor the new analysis adopted any substantial cost savings.
For the eight plants as a whole the SAR used a saving of $100,000/yr in 2001 which increased to $1.1
million by 2010 - contributing a total of about $2 million to the NPV. By comparison the new analysis has
a larger initial savings of $570,000 in 2001 increasing at a lower rate to $1,08 rnillion by 2010, adding
$5.3 million to the NPV and contributing to a 1% increase of EIRR.
Plant - by -plant comparison
In the SAR Kiev HPP was the least viable of the large investments per HPP. The reason is that Kiev is
equipped with bulb turbines and as a result the equipment cost is high in terms of $/kW. In addition, the
plant capacity factor is low and hence the investment cost per unit of energy is high. In the SAR these
disadvantages were largely offset by the assumed loss factors of 1.5%/yr without rehab reducing to
0.10/o/yr with rehab). As a result, the initial added energy increased rapidly to as much as 200G Wh in
2020 and 116 GWh/yr averaged over 25 years. The 1.5%/yr reduction in energy (loss factor) is now
thought to be too large. It is noteworthy that in the SAR the standard loss factor applied to all of the other
plants was 0.50/o/yr. The comparative value now adopted is a much lower rate of 0.20/o/yr loss of energy
without rehab (compared to 0.1% with rehab). Although this is a reasonable value for the plants as a whole
it is necessarily judgmental and could be higher. Taking an optimistic view, a loss factor of 0.5% combined
with a greater improvement from the enhanced operating and control system (2.5 instead of 1.5%) provides
an EIRR of 10%. One further point, as noted earlier, the benefits from improved dam safety apply to Kiev
and although not quantified are certainly substantial and improve viability.  Taking into account
environmental problems and design features of Kiev HPP, the largest scope of very complicated, unique
and important project works was executed here, at this HPP.
Table 11. EIRR at appraisal and completion
Project         EIRR (excl. environmental
benefits)
SAR     New
Kiev PSP        11%      9.7%
Kiev            13%      6.9% (-10%)
Kaniv           30%      14.3%
Kremenchug      24%      10.6%
Dniprodzerzynsk  25%     15.1%
Dnieper-I       17%      15.9%
Dnieper-2       13%      23.9%
Kakhovka        18%      15.6%
Total           17.0%    13.0%
The other HPP-specific differences are largely explicable by the alterations in project scope. The
cancellation of full unit rehabs at Dnieper-l, Denprodzerzhinsk, Kremenchug and Kakhovka for example,
explains the lower EIRR at these plants at completion. The partial, instead of full rehabilitation of the
-70 -



system control at Kanev and Kiev PSP has been reflected in the lower EIRR at this power plant. Lower
energy and capacity gains from improved operations have led to lower EIRR at Kanev BPP. The higher
EIRR at Dniper-2 at completion can be mainly attributed to the impact of installing more equipment than
planned.    -
SYSTEM CONTROL COMPONENT
BENEFITS
At appraisal
The sole benefit quantified in the SAR was the fuel saving which was assessed (conservatively) at 0.9%
of the total annual fuel consumed in the UPS - excluding nuclear fuel. On completion in 2000 the saving
was quoted as $12.6 million from a total fuel cost of $1,402 million (for 108.6 TWh i.e. at an average of
1.29 c/kWh). If expressed as an energy equivalent, the savings amounted to 980 GWh. As the load
demand grows, including the thermal plant portion, the saving increases to $19.8 million by 2020.'
The evaluation period extended from 1995 (first investment) to 2000 (completion) and for 20 years
thereafter. Intangible benefits were cited as increased system stability and reliability, improved frequency
control and facilitation of future interconnections with neighboring power pools.
At completion
As in the SAR, the principal benefit in the completion analysis is derived from the reduction in fuel costs
attributable to improved operations. The fuel savings were now estimated directly by calculating the results
of:
*     Improved allocation of spinning reserve - with the largest unit (nuclear) of 1,000 MW, the same
amount of spinning reserve is typically allocated among the thermal units on-line. Previously this was
done manually and now that an automatic dispatch is possible, a saving of about 4% of the fuel
required (equivalent to about 15 tonnes/hour of standard fuel) is expected. Since the full 1,000 MW of
reserve is typically required about two thirds of the time this now amounts to about 87,600 tonnes/year
(equivalent to 225 GWh).
nImproved frequency control - this is estimated to reduce fuel consumption by about 0.9%,
applicable to some 2,000 MW of thernal capacity that is typically affected. The net savings is
estimated at 35,300 tonnes/year of standard fuel (equivalent to 90 GWh). This is only a portion of the
savings expected when full automatic frequency control is applied - as noted earlier some key work in
this area was cancelled.
The most common fuel used by the affected plants is a 70/30 raw coal/gas mix. With the fuel costs as
described earlier under Hydro Rehab ($1.86/GJ equivalent to 1.8 c/kWh) the annual saving is $5.7 million.
This amounts to about 0.4% of the normal thermal fuel cost for the entire system. This is now regarded as
a conservative estimate of the savings which are expected to stay more-or-less constant over the 20 year
evaluation period - barring any change in fuel prices.
-71 -



Significant additional benefits are estimated to be obtained from the modernized fiber-optic communication
lines. The fiber optic communication lines will, for the foreseeable future, have spare capacity and this will
be made available to other users on a commercial basis. Based on current tariffs the expected initial
revenue is estimated at $3.5 million/year.
Quantifiable benefits from upgrade of the transmission relay protection sets have been negligible.
The benefits attributable to the improvements at the Dniester hydro project have been assessed under the
Hydro Rehab component - since they are similar to those for the Dnieper hydro projects. In summary they
consist of an average of 11 GWh/yr of added energy and 7 MW of capacity.
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS
These are derived from the reduced fuel consumption and calculated using the approach described for the
Hydro Rehab component.
BASIC RESULTS (summarized in table 12)
Table 12. System Control
Item                            Discounted Values ($millions)
Fuel Cost Savings               $38.9
Telecom Benefits                $20.5
Dniester HPP                    $4.7'
Total Benefits                  $64.0
Investment Costs                $37.6
Net Present Value               $26.4 (EIRR = 17.8%)
Environmental Benefits          $26.4
NPV (with environmental benefits)  $52.8 (EIRR = 23.8%)
Note that the evaluation period is 20 years after completion in 2001, i.e. 1997-2021, except for hydro
benefits at Dniester which extend for 30 years to 2031.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
The system control component remains viable even without the benefits from fiber optic cable and the
energy or capacity benefits at Dniester HPP. This component is sensitive to changes in fuel savings, which
ensure 61% of total component benefits. (See tables 7 and 7.1 on Sensitivity)
COMPARISON WITH THE SAR
EIRR at completion was 17.7% (without environmental benefits) compared with EIRR of 22.7% at
appraisal. The main reason for the lower EIRR at completion was the cancellation of the project
sub-component for related thermal plant unit govemors which has consequently led to almost twice lower
savings of the total system fuel cost at completion vs. 0.9% savings estimated at appraisal. The impact of
this cancellation dominated the new benefits from fiber optic communication lines identified at completion.
- 72-



ATTACHMENTS
Attachment 1. Development of the Ukraine Power System
Before the break-up of the Soviet Union the lJkraine Power System (UPS) operated as an integral
component of the Soviet system. Most of the generation was provided by thermal plants, largely coal fired
and nuclear. Some 4,700 MW of hydropower provided peak power and additional peaking capacity was
expected from a 2,200 MW pumped storage plant under construction on the Dniester River. Following the
independence of Ukraine, electricity generation has dropped more-or-less continuously in line with domestic
demand and the system was finally separated from Russia in 1993. At present the power system has an
installed capacity of about 50,000 MW: 30,000 MW of thermal, 12,000 MW nuclear and 4,700 MW of
hydro plus lesser amounts of industrial and combined heat and power plants. Generation in 2000 totalled
167,000 GWh with a peak demand of about 29,000 MW - a load factor of 67%. Generation in 2001 was
169,000 GWh.
The system demand features a marked seasonal variation with a winter peak and relatively high daily load
factors. During the winter with relatively low flows, the HPPs operate purely in a peaking role at 15/20%
capacity factor and usable capacity can be constrained by the available energy.
The HPPs are used to meet as much of the daily load variation as possible, which results in part from the
poor operating flexibility of most of the thermal plants.
Current planning over the medium-term is based on the retirement from service of some of the least
efficient and oldest thermal plants, rehabilitation of over 9,000 MW of existing thermal plants and their
conversion to more efficient coal-only fuel (at present most of the plants have to bum a mix of coal and gas
due to a combination of poor quality coal and substandard conditions). Most of the existing nuclear plants
will also be rehabbed and some 2,000 MW of nuclear plant capacity will be then be completed.
By 2010 peak demand is expected to grow to about 41,000 MW with a system capacity of 53,000 MW.
No new peaking plant is expected to be required during this period and the existing hydro plant will
continue to meet a large portion of the daily load variation. Details on recent load forecasts are given in
Attachment 4 further below. Beyond 2010, with continued load growth of about 4%/yr, i.e. over 2,000
MW a year, some new plants will be required, probably including some peaking plant - as and when the
existing hydropower plants are no longer able to meet all of the peak power demands.
- 73 -



Attachment 2: Ouantification of benefits from the Hydropower Rehabilitation and System Control
component
Improved Turbine/Generator Efficiency: this benefit applies to those 16 generating units which have
been rehabbed with new turbines and refurbished generators and related ancillary equipment. The net
increase in energy is derived by applying the improved efficiencies (average weighted values) to the base
energy values with an additional adjustmnent to allow for the possibility for the rehabbed units to use more
flow. This reflects the fact that the rehabbed units would be dispatched in preference to the less-efficient
older units. Based on a study of the typical operating regime within the power system, the analysis
assumes that in a typical day unit loading follows a trapezoidal form with the maximum load duration some
20% longer than the minimum. To illustrate: with an overall capacity factor of 30%, the maximum
duration is 40% (9.6 hours) and minimum 20% (4.8 hours). Hence, at the limit, the most efficient unit
would operate 40% of the time, the least efficient only 20% and one rehabbed unit would use 33% (40/30)
more flow than the average. This concept is illustrated in the diagram below:
t      /        ~~~~~~Worst unit ..\
+ i ~~~~~~~-~- -i-8et unt - -- - - . 
The efficiency improvements were established by testing of the units and are listed below
Table 13. Efficiency improvements
Project (all efficiencies are   Dnieper-1            Kiev                  Kakhovka
weighted averages)m2
Turbine Efficiency % (rehab/original)  93.0/86.4     92.4/90.3             90.8/87.8
Generator Efficiency % (rehab/original) 97.5/97.0    96.6/96.1 u           97.5 no change
All other equipment and station service 99.0 no change  99.1/99.0&         99.0 no change
% (rehab/original)
Overall Efficiency % (rehab/original)  89.77/82.97 = +8.2%  88.49/85.88 = +3.0%  87.64/84.76 = +3.4%
No. of units rehabbed and total energy  6 of 9 (+79 GWh)  9 of 20 (+9 GWh)  I of 6 (+7 GWh)
added
Increase in Flow used by rehabbed units 11%          26%                    19%
Net % increase in average energy for  9.1%           3.8%                  4.05%
rehabbed units
Base case average energy ***    1,448 GWh            663 GWh               1,230 GWh
Net increase in energy          88 GWh                11 GWh               8 GWh
the base case energy is derived by simulation of plant operation with a representative 54-year historical flow
record (1919/72) and is a measure of the expected average annual energy.
-74-



The net result is a basic increase of 95 GWh which increases to 107 GWhlyr after allowing for the
allocation of additional flow to the more-efficient units. This represents 3.2% of the original capability of
3,341 GWh for the three plants and 1.2% of the total of 8,933 GWh for all eight plants on the Dnieper.
Increase in Capacity Due to Unit Upgrading: All of the 16 rehabbed units produce additional capacity as
shown below:
Table 14. Capacity Increase
Project            Dnieper I         Kiev                   Kakhovka       Total (3 plants)
Original Capacity at  585 MW         361 MW   (4 units x 16.3 300 MW (6 units x 1,246 MW (597.4 MW
design head (#units)  (9units x 65 MW)  MW                  50 MW)         rehabbed)
and 16 units x 18.5 MW)
Rehabbed Unit capacity 6 units x 72 MW (+7 4 units x 22 MW  lunit x 55.8 MW  685.5 MW (+88.1MW)
at design head     MW/unit)          (+5.7 MW/unit)        (+5.8 MW)
5 units x 22 MW
(+3.5 MW/unit)
OriginalCapacity   550MW             353 MW (4 units x 15.85 313MW          1,216MW
Available in winter (at (9units x 61.1MW)  MW               (6  units  x52.
90% reliability)                     and 16 units x 18.1 MW)  MW)
Winter Capacity after 601 MW (+51 MW)  373 MW (+20 MW)      315 MW (+2 MW) 1,289 MW (+73 MW)
Rehab              I_I_I
The result is an increase of 88.1 MW in the installed capacity (an average increase of 14% on the original
capacity of the rehabbed units). This reduces to 73 MW under the critical conditions prevailing in winter
characterized by lower head. At the same time, when system demand is at a maximum the entire capacity
increase, achieved with the project, is used during the daily maximum load for a period of tirne between 30
min. to one - two hours.
An additional benefit attributable to the added capacity is an increase in energy. This is generated during
the spring when with unusually high inflows (greater than the plant maximum discharge capacity through
the turbines) the plants spill water. At these times the added capacity can be used continuously reducing
spill and adding energy. Kiev is the HPP most prone to spill since it does not benefit from the reservoir
storage at Kremenchug (downstream). Consequently, an estimated average spill duration of 2% (or one
week a year) at Kiev HPP applied to 40 MW of added capacity results in added energy of 7 GWh/yr.
Dnieper-1 also benefits in the same way but spill there is less at only 1% of the time, adding 4 GWh/yr.
Improved Physical Condition and Hence Increased Reliability and Availability. This overall
improvement is attributable to a number of factors and accounts for an increase in both capacity and
energy.
Increase in capacity
It is generally accepted within the industry that as plants age the deterioration in physical condition (which
can only be partially overcome by maintenance) leads to a progressive increase in the duration of outages.
The result is an increase in the time when one or more of the units are not available due to either scheduled
outages or, more seriously, forced outages. Noting that most of the units are relatively old, the SAR
allowed for a reduction in performance at the rate of 0.5%/yr for all units without rehab. This is still
regarded as a reasonable value in line with industry practice and in accordance with the observed condition
- 75 -



of the plants. The main impact will be a progressive reduction in the available (firm or guaranteed)
capacity.
The total available capacity in winter (the peak demand period) for the eight plants is 3,530 MW at present
- under prevailing adverse conditions of low flow and head. Given the current overall physical condition of
the equipment, an availability factor of 92% was applied to derive the guaranteed capacity of 3,248 MW
available to the system on demand (nominally 100% reliable, allowing for forced outages). With an
effective loss of 0.5%/yr, the net reduction in guaranteed (firm) capacity is about 16 MW/yr. On the other
hand, the more-or-less as-new rehabbed units will be more reliable and require a lower % provision for
reserve. Therefore, a value of 96% for availability is reasonable followed by a lower rate of loss in
capacity, estimated at 0.2/o/yr.
In addition, it is expected that the other improvements - apart from those specific to the fully rehabbed
units - such as new excitation systems, circuit breakers, instrumentation and protection equipment - will
enhance reliability at all of the plants and reduce the effective capacity loss rate from 0.5% to 0.4% and
increase the availability from 92 to 94%. The net result of these several factors is that the project will
increase the system guaranteed capacity by 152 MW initially (in 2001 and including the 73 MW solely
attributable to the 16 rehabbed units), increasing to 220 MW after 20 years.
Increase in energy output
The same physical deterioration will also reduce the energy capability of the plants. The main cause is a
loss of efficiency due to wear and tear on the turbines, typically combined with increased seal leakage. The
rate of efficiency (energy) loss is usually much less than the performance (capacity) loss associated with
reliability. Therefore, values of 0.20/o/yr reduction in energy were adopted for the existing plants (prior to
the rehab project), a 0.1% reduction for the 16 fully rehabbed units and a 0.15% reduction for the other
units. (The equivalent rates used in the SAR are different - this issue is discussed in the section on
Comparison with the SAR in the main text of the analysis). Note that a deterioration in reliability as such
is unlikely to reduce significantly the energy capability of the Dnieper HPPs since they generally have
sufficient capacity to avoid any loss due to spill in the event that a unit is out of service during the spring
high-flow period.
Improved Operational Performance: the previous procedure for operating the Dnieper hydropower plants
was largely reliant on outdated instrumentation, control and communication systems and dependence on
manual intervention. The rehab project includes the installation of modem control and monitoring systems
at five of the plants. Among other advantages this allows for the automatic and optimum loading of the
units with consideration of their respective efficiency curves. A related feature is the ability to enhance
management of the reservoirs and control flow down through the successive plants along the river. There is
no method by which the benefits of improved operations can be readily detemiined. General experience
within the industry is that the introduction of an up-to-date control system will increase energy generation
by at least one percent. Energy values within the power system, (in effect the ability to match hydro output
to system demands) are also typically enhanced. The provision of a better monitoring system also leads to
earlier detection of potential problems and hence improved reliability. The overall conclusion is that the
average energy generation would increase by 1.5% as a result of these improvements. This increase applies
to the five Dnieper HPPs affected (Kiev, Dnieper-1, Dniprodzerzhynsk, Kremenchug, and Kakhovka) plus
the Dniester HPP. Since more limited but still significant system improvements were also incorporated at
the other three plants {Kiev PSP, Dnieper-2 and Kanev (new switchgear only)} a smaller 0.3% increase
was adopted for them. The impact of increased reliability attributable to the control and monitoring
systems is covered in the preceding section. The overall increase in energy and firm capacity due to all of
- 76 -



the combined impacts of installed project equipment, discussed above, is summarized in the following table:
Table 15. Overall Increase in energy and firm capacity
Project             Average Energy             Increase in 2002              Increase In 2020
Added (GWb/yr from Energy    Guaranteed/Firm     Energy     Guaranteed/Firm
1998-2031)        (GWb/yr)   capacity (MW)       (GWh/yr)   capacity (MW)
Kiev PSP            I                 <1         5                   1          8
Kiev                33                29         30                  37         39
Kaniv               8                 3          9                   10         15
Kremenchug          29                22         10                  33         17
Dm_prodzerzhynsk    23                17         6                   26         10
Dnieper-l           123     '_116                68                  136        86
Dnieper-2_ 20                L_       8          17                  26         29
Kakhovka           134                27         10                  40         15
Total              1270              1222        156                 310        220
Dniester***         112                         17                  112         7
*** the Dniester hydro plant is included here since although it is allocated to the System Control
component, the evaluation is similar to that for the other HPPs.
Reduced O&M Costs: O&M costs savings were outlined in US$ terms on the basis of DHEs estimate for
the impact from each specific equipment in terms of reducing personnel and repairs needs.
- 77 -



Attachment 3: Load forecast
Information on the probable development of the power system was derived largely from the most recent
relevant study - "Completion of Khmelnitsky 2 and Rovno 4 in Ukraine Economic Due Diligence" by
Stone & Webster Consultants dated July 2001 (S&W study). This study presented a probable least-cost
development plan from 2000 to 2010.
The report notes that the base case expansion plan, is in fact a 'rehabilitation plan'. It covers a period
from 2000-2010 and the base case forecast demand (EBRD) is from 168.3TWh (29,900 MW peak) in
2000 to 221.1 TWh (40,700 MW) in 2010 - growing at -4.5% after 2003. Load factors are about
64/62% gradually reducing over time. The report also states that the existing (2001) plants would be
'technically sufficient' to meet the peak demand until 2007, i.e. 35,600 MW. (This tends to confirm the
validity of the availability factors adopted in the present analysis.) The load forecasts used in the S&W
study are shown in the table and diagram below together with those used in the SAR:
Table 16. Load For casts (' I   _h/yr)
Source          SAR (basic)     SAR (low)      S&W (base)      S&W (low)
Year
1995            188             188            192
1996            182             182            181
1997            179             178            177
1998            180             176            172
1999            183             174            169
2000            189             171             167
2001            196             173             169
2002            202             176             161            154
2003            208             179             165            155
2004            215             183             169            158
2005            222             188             177            163
2006            228             193             185            169
2007            235             199             193             175
2008            242             205             02             182 _
2009            250             210            211              190
2010            258             216             21              198
Note: actual generation in bold italics
-78 -



Ukraine Power System: Load Forecasts
270 -.
250   - __
u 230                     -                    - SAR (basic)
...SAR (tow)
E  210  -_e R 1w
0                                             - / S&W (base)
>' 190              t                            . I. P   ------ S&W (low)
10
1995        2000       2005        2010
Year
Up to 2010, there are no net additions to system capacity apart from the completion of the two 1,000 MW
nuclear plants. Some 9,200 MW of existing thermal plant capacity is rehabbed and converted to bum coal
more efficiently. The indication is that a further 10,000 MW of thermal plant is probably available (and
viable) for rehab. With the improved reliability (with a typical forced outage rate [FOR] at -7% afier
rehab compared to about 15% before rehab) this would increase the firm available capacity to about
42,200 MW - marginally adequate for the projected peak demand in 2011. It follows that some new
generation plant would be required by 2012 at the latest.
At a nominal 4% growth rate and 15% capacity reserve about 2,000 MW/yr of capacity should be added.
Given the nature of the system some portion capacity of this should be peaking plant - assuming that the
available hydro plant is fully used as a source of peak power. As a minimum it is logical that about 5 to
10% (100-200 MW/year) of the new 2000 MW/yr will be required as peaking plant. Some portion of this
peaking plant, may be provided by additional hydro capacity, the remainder by gas turbine plant, or all of
the needed peaking plant could be provided either by additional hydro capacity or by gas turbine plant.
- 79-



Attachment 4: Valuation of benefits from hydropower plant rehabilitation
Thermal Energy Displaced by Added Hydro Energy.
As a base case, the S&W study used the following fuel costs shown in the table below:
Table 17. Fuel costs
Fuel Type            Basic Cost    Unit Cost ($/GJ) Typical Plant Fuel   Typical Cost
Consumption (KJ/kWh) (c/kWh)
Coal (washed low       $30.8/tonne       $1.69              9500                1.6
sulphur)
Coal Mix (low quality)  $13.3/tonne      $0.95              9900               0.95
Natural Gas             $96/000m3        $2.70            9000/9600           2.4/2.6
(-$90/tequiv)
Oil                     $205/tonne       $5.05              8800                4.4
(-$29/bbl)
Raw unwashed coal      $27.3/tonne       $1.50               NA                 NA
(Schtib, used with gas)
Mix 1 (85%raw                            $1.68              9600                1.6
coal/15%gas)
Mix 2 (70% coal/30%                      $1.86              9600                1.8
gas)
Mix 3 (50% coal/25%                      $2.69              9900                2.7
gas/25% oil)
Mix 5 (70% gas/30% oil)                  $3.41              10300               3.5
Note that a reduction of more than 25% in the cost of natural gas brings the effective fuel cost for gas-fired
plant below that for the coal/gas mix. Nuclear fuel costs are excluded but average about 0.8c/kWh. The
key issue is which type of thermal plant generation will be displaced by additional hydro energy and hence
the fuel cost savings.
Examination of probable plant dispatch or stacking diagrams shows that the added hydro energy will
normally be used during the daytime and evening peak hours. The average annual capacity factor for the
hydro plants is about 30%, ranging down to 15/25% during the peak winter period and over 40% during
the short spring high-flow period The S&W study shows that for all years (2000-10) the lower-cost
nuclear and rehabbed coal fired plant will operate at base load, as will almost all of the plants using the
lower cost Mix 1. Therefore the hydro energy will displace some combination of gas and coal/gas fired
plant (there is only minimal generation with oil).
There is no exact method of allocating the hydro energy. The assumption adopted is that all hydro energy
at up to a 10% capacity factor would displace peak thermal energy (typically during the evening peak
demand during winter). At the other extreme, energy at above the 30% capacity factor would represent
largely off-peak power. The following table below shows the resulting allocation adopted - averaged over
the eight Dnieper HPPs:
-80 -



Table 18. Energy allocation
Hydro Energy Class             system in 2001                    System in 2010
% Energy    Thermal plant Fuel cost  % Energy  Thermal plant  Fuel cost
Allocation  (typical CF%) (c/kWh)  Allocation  (typical CF%)  (c/kWh)
Peak during winter     34%     Gas 10%          2.4       30%     Gas (5%)          3.1
Intermediate           60%     Coal/gas mnix     1.9      55%     Part gas &      2.4 (av)
winter/summer peak             (25%)                              coal/gas mix
(15/30%)
Other incl. spring      6%     Coal/gas  mix     1.8      15%     Coal/gas mix      1.8
high-flow period               (50%)                              (50%)
Total (average fuel                             2.07                               2.52
co st)                          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
The fuel cost of new gas turbines is quoted as 11,100KJ/kWh at $2.7/GJ i.e. 3.0c/kWh. This is quite
similar to the cost for the existing displaced plant for the same peaking role. Hence the average cost of
displaced fuel should remain the same after 2010.
These fuel consumption rates are for gross generation within the thernal plants and thus include internal
consumption, i.e. station use which typically averages about 7%. The rates are believed to be valid as
overall averages for normal operation. There are strong indications that due to operating constraints with
the existing thermal plant, actual fuel consumption is significantly higher when plants are forced to operate
at varying loads - required to follow the daily increase between off and on-peak demand. This is necessary
since the hydro plants (ideal for this role) lack either the capacity or the energy required to provide this
service completely. For this reason the fuel costs in the above table have been increased by 5% to provide
a more realistic measure of the fuel cost savings. One further adjustmnent is required to allow for the
variable O&M cost (saved) at the thermal plants. The S&W study used an average of 0.35c/kWh for
variable O&M cost which was adopted.
After the preceding adjustments, the equivalent fuel cost savings are assessed at 2.33c/kWh in 2001,
increasing progressively to 2.83c/kWh in 2010, and remaining constant thereafter. Both values are
averages for the Dnieper HPPs; adding variable O&M, the respective values are 2.68 and 3.18c/kWh.
Capacity Benefits
As noted above, analysis of the S&W study leads to the conclusion that, with the base case load forecast,
additional peaking capacity would be assigned value starting in 2012. This conclusion was used to derive
the amount of hydro capacity valuable to the system. A further consideration was given to the degree of
availability of hydroenergy needed to make the project hydro capacity usable and hence valuable to the
system.
In addition, all indications are that future trends in demand will lead to lower annual and daily load factors.
Analysis shows that with the base case load forecast and an assumed typical winter day load factor of 85%
(compatible with an annual load factor of 62/64%) all of the firm hydro capacity will be usable well before
2010. It follows that the subsequent constraint on capacity benefits is the system demand for peaking
power.
-81 -



Assuming conservatively that only 5% of the growing system demand should be met by new gas turbine
(GT) plant after 2012, all of the added firm hydro capacity (some 200MW at that point in time) is usable
by 2014. The value adopted is $375/kW (S&W study cost for gas turbine) plus 15% for the lower
reliability of GT compared to hydro.
Dam Safety Monitoring System
The SAR proposed to provide a dam safety analysis and monitoring system at all of the Dnieper HPPs.
For a variety of practical reasons such a system was installed only at Kiev HPP. However, the apparent
reduction is less than it might appear since the Kiev project creates the most upstream reservoir and is
probably the most sensitive in terms of potential damage in the event of a dam failure.
The new Computer-Aided Dam Safety Monitoring System at Kiev HPP will significantly reduce the risk of
emergency situations. The risk of such situations is lower at hydraulic structures equipped with a
computer-aided monitoring system versus structures which do not have such a system.
In addition, the new Computer-Aided Dam Safety Monitoring System at Kiev HPP increased reliability,
effectiveness, and efficiency of monitoring the safety of the hydraulic structures of the Dnieper cascade.
The introduction of modem technology and establishment of a database for assessing the conditions of the
dams allowed measurement data to be properly acquired and processed. Advanced warning is issued in
case of deviations of dam safety indicators from established standards. Monitoring of the safety conditions
of the dams is carried out in real time.
The commissioning of a new Computer-Aided Dam Safety Monitoring System at Kiev HPP helped achieve
the project objective to improve the safety of the hydropower plants in terms of:
/      Automation of meter reading and processing, analysis, storage, interpretation and presentation of
all information about dam control. This allows to better assess the level of dam safety and make relevant
decisions;
/      Rehabilitation of control instruments, including upgrade and repair of malfunctioning instruments,
installation of additionally needed instruments and their integration witiin modem technological solutions;
V      Review and modernization of methodological, technological and organizational procedures in
accordance with modem requirements and existing experience.
A dam safety monitoring system of this kind has been commissioned at the Kiev hydro power plant for the
first time in the CIS countries. Thus the monitoring of one of the world longest dams (50 km length) has
been automated.
Although no economic benefit from the project can be quantified the benefit is nonetheless real and
substantial - certainly some millions of dollars on a present value basis.
W Using DHE latest values of 95GWh
m Information on the probable development of the power system, including system costs was derived largely from
the most recent relevant study - "Completion of Khmelnitsky 2 & Rovno 4 in Ukraine; Economic Due Diligence"
by Stone & Webster Consultants, dated July 2001 (S&W study). This study presented a probable least-cost
development plan from 2000 to 2010.
There are minor variations in these two loss rates: Kiev was expected to lose 1.5% "without" and Dnieper 2 and
-82 -



Kanev 0.4% "with" project.
x This is the actual calculation used in the SAR, the text refers to 2.5% or 3% of the fuel used at the ONE THIRD
of the thermal plants that would be affected - 0.9% is one third of 2.7%.
w The total thermal fuel cost is held constant at 1.29c/kWh from 1995-00, then at 1.27c from 2001-10 and finally
at 1.25c from 2010-20. These costs are reasonably consistent with the 1994$ fuel prices quoted in the SAR (Annex
3) but the Annex predicts fuel cost increases of 30 to 45% by 2010. Hence the fuel cost savings may be
understated.
UE quotes a minimal reduction in O&M cost of only -$5000/yr - not worth considering.
The numbers quoted here come from the SARISGI and DHE.
The values in this table are consistent with the DHE estimated efficiencies and 95GWh.
11Q From the SGI study.
LW SGI quotes a 0.1% increase.
DHE reports a much lower cost for gas.
-83 -



UKRAINE HYDRO REHAB & SYSTEM CONTROL PROJECT
Table 1
SUMMARY ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
NPV(@ 10%)     1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002   2003    2004    2005    2006   2007
IRNVESTMENT COSTS (Sniulion)
Hydro Rehab Component             $68.0      $8.3     $18.3   $16.9   S17.4  $20.3   $14.5
System Control Component           S37.6     $6.9     $6.5    $12.3  $10.1    $13 0   $3.2
Dam Safety                         $1.3       $0.1    $0.2    $0.0    $0 0    $0.1    $1.7
Techmcal Assistance                $6.6       $2.3    $1.5    $1.6    $1.0    $1.2    $1 3
TOTAL                             $113.6     $17.5    $26.4   $30.8  $28.5    $34 6  $20.8
BENEFITS ($milhon)
Hydro Rehab Component              $89.9     $0.1     $1.2    $2.7    $3.7    $6.6    $7.8   $8 3    $8.7    $9 0    $9.4    $9.7
System Control Component          $64.1      $0 0     $0.1    $0.2    $0.4    $10.5  $10.5   $10.5  $10.6   $10 6   $10 6   $10.6
TOTAL                             $153.9      $0.1    $1.3    $3.0    $4.1    $17.1  $18.3   $18 9  $19.2   $19.6   $20.0   $20.3
NET BENEFITS (Sullhon)             $40.3    -$17 4   -$25.1  -$27.8  -$24.4  -$17 5  -$2.5   $18 9  $19.2   $19 6   $20.0   $20 3
EIRR                              13.6%
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS ($tilhon)
Hydro Rehab Comnponent            $29.1      SO0      $0.3    $0 9    $1.2    $2 2    $2.5   $2.6    $2 7    $2.9    $3 0    $3 1
System Control Cornponent          $26.4      $0.0    $0.0    $0.1    $0.1    $34     $3.4   $3.5    $3 6    $3.8    $3.9    $4.0
TOTAL                              $55.5      $0.0    $0.4    $0.9    $1.3    $5.5    $5.9   $6.1    $6.4    $6.6    $6.9    $7.2
NPV
NET BENEFITS (incl. environment)   $95.9     -$17.4  -$24.8  -$26.9  -$23.1  -$12.0   $3.5   $250    $25.6   $26.2   $26.8  $27.5
EIRR                              17.8%
Table I
SUMMARY ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
continued
2008       2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014   2015    2016    2017    2018    2031
INVESTMENT COSTS (Smrlhon)
Hydro Rehab Component
Systemr Control Component
Dam Safety
Technical Assistance
TOTAL
BENEFITS ($million)
HydroRehabComponent                $10.1     $10.5    $10.9   $11.7   $47.3   $49.0   $25.7  $13.4   $13.6   $13.8   $140    $152
SystemControlComponent             $10.6     $10.6    $106    $10.6   $12.0   $12.0  $11.1   $10.7   $10.7   $10.7   $10.7   $06
TOTAL                              $20.7     $21.1    $21.5   $22.3   $59.3   $61.0   $369   $24.1   $24.3   $24.5   $24.7  $158
NET BENEFITS ($mrullion)           $20.7     $21.1    $21.5   $22.3   $59.3   $61 0   $36 9  $24.1   $24 3   $24.5   $24 7   $15 8
EIRR
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS (Srnilhon)
Hydro Rehab Component              $3.3       $3.5    $3.7    $3.9    $4 2    $4.4    $4.7   $5.0    $5.4    $5.7    $6 2   $17.9
System Control Component           $4.2       $4.4    $4.5    $4.7    $5.0    $5.2    $5 5   $5.8    $6 1    $6.5    $6.9    $0 6
TOTAL    .                         $7.5       $7.9    $8.2    $8.7    $9.1    $9.6    $102   $10.8   $11.5   $12.2   $130   $185
NET BENEFITS (incl. environment)   $28.2     $29.0    $29 8   $31.0   $68.4   $70.6  $47 0   $34 9   $35.7   $36.7   $37.7   $34.3
- 84 -



Table 2: UKRAINE: SYSTEM CONTROL COMPONENT
(note all $ values are in millions)
1997    1998     1999     2000    2001    2002   2003
PVs
INVESTMENT COSTS                                      Total
Communications                                        $30.6        S23.1    $6 I    $4 5     $9 0     $5 7    $3 9    $1 4
SCADA, AGC, GCD, EMS                                  $13.3        $8.5     $0 0    $02      $1.6     $1 3    $8.8    $1 4
Transmission Line Relay Protection                    $2.6         $2.0     $0 8    $0.7     $0.1     $0.5    $0 1    $0 4
Dmester HPP- Control System & Circuit Breakers        S5.6         $4.1     $00     $1.1     $1 6     $26     $02     $0 1
TOTAL                                                 $52.0        $37.6    $6.9    $6.5     $12.3   $10.1    $13.0   S3.2
BENEFITS
Fuel Cost Savings                                                  $38.9    $0 0    $0 0     $0.0     $0 0    $6 6    $6 6    $6 6
Telecom Benefits                                                   $20.5    $0.0    $0 0     $0.0     $0 0    $3 5    $3 5    $3 5
Dniester HPP                                                       $4.7     $0 0    $01      $0 2     $0 4    $0 5    $0 5    $0 5
TOTAL                                                              $64.0    $0 0    $0.1     $0 2     $0.4    $10 5   $10 5  $10 5
NPV
NET CASH FLOW                                                      $26.4   -$6.9    -$6.3   -$12.1   -$9.8   -$2.5    $7.3   $10.5
EIRR         17.8%
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS Unit Value (c/kWh)
from SCADA etc fuel savings
S02 Emissions                   0.69                               $12.8    $0.0    $0.0     $0 0     $0.0    $2 2    $2 2    $2 2
NOX Emissions                   0.07                               $1.3     $0.0    $0 0     $0.0     S0 0    $0 2    $0 2    $0 2
CARBON emussions                0.27                               $11.0    $000    $00      $00      $0.0    $08     $09     $1 0
at Dniester HPP
S02 Emissions                   0.78                               $0.7     $0.0    $0 0     $0.0     $0 1    $01     $0 1    $0 1
NOX Emissions                   0.08                               $0.1     $00     $0.0     $0 0     $0 0     00     S0 0    S0 0
CARBON emissions                0.26                               $0.6     $0 0    $0 0     $0 0     $0 0    $0 0    $0 0    $0 0
Total Environmental Benefits                                       $26.4    $0.0    $0.0     $0.1     $0.1    $3.4    $3.4    $3.5
NPV
NET CASH FLOW (with emissions)                                     $52.8    -$6.9   -$6.3   -$12.0   -$9.7    $0.9    $10.7  $14.1
EIRR         23.8%
Total benefits     100%
Fuel cost savings   61%
Telecom beenfits    32%
Dniesetr HPP        7%
- 85-



Table 2: UICRAINE: SYSTEM CONTROL COMPONENT-continued
(note: all S values are in milons)
2004     2005         2006         2007    2008    2009     2010    2011    2012    2013   2020   2031
INVESTMNT COM
Communucations
SCADA, AGC, GCD, EMS
Transrmssion Line Relay Protection
Dniester HPP: Conro1 System
& Circuit Breakers
TOTAL
BENEFITS
Fuel Cost Savings              $6.6     $6 6         $6 6         $6.6    $6.6    $6 6     $6 6    $6 6    $6.6    $6 6   $6.6
Telecom Benefits               $3 5     $3 5         $3 5         $3.5    $3.5    $3.5     $3 5    $3 5    $3.5    $3.5   $3 5
Dniester HPP                   $0.5     $0 5         $0.5         $0.5    $0 5    $0 6     $0 6    $0.6    $1.9    $1 9   $0.6   $0.6
TOTAL                          $10.6    $10.6        $10.6       $10.6    $10 6   $10 6   $10.6    $10.6   $12.0   $12.0  $10.7  $0 6
NET CASH FLOW                  $10.6    $10 6       $10 6        $10.6    $10.6   $10.6   $10 6    $10 6   $12.0  $12 0   $10.7  $0.6
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS
from SCADA etc fuel savings
S02 Emissions                  $2 2     $2 2         $2 2         $2.2    $2.2    $2.2     $2.2    $2.2    $2 2    $2.2   $2.2
NOX Emissions                  $0.2     $0 2         $0 2         $0.2    $0.2    $0.2     $0.2    $0.2    $0 2    $0 2   $0.2
CARBON emnissions              $1 1     $12          $1.4         $1.5    $1 6    $1.8     $2.0    $2 2    $2.4    $2.6   $5 1
at Dniester HPP
S02 Emissions                  $0 1     $01          $01          $0.1    $0.1    $0.1     $0.1    $0.1    $0.1    $0.1    $01   $01
NOX Emissions                  $0 0     $0.0         $0.0         $0.0    $0 0    $0 0     $0.0    $0.0    $0.0    $0.0    $0 0   $0.0
CARBONemtssions                $0.0     $00          $00          $00     $0.1    $0.1     $0.1    $0 1    $0.1    $0 1    $02   $05
Total Envtromnental Benefits   $3 6     $3.8         $3.9         $4.0    $4 2    $4.4     $4 5    $4.7     $5 0   $5 2    $7 8   $0 6
NETCASH FLOW                   $14.2    $14.3        $145        $146     $148    $15.0    $152    $15.4   $16.9   $17.2  $18.5   $12
(with emissions)
- 86 -



-      rz"e   di
  s            E
-  i                     TI $:  %ffif  -> g   |  ;  |  R  "8
8 n 8RR"ga an;i
iua
i sooo te A8X     ;  R
r S~'             iiiiS              f
IH5 H                 i 



Tabkl UICRAE HYDRO REHAB
SUMMARY-uiflmI
(erd Dnst)
20D4              2005          20C6920D7                              20      2010     2011    2012     2013     2020      2031
WflHOUTPROECT
EERGY                               8879.5            88618        88440          88263          88087     8791 1  87735   87559    87384    87210    85996    84123
CAPACrIY                            31991             31831        31672          31514         31356      31199   31043   30888    30734    30580    29526    2794.2
WFM PROJECT
ENERGY                             91116              93988        90861          9073A         90607      90480   90353   9S2Z7    9010.1   89975    89097    87736
AddEmuy                             23Z1              2371          2421          2470           2520      2569    2619     2668    271.6    276.5     3101     3613
PeakEiegy                           768                785          802            818           835        852     869     885      902      918      1032     1205
Day,me Emw                          1280               1309         133.7          136.6         139.5     1423     1452    1480     150.8   1537      1731     2027
Off-1pakEnw                         273                278          282            286           290        294     298     302      306      311      339      382
EAe  Vahb                        Unit a h
Pfak Ezi                             3.9               40           4 1            42             43        4.4     4.5      4.5     4.5      4.5      4.5       4.5
Dayu-   gy                           3 1               32           33             33             3 4       3 5     3.       35      3.5      3.5      3.5       3 5
OffpkEEmR                            28                28           Z8             28             Z8       28      28       28      28       28        28       28
PeacEn ,                            $30                S31          $33            S34           $36        937     $39     $39      $40      $41      $4.6     $54
Dayt- Emw                           $40                S42          $43            $45           S47        $49     S51     S52      $53      S5.4     $61      $72
OffxcEak E3                         $08                $0.8         S08            $0.8          $08        $08     S08      $0.8    $08      $09      $09      $11
TOrAL                               $77                S8.0         S84            S8.7           $91       S94     $98     $100     $102     $104     $116     $136
CAPAaIY                             33629             3356.7       33386          33264         33144      33023   32904    32784   3266.5   3254.7   31730     30490
AddCqty                             1638               1676         1713           1751          1787      1824     1860    1896     1932     1967     220.5    2548
C2ayVahdw                            00                00           0.0             00            00        00      00       13      81.6     850       32       00
S Bene0 Soo                                            SO0          $0             SO0           Soo        Soo     SOO      $06     $360     $375     $14       S00
M Cost SavnE                       s$10                $10         S 0            $10           $1 0       $1.1    $11      $11     $11      $11      $13       $16
IOTALBENIEFIIr                      S87                S9.0         $9.4           $97           $101      $10.5    $109    $117     $473     $490     $144     $152
INVESMNTOSIS
NETCASIFYW                          $87                S90          $94            $97           $1S.1     $105     $109    $117     $473     $490     $144     $152
NVNRALABENE1S
S02 Enu   s                          $18               S18          S19            $19            $20       $20     $20      $21     S21      $22       $24      S28
N05XEmor                            $02                $02          S02            $02            $02       $02     $02      $02     $02      $02       $0.2     $03
CARBONmsxs                           $07               $08          $09            $10            $12       $13     $15      $16     $1.8     $20       $45     $148
TOTALEmmimBft                       $27                S29          $30            $31            S33       $35     S37      $39     $42      $44       S71     S179
NErCASHn.FLOW'ansx                  $114               $11.9        SIZ4           SIZ9          $13A      $140     $146    S156     $51.5    S534     $21.5    $332
Nam
daiury cambe   aTev     GWb
aglcapadtynwmbea1swi W
aU Smuiben am In nMk
-88-



UKRAME EYDRO REMIAB
Ibe 4: INPUT PARAMEIERS & StmmIay Reant
VarIable liput Pammem         Adopted
Domut Rat                         10%
Load Forecast (Base or Low)       Base
neg Loss Rates M%tyr)             Base     WVste      Base    Best
W/o projet                     0.20%      0.15%   020%     03091
forr habbd mtm                 0610%      010Yo    010%     005%
fhraDlatur mts                 0.15/      014%     015%     015%
Cacty Loss Rates (/ayr)          Base
W/o podea                     050         025%   0310%    0 60%
for rdeabbed saute             020%       015%     020h    0 20%
ftr aDl osl units              0.40A     0.20%    040%     0.40%
Avalabty Factois (%)              Base
W/o prljed                     92.00%      93%      92%      90%
fr rdeabbed Wmas               96.00%      95%      96%      97%
fcr al orAer wiuts             9400%       94%      94%      95%
Ot1 Factrbs                       Base
npadved Opea  (t/s)              150%        1%      1350%     2%
O&M SavngsIaea     Rate (%yr)    2D00/       1%      200%      3%
Engy Values adjusted to 1996
basn fonm 2D01 values (c/k%Th)    Base      LoW      Base
peak (gas)                      3 57       2.94     357
daybn (130gas)                   2 90      269       2.90
off-peak (30%. gas)             2.76       2 55     276
Mwomiasm EIeB Valas (rhWh)
peak (ps)                       445        364      4.45
daytsne (50% ps)                353       3 07      353
off-ak (30%/ gas)               2.76       2.55     2,76
YearfirMaxanum EangyValsw         2010      2015     2010
for
Emsussoa Pa sem                   Coal      Gas     Cost SA  okWh      SystC
S02 gikWh                         12.5      137      $600     078       0.69
NOX  klkWh                         3         3 4     S250     008 0007
COVCARBON gkcWh                   1143      444       53      0126     0.7
UKRAINE HYDRO REHAB - cattbwed
Table 4: INPUT PARAMEIERS & Swnmsy Resll
Prject Parameters                                                                         Rmist                Whh aMiusmt      Aw
EBesy    C(ady      Added    Adid     Add       O&M       ERR        NPV        E2RR     NPV      mere    Eagy    Capty    O&M      Cost
GWh        MW       GWM    GWhM(%)    MW       rh)                (SM 1G6)b
KscvPSP                           112        235       0        0        0       550      9.7%        -s5o0     104%      50.1      I      50.23    S066    S028    $120
Knesnihug                         1400       500       0        0        0       S50      10.6/.      50.5      13.7%     53.6      29     S6.79    $141    S052    S822
Dniprodn-hynsk                    1100       300       0        0        0       S50      151%         2        20.2%     S45      23      S5.07    S0.84   5054    5436
Dsueper2                          2168       835       0       0         0       S50      23gY.       S4.5      27.8%     565      20      S385     S235    S024    $189
Kancv                             812       444        0       0         0       S50      14.3%        1.2      16.1%    S59        8      Sl 49    51.25   $0.24   Si 75
Kicv                              663        353       9      3Wo       20       550      69%         -557       9.0%     -2.0     33      S797     S3.49   5300    52016
Dnweerl                           1448       550      79      82%       51       550      15%         S16.0     2D.1%    S30.3     123     S31.10   57.77   S220    S2511
Kaldhla                           1230      313        7      34%        2       S50      15.6%       S3.3      20.2%     569      34      S700     S127    S0.36   S533
TOTAL                             8933      3530      95                 73      $400     13A3        521.9     16.2%     551.9    270      63.49   51904   5738    56802
DAM SAFETY                                                                                             56.0
Dniester                          800        700       0        0        0       S50     111.7A       S06       14./9      no       11     5347     5069   $SO1     S406
-89-



Table 5 Project name            Dnifow (EIRR      Discoatt Rate     10V
w/o cmisions)    total no units      12
12%           Loadforast        Base                                1997    1998    1999   2000    2001    2002    2003
WllHOUr PROJECr                                                   Loss Rates   Availabilty
ENERGY                       Base Energy              800          0.10%/.                              800     80      800     800     800    799 2   798 4
CAPACITY                     Capacaty n Wnmler        700           0/.0         94.0%                  658 0  658 0   658 0   6580     6580   656 7   655 4
capacity ectDr          13 0%
Wrl7H PROJECr                                                                 Base Eney
ENERGY                       InreasdEfficiency        0'f          0.10/         8120                   800    8030    8060    8090     8120   811.2   8104
Inoved Operaton         1.5%                                  APER4aGE
Added Energy                                                                                  113        0      3.0     6.0     9.0     12.0    12.0    12.0
Peak Energy                                                                                              0 0    2 3     4 6     6 9     9.2     9.2     9.2
Daytime Energy                                                                                          0 0     0 7     1 4     2.1     2.8     2.8     2.8
Off-peakEnegy                                   Yeanatmaxvahie                                           00     0.0      00     00       0.0    0.0     0.0
Energy Values                     Umt VkWh           2010
Peak EneWy                          3.57              445                                               3 57    3 57   3.57     3 57    3.57    3 67   3 77
Daytime Enery                       2.90              3.53                                              2 90    2.90    2 90    2.90    2.90    2.97   3 04
Off-peak Eney                       2.76              2.76                                              276     276     276     2.76    2.76    2.76    2.76
Energy Benefits
Peak Energy                                                                                             S000   S008     S016    $025    $033   S0.34   $035
Dayt-e Enegy                                                                                            $0 00  $0 02    $004    $006    $0.08  $0 08   $0.09
Off-peak Enewy                                                                             PVs (1996)   $000   S0 00    S0 00   $000    $0.00  $0.00   $000
TOTAL                                                                                         S3A7      SO.00  S0.10    50.20   S0.31   SOA5   $042    $043
CAPACITY                     Caparity Wmntr           700           0.20%        95%                                                    665 0  663 7   662 3
Added Capacity                                                                                                                           7.0    7.0     7.0
Capacity Valued                                                                                                                          0 0    0 0     00
S Benefit                     Unit Value $SkW        $441                                     $0.69     50.00     50.00  10     $00 S     .00   o 000  $00
O&M Cost Savng               base vaue ($- 10^3)      S58       annual mcae      2.00%        $0.51     so.00  $0.01    50.03   $0.04   $0.06  $006    S006
O&M (1996)               S58
TOTAL BENEFIT                                                                                 S4.67     $0.00   $0.12   50.23   $S035   SA7     $0.48  $0A9
INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                              $4.06     $0.00  S1.10    51.62   S2.61   $0.17  s$.08
NET CASH FLOW                                                                     NPV         $0.61      $0.00  -$0.98   41.38   42.26   50.30   50.40   $0.49
IRR         11.7%
ENVIRONbENlTAL BENEFITS        Umt Value (cJkWh)                                              PVe
S02 Emusmsons                       0.78                                                      $0.70     S0 000  $0 023  S0 047  S0 070  S0 093  S0 093  S0 093
NOX Emissions                       0.08                                                      S0.07     $0 000  $0 002  $0 005  $0 007  $0 009 $0 009   $0 009
CARBON ussions                      0.26                                                      S0.57     $0000   S0008   $0016    S0023  S0031   S0031   $0034
TOTAL Emssion Benefit                                                                         S1.35     $0000   S0.034  50067    $0101  $0134   $0134   S0137
NET CASH FLOW w/enusssons                                                         NPV        S.96       $0.00   -50.95  48.32   42.16   SOA3    S0.53   $0.63
IRR         14.9%
all energy numbers are average GWhbyr
al eapaelty numbers are In MW
al Snumb   are In mIlMlons
-90 -



UKRAINE HYDRO REHAB
Table 5 Project name
Dmnester - conttnued
2004            2005          2006         2007       2008      2009   2010    2011   2012    2013   2020    2031
WITHOUT PROJECr
ENERGY                            797 6           796 8         796 0        795.2      794 4     793 6  792 8   792 0  7912    790 5  784 9   776 3
CAPACITY                          6541            652 8         6514         6501       648 8     647 5  6463    645 0   643 7  642 4   633 4  619 6
WrrH PROJECT
ENERGY                            809 6           808.8         807 9        8071       806.3     805 5  804 7   803 9   8031   802 3  796 7   788 0
AddedEnergy                        120             120           119         11.9        119       119    119     119    119     119    118    116
PeakEnegyy                         92              92            92           91         91        91     91      91      91     91      90     89
DayineEnagy                        28              28            2.8          28         2.8       28     28      28      28     28     27      27
Off-peak Energy                    00              00            00           00          00       00     00      00      0 0    0 0     0 0    00
Energy Values                   Unit c/kWh
PeakEnegy                          39              40            41           4.2        43        44     45      45      45     45     45      45
DaytmeEnegy                        31              32            3.3          3.3         34       35     35      35      35     35      35     35
Off-peakEnergy                     28              28            28           28         2.8       28     28      28      28     28      28     28
Energy Benefitl
Peak Energy                        $0 4            S04           $04         $04         $04       $0 4   $0 4   $0 4    $0 4    S04    S04    $0 4
DaytimeEnergy                      S0 I            S0 I          S0 I        S0 I        S0 I     S01     $0     $ S0 I  S0 I    S0 I   S01    $0 1
Off-peak Enegy                     S00             $0 0          $0 0        S0o0        S0       $0 0    S00    $ 0     $ 00    $0 0   S0 0   S$ 0
TOTAL                              $0 4            $0.5          $0 5        $0 5        $0 5      S0 5   $0.5   $0 5    $0 5    S0 5   $0 5    $0 5
CAPACITY                          6610            6597          6584         6571        6557     6544   6531    6518    6505   6492    6402   6262
AddedCapacity                      70              69            69           69          69       69     69      69      68     68      67     66
Capacity Valued                    0 0             00            00           0.0         00       00     00      01      30     31      01     00
S Beneflt                          S00             $ 0           $ 00        $ 00        $0.0      S00    $ 0    $ 00    $1.3    $1 4   S0 0    S$ 0
O&M Cost Savmng                    $01             $01          1SO I        SO I        SO I     SO 1    $0S1    $01   1SO I    SO I   SO I   SO I
TOTALBENEFIT                       $05             S05           S0.5        $05         $05       $06    $06     $06    $19     S19    S06     $06
INVESTMENT COSTS
NET CASH FLOW                      S05             $0.5          S0 5        $0 5        S0.5      $0 6   $0 6    $0 6   $1 9    $1 9   $0 6    $0 6
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS
S02 Emissions                      $0 1            $0            $ S0 I      S0 I        S0 I      S0 I   S01     $0     $ S0 I  S01    $0      $ S0o1
NOX Emissions                      S00             $0.0          $0 0        S00         $00       S00    $ 0     $ 00   $ 00    $ 00   $ 00    $0 0
CARBONemissions                    SO0             $0S0          SOO         SOO         SO I      SO1    $0I 1    o 01  $0 1    $0 1   $02     $05
TOTAL Emonion Benefit              $0 1            S0 I          S0 I        $0 2        $0 2      $0.2   $0 2    $0 2   $02    $S02    $0 3    $0 6
NET CASH FLOW w/anusions           $0 6            S0 7          $0 7        $0 7        S0.7      $0 7   $0 7    $0 8   $2 1    S2 I   $0 9    $1 2
Notes.
all energy numbers are average GWh/yr
all eapacty numbers are in MW
all Snumbers a,e In mnilon
-91-



UKRAINE HYDRO REHAB
Table 6  Project nmne               Kremendtug          Disoant Rate      10/e
EIRR (w/o enions)       total no ats       12
11%              Load frest        Base                                1997    1998    1999    2000     2001    2002   2003
WllHOUr PROJECr                                                         Lnss Rates   Avaiablity
ENERGY                       BaseEnergy                    1400          0.20%                                1400    1400    140D    1400     140D   13972   13944
CAPACITY                     Capacityim Wute                S00           050%        92.0%                  4600    4600    4600     4600    4600    457.7   4554
eapacity factor               32 OA
WrlEH PROJECr                                                                       Base Enmuy
ENERGY                       IrreasedEfficiency             0h           0.15%       1421.0                  1400   14053   14105    14158   14210   14189   14167
hnpavedOpaon                  1.5%                                  AVERAGE
Added Enagy                                                                                         28.9       0      5.2     10.5     15.7    21.0    21.7    223
Peak E                                                                                                        00      16      3 3      49      6.6     6.8     70
DaytimEn ey                                                                                                   00      33      66       99      13.1    13.6    14.0
Off-peakEnergy                                        Year at maxvalue                                        00      03      06       10       1.3    1.3     IA
Energy Values                       Umt ckWh               2010
Peac Enaegy                            3.57                4A5                                                3 57   3.57     3 57    3 57     357     3 67    3 77
DaytimeEnergy                          2.90                3.53                                               2.90   2.90     2.90    290      2.90    297     304
Off-peakEnerwy                         2.76                276                                                2.76   276      2.76    276      2.76    2.76    276
Energy Benefits
Peak Enegy                                                                                                   $0 00   S0 06   S012     $0 18    S0.3   $025    $026
[atyte ESOy SOO0                                                                                                       SO.IO  $019    S029     S0.38   S040   $043
Off-peakEnergy                                                                                   PVs(1996)   SO00    SOO      $002    S003     50.04   $004   S004
TOrTAL                                                                                             S6.79     5.00    $.16     $0.33   S0A9     S0.65   $069   SO 73
CAPACrfY                     Capacty m Wter                 500           0.40%        94%                                                     4700    468 1  466 2
Added Capacity                                                                                                                                 10.0    IOA     108
Capacity Valued                                                                                                                                 00      00     00
S Benefit                    Unit Value SkW                S441                                   SA1       SO.00   50.O0   50.00   S5O0      $00oo   $000   $000
O:M CostSavmg                base vale (Sl10-3)             S52        annual mnmase   2.00%        0.52      $0.00    .OI    $0.01    0.02    50.05   SO.05   50.07
TOTALBENEFIr                                                                                       $8.73      $0.00   $0.17   S0.35    $052    S0.70   $0.74  S0.79
INVESMENTCOSTS                                                                                     S.22       S1.91   5304    $1.75    51.26   S258     0.36
NET CASH FLOW                                                                          NV          $0.51      41.91   -2.87    -A10     -0.74   -1.88   $0.38    079
IR          10.6%
ENVIRONMlNTAL BENEFTrS           Unit Vahlc (ctkWh)                                                 PVs
S02Emissions                           0.78                                                        51.51      $0000   $0041   $0082    S0.123  $0164   $0169   $0174
NOX Eissions                           0.08                                                          .IS 1    $0000   $0004    $0008   S0012    S0017  S0.017  $0018
CARBON enissa                          026                                                         SIAS       $0000   S0014    S0027   S0041   $0054   S0056   S0064
TOTAL Emission BSeeit                                                                              $3.12      $0000   $0059    $0117   $0176    $0235  S0242   $0255
NETCASHFLOWw//mua                                                                      NPV         53.63      41.91   -2.81    41.28    -50.56  4L64    $0.63   51.05
IRR         13.7%
Notew
all energy mnmbers are average GWhlyr
as capadty nuibers are In MW
all Snunbers are In mIllIons
- 92 -



UKRAE4E HYDRO REHAB
Table 6 Proect narn
KuanL - coninuod
2004               2005          2006        2007        20 20     2009   2010    2011    2012    2013   2020   2031
WrmOUr PROJECr
ENERGY                              1.3916             1,3888        1,3861      1,3833      1,380.5   1,3778  1,3750  1,372.3  1,3695  1,3668  1,3477 1,3184
CAPACITY                             4531              4509           4486        446.4      4441      4419   4397    4375    4353    4331    4182   3958
wrm   PROJECr
EIERGY                              1,4146             1,412.5       1,4104       1,4083     1,4061    1,4040  1,4019  13998  1,3977  1,3956  1,3810 1,3584
Added Energy                         23.0               23 7          243         25 0        25.6      26 3   26 9    27 6    28.2    28 9   33 3    40 0
PeakcEmey                            7.2                74             76          78         80        8.2    84      86      88      90      104    125
DaytmeqE-  y                         144                148           152          156        160       164    169     173     177     181    208    251
Off-p-kEneuy                          14                 15            15          15          16       16      17     17       17      18     20     25
Energy Valuh                       Umt dkWh
PeakEnEEy                            39                 40             41          4.2        43        44     45      45      45      45      45     45
DaytnneEnagy                         31                 32             33          33         34        35      35     35      35      35      35     35
Off-peakEnagy                        28                 28             28          28         28        28      28     28      28      28      28     28
Energy Benefts
Peak Eneny                           $03                S03           $03          $03        $03       $04    S04     S04     S04     $0 4    $0 5   $0 6
Dayt  EneWgy                         S04                $0 5          S0 5        $0 5        S0 5      $0 6   S0 6    $0 6    $0 6    S06     $0 7   $0 9
Off.-k Energy                        SO                 S00           $0 0         $0 0       $0o0      S0     $S00    S00     $ 00    S00     S01    $0 1
TOTAL                                $08                $08           S08          $0.9       $09       $1 0   Si 0    S 0    $1 I    Si I    Si 3   SI 5
CAPACITY                            4644               4625           4607        4588       457.0     455.2   4533   4515     4497    4479   4355   4168
AddedCapacity                        11.2               117           121          12.5       12.9      133    136     140     144     148     173    210
Capaty Valued                        00                 00             00          0.0        00        00      00     01       60      63     02     00
SlBenefit                            S00                S00           S00         S00         S00       S0     S00 S000        S26     S28     $0     $ S00
O&MCoatSavnig                        SO I               SO. I         SO1          $01       1SO I      SO1    $01    1SO I    SO I    SO I    SO I   SO I
TUrALBENEFIT                         S08                $09           $09          S10        $1.0      $10    $11     $12     $38     S39     S15    $16
fVESMET COSTS
NETCAS9FLOW                          S08                $09           S09         S10         $1 0      S$10   $1 I    S12     S38     S39     $15    S16
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFTIS
S02 EaissSo                          $02                $0.2          $0.2        $02         S02       $0 2   $0.2    S02     $02     $0.2    $03    S0 3
NOXEnussitan                         S00                S00           S00          S00        S00       S00    S00     S00     S00     S00     S00    S00
CARBONanissions                      S01                S01           $01          S01        $01       S01    S01     $02     $02     $0.2    $05    S16
TOTAL Fmssi Benefit                  S03                $03           $03          S03        S0.3      S04    $0 4    $0 4    $0 4    S0 5    $0 8   S20
NErCASHFLOWw/cmissionn               $11               $S12           $1.2         $13        $13       $14    $15     S16     $42     S44     S22    S36
Nnotes
aDl energy numbers are avera  GWh/yr
aD capadty numbers are In MW
a Snumhnb  re am  mMioms
-93 -



t sw  >:Wto og 888 g g M | 4 gSa
ad   S  C;-
ffio~e   0 X  "              s8ai iaWaW a  a E 
Cli~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
MIS S          9
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U s al 
00- \ 0 00 0o_ 
I.                        _swaO
iI  "e  s  Ssi 



UKRANE HYDRO REHAB
Table 7    Pojectmnp:
Dlepe 2 - o  d
2004              2005          2006        2007        2008     2009    2010   2011    2012    2013   2020    2031
wnlHoLTr PROECT
ENERGY                            2,1550            2,150.7       2,146.4      2,1421     2,1378    2,133.6  2,1293  2,1250  2,1208  2,1165  2,0871  2,0416
CAPACTY                            756.7             7530          7492        7454        7417      7380   7343   730.6    7270   7234    6984   6609
wtnl PROJBr
ENERGY                            2,1647            2,161.5       2,1582       2,1550     2,1518    2,1485  2,1453  2,14ZI  Z1389  2,1357  Z1134  2,0788
Added lmi                           97                10.8          118         12.9       139       150    16.0    17 1    181     191    263     371
Pek EnaW                            33                3.6           40          43          47        51     5A      58      61     65      89     12.5
DaylreEy                            64                71            78          85          9.2       99     10.6   113     12.0    127    174     246
Off-pekaEgy                         00                00            00          00          00       00      00     00       00     00      00     00
mgy Values                       Unit ckWh
Peak EncV                           39                4.0           41          42          43       44      4.5    45       45     45      45     45
DwstlneEim m                        3.1               32            33          33          34        3.5    3.5     35      35     35      35     35
Off-peak Ey                         2.8               28            28          28          2.8       2.8    28      28      28     28      28     28
Erg y Baefi
PeakEnugy                          SOI                $01           $0.2        S02        $02       $02     $02    S03     $03     $03    $04     $0.6
DaytImeEnaW                        $0.2              S02            $03         $0.3       $03       $03     $0.4   $0.4    $04     $04    $06     $09
OffpeakEiegy                        $00              S00            $0.0        $0.0       S00       $0.0    $0.0   $0.0    $00     SOO    $00     $00
TOTAL                               $03               $0.4          $04         S05        S0.5      $06     $0.6   S07     S07     $07    $10     $14
CAPACTrY                           7755              7724          7693        7662        7632      7601   7571    7541    7510   7480    7273   6960
Addedapay                           18.8              195           201         208        21.5      221    22.8    234     241     247    289     350
CapqtyVahmd                         00                00            00          00          00       00      00      02     100     105     04     00
SBanefa                            S00               S00            S00         S00,       S00       $0.0    $00    S01     $44     $46    S02     S00
O&M GM   SavSg                     SOO$               $00           SOO         SO.0       SO       $00     $00    $0S 0   $00     $00    SOO     $01
TOTALBENEFIT                        $04               $04           S04         $0.5       $0.5      $06     $07    S08     $51     S54    $12     S15
NVESTTCOSTS
NMrCASHFLOW                         $04               $04           $04         $0.5       S05       $06     $07    S08     $51     $54    $12     $15
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFHS
S02Ormsm                           $0 1              S01            S01         $01        S01       S01     S01   0s1      $01     $01    $02     $03
NOX EnssKm                          S0 0             S00            S00         S0 0       S0 0      $0 0     0        0  $00   $00  $00   S00     S00
CARBONNrism  m                      SO0               Soo           $ $0S0$001             S0o      0s1      $01    S0I     S01     $01    $04     $15
TUrALI EameBemfn                    $01               $0.1          $01         $0.2       $02       $02     S02    $03     $0.3    S03    S06     $18
NErCASHIFLOWwlwanusa                S05               $05           $0.6        $07        S07       S08     $09    $10      $54    $57    $1 8    $33
Notes
all 1m y mnsi are vase GWh/yr
all cspity numbas am mn MW
an $umnbrs me mn msias
-95 -



UKURAEiE HYDRO RF.13AB
Table 8.   Project namp                                 Dsonit Rate        19%
IRR(w/emssoa)          tb   K   ts         12
150%.           Lad frt            Bm                                   1997    1998    1999     200D    2001    2002     2003
WrIHOUr PROJECI                                                         Loss Pat      Avilabilty
ENERGY                        Base   liV                   1100           0.20%                                1100    1100     1100    1100    1100    10978    10956
CAPACnY                       Caaciy in Wmter               300           0.50%         92.0%1                 276.0   2760    2760     276 0   2760     274 6   273.2
cin    fitya                 419%
W7TH PROECT                                                                           B
ENERGY                        bheasedEffimamcy              0%           0.15%         11165                  1100    11041   11083    1112.4  11165    11148   11132
hnxlvd Op    i               1.5L%                                  AVERAGE
AddedEnwg                                                                                            22.7        0      4.1     83       124     165     17.0    17.5
PeakEnegy                                                                                                       00      10      2.0      30      39       41      4.2
Dayt   Enay                                                                                                     00      20      3.9      5.9     7.9      8I      84
Off.p-kEnngy                                          Yewrat mvalue                                             0.0     1.2     2.3      35      47       4.8     5.0
EnW   Vahlo                          LIhttokWh             2010
Peak Eny                                357                445                                                 3 57    3 57     357     3557     37      3 67     3.77
DaytimeE-Vy                             2.90               3.53                                                2.90    2.90     290     2.90     2.90    2.97     304
Off-peak Enay                           276                 2.76                                               2.76    2.76     276     2.76     2.76    2.76     2.76
Ene     fleneb
Peak Ene 0.00                                                                                                         5004    S0.07    S011    5014     5015    $016
Daytir-Enuy                                                                                                    $000    $0.06    $0.11   $0.17    0.23    S0.24   $026
Off- ik E-                                                                                         PVs(1996)   $000    $003     $006    $010   S.13     S013    $014
TOTAL                                                                                                55.7      50.00   512     5025    5037      0.50   $0.52   $055
CAPACrY                       Capaciy m Wmtr                300           0A40%          94%                                                     282.0   280 9   279 7
Added Caaqty                                                                                                                                      6.0     63      6.5
Ca=rty Valued                                                                                                                                     0 0     0.0     00
S Beneflt                     Uni VaheS$/kW                5441                                      S0.84    50O     s5000   S00     50.0    50.0     $000    $0.00
O&M Cot Savng                 basevalue(S1093)              552        ami mmmese       200          50.54     50.01   50.02     0.02   50.02    50.4    50.5    50.07
ITOAL BENETr                                                                                         S644      50.0    50.14     0.27   SA041    S0S4    S58     50.62
INVESrTW   1C761                                                                                     S4.36     S.II    S0.58    S1.17     L03    51.93   51.77
NET CASH nOW                                                                             NPV         SLO        -0.11   40.45   -4090    -50.63  41.39    41.20    50.62
IRR             .SI%
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFrS             Unit Value (dkWh)                                                   PVa
S02 Emion                               0.78                                                        S.19      $000O    $0032   50.064   $0096   50.129   $0133   S0.137
NOX Ensms                               0.08                                                         S.12      $OODO    S0.003   $0007   $0010   50.013   $0013   $0014
CARBONaensum                            0.26                                                         S1.14     50.000D  5.011    $0021   $0032   50.043   $0044   50050
TOTAL Enusam Baifit                                                                                  $2.45     $0.CO    S0046    $0092   SO138   50.184   $0190   S0201
NET CASH FLOW wmo                                                                        NPV           4.53     -QII   -440     -4.81    -0.49    41.20   41.01    50.82
IRR         20.2%
Notest:
aD enegy nmbe ar avanr GWhsyr
ail eapdly numbe asre an MW
all Smmbnm am In millons
- 96-



UKRAINE HYDRO REHAB
Table 8   Pect narn
Dipmpd2   iynsk - coned
2004              2005          2006        2007        2008     2009   2010    2011    2012   2013    2020   2031
WIIMOU PROJECTI
ENERGY                             1,093.4           1,0912        1,0890       1,0869     1,0847   1,0825  1,0804  1,0782  1,0760  1,0739  1,0589  1,0359
CAPACrrY                            2719              2705          269.2       2678       2665      265.2  2638    2625   2612    2599    2509   2375
WMI PROJECr
ENERGY                             1,1115            1,1098        1,1082       1,1065     1,1048   1,1032  1,1015  1,0999  1,0982  1,0966  1,0851  1,0673
AddedEnerg                          18.1              186           191          196        201      20.6   212     217     222    227     262     315
Peak Ener                           4 3               4 4           4 6          4 7        4 8      4.9     5 1     5.2    53      5 4     63     7 5
DaytmeEJ1u                          86                 89            91          94         9.6      99      101    104     106     108    12.5    150
Off-peak Enegy                      5 1                53            5 4         5 6        5 7      5 8     6 0     6 1    63      6 4     7 4    8 9
Energy Valuhs                    Unit dcWh
Peak Energ                          3.9               4 0           4 1          42         4 3      4 4     4 5     4.5    455     45      4 5    4 5
Daymne Engy                         3 1                3.2           3 3         33         3 4      35      3 5     3 5    35      3.5     35     3 5
OffpeaukEniy                        28                 28            2.8         2.8        2.8       28     28      28     28      28      28     28
Energy Benefit
PeakEner                            $02               $02           $02         $0.2        $02      $02    $02     $02     S02    $0.2    $03     $03
Day- E-eBY                          $03               $03           S03         $03         $03      $03    $04     $04     $04     $04    $04     $05
Off-peakEnergy                      SO1               $01           S01         $02         S02      $02    $02     $02     $02     $02    S02     $02
TOTAL                               $0.6              $06           $06          $07        S07      S07    $07     S08     $08     $08    $09     $1 I
CAPACITY                           2786               2775          2764        2753       2742      2731   272.0   2709   2698    2688    2613   2501
AddedCapacty                        67                70             72          75         77       80      82      84     86      89     104     126
CapactyVahied                       00                 00            00          00         00       00      00      01     36      38      01     00
SBenedfit                           S00               S00           S00          SO.0       S00      $00    S00     S00     $16     $17    S01     $00
O,&M Cast Savmg                     SO I              SO I          $01          $0I1       $so I    S0 1   $0S1    $0 I    $01     $0     $ S01   $0 1
TOTALBENEFIT                        S06               $0.7          $07          S07        $08      $08    $08     $09     $24     $2.5   Sl1     $12
INVESE      COSTS
NEr'CASH FLOW                       $06               S0.7          $07          $07        $08      $08    $08     $09     $2.4    S2.5   $l1     $1 2
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFTnS
S02 Ernussao                        S01               $0 1          S0 1         $02        $0.2     $0 2   $0.2    $0.2    $0.2    $0 2   $0 2    S02
NOX Enrims                          $00               S00           $00          S00        S00      $0.0    S00    SO0     $00     $0 0   SO0     $00
CARBONenisimas                      S01               S0.1          $01          S01        S01      S01     S01    S01     $01     S02    $04     S13
TOTALEniusmonBncfit                 $02               $02           $02          $03        $03      $03     $03    $03     $03     $04    $06     $1 6
NETCASHFFLOW sDt'rues               $09               S0.9          $09          $10        $10      $1S    $1.1    $12     $28     S29    $17     $28
Notes:
all energy numbers are aveage GWbtyr
aD cnpadly numbees ane In MW
all Snaeabrm are bn eallliae9
- 97 -



UKRAINE HYDRO REHAB
Table 9  Piject name          KIev PSP            Disount Rate       101ff
IRR (vdo emissdons)  total no unts      6
10%          Load forecast      Base                              1997     1998    1999   2000    2001     2002    2003
WITHOUT PROJECT                                                   Lots Rates   Avalability
ENERGY                        BaseEnergy              112           0.20%                               112     112     112     112     112    1118     1116
CAPACITY                      Capacity mWmter         235           0.50%       92.0%                  216.2   2162    2162    2162    2162    2151    214.0
capacity fctor          5 4%
WITH PROJECT                                                                  Base Energy
ENERGY                        IncreasedEfficiency     0%            0.15%        1123                   112    1121    112.2   112.3   1123    1122     1120
Inpoved Operahon       0.3%                                 AVERAGE
Added Energy                                                                                  1.1       0       0.1     0.2     0.3     0.3     0.4      0.4
Peak Energy                                                                                             00      01      02      03      0.3     0.4     0.4
Dayume Enegy                                                                                            00      00      00      00      0.0     0.0     0.0
Off-peak Enegy                                  Year at mx value                                        00      00      00      00      0.0     0.0     0.0
Energy Value                      Umt ctkWh           2010
Peak Energy                          3.57             4.45                                             3.57    3 57    3 57    3 57    3.57     3 67    3.77
Daynn eEnergy                        2.90             3.53                                             2 90    2 90    2.90    290     2.90     2 97    3 04
Off-peak Emgy                        2.76             2.76                                             2.76    2 76    2 76    276     2.76     2.76    2 76
Energy Beneflts
Peak Enegy                                                                                             $000    SO00    $001    S0.01   50.01   $001     $002
Daytne Enegy                                                                                           $0 00   SO 00   $000    $0500   $0.00   $000     $0 00
Offpeak Energy                                                                            PVs(1996)    $000    S000    $000    $0.00   $0.00   $000     $000
TOTAL                                                                                       S0.23      $0.00   $0.00   50.01   $0.01   $0.01   S0.01    $0.02
CAPACITY                      Capacity m Wnter        235           0.40%        94%                                                   2209    2200     2191
Added Capacity                                                                                                                          4.7     4.9      5.1
Capacty Valud                                                                                                                           00       00      00
S Benefit                     Umt Value SkW           $441                                  $0.66      $0.00   $0.00   50.00   50.00   S0.00   $0 00   S$ 00
O&M Cost Saving               base value ($-I103)     526        annual mcrease  2.00%      $0.28      $0.00   50.02   50.02   S0.02   50.02   S0.03    S0.03
TOTAL BENEFIT                                                                               51.16      50.00   50.01   50.02   50.03   50.04    $0.04   50.05
VESTIENT COSTS                                                                              S1.20      S0.78   50.22   S0.00     .00   S0.17    $0.36
NET CASH FLOW                                                                    NPV        -$0.04      -50.78  -50.21  50.02   S0.03   40.13    -5031   S0.05
IRR            9.7%
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS         Umt Value (c/kWh)                                             PVs
S02 Emnssan                         0.78                                                    S0.04     S0000    $0001  $0001   $0002    $0003   $0003   $0003
NOX Enussions                        0.08                                                    50.00     $0000    $0.000  $0 000  $ 000   $0 000   S.000  $0 000
CARBON eissons                       0.26                                                    50.05     S0000    S0.000  S0000  S0.001   $0001   $0001   $0001
TOTAL Enussion Baiefit                                                                       $0.10      50 000  $0.001  $0 002  $0 003  S0 004  S0 004  $0 005
NET CASH FLOW w/emnisions                                                        NPV         50.06      -50.78  40.21   50.02   $0.03   -$0.13   40.31   S0.06
IRR        1Q4%
Notes:
al energy numben are average GWhlyr
all eapadty numbers are In MW
all Snumbers are In millorns
- 98 -



UKRAINE iHYDRO REHAB
Table 9  Project nate
Kiev PSP - contued
2004           2005          2006        2007      2008     2009    2010   2011   2012    2013    2020   2031
WITHOUT PROJECT
ENERGY                           1113           1111           1109       1107      1104      1102   110.0   1098   109.6  109.3   1078   1055
CAPACITY                         2130            2119         2108        2098      2087      2077   2067   2056    2046   2036    1966    1860
WITH PROJECT
ENERGY                           1118            1117          1115       1113      111.2     1110   1108    1107   1105   1103    1092    1074
AddedEnergy                       05             06            06          07        07        08     08     09      09     10      14     19
Peak Energy                       05             06            06          07        07        0.8    0.8    09      09     10      14     19
Daytime Energy                    0 0            0.0           0 0         0 0       0 0      0 0     0 0    0 0     0 0    0 0     0 0    00
Off-peak Energy                   0 0            0 0           0 0         00        00        0.0    00     00      00     0.0     00     00
Energy Values                  Unit c/kWh
PeakaEnergy                       39             4.0           4 1         42        43       44      45     45      45     45      4.5    45
Daytotne Energy                   31             3.2           33          33        34       35      35     35      3.5    35      35     35
Off-peakEnergy                    28             28            28          2.8       28        28     28     28      28     28      28     28
Energy Benefits
Peak Energy                       S00            S00           S00        S00        S00      $0.0    S00    S00    S00     S00    $0 I   $0 I
Dayltne Enegy                     S00            $ 00          $ 0        $ 0        $S00     S0      $ 00   $ 00   S0.0    $0 0   S00     $0 0
Off-peak Energy                  SO              $ SO          SOO        SOO        SO       $0.0    S00      0    $00      0     $00      $00
TOTAL                             S00            S00           S00         $                          S0$00  $00  $00  $00  S0  S00  S0 I  S01
CAPACITY                         2183            2174          2165       2157      214.8     2139   2131    2122   2114   2105    2047    1959
Added Capacity                    5.3            5 5           5 7         5 9       6 0       6.2    6 4    6 6     6 8    6 9     81     9 9
Capacity Valued                   0 0            0 0           0.0         0 0       0 0       0 0    0 0    0 0     2 8    3 0     01     0 0
SBeneflt                          S00            S00           S00         $00       $00      S00     $00    S00    $12     $13     S01    S00
O&MCostSaving                     S00            S00           S00        $00        $00      $0.0    S0 0   $00    S00     S00    S00     S01
TOTALBENEFIT                      $01            S01           $01         S01       S01      S01     S01    S01    $13     $14     S02    SOI
INVESTMENT COSTS
NET CASH FLOW                     S0 I           S0 I          S0 I        S0 I      S0 I     S0 I    SO     $ S0 1  $1 3   $1 4    S0 2   S0o1
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFiTS
S02 Emissions                     S00            $0 0          S00       $S00        S00      $ 00    $ 00   $ 00   $ 00    $ 00     o00   $ 0
NOX Emissions                     $0 0           S00           $ 0         $0 0      S00      $0 0    $0 0   S00    $ 0     $ 00    $ 00   S00
CARBONenussions                  SO.0            SO0           SOO        $0S0       $0       $0.0    $0.0   $00    $0      $0.0   $0 S    SO I
TOTAL Efussion Benefit            S00            $ 0           $ 00       $S00       S0o0     S0      $ 00   $00    SO.0    S0o0    S00    S01
NETCASHFLOWw/emissions            S0.1           S01           S01        S01        S01      S01     S01    S01    $13     $14     S02    $02
Notes.
all energy numbers are average GWh/yr
all capacity numbers are In MW
all Snumben are In millons
- 99 -



'U4    f'                            fufI        II g  ;Wt 
n~~ X
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~
X3   lfl    ffi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



UERAUNEHYDRD88AB
Table 10  P     sqetrun
Kawv - oannal
2004              2005  _       2D6         2007        2008      20      2010    2011   2012    2013    2020     2031
V41M8UrPROJECr
ENGY                              gm8071            8055          8039         802.3      8007      7991    797.5   795.9   7943   792.7    7817    7647
CAPAaCY                           402.4             4004          398.4        3964       394A      392.4   390.5   388.5   3866   3846     3714    3514
WMr PROECT
ENERGY                            8108              8096          8083         8071       8059      8047     803.5  8023    8011   7999     7915    7786
AdbleEawgy                         36                40            4.4          48         52        5.6      60     64      68     72       98      139
PeaklEney                           1 7              1.9            21          2.3        25        2.7     Z9      3 1     32     34       47      67
Dlt   EeWy                          19               2.1           2.3          Z5         2.7       2.9     3.1     3.3     35     37       51      72
OfFfpeakEnmw                       00                00            0.0          00         00        00      00      00      00     00       00      00
E=    Vah
Peak Em                            39                40            41           4.2        43        44      45      4.5     45     45       45      45
Daytm-EEi                          31                32            3.3          33         34        35       35     3.5     35     35       35      35
Off-MABErgy                        2.8               2.8           2.8          2.8        2.8       2.8      Z8     28      2.8    2.8      28       2.8
Peak ESm             I               OI              $0.1     S      . I       SD I        SD1       $0.1    $1      $0 1   $01     $0 2    SO.2     $0 3
Iw,imErW8                          $0.1              SOI           SD1         $01         $01       $0I     $01      o SI  SOI     SOI     $02      S03
Offri,kEfm                         $00                0O           $0O         SOO         SOO       $0      $00     $00    SOO     SOO     SOO      SOO
TOTAL                              SO I              SO$1          $0.2         $02        $02       S02     $02     $03    $0.3    $0.3     S04     $0 6
CAPAaCY                           4124              4107           4091        4074        405.8     4042    402.6  401.0   3994    3978    3868     3701
Adled apa,y                        10.0              104           10.7         111        114       11.8    121     125     128    131      154     186
C(atyVahsd                         00                00            00           00         00        00       00     0.1     53     56       O0       00
S Benefit                          $.O               $O            $0.0         $O         $0O       $O      $00     $00    $2.3    $2.5    SOI      SO0
O&MC4oSavn                         SOO               SOO           SOO         SO         $00       $00     $00     $00    $O    $00      SOO     $0S1
TOTAL BENEFTr                      S02               $02           $02         $02         $02       $03     $03     $03    S26     S2 8     $0 5    $0 6
INVESTIEN C61ST
NETCASHFLOW                        $02               S02           $02         $02         $02       $03     $03     $03     S26    S2 8     S0.5    $0 6
ENVITRNMrAL BEN13E;rS
S02 Enms                           $00               SOO           $0O         $0S0        $0.0      $0O     SOO     SOO    SO      SOI      SOI     SOI
NOXIEmeu                           SOO               SO            $            $0.0       $00 $OO    $O SOO           0     $0.0   $0.0 00          $00
CARBON neanm                       SOO               SO           $0           $0.0       $0.0      $00     $00     $00     $00     0 SI    S01    $06
TOTAL      fimm1 Baf               $0.0              $O            S0I         $01         $0.1      SO1     $01     SOI    $.1I    SOI      S02     $07
Er CASH FLOW     ns m              S02               S02           S02         $03         $03       S03     $04     S04     S2.8   S29      SO 8    S13
Not:
aD ayau meabrs are avou  GWWT
ag capadlynmben am In MW
al S~wm     are In ndmons
- 101 -



UIRAINE HYDRO REHAB
Table II  Projea nane              Kakbnid e         Discunt Rae       10%    norehabbed   % rehabbed
IRR (win enislons)   towlno tumts        6           1          17%
15.6%           Load focast       Base                    Yar       1997    1998     1999     2000     2001     2002     2003
WrrHOUr PROJECF                                                     Loss Rates  Availabilty
ENERGY                        Base Enmf                 1230          0.20%                              1230    1230     1230     1230     1230    12275    12251
CAPACrrY                      Capacty as Wain           313           050/O       92%                    288     288      288      288     288.0    286.5    2851
capacity fitr             44 9%A
WrIT  PROJECT                                                                  BaF Eaceg
ENERGY rehabbed wuts          tnceased Efficiency       3A%           0.10%       2551                                                      255.1    2549    254.6
Rebabbed wu  flow         19 8%        Q inrease     1.19
Added eneny from   nduced spll                      0.0
nspcved Opea-tion         1.5
obier units                                                          0.15%A      10017                                                    10017    1000.2   9987
TOTAL                                                                             1256.8   AVEltAGE      1230   1230.0   1230.0   12300    1256.8   1255 1   1253.3
Added Energy                                                                                   33.8       0       0.0      0.0      0.0     26.8     27.5     28.2
Peak Eneiy                                                                                               0.0      0 0      0 0      0 0      6.0      6.1     6.3
Daye Ergy                                                                                                0.0      0 0      0 0      0 0     12.0     12.3     12.6
Off-peak Enegy                                   Year at max vile                                        0.0      00       0.0      0.0      8.9      9.1     9A
Eney Values                        Undt c/kWh           2010
PeakEnegy                             3.57              4AS                                             3.57     3.57     3.57     3.57     3.57     367      377
DaydEnewBgy                           2.90              3.53                                            2.90     290      2.90     2.90     2.90     2 97     3 04
Off-peak Enegy                       2.76               2.76                                            2.76     2.76     2.76     276      2.76     2.76     2.76
Enegy Benefbts
Pealc EDcwgy                                                                                            S0.00    $000     $0.00    $0.00  S.        $0.23   $024
Daytie Enzgy                                                                                            $0.00    $0.00    $0.00    $0.00    $0.35    S0.36    $0.38
Off-peak nagy                                                                               PV.(1996)   S000     $000     $000     $000     S0.25    S0.25    $026
TOTAL                                                                                         S7.00     S0.00    Sm0     s5.00     S0.00    50.81    S0.84    50 88
CAPACITY rebbbed wuts         hnrease m Witr              2           0.20%       96%                                                       520      519      518
Oither uts                                                           0A0%        94%                                                       245.2    244.2    243.2
TOTAL                                                                                                                                       297.2    2961     295 0
Added Capacity                                                                                                                               9.2      9.6     9.9
Capacity Valued                                                                                                                              0 0      0 0      0 0
S Benefit                     Unit Val S&W              $441                                  S127        $0.00    $0.00    S0.00     O. $0.0          00     $000
O&M Cost Savig                base vahle (S103)          S35        nnual mcreas  2.00%       50.36       $0o.     $0.02    $0.02    S.2      50.03    SO.03  S0.05
TOTAL BENEFIT                                                                                 S&t62      50.00   S0.02    SOD2     S0.02    S0.83    $0.88    S0.92
INVESIAENT COSTS                                                                              $5.33     S0.41    S0.59    $D.20    S2.70    S2.68    SIA3
NEr CASH FLOW                                                                     NPV         S3.29      -S4A1    -S0S8    40.18    42.68   -51.84   -S0.56   $0.92
IRR           116X
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS         Unit Vahle (chWh)                                               PVs
S02 Enassi                           0.78                                                     $1.64      SO000    S0000    $0000    S0000    S0209    $0214   S0.220
NOXEmnissins                          0.08                                                    $0.17      $0000    S0000    $0000    $0000    $0.021   $0022    S0022
CARBON emumca                        0.26                                                     S1.85      $0000   $S 000    S0 000   S0 000   $0070    S0.078  S0 089
TOTAL Emison Benefit                                                                          S3.65      S0.000   $0000    $0       50.0D0   S0.300   $0315   $0 331
NEr CASH FOW      wAnusnsin                                                       NPV         S6.94      -.AI     -$058    40.18    42.68    -1S4     -$0.24  S.25
BRu         20.2%
Notes:
aDll eergy numbers are avnae GWb/yr
ad capacity numbers am In MW
ad Snumbers ae In mDlllons
- 102-



aaa <n~~~>a a - S aaa
ass-  ;"  a  " - aa
Saar.u"o       "aa
aa               a SS a



UKRAIE HYDRO REMAB
Table 12  Pnrjecnarne                Kiev       Disoud Rate           10-.      nortabbed    % rhabbed
IRR (w/o embslas) teal no tats           20           9           45h
6.9%           Load fomeat        Base                      Year       1997    1998     1999    2000     2001    2002     2003
WTHOUT'PROECT                                                       Loss Rats    Avalabiliy
ENERGY                       BaseEnergy                663           020-o                                 663      663     663      663     663     661 7    6604
CAPACITY                     Cacaty m Winmter          353           0.50/          92%                    325      325     325      325     3248     323 1   321 5
capacityfator            21 4%
Wrra PROJECr                                                                     Baseagy
ENERGY    mbboed units       IzaswedEflcscy           3A.0           0.10%         3919                                                      3989    3985     3981
Rehabbed tlUts flow      56.5%         Q incet         1.26
Added energy from reduced spl                          7.0
firpwved Opmaa           1.5%
oter umu                                                            0.15%         292.4                                                     2924     2920    2916
TOTAL                                                                              691.4     AVERAGE       663     6658     6714    6742     6914     6905    6897
AddedEnergE y                                                                                   32.9        0       28      8&4      11.2    25.2     28.8    29.3
Peak Enegy                                                                                                  00      1.3     3.9      5.2      11 8    13.5    13.7
DaytteneEnm                                                                                                 0.0     15      4.5      60       6.5      84      8.7
Off-peakEnerg                                   YVesratmnavalw                                              00      00      00       00       7.0      7.0     7.0
Enrgy Values                      Unit okWh            2010
Peak El  y                           3.57              4A5                                                 3.57    3 57     3 57    3 57     357      3.67    3 77
Dayte Eneagy                         2.90              3.53                                                290     2.90     2.90    290      2.90     2 97    3 04
Off-peak Enugy                       2.76              2.76                                                2.76    2.76     276     276      2.76     2.76     2 76
Enegy Beuib
Peaklcetgy                                                                                                 $0.00   5005     S014    S0.19   S02      $0.49   $0.52
Day1r- EnHg                                                                                                $000    $004     S013    $017     SO.19    $025    $0.26
Off-peak Enr                                                                                  PVQ(1996)    $0.00   $000     SO00    $000     SO.19    $019    $019
TOTAL                                                                                           S7.97      SOD3    $0.09    50.27  536      $00      SO 94   $097
CAPAaCY rabbedn uts          bnmase m W  te             20           0.20-/         96%                                                      171.7    1714    1710
obmie  s                                                             0.40%o        94%                                                      1825     181 8    181.0
TOTAL                                                                                                                                        354.2    353 1   3521
Added Capacity                                                                                                                                29A      30.0    30.5
Capaciy Vahled                                                                                                                                00       00      00
S Benefit                    Unit Vahle $/kW           $441                                     S3A9        S0.00    $0.00    S0.00   $0D0   5.00 S    0 00    $00
O&MCostSavmg                 base vae (S103)           S305       annalm     e     2.00%        53.00       50.00    S0.06    S0.09   S0.12    $0.23    S0.30  $0.4
TOTAL BENEFrr                                                                                   514A6      50.00   S0.15    S0.36    ASO8    S1.03    S1.24    SIX37
INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                S20.16     S191    S415     $O6.00   $4.9    $6.89    $4.97
NET CASH FLOW                                                                       NPV         -S70        41.91   -$4.00   -45.64  -$4450  -5.86    43.73    S1.37
IRR         69%/
ENVIRONMENTAL BENfITS          Unit Vahue (cfkWh)                                                 VS
502 Emnsons                          0.78                                                       51.74      $0000    $0022    $0065   $0087    S0.196   $0225   S0.228
NOXEnmsas                            0.08                                                       50.18       $0000   $0002    50.007  S0.009   $0020    $0023   S0023
CARBON anmsmson                      0.26                                                       51.81       $0000   $0007    $0022   $0.029   $0065    $0082   $0 092
TOTAL Enusszon Benefit                                                                           $372       $0000   S0031    S0094   $0 125   $0282    50.330  S0344
NET CASH FLOW   M1mussu                                                             NPV         41.98       41.91    -3.97   -SS.4   4438    -SS58    43A0     $1.71
IRR          9.0%
Notes:
al enrgy numben are avemae GWhyr
al capadty numbes are In MW
all Snumben are In mnllions
-104-



UKRAENE ErYDRO REEIAB
Table 12  Prert rwsiu
Kiev - continued
2004             2005          2006        2007        2008      2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2020   2031
WriOUT PROJECr
ENERGY                            6590            6577           6564        6551        6538      652.5   6512    6499    6486    647.3   6383   6244
CAPACITY                          3199             3183          3167        3151        3136      3120    3104    3089    3073    3058    2953   2794
WITH PROJECr
ENERGY rehabbed units             3977            3973           3969        396.5       396.1     395.7   3953    3950    3946    3942    3914   387 1
othlerltuts                      291 1            2907          2903        2898        2894      2889    288 5   288 1   2876    287.2   2842   2796
TOTAL                             6889             6880          6872        6864        685.5     6847    6839    6830    682.2   6814    6756   6667
Added Energy                      29 8             30 3          30 8         313         31 7     32.2    32.7    332     33 6    34 1    37 4    42 3
Peak Energy                        139             141            144         146         148       is0     153    155      157    159     174     197
DaytieEnewgy                       89              9.2            9.4         97          99        102    104     10.7    110     112     129     156
Off-peak En-ey                     7.0             7 0            7.0         7 0         7 0       7 0     7 0     7.0     7 0     7 0     7 0    7 0
Enery Values                    Unt c1cWh
Peak Enegy                         39              40             4.1         4.2         43        44      45      45      45      45      45     4S
DaytiEneEne82y                     31              3.2            33          33          34        35      35      3.5     35      35      35     35
Off-peakEnagy                      2.8             2.8            2.8         28          2.8       28      2.8     2.8     2.8     2.8     28     28
Energy Beneflb
Peak Enegy                        S0.5             $0 6          $0 6         $0 6        S0 6     S07     S07     $0 7    S07     $0 7    S0 8    S0.9
Dayme EnegW                       $0 3             $03           S03          $03         $0.3     $04     $04     $04     $04     S04     S0 5    $0 6
Off-peak Eneam                    $0.2             $02           $0.2         $0.2        S02      $0.2    $0.2    $0.2    $02     S02     $0 2    $0.2
TOTAL                             Si 0             $1 0          $1 I         $1 1        $12       $12    $12     $1 3    $13     $1 3    $14     $1 6
CAPACITY reabbedtruts             1707             1703          1700         1696       1693      169.0   1686    1683    1680    1676    1653    1617
olerunuts                        180.3            1796          178.9        1782        1775     1767    1760    1753    1746    1739    1691    1618
TOTAL                             3510             3499          3489        3478        3468      3457    3447    3436    342.6   3416    3344    3235
AddedCapaoity                     31 1             316           32.1         32.7        332      337     342     347     352     358     391     441
Capacity Valued                    00              00             00          00          00        00      00      02      150     156     06     00
S Benefit                         S0o0             S0             0o0 $00                 S00      S00     S00     S01     $6.6    S69     $0 3    S$ 0
O&M Cost Saving                   $04              $04           $04          $04         $0.4      $0 4   S0 5    $0 5    $0 5    S0 5    $06     $0 7
TOTAL BENEFIT                     $1.4             $1 5           $1 5        $1 6        $1 6      $1 6    $1 7   $1 8     $84    $86     $22     S23
INVESlhT COSSO
NEr CASH FLOW                     $14              $15           $15          $16         $16       $1.6    $1.7   $18      $84    S86     S2.2    S23
ENV1RONM2ENTAL BENEFITS
S02 Emonisso                      $0.2             $02           $02          $02         $0.2      $0 3   $03     $03     S03     $03      $03    S0 3
NOXEmnxo                          S00              $0 0           S00         $0.0        S0o0      S0      S00    S00      S00     $0.0    $00    $0 0
CARBON arins                      S0 I             S0 I           S0 I        S0 1        S02       S02     $02     S02     $0 2    S03    S0 6   S1 9
TOTAL Emissi Benefit              $04              S04            $04         S04         $04       S0.5    $05     SO 5    SO 5    $0 6    S09    $2.3
NETCASHFLOWw/aatsiona             $18              $18            $19         $20         S2.0      $21     $2.2   $2.3     $89     $92     $31    $46
Notes:
all enery numbe ae average GWhlhyr
al capadty numben are in MW
al Snumben are In millons
- 105-



UKRAINE HYDRO REHAB
Table 13  Prot namne               Dnieper I       Discousit Rate   10h    no.elabbed  % rebabbed
t88R (win emissions)  total no unts   9           6         67%/
15.9%          Load forecast   Base                    Year      1997     1998    1999    2000     2001    2002     2003
WITIIOUT PROJECT                                                 Loss Rates  Avil  ty
ENERGY                       BaseEnergy               1448         0.20%                             1448    1448     1448     1448    1448    1445.1  14422
CAPACITY                     Capacty m Wmter          550          0.50%       92%                    506     506     506      506     506.0   503 5   501 0
cpacty flctor           301%
Wlll PROJECr                                                               EBnegy
ENERGY rebabbed touts        IsasasedEffimency        8.2%         0.10%      11777                                                    11817   11806   11794
Realbbed unm flow       741%        Q ucease     1.11
Added energy from redued splll                    4.0
hrpoved Opeamton         1.5%
other umn                                                         0.15%      381.2                                                    3812     3807    3801
TOTAL                                                                         15590     AVERAGE      1448    14636   14947    15103    15630   1561.2  15595
Added Energy                                                                               123.0       0      IS6     46.7     62.3     94.6    116.1   117.3
Peak Energ                                                                                            0.0     5.2     15.5     207     315      38.6    39.0
DayinEnergy                                                                                           00      104     311      414      59.0    73.3    74.0
Off-peak Enery                                  Yearat maxvaihe                                       00      00       0.1     01       4.2     4.2      4.2
Energy Values                     Unit c/kWh          2010
Peak Enery                           3.57             4.45                                           3.57     3 57    3.57    3 57     357      3 67    3.77
Day-n EEnegy                         2.90             353                                            290      2 90    2.90    2.90     2.90     2 97    3 04
Off-prak Enery                       2.76             2.76                                           2 76     2 76    276      276     2.76     2 76    2 76
Energy Benefitb
Peak Enrgy                                                                                           $000    $019     $056    $074     51.12    $142    S147
Day- eEr                                                                                             S000   $0.30    50.90   $120     S1.71    $2.18   $2.25
Off-peak Eney                                                                          PVs(0996)     S000    S000     $000    S000     50.11    $012    $012
TOrAL                                                                                     S31.10     S0.00   S.49     SIA6    S1.95    S2.95    $3 71   $3 84
CAPACTY rehabbed unts        increase n Water          51          0.20%       96%                                                     4010     4002    3994
other mnts                                                        0.49%       94%                                                      172.3   171 6   1710
TOTAL                                                                                                                                   573.3   5718    570 3
Added Capacity                                                                                                                          67.3    68.3    69.4
Capacity Vahied                                                                                                                         0 0      0 0     0 0
S Bendllt                     Unut Vahle SkW          5441                                 S7.77       50.00   S0.00   S0.00    50.00   S0.00   50.00   $0 00
O&M Cost Saving              base vahue ($S103)      S208        nuameas     2.00%        52.20       50.05   50.10  S50.1     50.11    S0.17   $0.21  S0.27
TOTAL BENEFIT                                                                             $41.06     50.05    S0.58   51.57    52.06    $3.12   $3.92   $4.11
INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                          $25.11     52.33    $8.36   S6.98    56.84   S6.09    54.22
NEr CASH tFLOW                                                                 NPV        515.95      -$218    47.78   4541     44.78  -52.97   -5030   S4.11
IRR        IS9.
ENVIRONMlENTAL BENEFITS        Unrt Vahe (c4cWh)                                           PVa
S02 E    rsssions                    0.78                                                  56.87      S0.000  S0121    S0364    $0485   S0737    S0904  $0913
NOX Enusisons                        0.08                                                  S0.70      50 000  $0 012   $0 037   $0 049  50 075   $0 092 S 093
CARBON easwons                       0.26                                                  56.76      50000   S0040    S0121    $0161   $0245    50.331  50.367
TOTAL Emsson Benefit                                                                      S14.33      S0000   $0174    0o522    S0695   $1057    SI327  $1373
NET CASH FLOW w/emnssons                                                       NPV        S3028       42.8     47.60   -54.89   44.09   41.92     $1.02  S5.48
IRR        20.1%
Notes:
all energy numbers are average GWb/yr
aull capady numbers a  In MW
all Snumbers are in mOin
- 106-



UKRAINE HYDRO REHAB
Table 13  Project name
Drmepr I - oontmued
2004             2005         2006       2007       2008      2009    2010    2011     2012    2013    2020    2031
WITHOUT PROJECr
ENERGY                             1439.3           14365        14336     14307       1427.8    1425.0  14221   1419.3  14165    14136   13940   13636
CAPACITY                           4984             4960         4935       4910       4886      4861    4837    4813     4789    4765    4600    4354
WITH PROJECT
ENERGY rehabbedunits               11782            11770        11758     11747       1173.5    1172.3  1171 1  11700    11688   11676   11595   11468
other uuts                        379 5            379 0        378 4      377 8      377 2     376 7   3761    375.6    375 0   374 4   370 5   364 4
TOTAL                              15577            15560        15S42     15525       1550.7    15490   1547.3  15455    15438   15421   15300   15112
AddedEnergy                        1184             1195         1207       121.8      1229      1240     1251    1262    1273    1284     1360   1477
PeakEnergy                          394             398          401        405         409       413     416     420     424      427     453    491
Day-menergy                         748             755          763        770         778       785     793     800     807      815     865    943
Off-peak Energy                     4 2              42           4,2        4.2        4 2       4 2     4.2     4.2      4 2     4 2     4.2     4.3
Energy Values                    Unit cAkWh
PeakEnergy                          39               40           41        4.2         43        44      45      45       45      45      45      45
Dayti eEnergy                       31               3 2          3.3       3.3         3 4       3 5     3 5     3 5      3 5     3 5     3 5     3 5
Off-peak Energy                     2 8              2 8          2 8        2 8        2 8       2 8     2 8     2 8      2.8     2 8     2.8     2 8
Energy Benefits
PeakEnrgy                           $15             $16          $16        $17         S17       S18     $19     $1.9    $1.9     S19     $20    $22
Daytneergy                         $2.3             $2.4         $2.5        2 6        $2.6      $2.7    $28     $28     $2.9     S29     S3 I   $3.3
Off-peak Energ                      S0 I            S I          S0 I       S0.1        $0 I      $0.1    S0 I    S01     $0       $ S0 1  S0 I    S0o1
TOTAL                               54 0            S4             S4.2    $44 4        4 5      54 6    S4 8    54 8    S4 9     $4 9    $52     $5 6
CAPACITY   ehabbedunits            3986             397 8        3970       3962       3954      394.6   393 8   393 0    392.2   3914     3860   377 6
otlherunits                       1703             1696         168.9      1682       167.6      1669    1662    1656    1649     164.2   1597   1528
TOTAL                              568 8            567 4        565 9      564 4      562 9     561 5   560 0    558 6   557 1   555 7    545 7  530.4
AddedCapacity                       704             714          724        73.4.       744       754     763     773     78.3     79.2    857     950
CapacityValued                      00               00           00         00         00        00      00      06      335      346      13     00
SfBeneflt                          S0 0             $00          So00       $00         S00       $0.0    S00     S02     $148    $153     $06     S00
O&M Cost Saving                     $03             S03           $03       $0 3        $0 3      $03     $03     $03     $0 3     S03     S04     $0 5
TOTAL BENEFIT                       S42             S44           S4 5      $4 7        54 8      S49     $5 I    $5 4    S20 0   S20 5    S6 I    S6 1
INVESTMENr COSTS
NET CASH FLOW                        412            S44           54 5      54 7        54 8      54.9    $51     $5 4    $200    $20 5    S6      $6 1
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS
S02Enissiomn                        S09             S09          S09        $09         S10       $10     $10     $10     S10      S10     Sil I   $1 I
NOXEmnissions                       S0.1            $0 1          $0.1      $0 I        S0.1      $0.1    $0.1    S0 I     S01     $0 I    S0 I    S0o1
CARBONamssions                      $04             S05           $05       $06         $0.6      S07     S08     S08      S09     $1 0    S22     $67
TOTALEmsssonBenit                   $14             $15            15       St16        S17       $18     S18     $1.9     S20     S21     $33     S79
NErCASHFLOWw/emnssions              $57              $5.9        $6.1       $63         S65       $67     $69     $73     $220     $227    S94    $140
Notes:
aU energy numbers are average GWltsyr
all capacity numbers are in MW
aU Snumbers are In millions
-107-



UKRAINE HYDRO REHAB
Table 14. Summary of Total Hydro Energy & Capacity
ENERGY (overage GWh)
WITHOUT PROJECT                         19       198      39      200      2001      2002      2003     2004      2005     2006     2020     2031
Kiev PSP                                 112      112     112      112      112      112       112       III       III      III      108      105
Krcmcnchug                              1400     1400     1400    1400     1400      1 397     1394     1392      1389     1 386    1348      1318
Dniprodzcrzhynsk                        1100     1100     1300    1100     1100      1098      1096     1093      1091     1089     1059      1036
Dniepcr 2                               2168     2168     2168    2368     2168      2164      21359    2155      2151     2346     2087     2042
Kanev                                    812      812     832      812      812      810       809       807      806       804      782      765
Kiev                                     663      663     663      663      663      662       660       659      65 8      656      63 8     624
Dnieperl1                               1448     1448     3440    1448     1440      1445      3442     1439      1436     1434     3394      1364
Kakhovka                                1230     1230     3230    1230     1230      1228      3225     3223      1220     1218     1184      3358
SubTotal                                8933     8933     8933    8933     8933      8915      8897     8800      8862     8844     8600      8412
Dniester                                 800      800     800      800      800      799       798       798      797       796      785      776
TOTAL HYDRO                             9733     9733     9733    9733     9733      9714      9696     9677      9659     9640     9385      9389
WITH PROJECT
Kiev PSP                                 112      332     332      112      112       132      112       332      112       III      109      107
Krmeninchug                             3400     3405     1411    3416     1421      3419      1417     1415      1412     3430     1381      3358
Dniprodzcrzhynsk                        1300     1304     1308    1312     31137     Ills      1113     3111      3310     3108     1085      1067
Dniepcr 2                               2168     2170     2171    2373     2175      2371      2168     2365      2363     2158     2333      2079
Kanev                                    812      813     833      834      834      813       832       831      830       808      792      779
Kiev                                     663     666      671      674      691      691       690       689      688       687      676      667
Dnicper 3                               3448     3464     1495    3510     3563      1561      1559     1558      3556     1554     1530      1531
Kakhovka                                1230     1230     3230    1230     1257      3255      3253      3252     1250     1248     1224      3205
SubTotal                                8933     8963     9013    9042     9150      9137      9124     9112      9099     9086     8910      8774
Total Added (excd. Dniester)             0.0     30.3     78.5    308.6    237.0     222.0     227.1    232.3     237.3    242.3    330.1    361.3
% Energy Increase                       0.0%     0.3%    0.9%     1.2%    2 43%     2.49%     2.55%     2.61%    2.68%     2.74%   3.61%     4.30%
Dniester                                 800      803     806      809      832      813       830       830      809       808      797      788
TOTAL HYDRO                             9733     9766     9837    9851     9962      9948      9935      9921     9908      9894     9706     9562
Total Energy Added                       00      33.3     84 5    117 6    229 0     234 0     239 0    244.0     249.0    254 0    321 9     373 0
% Energy Increase                       0 0%     0 3%     0 9%    1.2%     2.35%    2 43%     2 47%     2 52%     2.58%    2.63%    3 43%    4 06%
AVAILABLE CAPCITY (Winter MW)
WiTHiOUT PROJECT
Kiev PSP                                                                   236 2     21531     234 0    21330     211.9    230 8     196 6    386 0
Kremenchug                                                                 460 0     457 7     455 4    45331     450 9    448 6    438 2     395 8
Dniprodzerzhynsk                                                           276 0     274 6     273 2    271 9     270 5    269 2    250 9     237 5
Dnieper 2                                                                  768.2     764 4     768 5    756 7     753 0    749 2    698 4     660 9
Kaney                                                                      408.5     406 4     404 4    402 4     400.4    398.4    371 4     353 4
Kiev                                                                       324 8     32331     323 5    339 9     31 83     31 67   295 3     279 4
Dnieper 3                                                                  506 0     503 5     301 0    498 4     496 0    493 5    460 0     435 4
Kakhovka                                                                   288 0     286 5     285 3    283 7     282.2     280 8   263 8     247 8
SubTotal                                                                   3247 6   3231 4    3235 2    3399.1   31 83 3   3367 2   2952 6   2794 2
Dnicster                                                                   658 0     656 7     655 4    65431     652 8    651 4    633 4     639 6
TOTAL HYDRO                                                                3905 6   38 88 0   3870 6    3853 2   3835 9    3838 7   3586 0   3413 8
WITH PROJECT
Kiev PSP          .220 9                                                             220 0     21931    213 3     217 4     216 5   204.7     195 9
Krcmenchug                                                                 470 0     468 3     466 2    464 4     462 5    460 7    435 5     416 8
Dniprodzcrzhynsk                                                           282 0     280 9     279 7    278 6     277.5    276 4    261 3     250 1
Dniepcr 2                                                                  784 9     781.8     778 6    775 5     772 4    769 3    72 73     696.0
Kancv                                                                      437 4     415 7     414 0    412 4     410 7    409.3    386 8     37031
Kiev                                                                       354 2     353 3     352 1    351 0     349 9    348.9    334 4     323 5
Dnicper I                                                                  573 3     57308     570 3    568 8     567 4    565 9    545 7     530 4
Kakhovka                                                                   297 2     296 1     295.0    293.9     292 9    291 8    277 3     266 4
SubTotal                                                                   3399.8   33 87 5   3375 2    33 62 9  3350 7    333 8 6  3173 0   3049 0
Dniester                                                                   665 0     663 7     662 3    663 0     659 7    658 4    640 2     626 2
TOTAL HYDRO                                                                4064 8   4053 2    4037 5    4023 9   4030 4    3996 9   38313 2  3675 2
Total Capacity Added (joci. Dniester)                                      359.2     163.1     166.9     370.8    874.5     878.3   227.2     261.4
% of Total Added Capacity
Kiev PSP                                                                   3 0%      3 0%      3 1%      331%     331%      3 2%     3 6%     3 8%
Kremcnehug                                                                 6.3%      6 4%      6 5%      6 6%     6 7%      6 8%     7 6%     8 0%
Dniprodzerzhynsk                                                           3 8%      3 8%      3 9%      4 0%     4 0%      4 1%     4 6%     4 8%
Dnieper 2                                                                  10 5%     10 7%     1008%    13 0%     11.2%    31 3%    12.7%     13 4%
Koniv                                                                      5.6%      5 7%      5 8%      5 8%     5 9%      6.0%     6 8%     7 1%
Kiev                                                                       38 5%     38 4%    18 3%     38 2%     3831%    38 0%    17 2%     16 9%
Dnicper 3                                                                  42 3%    4139%     41 5%     4132%    40 9%     40.6%    37 7%    36 4%
Kakhovka                                                                   5 8%      5 9%      5 9%     6 0%      6 1%     6 2%      6 8%     7 1%
Dniester                                                                   4 4%      4 3%      4 2%     4 1%      4.0%     3 9%      3-0%     2 5%
100 0%    300 0%    100 0%    300 0%   300 0%   io000%   100 0%    io000%
- 108 -



UKRAINE HYDRO REHAB
Table 15. Usable System Hydro Capadty
Load Forecast                                  Base
Capadty Benefit Value S/kW                     S441
discount rate                                  10%
winter day energy (%annual)                    130h
NPV (2000)                              S28.9
Year                                  2001     2002     2003     2004     2005     2006     2007     2008     2009     2010     2011      2020
System demand
Energy(TWb)                           1607     160.7    1647     1694     1766     184.6     193     2017      211     221 1    2299     3273
PeakLoadGW                            289      29.3     304      31.3     32.6     341      356      37.2     38.9      407      423      602
peak capacity needed MW                0 0      0 0      0 0      0 0      0 0      0 0      0 0      0 0      0 0      0 0       1 4     897 3
Daily Load factor                     91.5%                               85%      85%      85%      85%      85%      85%       85%      85%
winterdayMWe                          23848    23848    24442    25139    26208    27395    28642    29933    31313    32812    34124    48569
winter day peak MW                    26064                               30833    32229    33696    35215    36839    38602    40146    57140
USABLE CAPACITY
Without project
Finm available energy MWe              583     581.9    5808     5797     5785     5774     576.3    575.2    5741     5730     5719      562 1
Peak Capacity Usable %                8.51                                1123     10 89    10 57    10.25    9 94      9 62     9 36     7 33
Usable Peak MW                        2219     2530     2841     3152     3463     3511     3560     3609     3661     3714      3760     4191
Firm Plant Capacity MW                3906     3888     3871     3853     3836     3819     3802     3784     3767     3751      3734     3586
MAXIMUMUSEDMW                         2219     2530     2841     3152     3463     3511     3560     3609     3661     3714      3734     3586
With project
Firm available energy MWe             596 7    595 9    595 1    594 3    593 5    592 6    591 8    5910     590 2    589 4    588 6     5814
PeakUsable%                           863                                 11.42    1108     1075     1043     1012      9.80     954      750
Usable Peak MW                        2250     2568     2886     3204     3522     3572     3623     3675     3728     3784      3832     4285
FirmPlantCapacityMW                   4065     4051     4038     4024     4010     3997     3983     3970     3957     3943      3930     3813
MAXIMUM USED MW                       2250     2568     2886     3204     3522     3572     3623     3675     3728     3784      3832     3813
Added Capacity MW                      31       38       45       52       59       61       63       65       67       70        98      227
Capacity valued MW                      0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        14      227 2
Extra Capacity Valued MW               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      1.4       3.3
S Benefit (millions)                    0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.6      1.5
NPV      $28.9
ALLOCATION OF CAPACITY
Kiev PSP                               0 0      0.0      0.0      0 0      0 0      0.0      0.0      0 0      0 0      0 0      0 0       01
Kmmenchug                              0 0      0.0      0 0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0 0      0 0      0 0      0 0      01        0.2
Dmprodzerzhynsk                        00       0 0      00       0 0      00       0.0      0.0      00       00       0 0      01        0 1
Dnieper2                               00       00       00       00       00       00       0.0      0.0      00       00        02       04
Kanv                                   00       00       00       00       00       00       00       00       00       00       0 1       02
Kiev                                   0.0      00       00       00       00       0.0      00       00       00       00       0.2       06
Dnieperl                               0.0      00       00       00       00       00       00       00       00       0.0       06       13
Kakhovka                               0.0      0 0      0 0      0 0      0 0      0.0      0 0      0.0      0 0      0 0       01       0 2
SubTotal (Hydm Rehab)                  00       0.0      0 0      0 0      0 0      0 0      0 0      0 0      0 0      0 0       1.3      3 2
Dniester                               00       00       00       00       00       00       00       00       00       00        01       01
-109 -



UKRAINE HYDRO REHAB
Table 16. FUEL COSTS (incl. variable O&M)
Base Fuel Prices ($/GJ) (1996)  Station service         7%
Coal (raw)    $1.74            Load following           5%
Natural gas   $3.13            Variable O&M (c/kWh)   0.406
Total at
Fuel Used                   heat rates  Fuel cost  TOTAL  20% lower
coal      gas    Mix cost (KJ/kWh)  (c/kWh)   (c/kWh) gas price
Costs in 1996 adjusted from 2001 level
Peak energy             100%     $3.13    9000      2.82      3.57        2.94
Daytime        70%      30%      $2.16    10300     2.22      2.90         2.69
Off-peak       70%      30%      $2.16    9700      2.09      2.76         2.55
Costs at maximum
Peak energy             100%     $3.13    11500     3.60      4.45         3.64
Daytime        40%      60%      $2.58    10800     2.78      3.53         3.07
Off-peak       70%      30%      $2.16    9700      2.09      2.76         2.55
UKRAINE HYDRO REHAB
FUEL COSTS (incl. variable O&M)
Base Fuel Prices ($/GJ)        Station service          7%
Coal (raw)    $1.50            Load following            5%
Natural gas   $2.70            Variable O&M (c/kWh)     0.35
Total at
Fuel Used                   heat rates  Fuel cost  TOTAL  20% lower
coal     gas     Mix cost (KJ/kWh)  (c/kWh)   (c/kWh) gas price
Costs in 2001
Peak energy             100%     $3.13    9000      2.82      3.57         2.94
Daytime        70%      30%      $2.16    10300     2.22      2.90         2.69
Off-peak       70%      30%      $2.16    9700      2.09      2.76         2.55
Costs at maximum
Peak energy             100%     $3.13    11500     3.60      4.45         3.64
Daytime        40%      60%      $2.58    10800     2.78      3.53         3.07
Off-peak       70%      30%      $2.16    9700      2.09      2.76         2.55
- 110 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists,-1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
06/24/1994                   9    Mission Leader (1); Power
Engineer (3); Economist (2);
Power System Specialist (1);
Consultants (2)
Appraisal/Negotiation
09/26/1994                   8    Mission Leader (1);
Environmental Specialist
(1); Economist (2); Power
Engineer (1); Financial
Analyst (1); Coal Mining
Specialist (1); Project Officer
(Kiev Office) (1)
Supervision
02/16/1996                    6   Senior Sectoral Econ. (1);          S             S
Procurement Specialist (1);
Principal Economist (1);
Financial Analyst (1); Task
Manager (1); Power
Engineer (1)
04/01/1997                    4   Procurement Specialist (1);         S             U
Procurement Specialist (1); Task
Manager (1); Financial Analyst
(1)
11/21/1997                   3   Task Manager-Power Engineer         S              S
(1); Procurement Specialist (1);
Financial Specialist (1)
05/22/1998                    3   Task Manager-Power Engineer        U              U
(1); Procurement Specialist (1);
Financial Specialist (1)
12/7/1998                    6   Power Engineer (1); Financial       S              S
Analyst (2); Operations Officer
(1); Procurement/Disbursement
Analyst (1); Procurement
Specialist
02/15/1999                    2   Mission Leader-Power Engineer       U             U
(1); Operations Officer (1)
07/24/1999                    5   Mission Leader-Power Engineer       S             S
(1); Dam Safety Expert (1);
Financial Analyst (1); Operations
Analyst
05/09/2000                    4   Mission Leader-Power Engineer       U             U
(1); Operations Officer (1);
Financial Analyst (1); Operations
Analyst (1)
- 111 -



06/15/2001                    5   Task Team Leader (1); Sr.           S              S
Energy Specialist (1); Darns
Specialist (1); Financial Analyst
(1); Operations Officer (1)
11/20/2001                    3   Operation Officer (1); Financial    S              S
Analyst (1); Energy Economist
(1)
06/24/2002                    4   Team Leader (1); Sr. Power          S              S
Engineer (1); Operations Officer
(1); Financial Analyst-Consultant
(1)
ICR
Team Leader (1); Sr.
Energy Specialist (1);
Operations Officer (1);
Energy Economist -
Consultant (1), Financial
Analyst - Consultant (1)
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                                             172,508.17
Supervision                                                       882,576.23
ICR                                                                58,000.00
Total
- 112 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
0 Macro policies                      O H OSUOM O N O NA
U Sector Policies                     O H OSU*M       O N O NA
3 Physical                            O H OSUOM       O N O NA
L Financial                           O H OSUOM       O N O NA
I Institutional Development           0 H O SU * M    0 N 0 NA
3 Environmental                       0 H * SU O M    0 N (D NA
Social
C] Poverty Reduction            O H OSUOM       O N O NA
0 Gender                        O H OSUOM       O N O NA
O Other (Please specify)        0 H O SU O M    0 N (D NA
O Private sector development          0 H O SU O M    0 N 0 NA
U Public sector management            0 H 0 SU O M    0 N 0 NA
U Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM       O N O NA
-113 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
N Lending                                          OHSOS Ou OHU
F2 Supervision                                     OHS OS       O U   O HU
F Overall                                          OHS 4@S      O u   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
E Preparation                                      OHS OS       OU    OHU
3 Government implementation performance            O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
F Implementation agencyperformance                 O HS 0 S     O U   0 HU
F Overall                                          OHS OS       0 U   0 HU
-114-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. SGI Engineering Ltd. Hydropower Rehabilitation Study, September 1994.
2. Staff Appraisal Report No. 13663-UA: Ukraine Hydropower Rehabilitation and System Control
Project, March 20, 1995.
3. EBRD, Stone & Webster Consultants: "Completion of Khmelnitsky 2 & Rovno 4 in Ukraine -
Economic Due Diligence", July 2001.
4. Ukraine: Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report, April 29, 1999.
5. Memorandum of the President of the Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development and of the
Intemational Finance Corporation to the Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy for
Ulraine, August 16, 2000.
6. Dniprohydroenergo - Implementation Completion Report, July 2002.
7. Ukrenergo - Implementation Completion Report, July 2002.
-115 -



Additional Annex 8.
Summaries of project completion reports from DHE and UE.
Annotation on Project Implementation Completion Report
Hydropower Rehabilitation and System Control Project
"DNIPROHYDROENERGO" JSC, Ukraine, 1995 - 2002
Energy Consulting Group
INEKO-Management                                                             2002
List of Abbreviations Used
AMS                  Automated Monitoring System
CCPP                 Combined-Cycle Power Plant
DHE                  <<Dniprohydroenergo>>
HPP                  Hydroelectric Power Plant
HPSPP                Hydroelectric Pumped Storage Power Plant
HTF                  Hydrotechnical Facilities
IBRD, the Bank       the Intemational Bank of Reconstruction and Development
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
TPP                  Thermal Power Plant
UES                  United Energy System
WEM                  Wholesale Electricity Market
The Project was developed in accordance with the IBRD strategy in the energy field, which is aimed at
development of power-saving technologies and adaptation of power system to the market economy
requirements.
The Project's objectives were determined to resolving of some most actual problems of Ukrainian UES:
*      increase of efficiency, reliability, safety and environmental performance of HPPs;
*      increase of hydropower generation capacity;
improve the quality of electricity supply by upgrading load and frequency control, which would
also improve safety of nuclear power plants;
*      reduce fuel costs by facilitating the economic dispatch of generating units.
"SGI ENGINEERING Ltd." Company has studied (1994) the aspects of HPPs rehabilitation. The Study
indicated priorities of investment, proposals on rehabilitation of all Dnieper cascade HPPs were performed.
The Project can be considered complicated due to the following aspects:
*      a large number of participants of the Project (total number of workers involved in the Project is
approximately 10 000);
*      a wide territorial spread of HPPs and a large number facilities under operation without full stop
and withdrawal;
*      worldwide recognized approaches to the project implementation at the moment of starting the
Project were quite new for DHE and Ukraine in general;
- 116 -



*      rehabilitation of such large scale have never been performed in Ukraine.
This Project is first large-scale project that performed in Ukraine under lack of local financing and in
accordance with a rather dense project schedule, that referred to autumn-winter peak load and floods, as
well as taking into account worldwide recognized approaches to the project implementation.
The dam safety monitoring system is been created for the first time in a former USSR country.
The experience achieved could be used as a recommendation for large-scale Project on many hydropower
sites rehabilitation in the CIS countries.
The Project preparation and implementation was performed by 4 components as follows:
Hydropower plants rehabilitation;
*      Installation of the dam safety monitoring system at the main reservoirs of the Dnieper river;
Upgrade of communication, dispatching, system control and protection and generating units
control;
Technical assistance and optimization of the use of Dnieper reservoirs.
Component - Hydropower Rehabilitation
The HPPs play the critical role in load and frequency peaks regulation in the power system of Ukraine.
Most of the existing HPPs are old and require rehabilitation (7 out of 8 main HPPs have age of over 20
years, 5 - over 30 years, the oldest HPP, the DniproHPP I, was constructed in 1932 and reconstructed in
1947).
In the course of reconstruction the following was planned to be done:
*      replacement of turbine runners, hydro turbines regulators and other components of the basic BPP
equipment at Kyiv, Kakhovka and Dnieper HPP I. At Kyiv HPP, it was planned to reconstruct 8 out of 20
hydro units. At Dnieper HPP I all turbines shall undergo rehabilitation. Furthermore, one turbine both at
Kremenchug and Dniprodzerzhinsk HPPs was for rehabilitation;
*      rehabilitation of generators;
*      rehabilitation of the 3, 110, 154 and 330 kV switchgear systems and auxiliary equipment;
*      upgrade of monitoring and control systems at Dnieper and Kakhovka, Kyiv HPPs, as well as at
Kyiv HPSPP.
The scope of works for this component is exceed scope that were initially foreseen after additional
investigations.
Imperfect regulation system of energy sector and WEM operation, tariff formation system, as well as low
level of payments for electricity during a long period have limited DHE's capabilities on provision of
sufficient funds for the local portion of the Project.
Constant insufficient financing of the Project's components (such components were financed by local
source) resulted in a decision, later on approved by the IBRD, to decrease number of turbines and
generators subject to rehabilitation. Instead of 23 hydro turbines and generators originally planned for
rehabilitation in accordance with the program of the project's first phase, only 16 hydro units have left (at
the 3 HPPs of the Cascade).
- 117 -



Table 1. Change of Scope of Work for Unit Rehabilitation Component
HPP                                 Appraisal Scope of Work    Actual Scope of Work
Kyiv HPP                             8 out of 20               9
Dnieper HPP-1                        9 out of 9                6
Kakhovka HPP                         4 out of 6                1
Kremenchug HPP                       1                         0
Dniprodzerzhinsk HPP                 1                         0
In the course of this component's implementation, an additional capacity of 88.1 MW against pre-project
130 MW was achieved due to increased efficiency of hydro units. Only reducing in numbers of units
rehabilitated caused it.
Capacity increase indicators at the HPPs and units installed capacity increase are higher than expected in
the pre-project survey (see Tables 2-4).
Table 2.      Operating Capacity for Units of HPP after Rehabilitation, MW
Before rehabilitation  Appraisal        Actual
KyivHPP              16.3; 18.5          19.9                22.0
Dnieper HPP 2        65                  79.8                72*
Kakhovka HPP         50                  52.2                55.8
* Evaluation survey did not envisage the influence of appearance of backwater (reducing in waterflow
level) due Kakhovka HPP construction in 1956. Increase of available unit capacity as the result of
reconstruction meets the absolute value of the pre-project studies - 7 MW.
Table 3.      Specific Water Consumption, CMIkWh
Before reconstruction          Actual
Kyiv HPP              43.16                          41.3
Dnieper HPP 2         12.2                           11.7
Kakhovka HPP          26.6                           25.5
- 118 -



Table 4.      Turbine Efficiency, %
Appraisal                     Actual / Latest Estimate
Kyiv HPP              4.3                           4.3
Dnieper HPP 2         3.5                           4.2
Kakhovka HPP          3.9                           4.1
The rehabilitation of Dnieper Cascade HPPs (except the task of extension of their service life), is the only
possible way to increase installed capacity and output of Dnieper Cascade HPPs.
The following outputs were achieved during reconstruction:
*      full replacement or reconstruction of part of some worn-out and obsolescent major equipment,
extend service life of the rehabilitated equipment for at least 30 years;
Oil leaks through runner blades sealing (in Dnieper river) were completely eliminated;
*      Operating costs on repair and maintenance for all types of equipment have decreased;
*      Implementation of automated monitoring system of hydrotechnical facilities (HITF) of Kyiv HPP;
The design parameters on efficiency improvement and capacity increase are achieved;
*      By means of rehabilitation of 16 units it has become possible to increase total capacity at design
flow rate by 88.1 MW average annual output of electricity by 95 mli. kWh;
In the result of installation of equipment based on the up-to-date microprocessors, their operational
reliability, efficiency and mobility of equipment have improved together with reliability of the entire plant.
The basic positive aspects in the result of reconstruction at the DHE's HPPs are the following:
Generation of additional peak electricity at the DHE's HPPs annual additionally output of 95 mln.
kWh. Additional output also result on decreasing in organic fuel burning at TPPs which saves lifetime of
TPP equipment.
Additional installed capacity of 88.1 MW allow to avoid putting from reserve into operation HPP
and also allow to sufficiently reduce of TPP equipment wear-out.
*      There will be less requirement to introduce new peak generating capacities to ensure reliable
operation of the UES of Ukraine (HPSPP, CCPP etc.) nowadays and in the future, Extension of equipment
life time as an option altemative to its replacement with new equipment. The evaluation above of organic
fuel saving via reconstruction is also effected on reducing of environmental contamination, including C02
emission (NOx - 1050 t, SOx - 2865 t, CO - 167 t, Solid particles - 964 t, C02 - 76 000 t. Environmental
payment- $61.2 ths annually).
Work performance for this component can be classified as highly satisfactory.
The financing of this component was provided by loan of IBRD, Swiss Govemment grant as well as by
local source.
The total financing the hydropower rehabilitation component is $77.6 mln., including foreign and local
costs together with physical contingencies).
Component - Installation of Dam Monitoring Systems
Initially this component includes activities on rehabilitation and upgrade of the existing dam monitoring
system for dam of 100 km length. The activities included rehabilitation and upgrading the existing system
of the hydraulic structure safety monitoring, as well as installation of new equipment, drainage systems.
-119-



Pursuant to revised schedule of the component the system of safety monitoring is installed at Kyiv HPP as
a pilot project. However the system of safety monitoring is putting into operation on 50 km of waterside
facilities at Kyiv HPP against 100 km planned.
As a result of HTF AMS implementation at Kyiv HPP the following tasks have been completed:
*      automated acquisition of monitoring measurement system readings,
*      reconstruction of instrumental monitoring means,
*      review and update of existing methodical, technological and organizational monitoring procedures.
It was the first time in Ukraine and CIS countries when 50 kmn of soil-made dam were equipped with AMS.
Work performance for this component can be classified as highly satisfactory.
The financing of this component was provided by loan of WBRD and local source.
The totalfinancingfor installation of Dam Monitoring Systems is $1.9 mln. (foreign and local costs)
Component - Upgrade of Communication, Dispatch and System Control
This component was foreseen the activities on upgrading communication, dispatch control system in
Ukrainian UES, as well as control, monitoring and relay protection system in high voltage networks.
The main scope of work on this component is carried out within the Ukrenergo NEC activities.
Component - Technical Assistance in Project Implementation and Optimization of the Use of Dnieper
reservoirs
The technical assistance during the Project's implementation was supposed to compensate lack of the
experience in international procurement, as well as assistance at the stage of feasibility study of the Project,
preparation and holding of international bidding, Project management and audit.
Besides such technical assistance included review of all existing methods of reservoir management and
preparation of suggesti6ns on improvement of the existing methods.
In accordance with SAR Norwegian Government should financed the technical assistance in optimization
of Dnieper reservoir, and the DHE was identified as a beneficiary of the assistance.
During Project implementation name of beneficiary was changed to Ukrenergo NEC. Norwegian
Government financed the sub-component. The deliverable was the survey carried out by Norplan-Niva
Association "On Water Management and Hydro Power Control System in Ukraine" for the Ukrenergo NEC
in 1999.
The financing of this component was provided by loan of IBRD, grant of Canadian Agency of International
Development, grant of Swiss Govemment as well as local source.
The total financing for technical assistance for the DHE project component is $6.4 mln. (foreign and local
costs).
Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
The risks of hard state regulation policy in energy industry, imperfect tariff formation policy (including
tariffs for peak electricity) and, as consequence, worsening of DHE financial performance were determined
as main Project risks at preparation stage.
The main factors, which affected the project implementation significantly, are as follows:
Late date of ratification of IBRD Loan Agreement by Verhovna Rada and, as a result, delay at the
preparation and evaluation stage of the bidding;
- 120 -



*      Crisis in economy during 1998 - 1999, 1999-2000 led to significant reduction and suspense of
local financing of the Project. It caused sufficient delay of the Project implementation;
*      Changes in tax legislation (increasing Project risks);
*      The first in Ukraine experiences in realization of international bidding for equipment supply.
In spite of complexity of procedures of international bidding for supply of equipment according to the
IBRD standards the terms of realization of the tenders were met.
*      Carrying out reforms in power industry sector as well as orientation of state activities on
toughening of paying discipline reduced significantly the main risk of unsuccessful Project implementation,
namely, absence or insufficient amount of local financing. In spite of significant fluctuations of local
financing, systematic transfers and latest amounts, detenmined by the WEM algorithm at the final stage of
the Project, provided stability of local financing in the acceptable amount.
Costs and Financing
1.     Total Project costs constituted USD 89.2 million or 67% of total budget costs by IBRD loan -
USD 31.8 million or 74% of total budget costs, USD plus 3.3 million - interest during construction;
*      by co-financing entities - USD 10.8 million or 90.2% of total budget costs,
by local financing source - USD 43.3 million or 65% of total budget costs,
The bidding for supply of equipment and goods within the loan was performed in technical assistance
component and in accordance with the rules of International Bidding.
The purchase of equipment and rendering services in the scope of local financing has been implemented
according to the direct contracts.
The revised amount of IBRD loan for DHE component is USD 35.1 million against original IBRD loan for
DHE component USD.51.6 million Decrease of loan amount was caused by a requirement to perform a
large amount of additional activities per one hydro unit, limited period of the Project and, as a result,
reduction of quantity of hydro units subject to rehabilitation at the first stage, as agreed with the IBRD.
2.     Postponing by 1.5-2 years of contracts conclusion dates and equipment supply dates as foreseen by
the SAR has limited the DHE in efficient use of grace period.
3.     Imperfect WEM funds distribution mechanisms, which acted during the Project's implementation
have caused appearance of deficit of local portion financing, which resulted in need to reduce the number of
hydro units subject to rehabilitation.
This reduction was also caused by a requirement to perform additional work at each hydro unit.
4.     Prompt financing from the local source in 2001-2002 has allowed the DHE to fully and properly
perform final activities on the Project.
Sustainability
After implementation of the Project's activities, the main risk is also related to capabilities of the DHE to
service the Bank's loan. Considering the fact that in final stage of the project (2001 - 2002) the DHE did
not experience any problems of financing its portion, as well as there were no prerequisites for worsening
of DHE financial status in the future, the Project's sustainability may be classified as highly likely. It is
necessary to take into account that strengthening payments discipline in energy sector, improvement of
funds collection in WEM during 2001 - 2002 years may be a guaranty to ensure normal operation of the
energy sector of Ukraine.
- 121 -



The risks related to the further operation of the rehabilitated or new equipment are minor, therefore there is
no reason to consider these risks as the risks that may further result in a negative impact on the outcomes of
the Project implementation.
Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation
The co-operation of the DHE's specialists with foreign experts has allowed implementing Project with
international project management approach usage.
All rehabilitated hydro units were practically operated, a full number of commissioning and field tests was
carried out. New equipment is provided with spares, design and technical documentation, on the basis of
which the detailed operation manuals are published.
Bank's and DEE's (Borrower's) Performance
Bank
The IBRD appeared to be a stabilizing element. The Bank's activity on Project preparation and
implementation included continuous monitoring and support of the Borrower in case of shortcomings,
which could have had negative impact on the Project implementation. It is evident that no Project could
have been implemented without the IBRD's funds, organizational capabilities and authority.
The Bank's activity can be classified as highly successful DiE
Taking into account the complicity and scale of the Project, certain economic environment of Project
implementation, market economy formation and real changes in energy sector, large number of the project
participants in Ukraine as well as foreign participants, other factors DHE's activity can be classified as
highly satisfactory.
Lessons Learned
During the Project activities planning a considerable attention shall be paid to the risks related to possible
delays caused by the project approval by the state agencies, as well as delays during preparation and
holding of procurement tender and actual performance.
The Feasibility Study had to pay a lot of attention to the aspects of precise evaluation of technical condition
of equipment subject to rehabilitation or repair, in order to ensure maximum authenticity during estimation
of the scope of work and the project financing.
The main task during the project implementation is to discover deviations from what was planned and to
initiate activities aimed at prevention of possible deviations. In order to discover such deviations, all
information on the project implementation shall be concentrated in one hand on the regular basis. For this
Project it were performed by World Bank's missions on regular basis. Especially it has effect to technical
aspects of works and project schedule.
Summary of Ukrenergo's Implementation Completion Report
Initial Project Objectives
l.a. Project background
Period of Ukraine's independence proclamation was characterized by the dramatic economic decline in the
beginning of 90s. Real GDP contracted by 14% in 1993 bringing the cumulative fall in output since 1990
to 38%.This trend accelerated in the first half of 1994.
- 122 -



The existing UPS management system included hierarchy one consisting from 4 - level dispatch
management and control system and also local automatic management subsystems installed on different
equipment blocks. At the highest level in the dispatch system stood National Dispatch Center (NDC)
connected with 8 regional dispatch centers (RDC) joined with some HPSs and local distribution centers. At
the lowest - the fourth level there were single generator units available at factories and local distribution
centers connected with regional distribution centers. Operation of the system in real time mode was secured
by manual management with the help of telephone communication between dispatchers of the central
dispatch center and regional ones and also with dispatchers of stations and substations. The existing
mechanism of data collection was considerably deteriorated. No automatic means were used for generators
and load management. These disadvantages could not but finally reflect in low quality of electricity supply
to consumers and in non effective production.
Transmission lines and distribution networks in Ukraine operated under voltage of 0,4, 6, 10, 35, 110, 150,
220, 330, 400 and 750kV of altemate current. Voltage levels used' under electricity transmission are of
330kV and higher. Networks with voltage of 220kV countries of Central Europe and lower are related to
distribution system. Ukraine has common power connection with countries of Central Europe, Russia,
Romania, Bulgaria and Byelorussia. Networks operating at 750kV voltage were designed as main networks
to serve domestic Ukrainian needs and to export electricity from Ukraine to Russia and countries of Central
Europe.
l.b. Project Objectives
Low automation level, aged and non complying with requirements protection, management, metering,
communication devices and computer equipment harden the operation of complex in the whole. As it was
already mentioned frequency was manually regulated, time of initial regulation mechanism was insufficient,
regulators had large insensitivity zones. Schedule for load monitoring was also manually prepared unlike
with the practical use of computers for save dispatch management that leads to additional fuel
consumption. Electricity flows management in the joining points with neighboring systems had the same
problems as with frequency management that created barriers to the interconnection process with CIS and
neighboring power systems. This problem aside from creation barriers in electricity trading also led to
reduction of reliability and safety of electricity supply and to expensiveness of power system in the whole
because it required more considerable reserve capacities. UPS operation requires improvement in metering
devices serving interconnection points of company on electricity supply and wholesale consumers.
Mechanism for data collection and communication must be able to secure all working UPS operations in
real time mode by submitting accurate and timely information for working operation schedule needs,
calculation of accounts payable by consumers and compensation to members of united system.
To solve the above mentioned problems it was planned to decide the following tasks:
*      improvement of protection systems at power plants, dispatching system and equipment for
monitoring electricity generation;
*     improvement of protection systems at Overhead High Voltage Lines (OHLs);
*      installation of computer equipment securing automatic operation modes management of generators
and also economic dispatch management from National Power Company "Ukrenergo" (NPC "Ukrenergo");
*     enhancing systems for data collection and transmitting them to NPC "Ukrenergo" at a number of
power plants and the most important substations by erecting modem distance management terminals and
more powerful computer equipment. This will allow to increase scope and frequency of data coming on
dispatch panels that would lead to control improvement, more modem response and would enable to
perform automatic process regulation for electricity generation and function of economic dispatch
management and to secure effective UPS operation;
- 123-



*      improvement of communication system by dismantling existing units at those areas which represent
"bottlenecks". The existing system has serious limits. Communication lines (cables, transmission lines and
radio broadcasting lines ) were aged, non reliable, sensitive to sound devastation and resembled escalating
difficulties for service. Taking into consideration the size of Ukrainian power system and requirements
reaching out of it the design of this component should secure functioning of new SCADA system.
Initial Project Objectives coincided in the whole with the strategy of the Govermment of Ukraine in Power
Industry which at the time of Project preparation consisted in enhancing efficiency of electricity generation
and as a result in reducing costs for fuel and improvement of Industry's payment balance. Improvement
the quality of electricity supply which is one of the basic prerequisite for industrial production and fully
corresponds with "Strategic principles of the Bank's country assistance" should have become of the
conditions for Ukraine's industry modernization.
2. Initial Project Sub Components
At the preparation stage of the given Project the Sides-Participants defined that its main component parts
are:
Part <<A>> consisting in fulfillment of works on HPP rehabilitation is perfonned by State-owned Joint Stock
Hydrogenerating Company "Dniprohydroenergo";
Part <<B>> consisting in carrying of system management modernization is performed by the National Power
Company "Ukrenergo".
Main attention in the given Report is paid to Part B of the Project, realization of which is in capacity of
NPC "Ukrenergo". According to SAR in the framework of the Part B of the Project component (b) is
"Upgrade of communication, dispatch service, management and protection systems and control over
generating units". Automation management system level which existed before reconstruction stipulated
manual frequency regulation. Actuation time for initial regulation system was insufficient. Regulators had
large insensitivity zones, were made according to aged technology using hydraulic boosters. Monitoring
over the load schedule was also performed manually without computer systems of economic dispatch
management that led to excessive fuel consumption at TPPs. The result of work on the given component
should be such data collection system on the use of capacities and generators work efficiency forecasts
which could secure all working UPS operations in real time.
To facilitate further presentation and consequent report structuring the given component may be divided on
the following principal sub components:
1) Upgrade of communication system in the UPS of Ukraine. In the framework of this sub
component three contracts were concluded;
2)     Upgrade of Frequency Regulation System and Dispatch and System Control. Implementation is
provided by one contract;
3)     Enhancement of Relay Protection Devices of the Ukrainian UPS Main Network. Implementation is
provided by one contract;
4)     Dniester HPP Monitoring and Control System Rehabilitation. Two contracts were concluded in the
framework of sub component.
These sub components embrace the whole complex of measures undertaken to achieve Project objectives.
- 124 -



3. Achievement of Development Objectives and Outputs
Actual realization of Part "B" of the Project allowed to achieve initially set objectives and get positive
results permitting to improve to some extent the situation in country's power sector:
*      fulfilling a number of measures on replacement the aged equipment allowed to considerably
enhance reliability of Ukrainian UPS;
*      purchase and installation of modem  dispatch communication means satisfying technical
requirements of system led to enhancement the quality of real-time dispatch management in Ukrainian UPS
that led to reduction of fuel consumption in the process of electricity generation (quantitative evaluation of
achieved results will be given in the next section of this report);
*      construction of modem fiber optic communication lines aside from technological possibilities for
transmitting information allowed to considerably extend existing opportunities in providing communication
services to domestic consumers at state level;
*      introduction of automatic frequency and capacity regulation system promoted improvement the
quality of electricity supply to consumers, enhancement of safety in NPP operation;
*      reduction of fuel consumption by improvement the quality of dispatch management over the
generating units;
*      permanent cooperation of Ukrainian specialists with western colleagues facilitated acquiring
experience, skills upgrading in different spheres of activities: from installation, mounting and operation of
modem equipment to management and coordination of works on the Project.
4. Outputs of Project sub component realization
In the course of the Project Part B realization seven (7) contracts were concluded on equipment delivery,
fulfillnent of works and services:
1. Sub component: Communications System Modernization in the Ukrainian UPS
Construction of fiber optic lines of communication (FOCL) -
Terms: Beginning - 1998. Completion - 31.12. 2001.
Supplier: SIEMENS AG (Germany) with subsequent transfer of rights to Corning (Germany).
Substantiation of the necessity for Contract realization:
Development of Power Industry, increasing number of NPC 'Ukrenergo's" structural divisions,
development of emergency control automatic system, dispatch control, frequency and capacity automatic
regulation system and telemechanics with correspondingly increasing volume of transmitted information
required to enhance reliability of work and development of communication means (systems) of the Ministry
of Fuel and Energy departmental communication network belonging to the main funds of "Ukrenergo".
The existing analog systems have aged (main cable communication line Kyiv - Chercassy - Zaporizhya -
Gorlovka with a tap to Odessa was organized on metallic cables of old design) had been in operation for a
long time and needed to be changed. More frequent defects of cable and lack of reserve for repair
practically did not provide reliability of transmitting information.
-125-



Taking into account the above mentioned, realization of contract in the framework of which introduction of
modem digital communication system allowing to increase considerably the speed and volume of
transmitting infonnation between subdivisions of the unified system, was anticipated.
Due to the undertaken technical analysis the decision was taken that the way out from the situation
occurred lies in introduction of modem digital communication system with the use of cable which can be
laid on transmission lines (or hanging on transmission lines).
Evaluation of outputs received from Contract implementation:
1. Due to the FOCL commissioning National Power Company 'Ukrenergo" received the opportunity
to:
*      use modem digital cormmunication system for transmission of information which allows to enhance
reliability and authenticity of transmitted information;
*      join separated regional cable communication lines into unified '"Jkrenergo's" communication
system with the help of trunk FOCL parts;
*      join regional automatic telephone stations by non commuted communication channels and 2Mbps
flows that led to more efficient on-line technical solutions;
*      switch to the digital city automatic telephone stations;
*      organize new speed E-mail channels;
organize reserve automatic channels for preventing accidents;
*      train personnel (with the help of SIEMENS) to operate modem digital communication systems;
*      construct digital communication systems in dispatch-technological management of power systems,
allowing to secure solutions of task at modem level.
"Supply of digital automatic telephone stations"
Terms: Beginning - 1997. Completion - 1999.
Supplier - KAPSH AG (Austria).
Substantiation of necessity for the Project realization:
Necessity of purchase was caused by exigency for change of aged automatic telephone stations of
decade-step and coordinate system and also dispatch commutators built on relay schemes. Further
operation of aged equipment is not possible on the following reasons:
V,     absence of spare parts in consequence of their lay-off by makers;
/      systematic refusals and negative quality of connection;
V      noncompliance with new digital commutation equipment both on software and on physical
interfaces;
/      lack of additional services.
Evaluation of outputs for Project implementation:
1.Introduction of modem digital dispatch communication commutators (dispatch consoles) enhanced
considerably the reliability of dispatch communication that influenced effectiveness of operational-dispatch
management of UPS of Ukraine in the whole, namely:
V      quality of dispatch communication improved;
/      reliability of equipment operation and its repairability enhanced,
- 126 -



/      uniform communication system on the basis of modem equipment is created;
V/    range of realized functions is extended.
2. In the course of project implementation directly at the producer premises Ukrainian specialists were
trained on servicing of each kind of acquired equipment.
3. Introduction of modem digital automatic telephone stations allowed to:
/      release considerable production areas;
V      improve the quality of connection;
V      organize the required number of departmental communication networks using one and the same
equipment;
V      connect to cities' digital automatic telephone stations using modem signalization protocols;
V      change user's numbers without changing cross jumperings;
V/     perform traffic analysis on separate directions;
V      acquire a number of additional services, which were not possible on old automatic telephone
stations, more often used by customers from them are: redirection of calls, conference organization,
reminder, automatic call, undesirable call blocking, putting in the hold mode.
4. Introduction of modem digital dispatch commutators allowed to:
V/     provide loud voice connection;
V      secure quality of transit connections;
V      avoid multi wire commutation at workplace.
<Supply of batteries, charges, UPSs and diesel generators>> -
Terms: Beginning - 1996. Completion -1998.
Supplier- SCHNEIDER SA (France).
Substantiation the necessity for Project realization:
To solve tasks on modemization communication system in the UPS of Ukraine live issue is the change of
batteries, charging appliances, UPSs, diesel-generators, distributing AC/DC plates for:
/      providing dispatch points of Company's regional power systems with reliable power supply
sources;
V      providing power supply to FOCL equipment;
/      change of exhausted batteries.
Rationale for purchasing such equipment was acknowledged during accidents in the main Ukrainian
UPS network in 2000 -2001 caused by weather factors (icing, tomadoes). For instance, in November
2001 dispatch point of Yugo-Zapadnaya (South-Westem) power system was provided with power from
UPS+diesel-generator for three (3) days.
Assessment of outputs for Project implementation:
1. As a result of Project completion eight (8) RDCs-Donbasskiy, Dneprovskiy, Central, Zapadniy,
Yugo-Zapadniy, Sevemiy, Yuzhniy and Crimean - were provided with full-value power supply systems
including rectifier-invertor, battery + diesel-generator which secured reliable power supply to technological
equipment of the given dispatch centers separately from primary power supply status.
- 127 -



2. Prepared and are kept in working condition power supply systems for multiplexer equipment
(charging appliances + batteries) envisaged by FOCL Project construction at all utilities (substations,
power plants, RDC).
3. In the course of Project realization Ukrainian specialists were trained on installation and
maintenance of complex directly at the premises of the Producer - in France and in Italy. technological
equipment Training on less complex equipment was held in Ukraine. All trainees received corresponding
certificates from the equipment producer allowing its assembling and maintenance. Thus installation of
modem equipment acquired within the framework of this contract facilitated in achieving of qualitatively
new level of communication under considerable extension of its technological possibilities.
2. Sub component: Upgrade of Frequency Rezulation System and Dispatch and System Control
<<Supply of integral package of Supervisory Control and Data System (SCADA), Automatic Generation
Control (AGC), Generation Control Dispatch System (GCD), Energy Management System (EMS)>>
Terms: Beginning - 1999. Completion - June 30,2002.
The Contract was signed on January 15, 1999 and in accordance with time schedule it had to be fulfilled by
the beginning of 2001. However due to considerable delay in contract processing it became effective only
on May 7, 1999. Therefore, time schedule for fulfilment of works was shifted and contract was completed
in June 2002.
Supplier: CEGELEC (France) with consequent transfer to ALSTOM T&D (France).
Substantiation of necessity for Project realization:
The main designation for integrated apparatus-software complex is to provide handling of telemetric
information and instrumental means for effective UPS of Ukraine management modes. Commissioning of
control and monitoring system of SCADA modes management anticipates enhancing of quality, reliability
and effectiveness of operational-dispatch management of generating unions, which belong to the UPS of
Ukraine.
Assessing outputs of the Project implementation:
Particularity of power industry anticipates the high level of power systems' automation and
telemechanization, automation of technological processes on units, organization of centralized dispatch
management system which creates necessary information and technical basis for effective SCADA
functioning.
3. Sub component: enhancement of relay protection deyices of the Ukrainian UPS main network
<<High Voltage Overhead Line Protection Relays Supply>
Terms: Beginning - 1996 Completion - June 30, 2002.
Installation of equipment was delayed by almost 3,5 years due to the problems with equipment transfer
procedure on Leasing Contract (10 relay protection sets - National Nuclear Energy Generating Company)
(NAEK "Energoatom") and 2 sets State-owned Joint Stock Energy Generating Company "Zakhidenergo"
(DAEK "Zakhidenergo") and problems with local financing.
- 128-



Supplier - SIEMENS AG EV S VI 5 (Germany).
Substantiation of necessity for Project realization:
750, 500, 400, 330 kV network is the basis for reliable operation of Ukrainian UPS. Minimization of time
to liquidate damages is a foundation for sustainable UPS of Ukraine operation. Relay protection failure or
delays in disconnection of damages can form large system disturbances, overloading of equipment and lead
to the loss of dynamic sustainability. In connection with normative life term expiration of the main network
relay protections, the necessity of their change became vivid.
Assessment of outputs on Project implementation:
1.     Replacement of morally and physically aged protections on High Voltage Overhead Lines in the
main Ukrainian network (including 750kV overhead lines outgoing from NPPs) for new microprocessor
protections is one of the most effective methods for preventing emergency situations occurring due to
protection failures  under defects on lines. Prevention of system emergencies, loss of NPP units
synchronism is not only a technical measure for raising survivability of Ukrainian UPS but also a measure
for preventing man-caused accidents on Ukrainian NPPs and so it posses a definite ecological effect.
2.     Installation of new multifunctional microprocessor protection allows to considerably reduce of
areas for installation of control boxes and protections. As a result, disengaged production areas may be
successfully used under the subsequent reconstruction and modernization stages. It is not possible to
evaluate the size of production areas which are disengaged under installation of new relay protection sets
because disengagement itself will take place at the next stage after replacement of existing static and electro
mechanic relay protection. Set of SIEMENS relay protections are being installed alongside with preserving
the existing complex of static and electro mechanic relay protections and no areas are disengaged.
3.     Modemization of protection relays allows to reduce expenditures on current relay protection
maintenance and on adaptation of relay installations to the changed modes of operation.
4.     Besides, the Contract implementation provides:
4.1. Reducing of load on current and voltage transformners which allows to advantageously use the freed
capacities without installation of additional current and voltage transformers or receive the reserve on
admissible load which can be used further.
4.2. Operational personnel of all levels is becoming more informed on the occurring accidents. Special
registrator of accidental events and defects location needs to be installed on the overhead line under existing
type of protection while microprocessor protections have the built-in registrators and via modem connection
can give immediate information to all levels of operational management. With this, time for restoration of
normal condition reduces considerably.
4.3. Easy adaptation of microprocessor protections into management and protection complexes at further
stages of development while PDE-2000 type protections have no such opportunity.
4.4. Reduction of probability for errors and failures occurrence in the work of relay protections due to the
fact that microprocessor protections have considerably less number of outer commutation apparatuses
(faceplates, testing units, switches) than existing ones.
-129 -



4.5 Control of the devices status at any time and not only at the moment of inspection from the outside
source of current and voltage (as it happens with existing ones) that makes it possible to consider
questions of surplus reserve.
Effect of intellectual character.
This effect even less falls under any quantitative account but it certainly exists as it embraces very broad
layers of Industry's technical specialists.
Necessity for preparation of contract documentation, fulfilling project works connecting into organic whole
the existing microprocessor protections, performing account for the set points of distance protections from
one-phase short circuit on earth earlier not used in national practice and their adapting to previously existed
and new protections, setup of new microprocessor protections with the use of new microprocessor
adjustment installations with the need for simulation of any possible modes made Ukrainian specialists
perforning these functions practically without education literature, without skilled leaders and teachers in
the very short terms to pass through the way which specialists from Westem Europe went during two
decades, and transform into specialists with whom, not hiding their respect, communicate "Siemens",
"ABB" and "Alstom" specialists. It would not be possible to organize such massive breakthrough of
industry specialists to new technologies in the sphere of relay protection without introduction of this
Contract.
At present, having such specialists and using their knowledge, training of specialists of all utilities from
all power systems and NPPs on relay protection is held in order to prepare in short future foundation for
the second stage of OHL relay protections modemization with replacement of microelectronic installation
with exhausted life cycle by modem microprocessor protections.
4. Subcomponent: Dnister HPP Monitoring and Control System Rehabilitation
<<Supplv of Circuit Breakers for Dnister Power Plant))
Terms: Beginning - 1997. Completion- June 2001.
Supplier: GEC ALSTHOM T&D S.A. (France) with subsequent transfer of rights to ALSTHOM T&D
S.A. (France)
Substantiation of necessity for the Contract realization:
By installing high voltage breakers it is possible to solve the issue on enhancement Dnister HPP
maneuverability. This can be achieved by disconnection of any HPP hydro generators that would lead to
enhancing of equipment wearing capacity.
<Protection, control and monitoring for Dnister Power Planb> -
Terms: Beginning - 1997. Completion- June 30, 2002.
Supplier: CEGELEC (France) with subsequent transfer of rights to ABB ALSTHOM POWER,
ALSTHOM HYDRAULIQUE SA (France).
Substantiation of necessity for the Project realization:
Necessity to enhance the reliable operation of power equipment at Dniester HPP, equipping of objects and
- 130-



installations of HPP with modem means of protection, management and control.
Short description of works:
In the course of Project realization were introduced electric protection systems of 6 (six) installations in
units with step-up transformers, automatic, thermal, vibrating control system, station and under station
management level, hardware and software support.
4.2 Institutional development impact
At the moment of final appointment on the necessity for the given Project realization, in Ukraine there was
practically no positive experience on realization of international projects of such scale. The country was in
conditions of heavy power crisis and taking decision on realization of the given Project was one of the first
steps in enhancing the reliability of UPS of Ukraine operation.
Implementation of the given Project allowed to extend to a definite degree the potential opportunity for
parallel operation of Ukrainian UPS with European countries. As a result of undertaken modernization of
aged equipment and introduction of modem control systems considerably reduced network fi-equency
fluctuations that facilitated enhancement of quality for transmitting electricity and enlarged the compliance
of Ukrainian electricity with adopted international standards in this sphere. Construction of fibre optics
communication lines also had a positive impact on further opportunity of Ukrainian UPS parallel operation
with neighboring states. Under additional costs on completion of lacking interconnecting parts the
possibility for direct passage to Poland with the aim of parallel operation.
Preparation and implementation process of the given Project was held in conditions of tight cooperation of
responsible representatives from the Government of Ukraine and state regulatory bodies with authorized
IBRD representatives that allowed to acquire positive experience in creation of conditions for international
projects realization, namely drawing up technical requirements, requirements on the supplied auxiliary
equipment and so far and so on. National Power Company "Ukrenergo" had no such experience before. It
was the first large project consisting of some important directions for our Company that made it possible to
acquire experience at all stages of project implementation - starting from bids organization up to
commissioning.
Development of this Project anticipated holding the integrated estimation on potential national producers
and foreign suppliers for realization of the undertaken aims. It is necessary to mark positive experience
acquired by the Ukrainian side under implementation of the initial project cycle starting from evaluation of
potential suppliers and holding international bids and ending with signing the definite contracts on
equipment supply and fulfillment of separate kinds of works. Support provided by the IBRD
representatives in realization of enumerated measures also brought considerable benefit in acquiring
positive experience by the Ukrainian side
At the moment of some Project sub components implementation in Ukraine there was absent an experience
on operation of foreign equipment which was installed at utilities in the frame of concluded contracts. As a
result, a definite number of Ukrainian specialists were trained at enterprises - suppliers of equipment and
got certificates confirming their qualification that proves their high level professional training. Further the
acquired experience for handling the international standard equipment may be transferred to specialists in
places under minimal financial costs for enterprises of Ukrainian Power Industry.
In the course of the given Project development a definite financial support was received by a number of
- 131 -



national enterprises which performed works for successful completion of planned measures in the frame of
separate Project subcomponent implementation. That is, due to introduction of digital communication
system aroused a need for cable production (fibre optics) made by Odessa plant for communication lines.
As far as according to projects requirements we received ready equipment which needed only mounting
and commissioning than Ukrainian side actively involved design, mounting-construction and adjustment
organizations. Fulfillment of the entered orders allowed national enterprises to receive financial means in
the amount enough to pay salaries to workers and by that to keep the working seats and to provide receipts
to the state and local budgets by necessary taxes and compulsory payments.
Broadening of interaction of the Ukrainian Govemment and state regulatory bodies with EBRD
representatives at the preparation and implementation stages of the given Project has considerable degree of
impact on getting positive effect for project development. Without the Government of Ukraine and IBRD
representatives interaction and without Verkhovna Rada's ratification of the agreement for granting credit
this Project would not be realized.
5. Sustainability
At the stage of Project preparation there were some fears that NPC "Ukrenergo" would not be able to
secure its implementation. These fears were first of all connected with probability that the Govemment
would not create conditions for NPC "Ukrenergo" to receive money in an amount enough to provide local
financing and to serve IBRD loan.
Thus at the time of SAR preparation financial status of NPC "Ukrenergo" was evaluated as critical due to
massive non payment for the electricity consumed and considerable accounts payable that in its turn led to
doubt in possibility of fulfilling the planned in the frame of project measures on account of local funds in
full scope. But the reality showed that Project implementation coincided in time with the Govemment's
policy aimed at the stabilization of situation in Power Industry, as a result the situation improved: tariff for
electricity gradually raised to the level allowing to cover operational costs, a Wholesale Electricity Market
(WEM) was created, privatization of some oblenergos was held and others. Cash collection from
oblenergos for the electricity consumed raised twofold in 2001 as compared with the year 2000 having
increased from 32,9% to 64,8% that led to inflow growth on "Ukrenergo's" account. All this allowed to
considerably improve the financial status of NPC "Ukrenergo" and minimize the anticipated risks.
Probably in future the Govermment will support the policy on increasing the tariff for services, changing tax
legislation in the part of assessed base taxation reduction.
It is more likely that "Ukrenergo" leaders would undertake measures directed on improvement and
stabilization of "Ukrenergo' financial status. Even now leaders conduct and plan to carry out further a
policy for changing amortization policy, reassessment of fixed assets, creation of additional financing
sources.
Apparently that in future efforts for further training of technical specialists and management personnel will
be maintained by including in annual programs plan on their skill upgrading.
To drawbacks of project implementation we can relate lack of economic stimulation of specialists working
on project. But the need for such stimulation is vivid that is why it is more likely that it will be realized in
future.
Risks related with operation of delivered equipment are insignificant. That is why to consider these risks as
able to negatively influence the projects outputs in future is not reasonable.
- 132-



MAP SECTION






20'       URAN                   25'                                             3/~                                                 0
UKRAINE                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUSSIAN
HYDROPOWER PLANTS                                                                            FDRTO
HYDROPOWER PLANTS                           BELARUS                                                                     1
I~PUMP STORAGE PLANTUKAN
0  SELECTED TOWNS AND CITES
E AUJTONOMOUS REPUBUC OR 
OBLAST CAPITALS           KvlSm                                         brii 
NATIONAL CAPITAL0(
- .-AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC OR  VOLYN                ZHYTOMYR     ChomoCENIIbSM
OBLAST BOUNDARIES                              KoosenVNHENIIV                      .   SM
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES   Rusl                              se-'                               Suyo
Rine ISC' DNIPROHYDROENERGO rA
-50,  OJSC - Open Joint          .               )       KIEV HPP ANDPSP 'W  KYIV-'
Stock Company.  ,A,. litmr                                            KE)*
POLAND            Lviv                                         KYV                               J    Kriv
C             ~~~~~~~~Reservoi    POLTAVA      .
**~~~.\ ~~~-  KANEVHPP ~~~~~~LUHANSK
: TERNOPIL                      ~~~~~.'/Cherkasy  Jeevi            HRI 
REPUBLIC                                 *KM    YTKISin i                                                    KAKVieverodonetsk -
I  .                     ~~~~~~~~KREMENCHUG HP  encj
DNIESTER II                                                   Krama.rsk        ha~~~~~NIEERHPP, 
Pervom&sk             *~~~~~~ ropetovskzTt
YTS             Kirovokrad~ I K  RiONETSK .
ICH                                                                               Donetsk~~~ Daub Dlt
HUGRY                                                                                             0o
ROMN   MANIA                                                                        io                           ic   l5KRiber
G~~~ORG4AOV                                                          ZAULRAHZIA
Th -  pd..JyI>MpD,'~Ui TURKEYM S.MKOAVK






RUSSIAN
HYDROPOWER PLANTS                                                         FEDERATION
HYDROPOWER PLANTS
PUMP STORAGE PLANTA
o  SELEClED TOWNS AND CMlES 
E  AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC OR
OBLAST CAPITALS>Ch
NATIONAL CAPITAL              0
--AUTONOMOUS REPUBUC OR  VOLYN ~'ZHYTMR          Coo
OBLAST BOUNDARIES    us     RIVNE  (' Krse               CH-ERNIHIV  S'M- SLimY
- - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  Rs.vn
-50. stock Cam any  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~    iP~~  KYI         ronpeeSol-~vRSSA
POLANIDck o                                                 LAC    SE                   I       I 
BULGARIA                                                             I     I      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PLTV
G RG4A  BULGARIA   3I~~~KANE HPP10                                        iSOMles 
TURKE TrnpiY2  __ __  ___ne_     ___ny__     ___s___y__        __  _LUHAN___       __  ___K_
SLOVAK  .%-_               __  __ _ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ _  __ _ __ __ __hu__    _ _  7









.  - '1
Report No.:        24947
Type:    ICR



