Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3865 UA
                              Loan Agreement
          (Hydropower Rehabilitation and System Control Project)
                                  between
                                  UKRAINE
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated September 28, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3865 UA
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 28, 1995, between UKRAINE (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower has contracted grants from other sources
of finance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to about
$13,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in the agreements providing therefor;
      (C)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by OJSC
Dniprohydroenergo (DHE), a joint stock company established and
operating under the laws of the Borrower, and Part B of the
Project will be carried out by the National Dispatch Center
(NDC), a state enterprise established and operating under the
laws of the Borrower, all with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
DHE and NDC the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
Page  2
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the DHE
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
DHE, and in the NDC Project Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and NDC;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Preamble to this Agreement and in
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "DHE Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and DHE of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all
agreements supplemental to the DHE Project Agreement;
      (b)   "NDC Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and NDC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all
agreements supplemental to the NDC Project Agreement;
      (c)   "DHE Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and DHE pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
DHE Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (d)   "NDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and NDC pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
NDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (e)   "DHE Operational Plan" means DHE's statement of
operational policies and procedures agreed with the Bank;
      (f)   "NDC Operational Plan" means NDC's statement of
operational policies and procedures agreed with the Bank; and
      (g)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of one hundred fourteen million
Page  3
dollars ($114,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank
as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of each of Part A
and Part B of the Project, respectively, open and maintain in
dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial
bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, each respective Special Account shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
      (c)   On each of the semiannual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amount required to pay, on such date, interest
charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date
set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.
Page  4
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."
                  "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan
Agreement, shall cause DHE and NDC to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the DHE Project Agreement and the NDC
Project Agreement, respectively, all the obligations of DHE and
NDC therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken the
actions provided for in the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and all other action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable DHE and NDC to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds
of the Loan to DHE under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and DHE, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which
shall include those set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds
of the Loan to NDC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NDC, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which
shall include those set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the DHE
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
Page  5
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the DHE Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      (e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the NDC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the NDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of: (a) Part A of the Project shall be carried out by
DHE pursuant to Section 2.03 of the DHE Project Agreement; and
(b) Part B of the Project shall be carried out by NDC pursuant
to Section 2.03 of the NDC Project Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with sound accounting practices,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
           (ii)   retain or cause to be retained, until at least
                  one year after the Bank has received the audit
                  report for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                  receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures; and
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                  such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section and those for the
                  Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested,
                  including a separate opinion by said auditors
                  as to whether the statement of expenditures
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls
                  involved in their preparation, can be relied
                  upon to support the related withdrawals; and
Page  6
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   DHE or NDC shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the DHE Project Agreement or NDC Project
Agreement, respectively.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that DHE or NDC will
be able to perform its obligations under the DHE Project
Agreement or NDC Project Agreement, respectively.
      (c)   The DHE Operational Plan or any legislation
applicable to the establishment or operations of DHE shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of DHE to perform
any of its obligations under the DHE Project Agreement.
      (d)   The NDC Operational Plan or any legislation
applicable to the establishment or operations of NDC shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of NDC to perform
any of its obligations under the NDC Project Agreement.
      (e)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of DHE or for the suspension of its
operations.
      (f)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of NDC or for the suspension of its
operations.
      (g)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
                  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                  proceeds of any grant made to the Borrower for
                  the financing of the Project shall have been
                  suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
                  in part, pursuant to the terms thereof.
           (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation or termination is not
                  caused by the failure of the Borrower to
                  perform any of its obligations under such
                  agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                  Project are available to the Borrower from
                  other sources on terms and conditions
                  consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                  under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower; and
Page  7
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) through (f) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   the DHE Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and DHE;
      (b)   the NDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and NDC;
      (c)   the Project Coordination Unit, referred to in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, has been
established and its Project Coordinator has been appointed;
      (d)   the Project Implementation Unit, referred to in
paragraph 1 of the Schedule to the DHE Project Agreement, has
been established and its manager has been appointed;
      (e)   the Project Implementation Unit, referred to in
paragraph 1 of the Schedule to the NDC Project Agreement, has
been established and its manager has been appointed;
      (f)   the electricity supply contract between DHE and NDC,
referred to in Section 4.04 of the DHE Project Agreement and
the NDC Project Agreement, respectively, has been entered into
on behalf of DHE and NDC;
      (g)   all amounts outstanding on account of hydropower
sales by DHE to NDC have been paid; and
      (h)   all regional dispatch centers within the Borrower's
territory have been transferred under the full authority of
NDC.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that the DHE Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by DHE, and is legally binding upon DHE
in accordance with its terms;
      (b)   that the NDC Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by NDC, and is legally binding upon NDC
in accordance with its terms;
      (c)   that the DHE Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and DHE and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and DHE in accordance with its terms;
and
      (d)   that the NDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NDC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and NDC in accordance with its terms;
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  8
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            12/2 Hrushevsky St.
            Kyiv, Ukraine 252008
                                          Telex:
                                            131450
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
                  Cable address:          Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                  UKRAINE
                  By /s/ Roman Shpek
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated                % of
                           (Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
Page  9
(1) For Part A
    of the Project
    (a)  Goods               42,400,000            100% of foreign
                                                   expenditures,
                                                   100% of local
                                                   expenditures
                                                   (ex-factory
                                                   cost) and 80%
                                                   of local expenditures
                                                   for other items
                                                   procured locally
    (b) Consultants'           900,000            100% of
        services                                  expenditures
(2) For Part B
    of the Project
    (a) Goods               51,500,000            100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures,
                                                  100% of local
                                                  expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory
                                                  cost) and 80%
                                                  of local
                                                  expenditures for
                                                  other items
                                                  procured locally
    (b) Consultants'            900,000           100% of
        services                                  expenditures
(3) Interest charges          18,300,000          Amounts due
    on the Loan                                   pursuant to
    accrued on or before                          Section 2.02 (c)
    August 1, 2000                                of this Agreement
        TOTAL                114,000,000
                             ===========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for: (a) goods under contracts not exceeding $300,000
equivalent, (b) consulting firms under contracts not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent; and (c) individual consultants not
exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to improve the efficiency,
reliability, safety and environmental performance of hydropower
Page  10
plants and to upgrade electricity dispatch, system protection
and frequency control.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   DHE
(1)       Carrying out of a program to rehabilitate hydropower
plants, through, inter alia, the repair, upgrading or
replacement of turbines, generators, switchyards and related
equipment and control and monitoring equipment.
(2)       Development and application of proper policies and
procedures for dam safety monitoring and emergencies, and
carrying out of a program to rehabilitate and upgrade the
monitoring system of dams and dikes for the reservoirs on the
Dnieper River.
(3)       Provision of technical assistance and staff training to
strengthen institutional capabilities for the carrying out of
this Part of the Project and for the development and
application of proper policies and procedures for optimization
of water use in the reservoirs on the Dnieper River.
Part B:   NDC
(1)       Carrying out of a program to upgrade the electricity
dispatch, frequency control and communications systems through,
inter alia, the installation of new and upgrading of existing
generating unit governors, equipment for system protection and
control of generating units' output, relays for the protection
of transmission lines, computing equipment, data acquisition
and transmission systems and a dispatch communication system,
including therefor of a new SCADA and automatic frequency
control systems.
(2)       Provision of technical assistance and staff training to
strengthen institutional capabilities for the carrying out of
this Part of the Project.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
    beginning August 1, 2000                   4,750,000.00
    through August 1, 2011
And on February 1, 2012                        4,750,000.00
Page  11
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable
                                   to the Loan on the day of
                                   prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                      0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                        0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                      1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior
Page  12
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of
this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding
documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
Ukraine may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$1,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers from at least three different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
2.  Contracts for goods which the Bank agrees are available from
a single source of supply or need to be compatible with
installed equipment, estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,000,000 in the aggregate, may be awarded after direct
negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods: (i) estimated
to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more; and (ii) to be
procured in accordance with Part C(2) hereof, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the respective Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the
making of the first payment out of such Special Account in
respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the respective
Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the
other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant
to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of
the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
Page  13
expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants Guidelines). For
complex, time-based assignments, such consultants shall be
employed under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank
review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  In order to ensure overall coordination of Project
activities and the provision of policy guidance in respect
thereof, the Borrower shall maintain, with staff and other
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a
Project Coordination Unit headed by a suitably qualified
Project Coordinator appointed by the Borrower's Ministry of
Power and Electrification.
2.  The Borrower shall ensure that NDC shall be permitted to set
its tariffs at such levels as to enable it to recover all
losses resulting from the failure of its customers to pay for
electricity purchases, in accordance with guidelines agreed
with the Bank.
3.  With the assistance of DHE, pursuant to paragraph 3 of the
Schedule to the DHE Project Agreement, and of NDC, pursuant to
paragraph 3 of the Schedule to the NDC Project Agreement, the
Borrower shall:
    (a)   maintain or cause to be maintained policies and
procedures adequate to ensure the monitoring and evaluation, in
accordance with guidelines and on the basis of performance
indicators agreed with the Bank, of the carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
    (b)   prepare or cause to be prepared, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on
Page  14
or about June 30, 1997, a report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to
subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project during the
period following such date; and
    (c)   review with the Bank, by September 30, 1997, or such
other date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank,
the said report and, thereafter, take or cause to be taken all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on
the recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views on
the matter.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                             Special Accounts
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Category (1) in
respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project and
Category (2) in respect of the Special Account for Part B of
the Project set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 in respect of the Special Account for
Part A of the Project and to $2,000,000 in respect of the
Special Account for Part B of the Project, to be withdrawn from
the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Accounts
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent
to $1,000,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part A of
the Project and $1,000,000 in respect of the Special Account
for Part B of the Project until: (i) in respect of the Special
Account for Part A of the Project, the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to Category (1)
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions for Part A of the Project shall be equal to
or exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000; and (ii) in respect of
the Special Account for Part B of the Project, the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to
Category (2) plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions for Part B of the Project shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the respective Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for
deposit into the respective Special Account of an amount or
Page  15
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the respective Special
                Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
                requests for deposits into the respective Special
                Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such
                request, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
                Schedule for the payment or payments in
                respect of which replenishment is requested.
                On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                respective Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as
                shall have been shown by said documents and
                other evidence to have been paid out of the
                respective Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into:
    (a)   the Special Accounts:
          (i)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
                that all further withdrawals should be made by                the 
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in
                accordance with the provisions of Article V of
                the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
                Section 2.02 of this Agreement,
          (ii)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to
                the Bank, within the period of time specified in
                Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of
                the audit reports required to be furnished to the
                Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the
                audit of the records and accounts for the Special
                Accounts, or
         (iii)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have
                notified the Borrower of its intention to
                suspend in whole or in part the right of the
                Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
                Account pursuant to the provisions of
                Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; and
    (b)   each of the respective Special Accounts, once the total
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the respective
eligible Category for such Account, minus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
Page  16
to the respective Part of the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the respective Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the respective Special Account or in the Special
Accounts, as the case may be, as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of a respective Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to
the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
respective Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the
case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in either of the Special Accounts will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Accounts.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 7
                    Terms of Subsidiary Loan Agreements
1.  The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to: (a) Category (1) of the table set forth
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to DHE under the
DHE Subsidiary Loan Agreement (the DHE Subsidiary Loan); and
(b) Category (2) of the said table to NDC under the NDC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement (the NDC Subsidiary Loan). Interest
payments on each of the DHE Subsidiary Loan and the NDC
Subsidiary Loan accrued on or before the date set forth in
Category (3) of the said table shall be capitalized and paid
out of the proceeds of each such Subsidiary Loan, in accordance
with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.
2.  The principal amount of each of the DHE Subsidiary Loan and
the NDC Subsidiary Loan shall be determined as the aggregate
of: (a) the equivalent, in one or more currencies acceptable to
the Bank, of the value (determined as of the date or respective
dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account under the respective
Category) of the currency or currencies so withdrawn on account
of the cost of goods and services for Part A of the Project in
respect of the DHE Subsidiary Loan and for Part B of the
Project in respect of the NDC Subsidiary Loan; and (b) the
amount of interest payments on such Subsidiary Loan capitalized
as provided in paragraph 1 hereof.
Page  17
3.  Each of the DHE Subsidiary Loan and the NDC Subsidiary Loan
shall be: (a) repaid over a period of 17 years, inclusive of a
grace period of five years; (b) charged, on the principal
amount thereof not withdrawn from time to time, a commitment
fee at a rate equal to the rate paid by the Borrower from time
to time under the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of this
Agreement; and (c) charged, on the principal amount thereof
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at a rate
equal to the rate paid by the Borrower from time to time under
the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement, plus a
margin equal to 1.5%.
