Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
C4a /q6YF?1
Repot No. P-4944-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$135 MILLION
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION AND TRADE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
November 22, 1988
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQIVALENTS
Currency Unit - The Tanzanian Shilling (T Sh)
EXCHANGE RATES
December 1983   US$1 = TSh  12
December 1985   US$1 - TSh  17
June 1986       US$1 - TSh  40
June 1987       US$1 = TSh  63
June 1988       US$1 - TSh  96
No-vember 1988   US$1 - TSh 120
GOVERNKENT FISCAL YEAR
July-1 -.June 30
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOT     =   Bank of Tanzania
ERP     =   Economic Recovery Program
GDP     -   Gross Domestic Product
IRTAC   =   Industrial Rehabilitation and Trade Adjustment Credit
MRC     -   Multi-Sector Rehabilitation Credit
NBC         National Bank of Commerce
NMC     =   National Milling Corporation
OGL         Open General License
QRs     =   Quantitative Restrictions
SAF     =   Structural Adjustment Facility
TPL     =   Tanganyika Packers Limited
PIP         Public Investment Program
SGR         Strategic Grain Reserve
BIS     =   Basic Industrial Strategy



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
TANZANI
INDUSTRIAL RERABILITATION AND TRADE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMOARY                                           i-i
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background . .......... ..........                                 1
The Economic Recovery Program (ERP)   ...       ......             2
Recent Economic Developments and the Impact of the ERP .......    4
Macroeconomic Prospects ... ...........  ............ ..    6
External Financing Requirements ...........    7
Collaboration with the DMP ......... O..** .....................    7
The Bauk's Country Assistance Strategy ...............    7
PART II - TIE PROGRAM OF TRADE POLICY REFORM
Introduction ..............................................    8
The Exchange Rate and Trade Policy Framework .................     9
Trade Policy in the Early 19809               .    ..              9
Trade Policy During 1986-87 ................................. .   10
The Program of Trade Reforms  1988-1989       ....................   10
Trade Liberalization and Foreign Exchange Allocation ......  10
Tariffs and Sales Taxes  ......... *        .........................  13
Pricing Reforms ....... ......................  . ...... .  15
Deconfinement Policy ...................... .   . ...... ...... .  15
Export Incentives ........................................ .  16
Export Retention Schemes      ................................  16
Export Duty Drawback ... ... .. .............................  17
Fiscal and Monetary Policies    .................................  17
Fiscal Policy ..........................................  17
Monetary Policy ... .......................................  18
Agricultural Policies ........................................  19
The Financial Sector ............... * .............  20
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Overview       ..........................................   21
Industrial Restructuring and Rehabilitation .........  23
Leather ...........................................            24
Textiles .... ......................................   24
Agroprocessing ............ 25
Edible Oil                     ..... 25
Meat Packing ............. 25
Ths document has a nrstricted distrution and may be used by ecipients only in the  orformance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discbsed without Wori Bank v. ithorizatom.



PLA  IV - TIM PROPOS8D OPERATION
Pae No.
Background . ..       .............   .............  25
Objectives            . . . .     . . . .     . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
Program Description and Financing ...........................................  27
Industrial Restructuring Component      ........................  27
Disbursements, Procurement and Auditing .....        ...........  28
Tranche Release and Monitoring ..................* ....... .....  29
Social and Economic Aspects of Adjustment ........... .........  31
General ......................................................  31
Industry ........... , 33
Project Risks ..      . ..                       ....... .  34
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS                                      34
PART VI  R KOM92MTION                                               36
ANNEXES
Annex I  :  Economic Indicators:
Key Macroeconomic Indicators ....... ...........  37
Balance of Payments . ......................... .  38
Foreign Exchange Requirements and Debt
Service .....................................  39
External Financing Requirements:  1989-1993 ...  40
Selected Macroeconomic Variables:  Graphs .....  41
Annex II  : Letter of Government Policies ...................  42
Annex III : IRTAC Policy Reform Matrix ..... . ............ .. ...  53
Annex IV  : OGL Facility List Under Initial Liberalization
Step, February 1988 ...........................  57
Annex V   : Summary Matrix of Main Bottlenecks and Policy
Issues in Industry ............................  58
Annex VI  : Subsectoral Efficiency Indicators
in Industry,:  1984 ........  ....................  59
Annex VII : Status of Bank Group Operations   .................  60
Annex VIII:  Supplementatry Data Sheet ..    .....................  62
Annex IX  : Social Indicators ....... i  .......................  63
Map... ... ...................



TANZANIA
INDufSTRIAL REH&ULITATION AND TRADE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower          X United Republic of Tanzania
Amount             : IDA Credit                  SDR 97.6 million (US$135 million)
African Development Fund   FUA   20 million (US$ 24 million)
United Kingdom             L Stg. 8 million (USS 15 million)
Netherlands                f.    20  million (USS 10 million)
Switzerland                Sw F  20  million (US$ 14 million)
The operation is supported under the Special Program of
Assistance to Low-Income Debt-Distressed Countries in Sub-
Saharan Africa. In addition to the cofinancing identified
above, some other donors have expressed their intention to
participate in the financing of this program at a later
stage.
_  Standard IDA terms, 40 years maturity.
Proaram Obiectives
and Descrition       - The proposed Credit would support the broadening of
the Government's Economic Recovery Program, through
the reform in the trade regime and the initiation of
restructuring and rehabilitation of the industrial
sector. The cornerstone of the proposed policy
package is a major trade liberalization program
supported by active exchange rate management. The
liberalization in import restrictions and foreign
exchange allocation is accompanied by progress on
price decontrol, rationalization of the tariff and
sales tax structures, reforms in export incentives,
and liberalization of internal trade (deconfinement).
The process of industrial restructuring would be the
result of the reform in the trade, pricing and foreign
exchange regimes and the specific subsectoral
interventions. The quick-disburs&ng proceeds of the
Credit would contribute to all sectors in the economy,
in the context of a more liberalized import regime.
Benefits          : The proposed policy reform measures would make a major
contribution to the continued economic recovery and
towards sustained growth. A more liberalized import
and internal trade regime, coupled with an exchange
rate and pricing regime better reflecting market
forces is expected to result in a reallocation of
resources away from unviable and towards productive



- ii -
activities, and to provide incentives for currently
inefficient, but viable activities to restructure.
Structural adjustment is expected to result in
additional resources flowing to agriculture and
transport, while industrial value added is expected to
grow utilizing less resources than previously.
Increased industrial value added will result from the
reallocation of recurrent resources from low to high
value added activities, from the restructuring o'
currently inefficient but viable enterprises, and from
the retrenchment and phase-out of unviable activities.
Ri8sk              s The main risk to this proposed operation is that the
pace of implementation of the major macroeconomic
adjustments could slacken due to protracted
decision-making related to political considerations.
Setbacks in implementing exchange rate, fiscal and
monetary adjustments, and failure to implement
important institutional reforms in agricultural
marketing and in the financial sector, would reduce
the supply response and allocative impact of the trade
reform and industrial restructuring measures under the
proposed operation.  The second important r'sk relates
to the Government's ability to implement a
restructuring program in industry involving firms'
closures and retrenchment, and greater selectivity
in resource allocation. These risks are mitigated
by the fact that there is consensus within the
Government on the need for sustained reform; a
commitment to the goals of the Economic Recovery
Program as witnessed in the past two and half years in
the context of the Bank's Multisector Rehabilitation
Credit, the IMF programs and the two Policy Framework
Papers; and strong support for the reforms from the
donor community. In the past few months, the
Government has adopted decisive measures in the areas
of exchange rate, financial and foodgrain marketing
policies.
Estimated
Disbursements      : The Credit would be released in two tranches, the
first tranche amounting to US$62 million and the
second tranche to US$70 million. The first tranche
would be available for disbursement credit
effectiveness; the second would be released upon
fulfillment of specified conditions, expected before
June 1989. Both tranches will be disbursed through
the Open Generalized License (OGL) facility. In
addition, US$3 million will be made available upon
effectiveness of the Credit for the industrial
restructuring technical assistance component.
Aggraisal Isuort : This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal
Report.



INTLRNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND PECOM%SENDTION OF TUE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED INDUSTRIAL RrEHBILITATION AND TRADE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
FOR TBE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Credit of SDR97.6 million (US$135 million) on standard IDA terms wlth
40 years of maturity to the United Republic of Tanzania in support of the
Government's Industrial Rehabilitation and Trade Adjustment Program.
The African Development Fund, Netherlands, Switzerland and the United
Kingdom will also participate in the financing of this program. Other
donors have expressed interest in participating in the firancing of this
program at a later stage.
2.       An Economic Memorandum on Tanzania (Report No. 5019-TA) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1984, and a report
entitled 'Tanzania: An Agenda for IndusArial Recovery" (Report No.
6357-TA) was distributed to the Executive !-rectors in July, 1987. Their
conclusions as well as more recent developments are reviewed below.
Furthermore, two Policy Framework Papers (Reports No. SecM87-1077 and
SecM88-1234) have been distributed to the Executive Directors in October
1987 and November 1988, respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Backaround
3.       Several years of rapid economic growth followed Tanzania's
Independence in 1961, when the country was almost solely dependent on
subsistence agriculture and a few estate crops, with a very small
industrial and human capital base. In spite of this growth, the country
continued to depend on external funding, made few improvements in income
distribution, and did not diversify its economic structure. Disappointed
with this outcome, Tanzania's leadership introduced sweeping changes in
1967 and embarked on an era of socialism. The new priorities of the
country, as enunciated in the Arusha Declaration, were directed towards
self-reliance, development of a system of basic education and. broad-based
rural development. This led, in the late 19608 and early 1970., to a rapid
growth in the public sector through: (i) nationalization of large-scale
industry and the financial system, the formation of Ujamaa (communal)
villages, and the replacement of farmers' cooperatives with state-run crop
marketing authorities; (ii) dramatic increases in the provision of social
services; and (iii) the expansion of centrally managed activities.
4.       By the end of the 19709, the economy was falteringt  industrial
output had begun to decline steadily, agriculture was stagnating, while the



-2-
fiscal situation deteriorated sharply with deficits averaging about 16
percent of GDP. Inflation accelerated to almost 30 percent, resulting in
appreciation of the real exchange rate, and exports and imports declined.
Gross Domestic Product grew by 5.5 percent per annum between 1913 and 1978
but only 0.4 percent per annum between 1978 and 1982. At that time it
became evident that the economic management system in place lacked the
capacity to respond adequately to a changed external environment. The
productive sectors of the economy had lost their dynamism. In agriculture,
parastatal marketing monopolies dampened incentives for farm output ,yrowth,
and involuntary resettlement disrupted productive relationships in rural
areas. In industry, inappropriate project design and a heavily protected
environment resulted in an import-dependent sector with a largely
inefficient structure of production. Despite the major institutional
changes and economic setbacks, Tanzania attained significant improvements
in the social sectors in the late 1960s and 1970s. Dramatic achievements
were recorded in school enrollment, literacy, and life expectancy.
5.       In the late 1970s a combination of external factors (worsening
terms of trade, the war with Amin's Uganda, and the aftermath of the break-
up of the East African Community) placed Tanzania's economy in a
vulnerable position. This combination thwarted the economic liberalization
efforts initiated in 1978. The policy response involved increased
administrative controls on economic activity and passive exchange rate
management, resulting in rapid real appreciation of the exchange rate and
continued growth in the size of the public sector -- without regard for
financial and managerial constraints.
6.       During the early 1980s a number of attempts at policy reform
failed to address the key problems and did not always obta,n the necessary
political support. Economic activity, which had been declining since 1979,
was further discouraged by the 1983 'economic saboteurs' campaign during
which a large number of businessmen were jailed.  Import capacity fell
dramatically due to major declines in export volumes and decreasing capital
flows. A drought exposed the rigidities of the existing food policy, and
the availability of consumer goods fell to unprecedented low levels.
7.       The 1984185 Budget represented a turning point, and provided the
first indication of a new pragmatism in the Government's economic
management. The exchange rate was devalued by one-third, parastatal
subsidies were cut, an import liberalization program was initiated through
the implementation of an own funds imports scheme (para. 33), and
restrictions on the movement of grain were eased. Simultaneously,
cooperatives (which had been abolished in 1976) were reestablished, and
took over many of the functions of the parastatal crop authorities.
Positive responses to these measures encouraged the Government to consider
a more comprehensive and systematic policy reform program to deal with the
economic crisis.
The Economic Rwcovery Progrm
8.       In mid-1986, after a number of discussions with. Bank and Fund
missions, the Government produced a medium term "Economic Recovery Program'
(ERP) which was approved by Parliament and presented to the first
Consultative Group meeting in nine years. The EP aimed at achieving a



-3-
positive growth rate in real p;r capita income, reducing the rate of
inflation, and restoring a sustainable balance of payments position. Its
main thrust was to reduce distortions and encourage more efficient resource
allocation while exercising fiscal and monetary restraint.   In the public
sector, rehabilitation of the transport infrastructure and support for
agricultural production were identified as the most urgent priorities. The
measures initiated at the time of the 1986187 budget includeds
(i) significant exchange rate adjustments, aimed at achieving an
appropriate rate in 19881 (ii) adjustment in interest rates, aimed at
achieving real positive rates by mid-1988; (iii) increases in producer
prices in real terms for export crops; and (iv) a significant reduction in
the number of price-controlled items, with the aim of attaining by mid-1988
a decontrolled price regime for all but 12 categories.
9.       These measures, together with targets limiting overall credit
growth and Government borrowing from the banking system, formed the basis
for an 18-month standby arranRement approved by the IDF board in August
1986. Complementary measures in agricultural policy (eliminating all
remaining restrictions on the transport of grain, and allowing cooperatives
to export directly without resort to the marketing boards) and measures
aimed at improving foreign extchange allocation and trade regime (both
domestic and external) were supported by a Multisector Rehabilitation
Credit (MRC) which was approved by the World Bank Board in November 1986.
All conditions attached to its three tranches were fulfilled.
10.      At the time of presentation of the 1987/88 Budget to Parliament,
the Minister of Finance reported that the ERP had been successfully
launched and had attracted considerable support from the international
community, manifested in large increases in concessional capital flows.
The budget reaffirmed the Government's conviction that the ERP represented
an adequate response to the serious economic crisis still facing Tanzania.
The specific measures adopted in the context of the 1987188 Budget included
continuation of the exchange and interest rate adjusttaents, trade reform,
price decontrol, and fiscal restraint. A first-year Policy Framework Paper
(PFP), elaborating on the MEP policies, was approved by the Bank and the
Fund in October 1987 and allowed Tanzania access to the IMF's Structural
Adjustment Facility (SAF). In January 1988, the Board of the World Bank
approved a supplemental financing for the MRC. The 1988189 Budget
reiterated the Governments nommitment to continue carrying out the ERP
through the adoption of important fiscal, trade, pricing and sectoral
measures. Furthermore, reflecting the Governments commitment to continue
implementing a medium-term financial and economic policy framework, the
Government, in collaboration with Fund and Bank staff, has now concluded
preparations of a second-year PFP which was presented to the Committee of
the Whole on November 22nd, 1988 and is scheduled to be presented to the
IMF Board (in conjunction with a second-year SAF) on November 30th, 1988.
11.      After over two and a half years of implementation of the ERP, the
Government remains committed to carrying out the full program of policy
reform. The gradual approach to reform takes into account Tanzania's
socio-political and institutional context. With the exception of the
monetary program, and a slow-down in the exchange rate adjustment during
much of 1988, the Government has successfully implemented virtually all
intended policy measures within the planned time frame, in spite of



significant practical difficulties and of considerable political skepticism
especially amng party officials at the outset. The October 1987 Party
Conference, which reelected Mwalimu Nyerere as Chairman, endorsed the
Government's management of the economy while reaffirming the goals of
socialism and self-reliance.
Recent Economic Develomments and the Imnact of the URP
12.      In 1986, for the first time since 1980, the rate of growth of real
GDP, at 3.4 percent, exceeded the population growth rate. The 1987 real
GDP growth rate accelerated to an estimated 4 percent, but a 21 percent
terms of trade deterioration (mainly due to declines in coffee, tea and
tobacco world prices) resulted in a reduction in income per capita and in
virtually no increase in consumption per capita during that year, based on
statistics from the official economy. Over two years after the
introduction of the ERP, it is evident that a major change is occurring in
the economic dynamics of the country and in the expectations of both the
population at large and the business community. But much of the observed
growth in economic activity is taking place outside of the official sector
and is not fully captured in the GDP statistics. This informal sector
growth applies to all spheres of economic activity, including food supply,
external and domestic trade, tourism and small-scale activities.
13.      The cornerstone of the ERP has been the adjustment of the
Tanzanian currency, which had become so overvalued that, in early 1986, the
official rate (TSh 17 per US dollar) was less than one-eighth of that
prevailing in a broad parallel market. By June 1988, the official rate
(TSh 96 per US dollar) was over one-half that of the parallel market rate
(TSh 180 per US dollar). The behavior of the parallel market rate provides
a quantifiable indicator of the success of the macroeconomic adjustment to
date, by showing a distinct trend of appreciation in real terms (over 30
percent during the last two and a half years). Meanwhile, the official
exchange rate depreciation of about 500 percent in domestic currency terms
over the sahie period has already done much to improve resource allocation,
and reduce excess demand for imports. However, the adjustment of the
exchange rate slowed down considerably between February and October 1988,
when the nominal rate moved from TSh 90 to TSh 98 to the dollar, implying
an appreciation in real terms during the period. But the Government has
reaffirmed its commitment to an active exchange rate management policy by
devaluing the currency in November 1988, to TSh 120 to the US dollar.
14.      Assigning priority in resource allocation to transport and
agriculture was another key element of the ERP. Improvements in the
availability of farm supplies and fuel throughout the country, combined
with the practical liberalization of grain trade, have resulted in large
increases in staple foods. Additions to transport capacity, particularly
in the private sector, together with the significant expansion of the
own-funds import scheme, have resulted in a dramatic increase in the
availability of basic consumer goods and have acted as an incentive for
agricultural production and for infusing a new dynamism to private sector
activities.
1S.      The combination of exchange rate depreciations and of the export
retention scheme (for exporters to purchase inputs and other imports) has



also encouraged a significant growth in manufactured and other non-
traditional exports, which in 1987 increased by nearly 60 percent (in,
current US dollar terms). Revenue from traditional exports, however,
declined in current terms during 1987, largely due to processing and
transport bottlenecks and world price declines. As a result, the current
value of exports did not grow during 1987.
16.      The prices of the large majority of commodities are no longer
controlled, while remaining official prices have been adjusted in line with
market forces as a consequence of the ERP's policies. Interest rates are
by now positive in real terms, and petrolr'um derivate prices (which are
still controlled) have been adjusted to reflect the exchange rate
adjustments. Recurrent industrial inputs (largely imported under aid
programs) have also increased in price as the exchange rate has
depreciated. In spite of all these adjustments, inflation has not risen
from its pre-URP level, because of the recovery of agricultural output, the
competitive pressure of goods imported under the own-funds scheme, and
fiscal prudence.
17.      Fiscal performance has improved through revenue-enhancing measures
(such as conversion of specific taxes to ad-valorem and reductions of high
marginal rates on personal income), as well as through expenditure-
reducing measures (reduction of the real wage bill, cutbacks in non-wage
recurrent expenditures, containment of unauthorized expenditures, curbs on
transfers to local governments, and a slow-down in implementation of
development projects). Until the end of 1987, the Government was able to
stay within the ambitious targets set in the context of the IMF standby
arrangement for overall deficit reduction, and for borrowing from the
banking sector.
18.      In contrast with the significant progress attained in other
important components of the ERP, the Government failed to maintain the
necessary restraint in the monetary area. During the second half of 1987,
credit grew at nearly twice the rate targetted, with net domestic aseets
increasing by 35 percent. This resulted from a combination of factorst
(i) excessive credit requirements from the National Milling Corporation
(NMC) arising from inefficient public sector intervention in food
marketing; (ii) the credit requirements to procure a record cotton crop, in
the context of deteriorated processing facilities, transport bottlenecks
and institutional rigidities; and (iii) an inadequate financial system.
Although such a spur in the money supply has not had a significant impact
in increasing the inflation rate in Tanzania (a relatively non-monetized
economy), it is now clear that the ambitious ERP targets for reduced
inflation are beyond reach, and, equally important, that the credit
requirements of agricultural marketing institutions have resulted in some
of the more dynamic segments of the economy being deprived of liquidity.
19.      With the exception of credit restraint, the stabilization
components of the ERP have been successfully implemented and key pricing
distortions have been much reduced. The roots of the credit problem are in
the serious structural flaws of the agricultural marketing and financial
systems. These are complex institutional problems, which are now at the
top of the Government's policy reform agenda. A permanent solution for the
key problems affecting both sectors is still likely to require some time to



-6-
be fully implemented. The Government has taken some important measures to
restbre monetary balance, has initiated significant reforms in agricultural
marketing and now is preparing an action program for the financial sector
(paras. 60-72 below).
Nacroeconomic Prosnects
20.      Over the next decade the Tanzanian economy is expected to grow
at an average real rate of 4.5 percent per annum. Reduced distortions
(resulting from the reforms in the exchange rate, trade and pricing
regimes), alleviation of serious infrastructural bottlenecks, and
institutional improvements (in agricultural marketing, financial
institutions and in public sector management) are expected to lead to
significant improvements in the efficiency of resource allocation. This
would result in a projected income and consumption per capita growth rate
of about 1.5 and 0.4 percent per annum, respectively, over the next three
years. Income per capita growth is expected to remain at 1.5 percent p.a.
after 1991 as well, enabling consumption per capita to grow faster
(approaching 1 percent), as export growth in the 19908 (at about 8 percent
in real terms) is projected to be somewhat slower than the projected rapid
growth over the next three years. The process of resource reallocation
(away from highly import-dependent industries towards agriculture) and
economic restructuring is also expected to result in a reduction in import
dependence over time, and in smaller incremental import requirements to
sustain the projected GDP growth rate--particularly over the next three
years. Thus, import volumes are expected to grow, on average, at about
2 percent per annum over the next three years. After 1991, the import
growth rate is erpected to gradually increase to 4 percent per .nnum.
21.      Agriculture is expected to grow at 4.5 percent per annum from 1988
onwards, reflecting improvements in farming incentives and in the marketing
system, facilitating the development of each geographical area's relative
economic strengths and the increased cultivation of cash crops and non-
traditional foodgrains. In industry, capacity utilization (at 25 percent)
and productivitV levels are very low at present, the resalt of
inefficiencies in resource allocation and supply constraints. Starting
from this low base, the expected reorientation in industry is expected to
lead to sectoral growth of over 6 percent per annum over the next decade.
Such growth rates can be achieved almost entirely through improvements in
the use of resources and will not require substantial additional imported
inputs. This is because of the existence of negative value added or
otherwise very inefficient enterprises in the sector, which are expected to
be either phased out or transformed into efficient activities.
22.      Government consumption is expected to grow slower than GDP, vhile
domestic savings would gradually increase from the currently highly
negative level of -14 percent of GDP to a small but positive rate in the
late 19909, mainly reflecting improvements in Government finances. Exports
are projected to finance a rapidly growing share of imports, increasing
from 39 percent in 1986 to over 50 percent in the early 1990s. Export
volume increases of about nine percent per annum until the early 19909, and
modest  improvements in the terms of trade (reversing the significant
deterioration in 1987) are expected to result in an annual growth rate of
merchandise exports, in US dollars, of about 14 percent p.a., with mUch of



-7-
the impetus stemming from manufactured and other non-traditional export
categories. In addition, increasing tourism, port and transport serv4ces
for bordering countries are expected to contribute to export growth. The
improved export performance, coupled with more modest import growth
requirements, results in a projected resource balance deficit that will
grow at a significantly slower rate than in the past. Hence, as a share of
exports, the current account deficit will decline significant over the next
few years. But the imported inputs required for a growth-oriented
scenario, in the context of the present small export base and large import
bill, imply that the current account deficit will continue to increase in
absolute terms well into the 1990s--albeit at a slower pace.
External Financina Reouirements
23.      For many years, therefore, Tanzania will continue to face large
external imbalances. Thus, the Government's adjustment program will
continue to require an active exchange rate policy coupled with large
amounts of external financing and debt alleviation to support sustained
growth. Balance of payments and external financing projections are
included in Annex I, pages 2-4. The total resource requirement for the
1989-91 three-year period is expected to be about US$5.68 billion,
including import requirements of US$4.39 billion and scheduled debt
service, supplier credit repayments and reserves build-up totalling US$1.29
billion. The resources expected to be available to finance the resource
requirements over the period include US$1.99 billion in official exports,
US$0.54 billion in private transfers (largely reflecting unofficial exports
of services and goods), US$2.40 billion in donor aid and multilateral
financing (including, inter alia, about US$600 million-from the SPA
initiative and the US$135 million of the proposed IRTAC), and US$0.73
billion in debt service reduction (excluding arrears rescheduling of almost
US$1 billion expected to take place by end-1988).
Collaboration with the IW
24.      Bank and Fund staff have collaborated in assisting the Tanzanian
authorities in formulating the ERP since it was launched in 1986. For the
past three years, the Bank and Fund staff have worked closely reviewing
macroeconomic, exchange rate and sectoral developments, aiming at
consistency between policy instruments and the objectives of stability,
economic restructuring and growth. The results of this coordination have
been reflected in the Bank's MRC, in the first and second-year MFPs and in
the IHF's standby arrangement and SAP programs. The second-year PFP
outlines the underlying macroeconomic and general policy directions for
this proposed operation.
The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
25.      The Bank's first and most immediate objective in Tanzania is to
assist the Government in further development and implementation of specific
policy and institutional reforms, in the context of the continuing ERP, and
as supported by the Bank's policy-based operations and the PFPs. As
recognized in the second-year PFP and SAF programs and in this proposed
operation, Tanzania needs to continue major policy and institutional
changes in order to achieve sustainable economic growth. The proposed



-8-
IRTAC supports measures in trade policy and industrial restructuring which
are expected to have a major impact on resource allocation.
26.      In the coming years, a series of additional policy-based
operations are planned to address key areas requiring substantial further
progress. These policy-based operations will continue to support
appropriate exchange rate, fiscal, and monetary regimes, as summarized in
the 1988-91 Policy Framework Paper. The Bank's policy lending agenda over
the next three-to-five years addresses the following areas: (i)
agricultural policy, to improve the responsiveness and cost-effectiveness
of the marketing system; (ii) financial sector reform, to improve the
mobilization and allocation of financial resources while restoring the
health of the financial intermediaries; and (iii) public and parastatal
sector management, to ensure that Government expenditures are concentrated
on the core recurrent and capital programs including basic infrastructure
and social services, and that the productivity of the public and parastatal
sector is raised. In addition, the trade reform and industrial
restructuring programs to be initiated and expanded under the IRTAC would
have to be pursued further alongside future policy-based operations, in
order to attain trade and pricing regimes devoid of administrative
controls, and to achieve full subsectoral coverage in industrial
restructuring.
27.      A second set of objectives of the Bank's assistance to Tanzania,
reflected in its lending program, is tos (i) support projects which
preserve and extend the achievements of the last 25 years in education,
health and provision of basic services to the populationt (ii) support the
rehabilitation of the country's infrastructure (particularly in transport,
where the need is critical), and (iii) develop agricultural support
services. The recently completed transport sector work, and sector reviews
currently underway in health and education, together with the recent
parastatal sector review (Report No. 7100-TA) and the ongoing public
expenditure review, are expected to provide further guidance on the
relative priorities for future IDA allocations.
28.      A third objective of the Bank's involvement in Tanzania is to
assist the Government in its debt alleviation efforts and in mobilizing
external resources in the amounts and (highly concessional) terms required
to finance the expenditures which are essential complements to the policy
reform program. Aid coordination e_.forts are being heightened to promote
the concentration of donor programs on rehabilitation needs and the
provision of a higher share of untied aid flows.
PART II: THE PROGRAM OF TRADE POLICY REFORK
Introduction
29.      The past three years mark a significznt departure from previous
entrenched and unsustainable policies in Tanzania. The macroeconomic and
exchange rate reforms already undertaken provide the building blocks for
the continuation of a far-reaching program of trade reform and for the
first steps in a long-term program of industrial restructuring.
Maintaining an appropriate macroeconomic framework, through the



-9-
mplementation of prudent fiscal and monetary policies, is a crucial
preconditica-for the success of a program of trade reform and economic
restructuring (paras. 60-65 below). Similarly, complementary reforms in
the agricultural and financial sectors are essential to attain sustainable
recovery in future years (paras. 66-72).
Tbe Z*chane late and Trade Policy Framework
30.      The Early 1980s. Between the late 19709 and the mid-eighties the
policy regime affecting the tradeable sectors in general, and the
manufacturing sector in particular, consisted of mechanisms introduced by
the Government to cope with the excess demand for foreign exchange arising
from an increasingly overvalued exchange rate. The main instrument of
demand control was a system of foreign exchange rationing through
administrative allocation to individual users. This system, together with
import licensing, was used to restrict imports of competing goods and to
channel foreign exchange to the importation of industrial and other raw
materials. This was complemented by restricting most domestic and foreign
trade operations to selected parastatal agencies--known as the confinement
policy, and by an elaborate system of price controls.
31.      This set of interrelated policies (overvalued exchange rate,
rationing of foreign exchange, prohibition of competing lmports and price
controls), together with the channeling of scarce foreign exchange to
medium and large-scale industrial enterprises to keep them afloat, has had
major implications for the performance and efficiency of the industrial
sector. Manufacturers have been able to charge prices significantly above
border prices, leading to high levels of average protection on
manufacturing output in the recent past. Moreover, until recently, the
undervalued prices of imported inputs and capital resulting from the
overvalued currency implied a large subsidy tc industries enjoying access
to administratively allocated foreign exchange (and official credit).
32.      The analysis in the Bank's Industry Sector Reportl indicates that
an extremely high average level of effective protection on domestic
manufacturing production, of about 470 percent, resulted from the cascading
combination of the 70 percent average nominal protection on the output side
and the 45 percent effective subsidy on the iaputn side. Not every
manufacturing firm was similarly protected; the variation within industry
was also very large. Some activities have enjoyed virtually unlimited
protection (like many large firms producing intermediate goods), the result
of their monopolistic status and access to subsidized foreign exchange and
credit, while others have been effectively unprotected (li'ie some smaller
consumer goods enterprises). Heavily protected firms have had a huge
financial incentive to produce and expand activities, at the expense of
more efficient firms with less protection. The degree of protection
enjoyed by an industrial firm was shown to be inversely related to its
economic efficiency; unprotected firms have had, on average, an economic
rate of return of 11 percent, while highly protected firms have had
negative economic returns averaging -33 percent. The high degree of
protection enjoyed by the more wasteful firms has been in large measure the
11 Tanzania: An Agenda for Industrial Recovery, op.cit.



_ 10 -
direct result of the administrative system of fcreign exchange allocation.
By attempting to keep all large and medium scale enterprises afloat, a
disproportionately large share of foreign exchange has been channelled to
the more inefficient firms at the expense of more efficient activities.
33.      Trade Policy During 1986-87.  The economic reform program
initiated under the ERP has resulted in an improvement in the trade policy
environment, mainly thrcough the large exchange rate adjustment, the policy
of own-funded imports, and price decontrols. The policy of allowing own
funded imports, whereby the importer is authorized to use foreign exchange
from unofficial sources to import a wide range of commodities, now accounts
for an estimated one-third of total imports.   The range of conmodities
allowed under the scheme has been broadened significantly and the
implementation of the scheme has been such that virtually any self-financed
item can be imported. The opening and significant expansion of the own-
funded imports scheme over the past three years has represented a de facto
sanctioning by the Government of a sizeable trade liberalized window.
34.      These improvements in exchange rate and trade policy resulted in a
reduction in the average level of effective protection for industrial
activities from 470 percent in 1984 to an estimated 170 percent in 1987.
However, until recently, the level of protection was still relatively high
for many industrial firms and, equally important, the variation across
subsectors and enterprises is still substantial. Also, a significant share
of the official (undervalued) foreign exchange continued to be allocated to
inefficiant manufacturing activities during 1986 and 1987.
35.      Until early 1988, the overvalued currency had not allowed a move
away from administrative allocation of foreign exchange. However, under
the ERP, the Government has significantly depreciated the currency and,
while the rate of devaluation slowed down considerably between March and
October 1988, the Government is now moving decisively to establish an
exchange rate regime (and complementary fit al and monetary policies)
consistent with the elimination of excess %semand for liberalized imports.
The adjustment process for the currency is a key component in the proposed
design and timetable of the trade reform measures being initiated now and
to be intensified during the implementation of this proposed operation.
The Proaram of Trade Reform:  1988-1989
36.      During 1988 and 1989, the Government intends to continue
implementing significant trade reforms in a number of areas, which will be
supported by this operation, including: (i) movement away from the system
of import restrictions and administrative allocation of foreign exchange;
(ii) rationalization of the system of tariffs and sales taxes; (iii)
liberalization in internal trade and pricing; and (iv) improvement in
export incentives.
37.      Trade Liberalization and Foreian Exchange Allocation.  All
official foreign exchange had been administratively allocated until
February 1988, effectively implying that variable quantitative restrictions
(QRs) applied on all imports funded from official sources. During 1987,
the Government took measures aimed at improving foreign exchange
management. In particular, aid coordination in the Ministry of Finance was



- 11 -
strengthened and new guidelines were prepared for foreign exchange
allocation. However, a significant overestimation of the available foreign
exchange, coupled with the lack of fungibility of most aid flows,
diminished the practical impact of the new guidelines and procedures.
Furthermore, it became increasingly evident that improved matnagement of
foreign exchange resources per se could not result in a substantial
improvement in the efficiency of foreign exchange allocation and use, as
long as all official foreign exchange continued to be administratively
allocated.
38.      Starting in February 1988, the Government ';egan to make a portion
of foreign exchange available on a non-administrative and automatic basis
for selected high priority import categories through an Open General
License (OGL) system. The opening of this OGL facility represents an
important trade liberalization step for imports financed by official
sources of foreign exchange. This OGL facility, already resulting in
improved allocation for the selected import categories, has reduced
administrative costs and, equally important, is expected to demonstrate
within Tanzania the benefits of embarking on a process of liberalization of
imports and official foreign exchange allocation.
39.      During the first eight months of the operation of the liberalized
facility an average of about US$3 million per month have been disbursed
against a predetermined list of priority raw materials, spare parts and
some other items (see Annex IV for detailed OGL list). Import licenses
have been automatically issued upon application, followed by the immediate
establishment of Letters of Credit upon the submission of local currency
cash cover. Initially, access to the facility has been limited to
US$100,000 for each import license and to an aggregate amount of US$200,000
per importer. Furthermore, demand has been restrained by the exchange rate
devaluation path and by the maintenance of fiscal and financial discipline.
A preliminary review of the functioning of the limited OGL facility
indicates that the facility has provided foreign exchange on a non-
administrative basis to private and parastatal productive enterprises in
industry, agriculture and transport, pointing already to an improvement
over administrative allocative mechanisms where inefficient operations have
benefitted disproportionally.  The Bank of Tanzania has managed to
institute an efficient system of automatically issuing import licenses for
the OGL facility. However, during the initial stages of operation of the
OGL there have been some procedural delays in the opening of letters of
credit at the National Bank of Commerce. These problems are now being
corrected in order to expedite the process of importation.
40.      The OGL facility recently established will be expanded according
to a phased timetable with the ultimate aim (once the exchange rate
adjustment has eliminated excess import demand) of providing non-
administrative access to foreign exchange for most untied imports. The
first phase of the OGL expansion, to take place in early 1989, will
incorporate at least three-quarters of all imported recurrent inputs and
spare parts, as well as selected consumer and capital goods, amounting to
well over US$200 million of imports (yearly equivalent), and equivalent to
15 percent of all imports to Tanzania. This first stage of OGL expansion
will be financed by IDA and untied multilateral and lilateral aid
resources. The liberalized imports through the OGL, when added to the



_ 12 -
substantial inflow of imports financed through own funded imports (about
US$350 million of consumer and intermediate items) and through retained
export earnings (about US$60 million), will result, before mid-1989, in
over 50 percent of all imports entering under a liberalized trade regime.
The bulk of the imports that will still remain subject to administrative
allocation In 1989 (about US$450 million) is accounted for by aid flows
tied to procurement in the donor country andlor to project-specific
expenditures, with oil (US$150 million) and other Government import
requirements (US$60 million) accounting for the rest.
41.      During FY88189, the limited amounts of official export earnings
surrendered to the Bank of Tanzania are expected to be exhausted by oil and
essential Government imports, as vell as amortization and interest payments
of non-rescheduled debt, limiting the potential availability of this source
for OGL financing. However, as exports grow and aid funds are Increasingly
provided In an untied form, the Government intends to channel a greater
flow of Imports through the facility. Supplying the OGL facility with
foreign exchange generated from exports and from additional untied
resources will enable the implementation of the second phase of OGL
expasion, with the aim of providing non-administrative access to foreign
exchange for all categories of Imports consistent with the implementation
ad objectives of the EUP. By the end of 1989, only a relatively limited
list of import categories will be excluded from the OGL facility.   By
early 1990, it is expected that over US$300 million in imports (yearly
equivalent) will be channeled through the OGL facility.
42.      The attainment and maintenance of an appropriate exchange rate
will be crucial to avoid excess demand in the OGL facility and to ensure
its sustainable expansion, and the Government is committed to continue
pursuing an active exchange rate policy to supportt (i) the trade
liberalization process; (ii) increased export growth; and (iii) reduction
in the current account deficit as a percentage of GDP.
43.      When the OGL facility opened in February, the exchange rate stood
at TSh 92 to the US dollar and as of end-October 1988, the exchange rate
was TSh 98 to the US dollar. While this exchange rate level was adequate
to support the limited OGL facility, a continued real depreciation of the
currency was required to ensure a smooth operation and sustainability of a
broader OGL facility. In early November, 1988, the Government resumed the
aggressive exchange rate management policy pursued between early 1986 and
February 1988, and devalued the currency to TSh 120 to the US dollar.
Purthermore, the Government intends to continue the depreciation of the
currency In real effective terms in order to attain before mid-1989 an
exchange rate fully consistent with an expanded OGL facility and vith the
other external objectives outlined above. Such a policy of exchange rate
adjustment will also be necessary to allow a significant increase of the
existing ceilings on individual OGL applications during the first half of
1989, and the eventual removal of these ceilings by the end of 1989.
Furthermore, as outlined in the second year PFP, the Government will
continue to implement an active exchange rate policy to support the
achievement of the external objectives. Based on periodic assessments of
developments in the terms of trade, inflation and the operation of the OGL
facility, the Government will adjust the exchange rate to ensure that an
appropriate rate is in place.



- 13 -
44.      Tariffs and Sales Taxes.  Until recently, the role of Tanzania's
tqriff structure in determining the pattern and efficiency of resource
allocation had been overshadowed by the prominence of quantitative
restrictions and of the centralized allocation of foreign exchange. From
the late 1970s to the mid-1980s, therefore, output and input prices were
hardly influenced by the structure of tariffs. Instead, prices were
determined by the monopoly power given to the local producer through
restrictions on competing imports, the nature of price controls and
confinement, and the overvalued exchange rate. However, the introduction
of own-funded imports, which has resulted in the de facto relaxation of
quantitative restrictions, has gradually enhanced the role of tariffs in
influencing prices and providing protection to local activities over the
past three years. With the opening of the OGL facility, the role of the
tariff schedule has now become even more pronounced and its importance will
be increased further as the facility expands and the exchange rate becomes
the market ciearing mechanism.
45.      Until June 1988, Tanzania's tariff structure was relatively
complex, although the bulk of imports were subject to tariff rates of zero,
20, 25, and 60 percent. However, there were fifteen other rates as well,
ranging between 15 and 200 percent. The lower rates applied mostly to
lntermediate and capital goods, while the 60 to 150 percent tariff rate
applied to most consumption items. Agricultural inputs, petroleum
distillates, pharmaceutical products, educational and packing materials,
and some other items, comprising about one quarter of the import value,
have not been subject to duty while a few items, accounting for about four
percent of the import value, were subject to specific duties. Imports are
also subject to sales tax according to a schedule equivalent to that of
domestic sales taxes. Sales taxes are concentrated in the 20-25 percent
category, particularly for inputs, spare parts and capital goods. A number
of final consumer goods, and some raw materials are subject to higher tax
rates, which results in a sales tax structure comprising over 20 different
rates ranging between zero and 300 percent.
46.      There has also been a pervasive system of official duty
exemptions, partly related to agreements with donor agencies and partly
discretionary, which subverts the impact of the import tariff and sales tax
schedule. In 1986, duty collections were only TSh 2.1 billion compared
with 4uty exemptions of TSh 2.9 billion. The actual (collected) duty rate
on officially recorded consumer good imports was only 11 percent (as a
share of consumer imports value), and for intermediate and capital goods
the duty collected was six percent, indicating that in practice virtually
no effective protection is offered by the present tariff regime to many
domestic activities (that have not enjoyed access to official foreign
exchange). In addition there is much evasion of customs duties payments
(largely through undervaluation of imports), resulting in overall low duty
collection and further lowering effective protection to domestic firms.
The widespread use of exemptions on import tariff has also applied to the
sales tax on imports.
47.      Before the budget presentation in June 1988, the covernment
prepared an action program to simplify the tariff structure. This program
has been ln effect r'ince July and its main elements are the lowering of the
maximum tariff, the compression of tariff rates, and the reduction In



- 14 -
exemptions and evasion. These reforms are aimed at providing moderate and
more uniform protection to domestic activities, while increasing revenues.
The simplified tariff structure has resulted in only six positive rates
being retained and in the elimination of specific rates. The maximum
tariff rate has been lowered to 100 percent, which applies only to five
small categories of non-competing luxury goods, while virtually all
consumption items have duty to 40 to 60 percent (with the exception of
basic need items, which are subject to lower duty). Furthermore, the
number of zero duty items has been reduced. In the context of the 1988189
Budget, the Government has also initiated some changes in the sales tax
regime aimed at increasing revenues. Reforms in sales taxes include the
continuation of the current policy of gradual and selective expansion of
the sales tax base; the elimination of some distortive provisions, and the
implementation of initial steps towards the simplification of the sales tax
rate structure.
48.      The Government is currently preparing the second phase of the
program to rationalize the tariff and sales tax structure. This program,
to be prepared by early 1989. and implemented in the context of the 1989190
budget, will aim at further compressing the tariff and sales tax structure.
For tariffs, the maximum rate and the number of rates will be further
reduced with the objective of reaching a maximwn tariff not exceeding 60
percent and the number of positive rates not exceeding three. For sales
taxes, a task force is carrying out the preparation of an action program
consistent with revenue and efficiency considerations, that will include
the significant reduction in the number of sales tax rates, with the
objective of instituting one basic low rate, excepting a limited list of
traditionally excisable revenue earners. Furthermore, the task force will
evaluate a proposal to institute a credit system for sales tax (value added
tax), and if technically and administratively feasible, such a credit
system would be introduced in the context of the 1989190 budget.
49.      Equally important, the structure of exemptions of tariffs and
sales taxes is undergoing a major restructuring during 1988/89. This is
already resulting in a reduction in existing discretionary exemptions, in
the strict limitation on the issuance of any new exemptions (including a
no-exemption policy on OGL imports and on any other imports utilized in
commercial activities), and in the review of all aid agreements in order to
limit abuse and discretion in the granting of aid-related exemptions.
Furthermore, general exemptions currently given for imports of certain
categories have been discontinued.
50.      Thl. tariff and tax systems are also impaired by a weak
institutional structure, by insufficient staffing, training and equipment,
low salaries, and a system of enforcement and penalties that does not
discourage evasion. The Government, with the assistance of a UNDP
Technical Assistance Team, has already begun to take measures to strengthen
the Customs and Tax Department by improving training and by taking measures
to reduce evasion on duties and tax payments. The compensation package for
tax officers was improved during 1987/88, new training programs have been
launched, and monitoring and supervision guidelines at points-of-entry have
been tightened.



- 15 _
S1.      During the 1988189 fiscal year the Government is continuing to
strengthen tax and tariff administration by: (i) expanding the existing
training programs, including training for customs and sales tax officers
in the newly created Institute for Tax Administration; (ii) recruiting
additional personnel; (iii) providing remmuneration bonuses for officers
and imposition of penalties for poor performance and abuse; (iv) improving
facilities and equipment; (v) increasing penalties for evasion; vi)
introduction of a harmonized tariff code classification system; and (vii)
introduction of a new tariff code book, incorporating the new simplified
tariff structure, and streamlining guidelines for exemptions. This
package of institutional measures, by improving tariff and tax enforcement,
will result in a reduction in evasion, misclassification and
underreporting, and will increase revenues. When combined with the
measures to reduce exemptions and zero duty items on the one hand. and to
reduce maximum rates on the other, the resulting tariff structure will be
substantially compressed, providing for more uniform (and moderate) levels
of effective protection to domestic activities.
52.      Pricins Refogms.  The Government has continued with its far-
reaching program of price decontrol. Whereas 400 categories of goods were
subject to control in the early 1980s, price control coverage was down to
22 broad categories in 1987188. Further decontrols took place in June
1988, when the Government decontrolled 10 categories of goods, reducing the
categories of commodities that remain under price control to the following
twelve: petroleum products, fertilizers, farm implements, gunny bags,
selected textile products, cement, galvanized corrugated iron sheets, beer,
sugar, laundry and toilet soaps and selected types of batteries. The
price-controlled items remaining during 1988189 constitute less than 15
percent of the consumer price index basket. Equally important, the
distortions arising from the remaining price controls are likely to be
small due to two factors. First, since 1987 the methodology for
calculating controlled prices utilizes equivalent international prices as a
key reference point. Second, the policy of own funded imports has resulted
in increased competition, applying pressures on prices to reflect
international price equivalencies. At present, controlled prices are in
line with international prices, allowing for minor tariff-induced
deviations. The most recent example of price adjustment reflecting
scarcity values was the 50 percent increase for all petroleum products.
53.      Deconfinement Policy.  Under Tanzania's policy of confinement,
wholesale trade for some domestic and imported commodities is restricted to
parastatal organizations. Under this system of state trading monopolies,
industries are required to sell certain specific goods through national and
regional trading companies and to purchase many of their import
requirements and some domestic inputs through designated parastatal trading
firms. Over fifty broad categories of goods are subject to internal
confinement, comprising mainly consumer goods, building materials and
agricultural implements. All imported goods are deemed confined, unless
specifically exempted. Since many confined items are not subject to price
controls anymore, trade companies negotiate prices with their suppliers for
these items, generally on a cost-plus basis, a process which has resulted
in similar pricing outcomes to those of setting price controls.



- 16 -
54.      Over the past two years. some de facto movement away from monopoly
~ouineuimnt to more diversified confinement has taken place (the result of
the granting of numerous exemptions) although confinement has remained the
norm for imports and domestic trade. Rural cooperatives are now allowed to
compete with trading companies, and the regional authorities are now able
to appoint any agents, including private companies, to engage in wholesale
trading in their own regions. Thus, while domestic producers are still
confined in selling their products to designated buyers, there are now more
designated purchasers than before. In addition, any products allowed under
own-funded imports and export retention schemes are in practice not subject
to confinement, although dezonfinement for own-funded imports is yet to be
formalized.   Finally, the Ministry of Industries and Trade issues permits
to individual firms exempting them from confinement on a case-by-case
basis. Such permits are effective only for a limited period (e.g., three
months) or for a specified amount of a product. Since such permits are
given to individual firms on an exceptional basis, other firms which
produce or purchase the same products are in many cases still under
confinement.
55.      During the remainder of 1988 and early 1989, the Government
Intends to intensify the process of trade liberalization through the
widespread and automatic granting of exemptions to trade confinement for
virtually all items. Furthermore, the Government will prepare legislative
measures in order to eni confinement for all fimss and items by February,
1989, excepting, in the case of internal trade, the twelve item remain*ng
under price controls, For the distribution of imports, exemptions from
complete deconfinement will be based only on health or security reasons.
the combined effect of the formal deconfinement steps to be enacted by
early 1989 and the intensification of the policy of granting automatic
exemptions will result in a system of trade which is de facto deconfined.
56.      Export Incentives. The major exchange rate adjustment underway is
quickly becoming the most powerful incentive for export promotion.
Continuation of an active exchange rate management policy will provide
additional impetus to exports. Complementary to the adjustments in the
exchange rate, the Government is continuing to remove distortions in the
existing export retention schemes, instituting an export duty drawback
scheme and simplifying export procedures. The streamlining of export
procedures is the result of the reduction in the number of licensing steps
(which are quasi-automatic but subject to red tape) and the simplification
of the licensing application forms.
57.      Export Retention Schemes% For the past two years, a variety of
export retention schemes have provided significant incentives to exporters
and can be credited with recent increases in non-traditional exports. The
effectiveness of retention schemes is due to the gap between official and
parallel exchange rates, and to the admin'strative rationing of foreign
exchange by the Bank of Tanzania (BOT) and the National Bank of Commerce
(NBC). However, distortions arose during 1986 due to large disparities in
the various export retention percentages provided to different goods and
firms and due to the proliferation of these retention schemes--some of
which feature discretionary elements.



_ 17 -
58.      During 1987 the Government introduced a number of measures towards
consolidation of the schemes, to make them more systematic, and to reduce
the dispersion of rates applicable to each exporter, by aligning retention
rates for a large number of non-traditional exports to 50 percent (the
retention rate for traditional exports is 10 percent). Some distortions
remained, however, since some of the schemes were not consolidated and
continue to allow for high retention rates for many firms. In addition,
the distortive commodity exchange program, for producers who barter their
output with imported inputs for their production, results in the de facto
100 percent retention rate for a number of exporters. To reduce the
remaining dlistortions, since mid-1988 the Government has reduced the
maximum export retention share to fifty percent with virtually no
exceptions, and has eliminated the issuance of new permits for the
commdity exchange program. Furthermore, in order to continue
consolidating export retention schemes, in early 1989 the Government
intends to reduce the maximum export retention rate to 35 percent, with
limited exceptions.
59.      Export Duty Drawbackt Until mid-1988, there was no export duty
drawback system in place, which resulted in an anti-export bias for
exporters that pay duty on their imported inputs. However, due to the
widespread duty exemptions and evasion, the absence of a duty drawback
system had only a limited detrimental effect on exports. But as tariff
reforms are implemented and exemptions continue to be reduced, the
implementation of an export duty drawback scheme is required in order to
avoid disincentives to exporters. Consequently, the implementation of a
duty drawback scheme has been initiated in the context of the 1988189
budget. The scheme relies on specific drawbacks for exported items, and
eligible claimants have already received import tax rebates within a few
weeks of submitting their application.
Fiscal and Monetary Policies
60.      Fiscal Policy.  Although the Government has been broadly
successful in maintaining fiscal prudence over the past two years and in
meeting its short-term fiscal targets, it also recognizes that longer term
structural problems need to be addressed in order to maintain a stable
fiscal situation in the future. Thus, the Government has used the 1988189
budget to take appropriate corrective measures and strengthen its efforts
to address existing weaknesses in the areas of the tax system and its
administration, the composition of public expenditure, and the monitoring
and control of expenditure. The Government has introduced new tax masures
and expenditure restraints in order to limit the deficit to a level that
allows no increase in the stock of net domestic bank credit to Government.
These measures will permit a substantial increase in credit to the non-
government sector, in an environment of restrained monetary growth and
declining inflation rates.
61.      On the revenue side, efforts to improve the tax system and its
administration are being undertaken by the Government. As elaborated
previously, during 1988189 the Government will stress the enhancement of
the efficiency and yield of the system of import duties and sales taxes.
Furthermore, a comprehensive tax review has been carried out by the IMF
staff and will be shortly discussed with the Government. Also the 1988189



- 18 -
budget includes increases in user charges for education, medical services
and roads. in petroleum taxes and in the rates of excise tax for beer,
cigarettes and secda. With the 1989190 and 1990t91 budgets the authorities
will reform personal income taxes and company taxes, with the aim of
broadening the tax base and enhance tax collection, thereby permitting a
needed reduction in nominal rates. Income tax administration will also be
improved following the preparation of a program by March 1989.
62.      On the expenditure side, during 1988189, the Government will
stress the following elementst (i) the concentration of recurrent
expenditure on key programs (e.g., the maintenance and rehabilitation of
the physical infrastructure, the improvement of staffing, equipment, and
incentives for revenue departments, the euhancement of basic health and
education); (ii) the reduction of overstaffing in the civil service; (iii)
progressive improvements in the structure and level of public service pay
(consistent with containment of the overall wage bill); (iv) the
enhancement o' local government finances and their management; (v) the
self-financing objective for commercial parastatals by improving
management, reducing overstaffing, and adjusting prices and tariffs; (vi)
the improvement of the systems of planning, budgeting, expenditure control,
reporting and aid coordinption. As preparation for implementation of this
expenditure reform following a census of the public service conducted in
March 1988, about 7,600 ghost workers have so far been eliminated from the
payrolls of the Central Government and 20,400 from the payrolls of local
governments. Furthermore, during 1988/89 the Government will continue its
policy of freezing the staffing level of the civil services, except in
education and health, while reallocating positions to priority services
such as tax administration. The 1988189 budget also includes a 10 percent.
increase in appropriations for maintenance expenditures in real terms, with
most of the increase being for road maintenance.
63.      On the Public Investment Program (PIP), the Government will
continue to concentrate development expenditures on the completion of
ongoing projects and rehabilitation, while the number of projects in the
PIP will be further reduced. Thus, locally funded projects are being
reviewed and consolidated to improve implementatior.. In addition, external
funding will be applied to selected rehabilitation with high returns (e.g.,
projects to improve the infrastructure that supports export activity, as
well as selected investments in social services). Also, particular
attention will be paid to the sustainability of the recurrent costs. In
order to continue umplementing measures to rationalize Public Expenditures
and Investments during 1989/90, the Government, in consultation with the
World Bank, will formulate an action program following the completion of
the ongoing Public Expenditure Review.
64.      As a resulr of these measures, the program for 1988/89 targets an
increase in the revenue/GDP ratio to 21.5 percent of GDP in 1988/89,
compared with 18.0 percent for 1987/88. While expenditure will increase in
relation to GDP to 31.9 percent in 1988189 versus 25.9 percent in 1987/88,
this primarily reflects exchange rate changes, as well as interest payments
on the debts of the marketing boards assumed by the Government.
65.      Monetarv Poliev.  The central objective of monetary and credit
policies during the next three years will be to reduce sharply the rate of



- 19 -
monetary growth in order to achieve the targeted reduction in inflation (to
about 10 percent p.a. by 1991), while providing an adequate supply of
credit to the productive sectors. this objective will be achieved through
restraint on bank credit by the Government and through the ongoing reform
of agricultural marketing that vill eliminate the financial deficit of the
marketing boards (that was previously covered systematically by bank
credit, see below). In 1988189 the Government's fiscal policy will make it
possible to keep the net stock of bank credit to the Government constant,
while the total increase in net bank credit to specified marketing boards
will be limited to TSh. 2 billion. Furthermore, credit to agricultural
cooperatives will be closely monitored by the BOT and NBC. This program
will allow the authorities to limit broad money expansion to 10 percent,
versus 35 percent in 1987188. The reduction in the rate of monetary growth
is intended, inter alia, to achieve the targeted decline in the inflation
rate from 30 percent p.a. at end-1987188 to 18 percent at end-1988/89.
Agricultural Policies
66.      In order to enhance the incentive structure and resource
allocation in agriculture and to improve agricultural marketing, the
Government has now embarked on major institutional and pricing changes in
the sector. These measures also have the objective of restoring balance to
the monetary program, which has been adversely affected in the recent past
by the high credit requirements of the National Hilling Corporation (NMC),
the Tanzania Cotton Marketing Board and the cooperative sector. On
foodgrains, the Government is now reforming the food crop marketing system,
building on the improvements already achieved (such as increase in producer
prices and substantial involvement of the private sector in grain trade).
For maize, this is being attained by redefining the role of licensed
traders, the cooperative unions, the Government and NMC. In particular,
unlike the past, maize marketing costo associated with food security
functions is now on the account of the Government (and not NM1C) through its
Strategic Grain Reserve (SGR) arrangement. Thus, the Government is now the
buyer and seller of last resort. Furthermore, procurement prices for the
SGR stock will be differentiated to reflect quality and locational
variations, thereby reducing economic distortions in the present
panterritorial pricing system. Under the new foodgrain marketing system,
cooperative unions and primary societies will be allowed to sell maize to
licensed traders, continuing the marketing liberalization process.
Complementary to these measures, the role of NM1C and of the cooperative
unions in maize procurement and distribution has been redefined: they are
now expected to operate in a commercially-oriented fashion. The into-store
price that NHC will pay is now being freely negotiated and, similarly, 31fC
will be free to determine its ex-store price.
67.      In export crops, complementing the reforms already undertaken in
the recent past, (real increases in producer prices, private sector
involvement and reestablishment of cooperatives), the Government intends to
increase the flexibility of export crop marketing and to put greater
pressure on warketing margins by reducing the role of the marketing boards
to non-monopolistic agents of the cooperatives, and by allowing the
cooperatives to retain the ownership of the crops until they are sold,
giving the cooperatives more autonomy also for procurement and crop



- 20 -
pricing. Phased action programs have been prepared for three major crops
(coffee, cotton, and tobacco, to be implemented in early 1989), and action
programs for the othe:s will be prepared during 1988189 and implemented
during 1989 and 1990. The major ongoing and intended reforms in foodgrain
and export marketing will be supported by the Agricultural Adjustment
Credit currently under preparation, which is expected to be appraised in
early 1989.
68.      In addition to these structural changes in the marketing and
pricing system for food and export crops, the Government is moving ahead
with programs to alleviate other constraints to efficient agricultural
marketing. Major rehabilitation programs for rural and trunk roads and for
the Tanzania Railway Corporation are under ;reparation; resources are being
made available for rehabilitation of agroprocessing facilities and for
construction, of storage facilities; agricultural support services (credit,
research, and extension) are being strengthened, and a program to increase
cotton ginning capacity is being implemented.
The Financial Sector
59.      Almost every aspect of Tanzania's financial sector is state
controlled with the market playing virtually no role. Monetary and credit
policies and targets are determined in the Government's annual Finance and
Credit Plan, which indicates the distribution of credit classified by
economic activity and borrower, with explicit allocations made for the
Central Government, public enterprises, and the rest of the economy. Over
90 percent of the credit allocated is absorbed by the Government and public
enterprises. This system, combined with the objective of sustaining many
uneconomic activities, has resulted in a significant misallocation of
credit resources in the economy. The main factors associated with the
misallocation of credit have beent (i) limited competition in the
mobilization and allocation of financial resources; (ii) lax rescheduling
practices and failure to recognize non-performing loans as losses by the
financial institutions; (iii) institutional weaknesses in some of the main
financial institutions; (iv) administrative allocation of foreign exchange;
and, until recently, (v) low interest rates.
70.      The deterioration of economic conditions over the past decade and
the controls imposed on the sector have combined to contribute to the
practical insolvency of many of Tanzania's financial institutions which
consist of the Central Bank, two covmercial banks, four development banks,
and four other small financial institutions. The two industrial
development banks have serious arrears in more than half their portfolios.
Furthermore, their portfolio losses are not properly recognized, their
capital bases have been considerably eroded, and their external liabilities
have experienced a many-fold increase since the exchange rate adjustment
began. The largest bank, NBC. which has a virtual monopoly on the
mobilization and allocation of short-term funds, is also facing serious
financial problems largely due to the accumulation of large overdrafts held
by the troubled agricultural marketing boards.
71.      Interest rates have been negative in real terms since the mid-
1970s, and have been a deterrent to domestic resource mobilization and
efficient credit allocation. However, Interest rates have more than



- 21 -
doubled since October 1985, resulting In substantially less negative
interest rates during 1987 and 19B8. As compared with the current
inflation estimate of 29 percent, by early November, 1988, the savings rate
of interest was 24 percent, the maximum commercial bank lending rate was 29
percent; and the lending rates for medium- and large-scale industries was
28-29 percent.  Furthermore, in December 1988, the Government is expected
to adjust upwards the rates to make them positive in real terms. In
particular, the savings rate will be increased by 5 percentage points to 29
percent while the lending rates for medium and large-scale industry will be
31 percent.
72.      The Government intends to implement far-reaching institutional,
financial, and policy reforms in the financial sector and has established a
Commission and Secretariat for this purpose. The main objectives of
Government's reforms would be to diversify financial channels and services,
improve resource mobilization, and restore the financial health of the
banking institutions. Institutional reforms would be aimed at, inter alia,
increasing the overall competitiveness and efficiency of the sector. and
financial restructuring of the main banking institutions. The diagnostic
review of the sector is expected to be completed in early 1989, and
implementation of the action program for the financial sector is expected
to be underway during 1989190 and would be supported by a proposed
Industrial and Financial Restructuring Credit (FY90).
PART I1I. THE INDUSTRIAL SEC50R
Overview
73.      Until the mid-1960s, Tanzania had a small industrial sector
dominated by private firms. Without a significant break from the past, a
somewhat more ambitious industrial program was undertaken after 1964. The
major departure in terms of strategy and implementation, however, took
place in 1974 when the Government adopted the Basic Industrial Strategy
(BIS), emphasizing import-substitution and the production of capital and
intermediate goods, and investments in the parastatal industrial sector,
which played a lead role in the development strategy of Tanzania.
74.      The combination of external shocks, inappropriate policies, and
very low productivity of the massive investments undertaken since the start
of the BIS has resulted in an industrial sector that is inefficient,
relatively large scale and capital intensive, import dependent, and
operating at low capacity.   After using a massive amount of investment
resources over a decade (amounting to a total of over US$2 billion from the
mid-70s to the mid-1980s), Tanzania's industry was producing in 1985 only
about 3 percent of the country'&l GDP (measured at world prices) -- yet it
utilized direct and indirect imported inputs equivalent to almost one-third
of total imports. Capacity utilization averaged 25 percent and one-third
of industrial activities were estimated to be producing with negative
value-added at world prices.2   The significant decline in industrial
X1 'Tanzaniat An Agenda for Industrial Recovery op. cit.



- 22 -
output since the late 19709 was related to the decline in agriculture,
which meant fewer raw materials to process and dwindling foreign exchange
earnings. Underlying the decline in output in both sectors were
distortionary exchange rate, trade and pricing policies, which had been in
place since the late 1970s (see Part TT).
75.      Among industrial subsectors, on average only food processing,
beverages, tobacco and rubber processing are operating at satisfactory
efficiency levels. Textiles, glass, metal products and machinery are
marginally inefficient, while tanneries, iron and steel and transport
equipment are very inefficient (Annex VT). Among currently inefficient
subsectors, however, there are many potentially viable activities
(particularly in textiles, taDneries, metal products and machinery).
Parastatal firms in the group of highly inefficient activities are
significantly over-represented, although a very large proportion of private
sector activities are also inefficient. On average, import and capital
intensive activities are significantly less efficient than labor intensive
activities which utilize local resources, while smaller firms, employing
fewer than 100 employees, are more efficient than larger firms.
76.      The Bank's industrial sector analysis indicates that while there
would be some limited productivity gains in some subsectors from
across-the-board increases in capacity utilization in industry, far greater
benefits would flow from reallocating existing resources away from unviable
activities to other more productive manufacturing activities. In
particular, significant gains could be accrued by reallocatikn of resources
away from unviable enterprises (producing at negative or very low value
added) to high value added activities, and by the restructuring of
currently inefficient firms into viable enterprises.
77.      The major ongoing macroeconomic, exchange rate, trade and pricing
reforms have already resulted in some reallocation of resources. Since
1986, resource allocation in general, and of imported inputs in particular,
has shifted away from industry to agriculture and transport. A decline in
production and utilization of inputs is already apparent among many
inefficient industrial activities while some efficient firms have managed
to increase capacity utilization. Aside from the strategic shift of public
expenditures towards transport and agriculture, the ongoing reallocation of
resources (within industry and between industry and other sectors) is
associated with the decline in average effective protection to industry and
the reduction in the dispersion of protection across industries. The
compression in the structure of protection since the initiation of trade
liberalization has been largely the result of significant reductions in
protection to very inefficient enterprises. The industrial sector is
currently operating at a similar level of average capacity utilization
(about 25 percent) as in 1984, but is producing higher value added while
utilizing less resources.
78.      The evidence of incipient reorientation in industry is
encouraging. However, a major restructuring of inefficient industries and
a significant expansion of efficient activities will only take place as the
Government continues the implementation of the macroeconomic and trade
reform program and initiates industrial restructuring measures in key
subsectors and firms. In addition to the policy distortions that have



- 23 -
plagued industry, which are being removed through implementation of the
EP, there are significant structural, operational and managerial
inefficiencies in the sector at present. The financial situation of many
firms is precarious; managerial and skilled labor shortages are common;
infrastructural bottlenecks in power, water and transport are seriously
hampering industrial operations, and shortages in raw materials and other
inputs persist (Annex V).
Industrial Restructuring and Rehabilitation
79.      The Government's industrial reorientation strategy emphasizes
rehabilitation over new investments, export orientation, reallocation of
resources towards more efficient, labor-intensive activities and a better
balance between private and parastatal enterprises. For the past few years
the Government has reiterated the positive role to be played by the private
manufacturing sector, as part of a strategy currently being complemented by
attaining a neutral set of incentives throught i) the trade, pricing and
foreign exchange allocation reforms underway; ii) the investment code under
preparation; iii) reallocation of public expenditures priorities, and iv)
the positive signals now faced by the dynamic informal and small scale
sectors. Furthermore, the Government's current strategy emphasizes a
better balance between industry and other sectors (particularly agriculture
and transport), whereby industry is now expected to play a complementary
role. In support of this strategy, the proposed operation would initiate
the process of industrial rehabilitation and restructuring. The ongoing
and proposed trade and pricing reforms are necessary preconditions for the
restructuring and recovery of the unproductive industrial activities. The
nature of these reforms (supported by this operation), suggest that an
adequate set of pricing signals will be present in the economy during 1989.
Further allocative improvements will take place during 1989190, following
institutional reforms of the financial sector and in agricultural
marketing. Therefore, the Government will develop industrial restructuring
action programs in order to initiate implementation in early 1989. The
interrelated nature of the problems in each sector requires that in-depth
action programs be developed through a vertically integrated review in each
subsector.
80.      Consistent with the existing institutional constraints and the
gradualist approach of the ERP, the Government has chosen to implement a
phased restructuring program for the industrial sector. During the first
phase of industrial restructuring the Government will develop action
programs for three subsectors: textiles, leather, and agro-processing
(edible oil and meat packing). These subsectors are based on domestic
resources, comprise more than one-third of total industrial production and
of formal employment in industry and are deemed to have considerable
potential for improving efficiency and capacity utilization through
restructuring and rehabilitation. These subsectors are currently operating
at about 30 percent capacity and with relatively high (and variable)
domestic resource costs. The potential viability of a large number of
currently inefficient enterprises in these subsectors (both parastatal and
private), can be realized by the combination of firm-specific restructuring
measures, and the reformed macroeconomic regime. The viable segments of
these subsectors will also benefit from the reallocation of resources away
from unviable activities, which will be phased out. Additional subsectors



- 24 -
will be incorporated to the restructuring program at a later stage, in
order to encompass all important industrial subsectors over the 1989-1992
period. Nonetheless, reorientation of resources away from unviable
activities towards productive users will continue to take place during 1989
in all industrial subsectors, the result of the macroeconomic and pricing
reforms, and the absence of Government subsidies to industrial enterprises.
81.      The restructuring programs for textiles, leather and agro-
processing will be supported by IRTAC (see Part IV). The Government, with
assistance from specialized consultants, will develop action programs
during the next six months, and implementation is expected to commence
before June 1989.
82.      Leather.  In the leather subsector, significant institutional,
operational and policy issues need to be addressed at all stages of the
processing chain, which includes livestock, hides and skins, tanned leather
and footwear, and other leather goods. The quality of hides and skins is
very poor due to lack of proper care of animals, inadequate slaughtering
and curing procedures, insufficient transport and improper storage. The
majority of hides and skins have been smuggled out of the country, largely
the result of distorted incentives (the overvalued exchange rate in
particular). Production, quality defects, and pricing distortions in the
subsector will be studied, and recommendations made for their improvement.
83.      Virtually all leather processing capacity is concentrated in three
large parastatals, which are operating inefficiently and at low capacity
utilization levels. The low productivity of the shoe subsector is largely
the result of the distressed situation of the Morogoro Shoe Company.   This
parastatal factory (supported by Loan No. 1386-TA). which is one of the
largest shoe factories in the world, has never operated at more than 7
percent capacity utilization and is generally recognized as having been a
misconception both in size and in its aim to produce mainly for export. A
detailed study will be carried out for each type of footwear in the shoe
subsector to determine the va.ability of domestic production and define an
action program to restructure and streamline their operations, or dismantle
a plant and sell the assets. In the leather subsector, the three
parastatals will be subject to an operational, financial and technical
restructuring following a viability assessment.
84.      Textiles.  The textile subsector is the largest  industrial
subsector in terms of total employment (24 percent), and the second largest
in terms of value added (19 percent) after food products. Out of 92
establishments in the subsector, about twenty are of significant size, of
which ten are large private textile firms. However, most of the capacity
is in the parastatal sector. Some of the problems of the subsector relate
to institutional and policy issues affecting the main raw material, cotton.
These include distorted seed cotton pricing, inadequate and high costs of
ginning, transport problems, and inefficient marketing resulting from the
monopolistic status of the Cotton Marketing Board.
85.      Textile production facilities, though conventional in terms of
tec'lmology, are fairly new, and until recently have been operating in an
overly protected market situation. Efficiency levels are low on average
and highly variable across firms. Capacity utilization, at 25 percent, has



- 25 -
been low. In addition to policy issues such as pricing and the distorted
structure of taxes, the subsector is also faced with infrastructural
bottlenecks, managerial and skilled labor inadequacies, lack of spare parts
and in some instances flawed plant locations. But the prospects for
recovery for most of the sector are good, given the abundant availability
of good quality cotton, technologically adequate equipment (and no limiting
quota restrictions in the EEC countries). Complementary to the vertically
integrated review of the subsectoral issues, which,  inter alia, will assess
whether overall capacity in the subsector exceeds prospective demand and
define a subsectoral action plan, the individual viability studies of the
large textile firms will result in specific financial, technical and
institutional restructuring proposals.
AProDrocesina
86.      Edible Oil.  There are four relatively large edible oil processing
plants, of which only one, a joint private-cooperative venture, is both
complete and operational. In addition, there are about 25 smaller
establishments. Last year's utilization of the combined edible oil
processing capacity was only about 9 percent while substantial amounts of
oil were being imported.  Much of Tanzania's most important source of
edible oil, cottonseed, has remained uncrushed year after year largely due
to distorted prices and an inefficient marketing structure. The oil
processing plants are also plagued with equipment obsolescence, technical
and infrastructural bottlenecks, and financial and managerial constraints.
The review of the domestic oil milling industry will include an assessment
of the demand and supply situation of the industry, as well as the economic
and financial viability of the main mills and of the solvent extraction
plant.
87.      Heat Packina. Tanzania has only one parastatal meat packing
enterpriset Tanganyika Packers Limited (TPL), which has been in operation
since the 19509. TPL's one operating plant has two main activities, a
slaughtering cattle for meat and for processing into corned beef and other
meat products; and canning for vegetables and fruit, including fruit
juices. Until the early 1970s, when meat quality deterioration resulted in
loss of access to the UK market, TPL had a thriving export business.
Capacity utilization at present is 2 percent for corned beef and 17 percent
for juices. TPL is faced with a host of problems, related to managerial,
financial and operational inefficiencies, and equipment obsolescence.
Following a viability assessment, TPL could benefit considerably from a
restructuring program that would aim to make it internationally competitive
again.
PART IVs THE PROPOSED OPERATION
Backtround
88.      Discussions with Government about the scope and content of the
proposed credit began in the context of discussions of the Bank's
Industrial Sector Report in 1987. The proposed program of trade policy
reforms and industrial restructuring measures is an important component of
Tanzania's medium-term strategy, outlined in detail in the Policy Framework



- 26 -
Papers. The proposed operation was appraised in February/March 1988.
Negotiations were held in Washington from May 27 to June 7, 1988. The
Tanzanian delegation was led by Dr. F. Mujuni, Principal Secretary,
Ministry of Industries and Trade.
Obiect'ves
89.      Tanzania has embarked on the difficult road of structural
adjustment. It has already implemented tight aggregate demand management
policies and a major progressive adjustment in the exchange rate and trade
regime, and has taken significant steps in the areas of pricing. The
objectives of the proposed operation are to support the continuation of the
reform process, and build upon the significant adjustments already made.
The proposed operation vould support a program of trade policy reform (the
centerpiece of which is the process of liberalization of imports and
internal zrade), initiate the process of industrial restructuring and
rehabilitation, and provide quick-disbursing foreign exchange resources to
ease the country's import constraints.
90.      Since a stable macroeconomic framework and an appropriate exchange
rate tegime are essential preconditions for the successful implementation
of a program of trade reform and sectoral restructuring, this proposed
operation will also support the continuation of a program of fiscal
restraint, the restoration of monetary stability through the adoption and
implementation of an action program reforming foodgrain marketing (thereby
alleviating credit requirements), and the continuation of the exchange rate
adjustment, with the objective of attaining an exchange rate regime
consistent with the process of trade liberalization. The fiscal, monetary
and exchange rate adjustments have been supported by the IHP standby
program (which lapsed at end-February 1988), the first-year SAP program,
and will now continue to be supported by a second-year SAP and PFP for the
period 1988/89-1990/91.
91.      The specific trade and pricing reforms supported by this credit
complement the budgetary, monetary and exchange rate measures being
implemented, and would lead tot (i) relaxation of internal and external
trade restrictions and administrative allocation of foreign exchange,
thereby improving the efficiency of use of the country's scarce resources;
(ii) further progress on pricing reforms; (iii) improvements in the tariff
and tax structures; and (iv) reforms in export incentives. The industrial
component of the proposed op ration would lead to the development of
subsectoral and firm-specific action programs for the rehabilitation and
restructuring of three major subsectors in industry (leather, textiles and
agroprocessing) and pave the way for further action programs in other
subsectors over the next few years. This package of trade and pricing
policy reforms and industrial restructuring measures, together with the
balance-of-payments support, is expected to lead to a significant supply
response and to improvements in productive efficiency. Liberalization of
internal and external trade, in the context of a stable macroeconomic
framework and an appropriate exchange rate and tariff regime, will result
in resource reallocation from unviable users to production activities,
while the combination of trade and pricing reforms will give strong
incentives for currently inefficient (but viable) firms to restructure
their operations and become more efficient. In industry, this process will



- 27 -
a4so be aided by the implementation of specific action programs.
f'rthermore, the exchange rate adjustment, the liberalization of foreign
eichange allocation and improved export incentives is expected to result in
a significant increase in high value added exports.
Pronram Description and Financing
92.      The objectives outlined in the previous section would be pursued
through a fast disbursing US$198 million operation, including US$135
million from regular IDA funds, and an estimated US$63 million eluivalent
in cofinancing from the African Development Fund, The Netherlands,
Switzerland and the United Kingdom, and a supporting package of policy
reforms and action programs for rehabilitation and restructuring of
specific subsectors in industry. Other donors have expressed interest in
participating in the financing of this program and supporting the OGL
facility at a later stage. The proposed credit would be made to the
Government and would be released in two tranches. The proceeds of the
credit, to be disbursed through the OGL facility (with the exception of a
US$3 million technical assistance component) over an estimated 15-month
period, would Increase the foreign exchange available to the Government's
import liberalization scheme. The trade reform components associated yith
this operation were discussed in Part II and are summarized in matrix form
in Annex III. The Government requested and has already received from IDA a
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of US$1 million to finance the
advance payments to consultants for the preparation of action programs for
the rehabilitation and restructuring of the selected industrial subsectors.
93.      Industrial Restructuring Comnonent.  The subsectoral action
programs to be developed under this operation would be carried out in three
phasess Phase I - diagnostic study of the selected subsectors and
identification of issues at a firm-specific as well as a broad subsectoral
level; Phase II - development of rehabilitation and restructuring action
programs with specific time-tables for implementation; and Phase III -
implementation of the action programs. Currently inefficient operations
which are judged to be potentially viable will be subject to restructuring
measures includings (i) managerial, technical, operational and financial
reorganization; (ii) streamlining of activities; (iii) rehabilitation of
plant and machinery; and (iv) merging of activities or enterprises to
improve efficiency in resource use. Inefficient enterprises for which no
measures can be identified to make them viable will be denied access to
administratively allocated resources and, when appropriate, subject to
phase-outs -and closures. Environmental concerns relating to the three
selected industrial subsectors will also be addressed, as discussed in the
terms of reference. The terms of reference for the preparation of the
action programs for the three subsectors are available upon request.
94.      The development and implementation of th.e restructuring programs
will be carried out with the significant input of teams of specialized
consultants, comprising both foreign and local experts. The selected
consultants are expected to commence their field work before end-1988 and
the preparation of the subsectoral and firm-specific action programs is
expected to be carried out within a six-month period, so that by mid-1989
implementation of the restructuring action programs would have been
initiated. The implementation of most restructuring measures in the three



- 28 -
subsectors is expected to be completed during the couTse of FY1989190. The
consultants will work with an ad hoc task force comprising of
representatives from the Ministries of Finance, Industries and Trade,
Agriculture, and Energy and Minerals, the relevant holding parastatals, the
Tanzania Investment Bank, and the private sector. This task force will
report to the existing Interministerial Technical Committee, which would
approve the procedures and timetables for securing implementation of the
recommendations addressing subsectoral constraints, and for overseeing the
implementation of the firm-specific action programs. At the end of each
phase reports would be submitted to IDA for review. In consultatien with
IDA, the implementation of certain clearly identified restructuring
measures may commence prior to the finalization of the action programs.
Disbursements. Procurement and Auditing
95.      The proposed credit would be released in two tranches.  The first
tranche of US$62 million of IDA would become available upon effectiveness
for disbursement through the OGL Facility, while US$3 million would become
available upon effectiveness for the industrial restructuring component.
The second tranche of US$70 million, would become available upon
satisfactory progress of the program as well as fulfillment of specific
conditions for tranche release (para. 103). The closing date of the
proposed credit is December 31, 1990. The proceeds of the credit would be
used to finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of eligible
imports, and 100 percent of expenditures for consulting services. The PPF
advance would be refinanced by the IDA credit. Retroactive financing would
be available for imports channelled through the OGL facility after
September 1, 1988 up to an amount of US$14.5 million.
96.      Procurement and disbursement procedures for this operation have
been designed to allow for rapid utilization of the Credit's proceeds.
To this end, the Bank of Tanzania (SOT) would open a Special Account for
the IDA Credit. At effectiveness, an initial deposit of US$40 million,
representing about four months of expected expenditures under the credit,
would be made by IDA to the Special Account. The account would be
replenished regularly. Statement of Expenditures (SOE) would be used to
support requests for disbursements for all purchase orders less than
US$400,000. SOEs would be prepared by the BOT, which would retain
appropriate documentation for review by IDA. Theee statements would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Disbursements
for prefinanced imports under the retroactive financing arrangements will
be made on a reimbursement procedure to the Government. The closing-date
of the credit is December 31st, 1990. 'It is expected that disbursements
may be completed earlier, however.
97.      Procurement would be limited to goods from Bank's member
countries, Switzerland and Taiwan. Both private and public sector imports
would be eligible for financing. Contracts for the procurement of goods by
the private sector of less than US$2 million equivalent would follow normal
commercial practice. Government contracts equivalent to less than US$2
million would follow the Tanzanian Government's procurement practice, which
is acceptable to IDA. All purchases under contracts of more than US$2
million would be procured through international competitive bidding.
Expenditures for goods covered by invoices for less than US$1,000



- 29 -
equivalent vould not be eligible for financing. Consultants for the
studies (para. 94) have been selected according to normal competitive
procedures acceptable to IDA. The qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment of any consultants financed under this credit
would be satisfactory to IDA and in accordance with IDA guidelines.
98.      The Bank of Tanzania would be responsible for monitoring credit
accounts and for arranging an annual audit of the Special Account by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit of the Special
Account, and the audits of the supporting documentation for the SOEs would
-be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
Lranche Release and Monitoring
99.      The Bank will monitor the implementation of the overall ERP as
well as the general progress in the implementation of the macroeconomic
program, and the specific action plans outlined An the Letter of Government
Policy, through regular supervision missions and exchange of views with
Government. The Bank will continue to coordinate closely with the IHF on
the monitoring of key macroeconomic indicators and policies, including the
exchange rate, fiscal and monetary targets.
100.     The Government will continue implementing the reform program
associated with the ERP and supported by the PFP framework and SAF
agreement.   We are satisfied with the general progress in the
implementation of the overall program, and as a general condition of second
tranche release the Government will continue to ensure satisfactory
progress in the macroeconomic adjustment program, including appropriate
exchange rate policy, fiscal stability and monetary restraint. In
addition, the initial OGL facility, which opened in February 1988, will
continue to operate without modifications until early 1989, when the
Government will expand the list of eligible items and raise the ceilings
for each license application and individual importer. Following the
reduction in price-controlled items to twelve in the context of the June
1988 Budget, price controlled items will not exceed 15 percent of the CPI
basket and the Government will ensure that controlled prices will continue
to reflect international price equivalencies (allowing for tariff
differentials). The Government will also continue its policy of trade
diversification through the continuing provision of exemptions from: (i)
internal trade confinement for Cooperatives and Regional Trade Companies;
(ii) internal trade confinement for other private and parastatal agents for
items not subject to price controls; (iii) import confinement for items in
the own-funds and OGL schemes; and (iv) import confinement for many
importers. In the area of public investment, the Government will continue
its policy of limiting new investments in general, and in industry in
particular, sad channeling the bulk of resources to rehabilitation
expenditures and recurrent costs.
101.     In addition to implementing the overall ERP policies and the
specific measures supported by IRTAC, the Government has now initiated
steps towards an action-oriented review of the financial sector. This will
lead to a finanv'al sector reform program to be implemented during 1989190
that will include measures to increase competition in commercial banking,
restructure the portfolios of key banking institutions, and increase the



- 30 -
efficiency of the financial sector. The Government has prepared terms of
reference for this action-oriented review.
102.     The Government has recently adopted a number of critical measures,
namelys
(a)  significant real exchange rate depreciation, consistent with the
objective of eliminating excess demand in the OGL facility and
agreement to further depreciation in real terms to ensure
consistency between the exchange rate regime and the expanding OGL
facility;
(b)  an action program, satisfactory to the Bank, to improve maize
marketing, restore the financial viability of NKC and alleviate
its credit requirements;
(c) implementation of the first stage of the tariff and sales tax
reform program, with the objective of significantly simplifying
the tariff and sales tax structure and reducing exemptions.
Tariff simplification has been attained by: (i) reduction of the
maximum tariff rate from 150 to 100 percent and of the number of
positive tariff ad valorem rates from fifteen to seven; and (ii)
conversion of all remaining specific tariffs to ad valorem rates.
For all sales taxes, an initial reduction in the number of rates
has taken place and the sales tax base has been broadened.
Exemptions on import taxes are now ruled out for OGL, own-funded
imports and other commercial activities, and discretionary
exemptions are provided only under exceptional circumstances;
(d)  limitation of maximum retention percentage for exports to 50
percent (with few exceptions), including the phase-out of the
firm-specific commodity exchange program, save some contractual
agreements;
(e) completion of selection process for consultant firms that will
prepare action programs for industrial rehabilitation and
restructuring.
103.     In addition to ascertaining that the implementation of the overall
macroeconomic program and associated policies (as per Letter of Government
Policies, Annex II) proceeds satisfactorily, the release of the second
tranche would be contingent upon the following specific conditions:
1. OGL Expansion& Progressive expansion of the OGL facility, so thlat
no less than three-quarters of imported recurrent imports and
spare parts, plus some consumer and capital Roods, are channelled
through it before release of second tranche.3   Agreement will
also be reached on a timetable for further expansion of the OGL
facility later in the year, resulting in only a limited list of
import categories being ineligible from the OGL facility by end-
31 A detailed list of import categories to be included in the expanded OGL
Facility has been specified and agreed, and is available upon request.



- 31 -
1989. As the OGL expands, ceilings on license applications and
individual importers through the OGL facility will be increased to
at least US$500,000 per importer before mid-1989, and agreement on
a timetable to eliminate those ceilings during 1989 will be
reached.
2. Tariffs and Sales Tax Reform: Preparation and agreement on action
program to rationalize the sales tax structure and to compress
further the tariff structure, which will be implemented during
FY89/90. Review of aid-related exemptions, in order to limit
unjustified exemptions. Preparation and evaluation of proposal to
institute a credit system (value added tax). In addition,
institutional strengthening of the Customs Department.
3. Export Incentives: Reduction of maximum retention percentage to
35 percent, with limited exceptions, and satisfactory operation of
a duty drawback scheme (currently under implementation).
4. Distribution Policiest Formal deconfinement of all internal trade
and import of goods except the twelve price-controlled items and
goods whose importation is confined for health and security
reasons.
5. Industrial Rehabilitation and Restructuring% agreement between
the Government and the Bank on action programs for the three
selected subsectors, and start-up of implementation of the action
programs. These action programs will include major restructuring
measures for inefficient but viable enterprises and phase-outs for
unviable activities.
Social and Economic AsDects of Adiustment
104.     General.  The economic and social impact of the measures being
implemented and to be adopted in the context of this proposed operation,
and the related increase in concessional capital inflows, should be
beneficial even in the short term. Gross Domestic Product over the next
five years is expected to grow at about 4.5 percent p.a., mirroring the
growth of the largest sector, agriculture, while the fastest growing sector
in terms of value added is expected to be industry. Consumption per capita
is expected to rise minimally in the short-term, and to approach a growth
rate of one percent p.a. by the early 19909. The continued devaluation of
the shilling will have an impact on the price level, but this will be
mitigated by the fact that the prices of most imported items reflect the
parallel exchange rate rather than the official rate, and that the prices
of many other goods represent temporary scarcity values. In both cases,
there would be deflationary forces which can be expected to arise from
increasing supply response and availability of imports, and by the
continuous reduction in industrial protection and increase in
competitiveness brought about by the trade liberalization process. Equally
important, the expected fiscal and monetary restraint, coupled with more
realistic interest rates, should provide a check on inflationary pressures.
105.     Higher producer prices for the main export crops are expected to
result from continued exchange rate adjustment and from improvements in



- 32 -
marketing efficiency, substantially raising farm incomes, and improving
rural purchasing power. Improved price incentives for all export crops
will encourage farmers to continue diversifying their crops and to increase
production. In the urban areas, food grain prices have remained stable
while the shilling has been devalued -- at least partly because of
reductions in marketing costs resulting from grain trade liberalization.
Regarding urban wages, a very significant downward real wage adjustment for
urban workers took place over many years preceding the devaluations of the
currency. During the adjustment process, urban unemployment may increase
somewhat, and some reallocation of labor resources will be required in the
short to medium term. However, as capacity utilization increases and
output and productivity growth materialize, urban employment and real wages
will increase in the medium and long term. In addition, there are strong
indications that the informal sector is growing rapidly, and already
accounts for the bulk of urban incomes, which are less vulnerable to
reductions in formal employment.
106.     Any assessment of the possible economic and social costs of
adjustment in Tanzania ought to consider that the expected social costs in
the absence of an adjustment program would be much higher. Nonetheless,
safeguarding essential social expenditures during the adjustment process is
an important objective for the Government, in light of important changes in
relative prices, fiscal restraint, and the emphasis on channeling resources
to productive sectors. Tanzania's base of social services is high but has
been severely eroded in the aftermath of the economic decline of the late
19709 and early 1980s. Education standards have fallen, health services
are under great strain and rural and urban water supply schemes are in
disrepair. Rectifying this situation will require some shifting of
budgetary resources towards health, education and water, more efficient use
of resources within the social sectors, wider use of cost recovery measures
and greater community involvement in the operation and maintenance of
services, and highly focussed interventions by donor agencies, including
IDA.'s future lending program.
107.     Consequently, the Government, which has long emphasized the social
aspects of its economic policies, will monitor the social aspects of the
adjustment process to ensure that vulnerable and low-income groups fully
participate in the economic recovery program. The Government has already
initiated actions in this respect by establishing a Monitoring Committee
and by preparings i) a research agenda to identify priorities; ii) terms
of reference for a food and nutrition survey, expected to be underway
before end-1988, and iii) a social cost of adjustment workshop, to take
place in December 1988. Those already identified as needing particular
attention during the recovery process include the poorest income groups,
women and children, and those displaced from public employment. The
Government intends to increase the effectiveness of basic human services
(education and health) through iuproved management in local government,
quality enhancement and resource reallocation. IDA's health and education
sector operations under preparation are expected to support the
Government's efforts to improve the provision of social services. In
addition, the Government will encourage informal sector expansion,
particularly in urban and peri-urban areas, so as to develop a broader
income base for the poor.



- 33 -
108.     Industry.  A gradual reallocation of recurrent resources from low
to high value added activities, and the restructuring of currently
inefficient, but potentially viable enterprises, are expected to result in
significant industrial value added growth, starting from the current low
base. At world prices, value added in manufacturing is expected to grow at
about eight percent per annum over the next three years. By the early
19909 manufacturing value added at world prices could be 50 percent higher
than at present, resulting in a 5 percent share in GDP, while utilizing a
smaller share of overall resources.
109.     In the short-to-medium term, t3me costs of adjustment are likely
to be present, since the policy reform program and industrial restructuring
are expected to result in lay-offs and temporary dislocations for some
industrial workers. However, massive closures of firms are not expected to
take place. The analysis of the Industry Report suggests that although
some firms will be expected to close down, including some very unproductive
large enterprises, much of the industrial restructuring will take place as
a result of the streamlining of product lines within firms. About
two-thirds of multiple-activity manufacturing firms with inefficient
activities have at least one efficient product line, while most single-
activity firms can become viable at higher capacity utilization levels
and/or following restructuring and rehabilitation measures.
110.     Nonetheless, the potential increase in short-run unemployment
resulting from closure of inefficient product linee may only be partly
alleviated by labor reallocations across firms, activities and industrial
subsectors, since there is surplus employment in industry as a whole.
Furthermore, the mobility of semi-skilled workers may be somewhat limited
in the very short run.  The economic and social costs of these limited jcF
losses are expected to be ameliorated by limiting new hirings in activities
undergoing restructuring and attrition, the provision of incentives for
early retirement, job search, and the promotion of small-scale and
self-employed operations in industry and agriculture. In this context,
Government and Bank staff are beginning to assess the labor market
implications of the adjustment process, and in the future programs for job
redeployment and retrainiug may be considered (such as the promotion of
small-scale operations through provision of credit and training) for
workers leaving medium- and large-scale industrial firms.
111.     In the medium term, as a restructured and healthier industrial
sector emerges, industrial employment would be expected to rebound.
As importan   -he substantial productivity gains envisaged under the
industrial restructuring program are expected to result in an increase
in real wages from the extremely low levels existing today.
112.     The continued devaluation of the shilling is expected to continue
having an impact on the financial indebtedness of many companies and
financial institutions. Many of these institutions are highly leveraged in
foreign debt and would need financial restructuring, including debt
rescheduling, debt-to-equity conversions, and new injections of equity, in
order to permit the viable activities to operate efficiently and grow. The
proposed Industrial and Financial Restructuring Project will be prepared
with the aim of providing financial and technical assistance for
industrial enterprise restructuring and addressing the critical financial
situation of the banking institutions.



- 34 -
Project Rlisks
113.     The main risk to this operation is that the implementation of the
main macroeconomic adjustments (particularly regarding credit policy and
the exchange rate and trade regimes) could slacken significantly because of
drawn-out decision-making and political constraints. Failure to attain and
maintain *n exchange rate regime consistent with an expanding OGL facility;
delays in liberalizing internal and external trade; and/or failure to
maintain fiscal and monetary stability, would seriously jeopardize the
economic recovery program in general and the prospects of IRTAC in
particular. In addition, failure to implement important institutional
reforms in the financial sector and in agricultural marketing would reduce
the supply response and allocative impact of the trade reform and
industrial restructuring measures under IRTAC. However, the Government has
shown over the last two and a half years a firm commitment to the ERP goals
and to its implementation, as agreed under the IMF programs, the Bank's MRC
and the two PFPs. The commitment to the ERP objectives as reiterated by
the Government decisions in early November, 1988, embrace the measures to
be supported by the IRTAC and also include decisive measures in the areas
of exchange rate, financial and foodgrain marketing policies. The
political constraints the Government of Tanzania faces in implementing the
EU are well known, but unlikely to overwhelm the widely recognized need
for adjustment measures, the Government's own determination to carry them
out, and the strong support they receive from the international donor
community.
114.     The second important risk relates to the Governent's ability to
implement a far-reaching restructuring program in industry. The
constituency in Tanzania for industrial restructuring has expanded
recently, and some top Government officials and many inCustrialists believe
that industry requires a major restructuring involving closures,
retrenching and selectivity in resource allocation (following economic
efficiency criteria). However, important groups in Tanzania still view
industry's ills as essentially a problem of rehabilitation and
underutilized capacity which, according to their view, can be addressed by
the adequate provision of foreign exchange for spares and inputs. In
addition, the present institutional capacity for implementing an industrial
restructuring program is relatively limited in the Government. Over the
next few months, we intend to continue building upon the work of the
Industry Sector Report which, combined with the process of preparation of
the action programs by the teams of consultants, would be expected to
further expand the support for industrial restructuring. Furthermore,
existing institutional limitations will be addressed by giving priority to
the effective operation of the governmental task force for the
implementation of the industrial restructuring program, and to the
effective coordination between the Government, the teams of consultants,
and the firms to be restrictured.
PART V: BANR GROUP OPERATIONS
115.     Tanzania joined the Bank Group in 1962.  Beginning with an IDA
credit for education in 1963, 64 IDA credits and 27 Bank loans (two of



- 35 -
these on Third Window terms) amounting to US$1,498 million have so far been
approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 11
loans totalling US$244.8 million which were extended for the development of
the common services and development bank operated regionally by Tanzania,
Kenya, and Uganda through their association in the former East African
Community. IFC investments in Tanzania have included the Kilombero Sugar
Company, soap manufacturing, metal product manufacturing and the Amboni
sisal rehabilitation project. (Annex VII shows the status of Bank Group
operations in Tanzania.)
116.     Bank group lending in Tanzania has focused on agriculture,
transport and conmunications, industry, and education and manpower
development.  Since FY81, new Bank grow, lending has been primarily for the
rehabilitation and use of existing productive facilities and the
introduction of infrastructure and services (such as power generation and
education facilities) of long-term use to the economy. Projects have been
designed to minimize new demands on the Government's recurrent and foreign
exchange budgets and have been in support of the Government's Economic
Recovery Program. They have included technical assistance for institution
building and for better maintenance and use of existing capital facilities,
and have included policy reforms aimed at improved resource allocation and
use. Lending during FY84-88 along these lines included a Petroleum Sector
Technical Assistance Project, a Port Rehabilitation Project, a Sixth
Highway (Rehabilitation) Project, involving rehabilitation of high priority
roads and assistance to the trucking industry, a Power Rehabilitation
Project, an Agricultural Export Rehabilitation Project aimed at increasing
exports through support to export-related agricultural enterprises and
strengthening the capability of the Cooperative Rural Development Bank, and
the Multisector Rehabilitation Credit (MRC).
117.     The Bank Group has provided assistance on four occasions in
support of Government efforts to deal with its balance of payments
difficulties. The first such credit was made in 1974, the second in 1977,
the third, an Export Rehabilitation Program Credit for US$40 million
(Credit 1133-TA) in April 1981. The latter credit is fully disbursed and a
Project Completion Report has been prepared. Although the Credit assisted
in financing much needed agricultural inputs, the overall economic
environment did not substantially change, and hence the desired recovery of
agricultural exports did not take place. The most recent credit, the MRC,
was approved in November 1986 and was for US$130 million, comprising IDA
and African Facility Credits of US$50 million and US$46.2 million,
respectively, and Special Joint Financing of US$33.8 million. It supported
the initiation of the comprehensive program of policy reform (ERP) aimed at
reversing the protracted deterioration of Tanzania's economy. The
implementation of the program proceeded satisfactorily and all three
tranches have been fully disbursed. In order to address critical
bottlenecks that emerged during the first year of the implementation of the
ERP in January 1988, the Board approved supplemental financing comprising
of an IDA credit of US$30.0 million and a Special Facility for Africa
Credit of US$26.0 million.
118.     The deteriorating economic environment of the past decade has had
a significant impact on the performance of the Bank's portfolio in
Tanzania. Project implementation has been adversely affected by: the



- 36 -
distorted policy and pricing signals of the past, which, inter alia,
resulted in the country's extreme foreign exchange difficulties;
management, marketing and infrastructural constraints.  More recently,
there has been improvement in some projects, even in the agricultural
sectors, where constraints on implementation have been most severe. Bank
Group disbursement grow from US$58 million in FY78 to US$115.9 million in
FY82 and then declined to US$69.8 million In FY76, and rose again to
US$111.0 million in 1987.
119.     At the end of FY88, the Bank accounted for 30 percent (US$1,050
million) of Tanzania's total outstanding medium- and long-term deot and for
16 percent of its total scheduled debt service.  Debt service to the Bank
currently stands at 12 percent of Tanzania's exports of goods and services.
By 1991, the debt service ratio to the Bank is projected to drop to 7.5
percent, as exports increase and when repayments for past IBRD loans will
no longer be due.
PART VI - RECOHMEUDATION
120.     I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit and that the Association act as
administrator of the Swiss contribution.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
November 22, 1988
Washington, D.C.



-37  -Ame  I
lFTAC - TAWIIA
X& KACR0EM0  C DOICATB
1981    19S    19S    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    199s3    19S9           197
(DP orwth rate                    -0.S    -2.4      2.8      a.8     8.9      4.0      4.5     4.5      4.8     4.5      4.8      4.8
Dr Oroth rate 1/                  -2.2    -1.7      2.6      4.5     2.4      4.8      4.8     4.6      4.5     4.8      4.5      4.5
MY/Capltt growth rate             -4.e    -4.7    -0.7       1.2    -0.9      1.2      1.2     1.8      1.4      1.8     1.8      1.8
Cwtauaptien/capita growth rate    -8.0    -0.9       1.3     2.1     0.2      0.8      0.8     0.4      0.5     0.6      0.8      1.0
Debt service (in uS Sw) 2/          77       87      0o       69      8s      397      374     371      s80    8en       698    s5s
Debt ervice/X68 2/                10.8    11.8    18.5    16.0    18.7    76.8    64.7   85.2    49.4    87.9    son2    87.8
Debt aervice/CDP 2/                1.8      0.9     0.9      1.4     2.4    14.8   1t.0    12.2    11.8         1.2   1t.8    11.2
ro.. invetmnt/pOP                 20.8    18.7    18.7   1t.9    18.8    18.8    15.8    38.7    18.9    16.2    16.9    16.8
Domestic eavimg/9P 8/             12.1      7.4     8.8      2.8    -4.4   -18.7   -15.1   -18.4   -10.1   -4.9    -2.9           0.1
National evings/00P 8/            12.1      7.2     8.9      6.2    -1.8   -12.0   -18.2   -10.8    -.5    -4.9    -2.2           0.7
Public investmwnt/P               10.1      6.5     4.9      6.5     7.0      8.9      6.8     8.7      6.7     8.8      8.8      6.8
Private investment/00P            10.5      7.2    10.      9.4     8.8      8.9      9.0     e.o      9.2     9.4      9.4      9.5
Ratio of pub/pvt investmt         98.8    90.2    45.0    69.8    76.3    76.7    76.8    78.7    78.2    74.6    74.5    74.5
Govt.revenuem/OP                  18.8    19.8    16.8    18.1    16.2    19.8    22.0    22.8    28.2    28.8    28.4    28.5
Got.exps"ditur/CDP`P              82.7    28.2    28.4    28.0    24.8    28.8    81.9    81.8    81.1    80.8    29.4    28.9
Daficit(-) or surplus(*)/CDP     -14.2    -8.4   -4.6    -7.9   -4.0   -4.7    -9.9    -9.0    -7.9    -7.0   -4.0    -5.4
izport  rowtb rate  4/            19.7   -12.0   -18.5    -4.8    18.7        8.2      8.9    11.5    10.8      8.0      7.0      7.0
Smpart/1P a/                      12.6      7.7     5.7      8.8    12.0    18.4    20.0    21.        22.7    24.7    21.8    29.8
twort growth rate 4/              -2.1   -28.5    16.7       6.1     0.7      0.9      1.4     2.1      2.5     2.0      8.6     4.0
owrto/s 8/                        21.2    14.0    18.6    28.8    85.8    48.0    49.8    47.9    48.9    48.0    48.7    42.7
Current accout (in u1a a.) S/     -a0      -42     -491    -7        -8      -789    -?       -418    -812    -6        .925    -970
Current account/UP S/            -4.5      -e.5    -s.8       .7    17.1   -28.8   -29.0          t.5   -24.4   -21.1   -18.o   -1t.7
tlme Ito,.,
CP (ourreat USe )                 SW7    6278    6901    4929        was 0   271    28        so50n    88l0    8So9    4519    8264
Exshang. Rate S/                   8;a    11.1    17.8    82.7    64.8   102.2   187.8   155.5   169.5   188.2   197.6   214.2
Dometic Iniation Rate             28.7    27.8    88.8    82.4    80.0    28.4    19.6    14.9    10.4    10.1    10.0    10.0
Msoten
t/ CDY4IP adjusted for change In term a1 trade.
2/ 1981-1987 floure. are actual debt ervice payante. while from 1968 onwards echeduled payaent before debt relief are sheen.
The debt service ratio show debt pajsnta in relation to eaports of good and service, excluding private trandfers.
8/ Ratio. are calculated in current term. The larg   winga in the ratioe of exports. import. current scoeunt deficit nd national saving. to
MP in the period 19S8 - 1189 are primri ly related to the adjuatment in the exchange rate.In earl er yeare the orvluation of the
Tensnian &hiil itg caused external ftow, to be undervalued in locl curreny term. Similarly. the iS dollur value of COP ba bee
overvalue  in the pax. we- .onvert.d at the official echange ate.
4/ Export end lIport growh rates are h volume term, and relate to xood and servica.
5/ Unti I 1O88. currnotaccount deficit is based on actual interest paman- mae., whice projectine are based an eceduled paymete bdfor
debt retlef.
8/ Yearlj averg. Prm 1980 onwards. aasumed projection based on differential Inflation, a_aa.tng conetnt real effectlve exceag  rate.
Notes: Grwth rate. are exprese_d in constant ter_. ratio. to GP in current term.
source Central Bonk of Tanzania and *mi-on eatimates.
NDveaber 15, 198.



-38  -                                            Ann.. I
Pge" 2
IfTAC - TAtWaIA
BAtNC OPF PANVAs
(In millions of U.S. dolter.)
1984   1985   ies 1    19W    198   1"9   190   1991   19S    199    197   1999
A. Trade account      -486   -7      -702   -80    -W27       -884   -so    416   -849   46       -8S6   -84
Expor-to,fob        328    206    848    347    402    445    e20          my    784      s7   1174   1460
Ioporto,cif         -874   -999  -1050  -1180  -1229  -129   -1880  -1425  -1633  -1820  -2060  -2414
B. servics (net)      -73    484    -85   -169   -172   -168   -166   -184   -173   -97t  -210   -191
Receipts            1t6    106    110    102    116    127    140    1S1    177    206    242    288
Paymnts             -179   -1lo   -195   -2n    -287   -295   -806   -815   -849   -408   -481   -478
Interest 1/        -89    -97   -118   -174   -187   -192   -19    -0    -233   -27S   -819   -337
Other             -90    -s    -82    -97   -100   -108   -106   -110   -117   -125   -183   -141
C. Priv Tranaf (nt)    6a    288    250    230    210    190    18o    170    lSO           185    125    12
0. CURRET AMT         -496   -864   -8       742   -789   -32  -418    -12   -4n    -e2t   -971  -105
E. Owt Grant* V/       146    19      6sss  477    808        2     84    s6        60     648    692    742
F. 16T ltone.net 8/    -as   -0        17    -86      84      67    116    119   -137   -119        as    211
nfflo  41           222    18o    208    186    2n         269    268    271   2S8       278    804    a34
Outflow  1/         -257   -219   -186   -192   -186   -202   -152   -182   -418   -397   -216   -128
0. Supp Cred (net)2/   110    -82   -48        -8     -4      -8     -2      -1       4      8       6       9
H. DI (net)           -28    -14       1S      89     44      18    -26    -2        -6    -19    -19       -4
. E nd  . and         117      47    -84    -9        -9       0      0       0       0      0       0       0
oth cap. "la 8/
J. CAPiTAL ACCHT      S10    16    283    416    624    898    M            654    448    814    768    957
K. Reservqo(lnc -)       8     10    -16       17    -64    -80    -60    -70    d8        -28    -25    -40
L. Arrtr(itnc +)       18    3S99   -409    161   -898    -10         0       0       0      0       0       0
M. Debt Reseduled 6/                  709    146
;:. OVERALL BALANCE     4       0      -0      -0   -828   -294   -4   -9          -462   -486   -228   -101
W  FIKC :
0. OEilT OM RELIF                                    849    288    22S    22        463    4S8    260    169
P. POSSIBLE WEA FW                                            12
1/ Interet wnd amortization paymwnts arm scheduled for both historical nd projected date.
Unpaid interest and  owrtization during 196487 reflected as arrears increas. Scheduled interest pymnt Include
interest o debt relt f.
2/ Fro. 198 nemrds grants Include aId *unds pledgd under SPA Initiative. As_mption ti that tev*e- of grant oId attaned
during 196 wil e maintained in rol ter_ In future years.
S/ For dtt l-d breakdown, S pag S.
4/ MLT inflows, In 1989 include virtu ly all IRTAC proceeds of USSt a., but eacludes USt12 a. o potibl-  DA rflwo
S/ Prior to 19B6 it includes a portion of official grant.
6/ Actual debt reechduled in 1981/B7, comprising arrears of USnM11 a. and current mturity of *6836 a.
Soure: GT. DIP nd Bank Staff estimates.
November 18. 196.



- 39 -
Ana 1
INVAC - TUaANI
FRIG mOWEM   i        _E   M  OEM  SERWiCa ASWouuZs. 1905-19
(la mlll I   et U.S. dollar.)
1906-P  1968-90         1991-98
Gros. Di.buraeaente (13
Miltileteral                    298.5            712.6           615.9
we (23                         226.4            62.8            510.3
ethir Mutt.                     59.1            es.s            9s.0
Bilateral                       189.8            110.4           117.1
Private                           9.0             0.0              0.0
IMF (3)                          84.0             63.8             0.0
OTiAL                         878.8           889.8            77.o
Hot Disbureant
Multilateral                    162.4            548.9           801.8
Vs                             149.6e           819.8           440.s
Other Mult.                     12.78            26.1            s2.0
Bl lteral                        06.5           -102.8          -su.0
Private                         40.8            -77.7            -48.5
IM                               as.0           8a.2             -82.2
TOTAL                         2S6.6           180.9           -110.7
Principal p aiP'an.  )4]
Multi lateral                    138.1           166.7           152.6
Ve                              66.8            104.0           111.8
Otear "plt.                     46.8             62.7            40.8
Bilateral                       103.8            28.9            648.4
Privote                          89.4             77.7            48.5
IMP                              48.0            00.6             82.2
TOTAL                         821.7           570.9           681.7
Intereat Paiuanta (43
Multilateral                     80.6             96.8            79.1
VD                              69.1             78.9            64.1
Other Nult.                     11.8             17.9            15.0
loteal                          107.2            890.s           512.5
PrIvate                          18.9             02.9            12.8
DM                                0.0             19.1             7.0
TOTAL                         226.7           84.7            621.8
Debt Service (41
MultIlateral                    218.7            268.8           221.7
Vs                            158.05           182.94           178.9
other Mull.                    87.68            s0.56           s5.79
Bilateral                       210.8            689.7          1170.9
Private                          08.0            110.6            $1.0
DM                               46.0            49.7             89.2
TOTAL                         521.8          1110.0           1803.0
(13 Includee diabureemnte from ealeting and expectd
coeaitmente. Exclu    grante.
12) World Snk fIgure fer 1900-90 Include. uSlSiS a. of IRTAC oration ad W611.9 a. of paeibl.
IDA rfliews.
PI bIlde prced SAP arrangement for 1966-90.
E43 Calculated befeo  debt reli f. 1908-6 fIguree rflect actual payanto only.
ivembe  5s. 1908.



-40-
Ft 4
IRrVc - TM06A
EXTE8 .L MDWMUO m       _9iin s 2i11-Iwo
(t aIse  of U.S. dot1 for)
1959    lno      1991     lis      19s
A. ePasrts of Sed. & Se*rvices         1402    1416    186        1647    170
S. intere   Psumts                      19s      19       90M      u1      2912
of wb;rh: MA                        (a)     (7)    - <4)      (a)      (9g}
Of which: Aft                     (91)    (17)    (18)    (18)    (11)
C. Artil<ion                            202      aSs      Ua       Z        418
of which: MA                        (8)     (6)      (7)      (a)      (9)
of which: we                       (80)    (2)      (30)    (20)      (0
D. Splier Credit (not)                   S        2        1       -4       -4
E. Isrt...  In P_erve.                   s0       SO       70       48      a8
P. 7.9.  Requireasts                   1861    1ow       1968    118       26
FBINII SOR
A. Euport of Seed. A Services           872      6860     76       8e"199
S. Privae  Tremfea                      19       18       170       60     la
C.   ut 1/                                I      a44       68    m88        6n
ot which: Pro_e  Aid              m)      (m       (M       (gm      (90
0. Lisa. 21                             269  2              1n     5"       g6
of which IDA Pro"ec La            (97)    (1)    1           (06)    (09)
et which IDA Adjus. i.            (1na5   (101)   (0         (am      (SO)
E. Dw    et)                             15      -20      -2        4 S   -6
P. Totel Rorc.6                                 12       1T70     184    1i64
OVEALL SIALA11M                        -29      -20      -M0      448      -496
Cu Pinndaci:
Puu         0stD Relief               968      26       2w12     S4       468
P_seibie IDA f.91...                   12
1/ Program oId during 10 and 190 is virtually equivalent ailh SPA cefinancing
projectimn. ants for 199 bed ca dieureant uweutin  for identified
coie.ltnta. whil  1990 to 1998 figure. rflct diebursemats bued largely on
Projected cisitmtn1.
2/ Pc. 1991 cad, projectim  abot amuntsnd a  ert orf etM   leWing are prell-ln a.
Ibeveor 18. 190.



- 41 -
ANNEX I
IRTAC - TANZANIA                           Page 5
Selected Nacroeconomic Variables: Graphs
TANZANIA: GDP. EXPORTS & IMPORTS
10q
70o 
9Mt *9U                    * l 0 66  17       19W 1969 *99
O3  MP                      P   vAPM
Iua bead on w1_ ({u_l) t_n so n  14D tw W. euge, ad apin.
Data Ira1001 to Is" U  atua. 1*1 is " mtfmta. 1968-19" w met PMj*ctaua.
TAIIAtJtA-- REAL EXCHANGE RATE                         TRADE LIBERALIZATION
A1                                                                           T
- -E  - i       =  ===
0---   _    _                                                      ,                      1
Wi- - -   - - - W
, tm .                            a f
I=                I_w         -Z                                               - } =



-42-                       ANNE II
Page 1 of 11
?.O. Du 911L
in uNim D WUUUCM TAMAUI
TRE BONO FR VOFANC16 ECONONIC
AFFAIRS AND PLA?@WAG
Ref. No. TYC/B/40/77                         9th November, 1988
Mr. Barber B. Conable,
World Bank President,
1818 '1' Street N.W,
WASHINGTON D.C.
U.S.A.
RE LETTER OF GOVERNMENT POLICY
In October 1988, shortly after the initiation of the
Government's Economic Recovery Programm (ERP), we wrote to you in
connection with the Nultisector Rehabilitation Credit (NRC) which
was approved by the Board of World Bank the following month. The
NRC has provided crucial financing for the ERP, and all of the
resources which were mobilized around it (including bilateral
cofinancing, and the Supplemental credits) have already been
disbursed. In this context, the Government of Tanzania requests
IDA to provide a further credit in the amount equivalent to US
Dollar 135 million, to support further efforts in the
implementation of the ERP, in particular in the areas of trade
adjustment and industrial rehabilitation and restructuring.
In October 1988, the Government reached agreement with the
World Bank and the IMP on Policy Framework Paper which outlines the
intended policies for implementation during the period between 1988
and 1991. In that context, the Tanzanian shilling has continued to
be adjusted, and as of 4th November 1988, stands at T.shs. 120 per
US dollar (compared to 17 T.sh per US dollar in April 1986)s fiscal
restraint has been maintained in line with the targets agreed under
the SA" program; an Open Generalized License (OGL) facility was
established in February 1988, and has already provided
non-administrative access to foreign exchange for an aggregate
amount equivalent to US$ 60.0 million; efforts continue to be made
to improve the operation of the agricultural marketing system and
the financial performance of parastatals sucb as National Milling
Corporation and Tanzania Cotton Marketing Board, emergency programs
are in place or being developed to address all key transport
bottlenecks; and interest -rates have been adjusted in line with
inflation estimates.



-43                     ANEX-
Page 2 of 11
por the three years from 1986/89 to 1990/91, the
Governent's ptogram is aimed at accomplishing the following
objectives: (1) an average rate of economic growth of 4-5 percent
per annum , which will correspond to a po.itlvegrowth in per capita
incone of 1-2 perceati ({i) a reduction In the rate of inflation
from about 30 percent at end - 1987/888 to 18 percent by end -
1988/89, and less than 10 percent by end - 1990/91a and (iii) a
major improvement in the external position. To achieve the overall
objectives of the program the specific polLcy reforms described
below will be implementwi. In this lettet, attention is given
below to trade adjustment and industrial restructuring measures.
Additional details on the macroeconomic components of the program,
which are discussed succintly in this document, can be found in the
second-year Policy frame work Paper (PIP.
The Government remains committed to maintaining an
appropriate and active exchange rate management, in order to
ensure, lnter alla, that the trade adjustment program envisaged
under the UIP and other external sector objectiVes can be
successfully implemented. In addition, the Government recognizes
that furtber adjustment measures are requited, in order to put the
economy In a sustainable growtb path. In particular: we intend to
continue to maintain fiscal restraint, and to lmprove the
effectiveness and diversity of the flnancial system, and to carry
out Institutional reforms neccesary for Increasing e* ficiency in
agricultural marketing.
Fiscal. Monetary and Financial Policx
The Government will continue to strengthen its efforts to
address existing structural weaknesses In the areas of the tax
system and its administration, the composition of public
expenditure, and the monitoring and control of expenditure. The
Government views the need to achieve rapid progress in these areas
as crucial and has, therefore, used the 1988/89 budget to take
corrective measures, to introduce new tax measures, increases in
user charges and expenditure restraints, In order to limit the
budget deficit. These measures will permit a substantial Increase
in credit to the non-government sector in an environment of
restrained monetary growth and declining inflation rates, by
facilitating restraint on recourse to bank credit for the
Government budget.



44                          AM= II
Pa-ge 3 of 11
The central objective of monetary and credit policies
during the next three years will be to reduce sharply the rate of
monetary growth in order to achieve the targeted reduction tn
Inflation, While providing an adequate supply of credit to the
productive sectors. The objective will be acbieved through
restraint on bank credit by the Government and a reform of
agricultural marketing that will eliminate the financial deficit of
the marketing boards and their cover by bank credit. Furthermore,
to encourage donestic financial savings and their efficient use,
nominal interest rates will continue to be reviewed in the light of
inflationary developments. In addition, the authorities are now
carrying out the envisaged study of the financial system, which
will be completed by June 1989. An action program will be
developed by mid-1989 to effect institutional reforms with the aim
of improving the efficiency and diversification of services in the
financial system, in particular through the enhanced competition
resulting from expanding the mandate of publicly owned banks, in
conjection witb their rehabilitation.
Agricultural Marketing and Pricing Policies
On foodgtains, the Government is now undertaking to reform
the food crop marketing system, building on the improvements
already achieved with the aim of reducing the economic costs of
food distribution and minimizing the economic and financial burden
of the food crop marketing activities on the nation as a whole,
within the overriding objective of ensuring national food
security. For maize, this will be achieved by redifining the role
of licensed tradere, the cooperative unions, the Government and the
National Milling Corporation.  In particular, unlike the past,
maize marketing costs associated with food security functions will
now be for the account of the Government through its SGR/Buffer
stock arrangement. Thus, the Government will be the buyer and
seller of last resort and will also introduce a quality grading
system for aise. Furthermore, subject to food security
procurement the SGR/Suffer stock will be gradually differentiated
to eliminate economic distortions in the present panterritorial
pricing system. Finally, under the new foodgrain marketing system,
cooperative unions, primary societies and private traders are now
actively encouraged to buy and stock grain on commercial basis
within and between regions including the sale of grain to National
Milling Corporation.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
Prom now on, the role of National Killing Corporation and
cooperative unions in maize procurement and distribution will be
comercially oriented, i.e. these agencies will only buy and sell
maize grain where and when they hope to gain profit from doing so.
The into-store price, National Nilling Corporation will pay will be
freely negotiated and, similarly, National Milling Corporation will
determine its ex-store price.
In export crops, complementing the reforms already
undertaken (real increases in producer prices, private sector
involvement and re-establishment of cooperatives), the Government
also intends to increase the flexibility of export crop marketing
and to put greater pressure on marketing margins by: {i) reducing
tbe role of the marketing boards to non-monopolistic agents of the
cooperatives; (ii) allowing the cooperatives to retain the
ownership of the crops until they are sold, rather than transfer it
to the marketing boards, and (iii) giving the cooperatives more
autonomy also for procurement, through the establishment of a
two-tier pricing system for cotton, tobacco, and cashewnuts,
similar to the system already existing for coffee and tea. Phased
action programs have been prepared for three major crops (coffee,
cotton, and tobacco), and action programs for the others will be
prepared during 1988/89.
In addition to these structural changes in the marketing
and pricing system for food and export crops, the Government is
moving ahead with programs to alleviate other constraints to
efficient agricultural marketing. Promotion of exports through
crop-specific actions include the development of a program to
increase cotton ginning capacity, and enhancement of the management
and equipment of the Tobacco Marketing Board. Major rehabilitation
programs for rural and truck roads and for the Tanzania Railway
Corporation are under preparation, resources are being made
available for rehabilitation of agroprocessing facilities and for
construction, where necessary, of storage facilities; and
agricultural support services (credit, research, and extension) are
being strengthened.
We remain confindent that the macroeconomic and
agricultural marketing measures included in the Policy Framework
Paper, and summarized above, provide an adequate response to the
economic problems which Tanzania continues to face and are
complements to the program of trade reform and industrial
rehabilitation and restructuring.



-46-                         ANEX II
Page 5 of 11
There is already evidence of encouraging developments with two
subsequent years of positive ceal per capita growth, with the
increase in non-traditional exports, and with improved availability
of food and other consumer goods. At this juncture, we believe
that policy measures in industrial rehabilitation and trade policy
are of urgent priority, and request the support of the World Bank
and other donors in carrying them out.
Trade Adjustment and Foreign Exchange Allocation
As the exchange rate-approaches appropriate level, the
Government has begun to remove existing trade and exchange
restrictions in order to imrpove resource allocation and reduce
administrative costs. Since February 1988, the Government has made
a portion of foreign exchange available on a non-administrative
basis for a selected positive list of priority import categories
through an Open General License (OGL) Pacility. During the first
ten months of the operation of this facility, it is expected that
over US$40 million will be utilized against a predetermined list of
priority raw materials, spare parts and some other items.
Initially, access to the facility has been limited to US$100,000
for each import license and to an aggregate amount of US$200,000
per importer..
As the exchange rate continues to be adjusted during 1988,
the Government intends to begin a process of gradual expansion of
the OGL facility so that, by early 1989, consistent witb the ERP
priorities, a comprehensive list of imported items, comprising
about three-quarters of all imported recurrent inputs and spare
parts financed by export earnings or non-project aid flows, as well
as selected incentive and capital goods, would have
non-administrazive access to foreign exchange through the OGL
facility. The expanded OGL facility will continue to be
complemented-by other non-adminstrative import schemes through
which significant amounts of intermediate and consumer goods are
being imported. in parallel with the expansion of the facility's
coverage, the ceiling currently applicable to the value of OGL
imports will be gradually increased and eventually removed.
Expansion of the OGL facility is intended to simplify and improve
the process of foreign exchange allocation.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
Initially# the OGL facility will be financed with IDA and
bilateral resources - in an aggregate amount estimated at About
US$200 million for Financial Year 1988/89 (equivalent to about 1S
percent of the total import bill). As export earnings increase,
non-aid related foreign exchange'will also be made available for
imports through the OGK facility. Thusp during the course of 1989,
the OGL facility will be expanded further (in line with
availability of funds), with the aim of providing
non-administrative access to foreign exchange for all categories of
imports (i.e.$ consumer, intermediate and capital goods),
consistent with the implementation and objectives of the ERP - with
the result that eventually only a limited list of ineligible
imports categories will not be included in the OGL facility.
Tariffs and Sales Taxes
The role of the tariff schedule in resource allocation
system is becoming significantly more pronounced now that the OGL
is in operation and as adjustment of the exchange rate has
progressed. Under the NRC, the Government has already taken
institutional measures to strengthen the Customs Department by
improving training and by taking measures to reduce evasion on
duties and tax payments, and during the remainder of 1988 and 1989
intends to implement further reforms to strengthen tax and tariff
administration. These measures will include additional personnel
recruitment, significant improvements in training, facilities and
equipment, introduction of the harmonized CC2N commodity
description and coding system, preparation of a new tariff code
book and adjustments in the incentive package for customs and tax
officers. In addition, steps are being taken to reduce duty and
tax evasion though enhanced surveillance at the point of entry and
through the imposition of commensurate-penalties.
Equally important, starting with the 1988/89, the
Government begun to make adjustments to the existing system of
tariffs and sales taxes in order to provide adequate protection to
domestic production while increasing revenue collection. Thus, the
meximum rate was reduced to 100 percent in July 1988, applying to
five categories luxury goods), and the number of duty rates was
significantly reduced from over twenty to seven. More appropriate
protection to domestic activities, enhanced revenue collection and
improvements in resources allocation are also expected to result
from a significant reduction in duty and sales tax exemptions
following the action plan already prepared by the Government. Some
measures to reduce exemptions are already under implementation. In
particular, no exemptions are being provided for imports utilized
in commercial activities.



-48 -                    ANEX II
Page 7 of "1
Igplesentation of other exemption-reduction measures, such as on
aid-related items, will take place during 1989, following a review
currently underway.
In the context of the 1988/89 budget, the Government has
also initiated hanges in the sales tax regime aimed at increasing
revenues. Reforms in sales taxes include, inter alia, the
continuation of the current policy of gradual and selective
expansion of the sales tax base; and the implementation of initial
steps towards the simplification of the sales tax rate-structuret
Sales taxes will continue to be levied equally on imports and
domestic goods, and, as in the case of tariffs, a program to
minimize sales tax exemptions will be implemented . Steps to
reduce sales tax evasion will be taken by reducing the possibility
of forgery and increasing penalties.
In order to continue the implementation of the program of
reform of the tariff and sales tax system during Financial Year
1989/90, the Government will produce, by February 1989 a detailed
action program for the next phase of tariff and sales tax reform.
This action program to continue simplifying the tariff and sales
tax structure will be implemented in the context of the Financial
Year 1989/90 budget, and will include, inter alia, further
reductions in the maximum tariff and further limiting the number of
tariffs and sales tax rates. In addition, by early July 1989, the
Government will prepare and evaluate a proposal to institute a
credit system for sales taxes (value added tax), with the objective
of introducing the credit system in the context of the 1989/90
budget.
Export Incentive
Until now, a variety of export retention schemes have
provided significant incentives to exporters and can be credited
with a recent increase in non-traditional exports. During 1987,
the Government introduced a number of measures towards
consolidation of the schemes, to make them a more systematic, and
to reduce the dispersion of rates applicable to each exporter by
aligning retention rates for non-traditional exports to 50 percent.



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
In order to remove the remaining distortions, in June 1988 the
Government further reduced exemptions to the 50 percent retention
ceiling, consolidated the.existiny retention schemes and eliminated
schemes such as the firm-specific commodity exchange program,
implicity or explicity granting higher than 50 percent retention
rates - with limited exceptions, i.e, for non-traditional,
non-industrial goods.
Export retention mechanisms have been effective in both
providing incentives to exporters, and flexible access to foreign
exchange during the initial stages of implementation of the ERP.
As progress continue to be made towards an appropriate exchange
rate, and as the OGL facility expands to cover many of the inputs
utilized by exporters, export retention tends to outlive its
purpose. The Government, therefore, intends to gradually reduce
the maximum retention percentage to 35 percent with only a few
exceptions, by end of January, 1989.
The current absence of an export duty drawback system acts
as a dis-incentive to duty-paying exporters. Consequently the
Govexhrment has prepared and begun implementing an administratively
simple duty drawback scheme for exporters.  In addition, the
Government has taken measures to sitplify expxort procedures by
streamlining export registration stleps.
Internal Pricing
Over the past five years there has been a significant
reduction in the number of products subject to price control, and
it is the Government policy to continue this process. At present,
following last July's reduction in price controlled categories,
there are only 12 items still subject to price controls: petroleum
products, fertilizers, farm implements, gunny bags, cement,
galvanized corrugated iron sheets, beer, sugar, and selected types
of motor vehicle batteries. The price-controlled items remaining
during 1988/89 constitute less than 15 percent of the consumer
price index basket. Their limited number will make it possible for
the Price Commission to reduce the lag in legitimate price
adjustments and take account of specific circumstances concerning
each price-controlled item, in order not only to avoid excessive
profits for the firm, but also to induce efficient production.



-50-
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
In particular, the Price Comission has been directed to enhance
productive efficiency through the use of equivalent international
prices &s a key reference point in the determination of controlled
prices.
Distribution Policies
Over the past two years, both imports and internal trade
have begun to be diversified, and the distortions imposed by the
exisitng system of trade confinement have been reduced through the
use of: (i) exemptions from internal trade confinement for
Cooperative Unions and Regional Trading Companies; (ii) otber
exemptions to internal trade confinement for items not subject to
price controls; (iii) exemptions from import confinement for items
included in the own-exchange and OGL schemes; and (iv) other
exemptions from imports confinement for many bona fide importers.
-This process of freeing and rationalizing trade will be
continued during 1988, through the automatic granting of exemptions
to trade confinement for all items not subject to price control.
Formal measures will be prepared in order to attain decofinement
for all firms and items, excepting only those items which would
still be subject to r-ioe controls, and items confined on bealth
and security grounds. Implementation of the formal deconfinement
measures will be carried out by January 1989. Furthermore, on both
imports and internal distribution, exemptions will continue to be
granted to all items entering the country as own-exchange imports
and under the OGL facility. In addition, Cooperative Unions and
Regional Trade companies, as well as other licensed agents, will
continue to procure price-controlled goods directly from the
manufacturer.
Industrial Investments, Rehabilitation and Restructuring
With regard to overall development expenditures, in the
last two budgets the Government has incotporated measures aimed at
ensuring that resources are being used where they can be of
greatest value in the rehabilitation of the economy.
New investments have been limited, while rehabilitation
expenditures and financing of: recurrent costs have been
emphasized.



- 51 -                  ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
In the coming years, development expenditures will be concentrated
on ongoing projects and rehabilitation, and new projects will be
started only if deemed essential for economic recovery. The
Government intends to continue with the present policy of
minimizing expenvditures in pew industrial investments, in order to
devote resources to industrial restructuring and rehabilitation.
A number of macroeconomic measures being implemented under
the ERP have created the conditions in which a meaningful
rationalization of the industrial sector can take place, in order
to maximize its contribution to economic growth. Thus, in addition
to supporting continued macroeconomic and adjustment, a major
objective of IRTAC is to foster the recovery of industrial
production through the development and implementnation of action
programs for industrial restructuring and rehabilitation. The
diverse and interdependent rehabilitation and restructuring
potential of the firms in each subsector and the existence of
subsectoral policy issues affecting the viability of each
enterprise call for a subsectoral approach.
Under IRTAC, the Government intends to pursue this
approach with the development and implementation of action
programs, initially for three subsectors: textiles, leather, and
agroprocessing (ediblei'oiI'and'-meat processitFg)-- Thtese
subsectors, which are based on domestic resources, comprise more
than one-third of total industrial production (and of formal
employment in industry), and are deemed to have considerable
potential for improving productive efficiency and capacity
utilization through restructuring and rehabilitation.
The subsectoral action programs to be developed under
IRTAC would consist of subsector-wide measures designed to
alleviate constraints to efficient economic actitivity in the
subsector, as well as enterprise-specific interventions. The
latter would include technical, institutional, operational and
financial measures which would involve, inter alia, consolidation
and streamlizing of activities, rehabilitation of plant and
machinery anc, when appropriate, phase out inefficient activities.
The action programs would identify those restructuring measures
which require a longer period for either detailed specification or
implementation and would include a timetable for resolving problems
associated with these measures.



-52 -                   ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
Due to the complexity and magnitude of the restructuring task, the
Governaent is enlisting the assistance of a team of secialized
consultants comprised of both local and foreign experts, to assist
In devoloping the action programs for the three subsectors. The
Government has already selected the consultant firms for the three
subsectors, based on the comprehonsive proposals received. It is
expected that the industrial restructuring and rehabilitation
action programs, with specific timetables for impleantation, will
be completed by early 1989, when implementation would begin.
Conclusion
Over the past two and a half years the Government has
taken a number of major policy and institutional initiatives as
part of the implementation of its economic recovery program. There
are clear indications that the measures already taken are beginning
to have a positive impact, and that a sound foundation for recovery
bas been established. It is recognised that further measuros as
well as provision of quick disbursing resources are needed in order
to complete the required policy and institutional reforms. In this
context, we view the industriai Rehabilitation  nud Tradt AdJustment
Operation as a major next step for which we request an IDA Credit
in support of our economic recovery program. It is our intention
to expedite the reform process in a manner and pace which are
politically, administratively and technically feasible In
Tansania's context, and consistent with our overall development
goals
Youx  Si scely,
ETISR O  STATE
MINISTRY OP FINANCE,
ECONCIIIC AFFARIS AND PLANNING



53- _AN    III
Page I of 4
TANZANIA
INOUSTRIAL RENASILITATION AND TRADE ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (tIRTAC)
SUMMARY OF GOVERNMENT REFORM PROORAN
RECENT ACTIONS (MRC, PFP
ISSUES                         AND SAF PROGRAMS)            ,           IRTAC ACTION PROGRAM
1. Exchange Rate. Fiscal and Financial Policieo
Tanzania's SOP has              Substantial devaluation of the        Following November, 1988, exchango rate
doterlorated steadily over      Tanzanian Shilling (TSh 17 In early  adjustment to TShl2S=1USS (a), exchang
the past decade due to          1986 to TSh 120 to the US dollar in  rate will continu- to be depreciated in
declining exports and higher   November 1988).  Exchange rate         real terms, with the aim of attaining In
import costs, the rsult of      policy has boen complmeonted by a     early 1969 an exchange rate consistOnt
inappropriate macroeconomic     program of budgetary restraint.       with the expansion of the OL facility
and pricing polities In the                                           without excess dmand (a.)
past and advers external
tfctors. Overvalustion of       Second-year PFP negotiations          Satisfactory continuation in
tho Tanzanion Shilling since    conc'uded.  SAF scheduled to be       macroeconomic adjustment progra  (s/es)
the late 1970 , as the flscal  presented to IMF board on November   through fiscal stability and restoration
situation deteriorated and      30, 1988. PFP outlinoe program of   of monetary restraint. Adoption and
in4iation accelerated,          monetary and fiscal restraint and     start of implementation of on action
wekened export incentives       continuing real exchange rate         program to improve food-grain marketing,
ande ld to extensive resource   adjustment, following early           restore the finoncial viability of NMC,
misiallocation.                 November devaluation to TSh 120 to    and alleviate Its credit requirements
the US dollar.                        (7/88*).
Institutionally rigid and       Adjustments In the interest rate      The Government has prepared detailed
monolithic financial sector,    structure have resultod In Interest  terms of reference, satisfactory to the
combined with Inappropriate    rates which are positive In real       Bank, on an action oriented review of the
interest rate  and credit       terms. Credit ceilings were           financial setor (6/Se*), with the
aMlU       have led to        exeed iod    198718 monetary          obiective of laltiatinno th9-tf*rm 1f th_
misailloction of credit.        program, dua to overdrafts frm        f7thnciaTsector duirtng1198   -
agricultural marketing Institutions
but corrective measures havo been
taken In 1988/89.
It. Foreign Exchange Allocation and Trade Reform
With an overvalued *xchange    Improvements In foreign exchange       Succsful implemntation of Initial OGL
rate and a dmand for foreign   managemnt and budgeting have been   fct ity (2-8/88*).
exchange far outstripping       implemented during 1987.
supply, Tanzania relied         Furthermore, as a first step          Progressive expansion of the OL facility
extensively on quantitative    towards a more flexible system of       In early 1989 (**), when the facility
restrictions and                foreign exchango allocation and as    will Include an agreed comprehensive list
administrative allocation of    a further trade liberalization        of imported itoms, comprising  recurrent
foreign exchange.               step, the Government has made a        Inputs and spare parts and solected
portion of foreign exchange           incentve and capital goods (consistent
resources available through a non-   with ERP objectives).  The agreed list of
administrative Open Generalized       import categories to be included In the
Licensing (0OL) facility (2/88).      expanded OL facility Is estimated to
Automatic import license  are         channel over US1200 million yearly
providod for a prodetermined list     equivalent by early 1989.  Ceilings on
of Import categories In the OL      Importers'  applications will be
facility, initially  toalling         incre"d to US8600,0f (c*), with the
about USI3 million par month.         objoective of removing ceilings altogether
during the course of 1969.
Since 19865, gradual expansion of     Subsequont further *xpansion of the 00L
list of commodities that can be       In socond half of 1989, when only a
Imported under iown-fund i import     limited list of ineligiblo Import item
schee. Under this trade               will be excluded from the 00L (.)
liberalization scheme, over USISSO
million of consumer, capital and
intermediote goods wore imported in
1967.
* Condition of Board presentation.
a Condition of release of Second Trancho.
* Prior to release of second tranche, agrement will be reached on list of ineligible and eligible OGL
Import categories for second stage of OL expansion In late 1989.



54                          ~~~~~~ANX III
- 54 -                                   Page 2 of 4
RECENJ ACTIONS (MRC, PFP
ISSUES                         AND SAF PROGRIAMS)                      IRTAC ACTION PROGRAU
III. Tariffs and Sales Taxes
A relatively complex          Conversion of a few specific    Major reform of the Tariff end Sales Tax System
scheduled tariff structure,   duties to ad valorm  n I8t87    during FY88/89 and FY89/90.
Including 15 different ad     budget.  Incress"  In  * a
valorem rates and over 20    dometic   les tax rates           First stage of tho rationalization of the tariff
specific rates, with          (4/87).                          structure In FY86/09 by:  (1) reducing tho
maximum ad valorem rates                                         ;T-m tariff rate from 160 to 1W8 percent,
ranging up to Ise percent     Initial revise of the tariff     that only applies to five categortoe  of luxury
in FY8?/8O. However, Sany    structure (11/87). Som            goods, whilo other consumer Items are now
exemptions and weaknesses     Institutional improvoments In   subject to 40 and 0f percent duty (6/89*); (iI)
In adtinistration rmult In  the custom  department such as   reducing the numbr of tariff rates from over
very low collections and      enhanced training program,       twenty to seven (6/Se*); and (itt) conversion of
failure to provice moderte   Increased remuneration for        all remaining specific tariffs to ad valor.e
(or uniform) protection to    officers and enhanced            rates (6/88.).
many domestic producers,      monitoring masures at points
of entry implemented during      Action program to further rationaliaz the tariff
A complex and highly          FY87/88.                         structure will be prepared by 2/89(**), and will
dispersed structure of                                         be implmented In FY89/W0. During FY89/W the
sales taxes on imports and                                     maximum tariff and the number of rates will be
domestic production,                                           further reduced, with the obJectivo of reaching
a maximm tariff not exceeding 60 percent and
the number of rates not exceeding four.
Initial stops taken to Improve the system of
sales taxes during FY88/89: (I) Initial
reduction  n the number of sales tax rates
(8/8*); and (tt) sales tax base has been
broadened by Including additional manufacturing
and service enterprises (6/08*).
--x -- --forcie carryTig edtrF  eparationof~actThn
program of sales tax reform (1/89.*), which will
be substantlally tmpYlntd in P89/90. The
reform program wil include t   reduction In the
number of sale tax rates, with the o6jective of
Instituting one basic positive rate, excepting a
limited list of traditionally excisable revenue
eaners.
Preparation and evaluation of proposal to
institute a credit system for sales tax (value
added tax) by 2     w89 ( ,with objective of
Introducing credit system In the context of tho
FY89/00 budget.
Sales tax rates will continue to apply equally
to imports and domestic goods (*/**).
Major reductions In tariff and ses tax
*xptions during 1988/88 (*/**). No exemptions
*ply tocommercial imports, resulting In a no-
exemptions policy on Oat., import support, own-
fd  and administratively al-located tmorts
for commercial ventures (6/88 *). Review of
aid-related exemptions, In order to limit, where
appropriate, contractual aid exemptions
following consultations with aid agencies during
FY88/89 (2/89 os).
Institutional strenhening at the Departmnt of
Customsne Tax,  through expansion of training
programs, personnel recruitment, improvemnts In
equipment and Incentives for officers, stiffer
penalties for evasion and Introduction of a now
Tariff Code look (1988/89**).
o Condition of Board presntation.
oe Condition of release of Second Tranche.



ANNEX III
- 55 -                                      Page S of 4
RECENT ACTIONS (URC, PFP
ISSUES                         AND SAF PROGRAMS)                       IRTAC ACTION PROGRAM
IV. Export Incentives
Proliferation ot export         Increased libs!-01satlon of the        Exporters will not  s tain over W0 percent
retention schemes, with ad-    nxport retention schemes, lncluding   of foreign exchange (11/88*), resulting
hoc retention percentage        higher transferability of the          In the elimination of the firm-specific
being granted, varying          retalned foreign exchange and         commodity exchange program and In the
between 0 and 100 percent.      flexibility In list of goods that     reduction of hIgh ad-hoc export retention
can b  imported,                      rates (a).  Limited exceptions to the 50
Absence of export duty                                                percent maximum retention apply to a few
drawback system has resulted    Alignment of retention rates for      non-traditional ites and due to
on an anti-export bias for      most non-traditional exports to g0    contractual obligations.
some exporters.                 percent.
Further reduction of maximum retention
Export procedures have been                                           percentage to 3S percent, with limited
cumbersome and have implied                                           exceptions (3/89 as)
delays in the past.
Implementation of an effective duty
drawback scheme for Imported inputs
destined for export (10/88 **).
Simplification of export procedures,
including consolidation and
decentralzation of registration steps
(1-6/1966.).
V. Internal Pricing
In the  sarily 1SU6  the  -I  on?tion          tl-of  ieST f   ci   - w-  v Prtces-on the remsinw-ig I. -cotvtrol tad
Ntilonal Price Comisseion had   controlled iteO m  t612. so that for iltems wil  continue to use equivelent
over 400 items under price      1966/89 than 15 percent of CPI         international prices as a key reference
control, which were gradually   basket to covered by                  point.  Furtheraw4s, Increased
reduced to 48 categories of     price-controlled Items (6/66).        competition through impei-t liberalization
goods In 1986.  Mot segments                                          schems continues to apply pressure on
of the economy adjusted to                                            prices, resulting in pricing structure
price structure which                                                 reflecting market conditions (1966).
reflects the parallel rather
than the official exchange
rate.
VI. Distribution Policies
Products and firms have been   Diversification of imports and         Formal deconfinemnt of internal
generally confined to           internal trade through:  (i)          distribution and Imports of goods for all
specified import and supply    exemptions from internal trade         firms, save the 12-price controlled ite
parastt aIs. The policy has     confinemnt for Cooperatives and       and som  imports confined due to health
not achieved its goal of        Regional Trade Compnies; (iI)         and scurity grounds (2/89**).
reliable and low cost supply   exemptions for many other private
and has distorted incentive      nd parestatal  gnts for Ite   not
and resource allocation,        subject to price controls; (111)
exemptions from lmport confinemnt
for Items In the own-exchange and
OCL schemes; and (iv) other
exemptions from imports confinement   Exemptions will continue to apply to
for many importers (19* 6196)         goods that are still confined.
c Condition of Board presentation.
Cc Condition of releas of Second Tranche.



-56 -                                        rep * of 4
RECENT ACTIONS (NRC, PFP)
ISSUES                          AND SAF PROGRAMS)                         IRTAC ACTION PROGRAM
VII. Industrial Rehabilitation and Restructurlng
Tanzania has had an              Macroeconomic, *xchange rate, trade   Completion of selection proc*Le  for
industrial sector with many      and pricing adjustments have           consulting firms (11/09*).
heavily protected enterprises   resulted in some retrenchment in
operating at excessive           the more Inefficient enterprises       Set-up of tnterminieterial working level
resource cost.  Capacity         and incipilnt reallocation of          task force for preparation and
utilizatlen is very low          resource towards more efficlnt         implementation of subsectoral
(20-380) due to                  segments of the economy, including    restructuring programs (11/88).
policy-induced and               agriculture, transport and more
instituttonal inefficiencies,   productive manufacturing firms.         Action Programs for textiles, leather nd
high import dependency and                                              agroproetssing *ubsectors to be reviooWd
1nfrastructural and                                                     by th  Government and the Association.
bottlenecks.  Selective          No-subsidy policy to paraetatal        Thereafter, start-up of Implementation of
restructuring and                firms (1987-1988).                     attion programs, agreed with the
rehabilitation of the sector                                            AssocIation, which will Include major
is required, concentrating                                              restructuring meosures for currently
resources on economically                                               Inefficient but viable activities, and
viable firms.                                                           phase-outs for unviable activities (C/89
we.
Overinvestment in new            Capital resources have been            Development expenditures will conttnue to
industrial capacity since        allocated to rehabilitation rather    be concentrated on ongoing projecte and
mid-70s led to overextended      than now projects, as provided for    on rehabilitation needs, minimizing new
and inefficient manufacturing   in the 8-year Public Investment          Investmente (1988-90).
sector.  Recurrent and           Program.  Development expenditures
rehabilitation needs have        will continue to be concentrated on
b4on     ~                       ong, p-ojecta ad..
rehabilitation, while new projects
(including industrial ventures)
will be mintimizd (1986-89).
a Condition of Board presentation.
cc Condition of release of Second Tranche.



57                                ANNEK IV
TANZANA - NRC Third Tranche -February 1988
--------------- ---------------------------
ITEMS       INCLUDED IN INITIaL OCL LIST AND HISTORICAL IMPORT LEVELS
Tariff      Annual
Rate       Average
8TN No.                 Description                 1        1979180         1986
e    *          (MOS)          (US$)
1.05        Poultry Chick.                         25         1,747,380        207,808
11.07      Malt                                    20         4,091,907      1.458,82e
21.07       Beverage. Concentrates                 60              n.a.           n.a.
28.01       Chemical Elements, Inorganic           25            46.100        264,186
29.01A      Organic Compounds For Manuf.           25         7,971.740      7.933,294
Agric., Pharmac. Products
30.03      Medicaments. Drugs                     Free        8,045,774      5,776,154
32.01       Tanning Extract of vegetables          20              n.&.           n.a.
32.02       Tanning Substance                      20            69,168          1,957
32.03       Synthetic organic substances
for tanneries                          20           895,868         47,233
32.04      Colouring matter of vegetable
for tanneries                          60            13,826         79,855
12.05       Synthetic substances for tanning       60           132,1S51        21,249
32.06      Colour lakes for tanning                60            30,116          4,316
35.05      Dextrines and glues                     20           250,275        211,732
35.06       Prepared glues not elsewhere           20           396,411        510,561
38.11C     Weed Killers                           Free          869,690      1,374,006
48.10      Cigarette Paper                         25           473.606        363,449
82.01       Hoes                                  Free        3,369.61=3 517340
iz.us  ~     1wi (Agic.-&Industries)               20            99,405        245.670
.4.06D      Internal Combustion (parts)            1S         2,841,000      3,592,000
84.10       Pumps for irrpgation                   15         3,650,720      1,272,911
84.11      Airpumpss  Industrial & Agric.          20         2,675,868      1.314,773
84.18       Filtering and Purifying Parts          20            34,022         34,071
84.19      Machinery parts for cleaning bottles   20               n.a.           n.a.
84.20      Weighing Machines                       25           338,113        106,145
84.22      Lifting, handling and unloading
machinery                              15         3,077,275      2,188,859
64.24      Agric. & horticultural machinery        15         2,538,408      4,286,917
84.25      Harvesting & Threashing machinery       15         1,842,973      1,530,815
84.26      Dairy Machinery                         15           193,163         34,170
84.48       Other Agric. & Horticultural
machinery                              20           464,665           n.a.
84.38      Auxiliary Machinery & Spare
Parts for textiles                     20           138,453       :109,377
84.48      Accessories & Parts for machine
tools                                  20         1.395,574        554,489
84.49       Tools for working in the hand          25           201.824        395.663
84.59      Machlnery parts of cigarette            20         1,420,910        915,438
84.61       Taps, Corks, Valves, etc.              15           787,646        610,159
84.62       Ball, roller. or needle roller         20           408,753        470,658
84.63       Transmission shafts, cranks for
industries & agric.                    15         4,483.797      2,687,925
84.64       Gaskets and similar joints             20           546,195        413,043
84.65      Machinery parts n.c.e.                  20           971,897      3,146,059
85.05       Electrical tools for working
in the hand                            20           408,753        470,658
37.06       Parts & Accessories-Tractors          Free          720,384      1,105,874
27.14      Other Vehicles,  Agric. Wagons          20         1.091,116        176,464
               -----------
Estimated Total                                  55,000,000     45,000,000
._____________                                  ----------     ________-_



NA        E!
rv*nAT a  - ET L!                U 
to XNWYVW          "   Neeweed sneer, eoase... .1111 ,eeeev  so -       - cae          ij aeoro espeb iIty will reee.e
fTlWtAU A            aevrgesmmded ladwiverial muter  me reewt of          leouff S eat Ito ageee  . moeed of evoeoutemd.d
SAi5P'               eglltorm$ peHop Womanee ouegbw                      iadue.rSS egoit e NW (III inp firo m iwud
avegmoigis Woer% Is%Ntuevo I      Gasie         be Smeailt se. as sott.S.b eeepeStyo the
U7aF-                _      is _mfVIeaeat pest levesIS.sis, ina~quste -   UvrPe"1 miraeeuov  *Iwm            e   are"
D~AS131CU.      mitesmeem sgd ovet I dew*io.    mak be              rqure.        4ve. poll   doetaoklhig
with lsotieeol  ews of              Oft"                                              preision "o
reegen to a a-emmeel.    pe n.                     ee                          if led only It
dt. it    tuespert. thr  wte Isr                     bIot Ni. weld .a.                 high)
efflel_tamie  is t- pe e_mes  maete.           i    let m_.
_seaa~              uslinsgme. _tpeer  inM1 ensti, all eleted            e"fftiwe _lateam. Sd upgdngl (ratheI
to week _eehmelogicl meeblllt# Nd Imadeewte          then e.iaeleg purchase of mee eieues_t),.
;nv_tly. ntrueter. -S. of old la prevsie   ,         forlpd.ptle  aweO SM r*Pi Otelm eeg. X  nd                   C
igIedeqgIqIpa.                      !aae to 1weahm                      teehaebiog el  oapstilt.
Ovoreetoeded I Ale         er fellt tos suto  Sr eS              i a e         e  l1r*de a"
,uD.a. ZCDL.       jt.iesleb     eapbiSitu; w g ee of _" el                                  a mte
.   L*~              industrIal .setvitle. an=   of gap;Ito                        t -Iie  e             r    e   o r
greth ever Sim. IIeI m 'aWA  rade ps  i Wles,  t             g           g      e        preeee
sadm  rl, of espotriete, om ower    t ewaduel c a. 1tw t h lIe
S.                        hPngS"d _laee raw sodti   _si                      Woolf A. ef e"pratin   tr p        s ou   _
VWN   ZA1           pIloes whieb ew_rd             _ wed  eport uN       be  _o-ee    ad            p   o       as swab.
3~U  MDID CAMTM.   OsIIi.emleiegl4s s-eee0mee a  seatlwe   mut Pee                   SC"e   adegusts i pol  top I runee
In presels  laeetemi. ~seet Is umoemmesftib   Seeiss appIrslie  eagabil 1w sod aid
of rcurentsees sa usbeteso. oble of sid~ to  eowrdiestlee I* emeatlal. 111le of SUB
Depremeed .151o  me   NW* lee preut                           "I i eoV iroeewet jiegrist tso ierese"
0mw.    gel Sep* and  igh prdwetle  em"t reeWltag            GOP greethb sd soerost deome  NW to  ewoer
s hih pre sd     * e  _a e  cpacity   Te..eset  (uW Orile.)
Iturn,_ erg du _1w , page pelSep 4 iodeeias.
asegs is reoersee uWe. sa do                                -oieal. skilled laber, NWd inaegie
teohnelogbeel theiee     p t  t1a sad    _ aa .i I Iv.
Mow.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



e 2}ie@_ ff _ { 3 |i Tfi0Z     -T   ---j-_-,-- Z---__---
4    9 -:Nl :v                         IT  ~           r   
*if,$!    ,11g  1 1 III ; IL
b   .  t-i i !  t i :1 l  _1_|      
i-tilt            {-;}-  lz  ItS !if   s pf    i    K4       N       H
j ! i! i T-------------------- -i--- 
toF          i   -I                             L T
3                                      IIH
SJ   lx  l ,lx     rs lt   s  l    -lj FIn  I.roIt!
I.~~~~~~~~sr
Ssa''l~~~~~~I ra-af--l-stt-3el    l   z
'I  I      I    I    sl''-a'i -iT-4's ''lex-
73~~~~~                 ~~ 11 ISI^-;!:l-  :NlflI-I"iS
S I  A  lS 1*  i9  1               1       1SV1
-    65    -1                    1



-60 -
AU  VII
IRTAC                                          Page 1 of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Tanzauia
Aout in US9 siUIg
(les  canclatlonU)
Lo  wr   Fiscl                                             4-                                    Udis- Clouin
Credit lo.  Ya   Bmnr                             iupm                         ank        DA      bir#d  Batt
Credits
45 Creits(s) cloud
10-TOA   1l7    TANAA CtMII mmTS li                                                     24tlO       1.77 0650189(R
COS2AIO-TA   1979   TANAN                         EDATIAS   VI                          12.00       1.93  W308MR)
rj0u1tFTAI  1980   TANANIA                        MAIN STOA   I NILL                    43.00      32.37  10/3
clogo-o 1960   TANZAN                          SIALHLE TEA                           1.0         670  1213113811)
C10560TAN  1991   TANZANIA                        OUC      TI VII                        5.0        7.9  IznhIu1)
C1000-TAN  I9M    TANZAIA                         T.A.11                                11.00       2.93  OMBB188R)
C10700TAN  1931   TANZNIA                         COCNU PILOT                            6.80        .17  03/31I89Wt
C1'29-TAN  193    TANZANIA                        FOER  It                              12.00         36  12/31/88(3)
cu32-TA   199    TAN IA                           OAR rEI E                             22.30       7.43 1231/8 1)
C13700TAN  193    TANZANIA                        IIFINDI RPULP6PE                       6.00       5.72  12/31169
8MIT3   19U    TANZANIA                           COAL 81B.CREDlT                        6.30       3.50 06/0/3(3)
19         1984   TZAA                            pun  IV                               35.00       7.08   M M0/89
C15240-TAN  1I9    TANZAIA                        TAB IV                                10.00       1I.70 06/30/8(3)
C1530-TAN  1995   TANZANIA                           TS RA.                             27.00       3.29 0/30/90
CR4040-TAN  196    TANZANA                        PfTROJSECTOR.T.A                       6.00       7.47  0630/89
C1687-TAN  199    TANZANIA                        PM11 RIam./OmRS                       40.00      27.39  I123t190
C1689-TAN  1986   TANZANIA                        51113 MlN. (Ram)                      50.00 .*46.34 06/3/92
C0840-TN  1911   TANZNI                           EULTI-SE.RH I                         44.20             12/31/98
C170-TAN  19    TAIA                               NLTI-E.R  I                          50.00             12/38
C13100-TAN  1997   TANZANIA                       TELECII                               23.00      19.66 06/5091
CIOII-TAW  199    TANZAIA                         HULTI-WE.RII I                        26.00       9.69  12/31/U
CR7411-TAN  198    TANZAIA                        NULTI-SE.RII I                        30.00      14.36  12/31/88
aC18910-TAV  199    TANZANIA                        ABLUZPOTS REM. I                      30.00      28.39  06/30196
TOTL nmr Credits a  23                                                                   570.3      242.43
19 Loan(s) closed                                                           313.06
All dose   for    TANZANI
TOTAL nmber Lons a 
TOTAL"'                                                      313.06    1,010.51
of uhich repad                                             136.06       25.42
~~_ -
TOTM  hoeld by Iank & IDA                                    177.01    1,065.09
A..t sold                6.29
of which repaid         .09
MOAL. m.dlshuse                                                                    242. 43
m.
a  Not yet effective
Not nt siq
'  TotAl Approv ed, ,  payments, and Outstanding balance reprusent both active and inactive Lons and Credits.
(OI indicates formally revised Closing Date.
The Not Approved and Dank Repayments ar historical vilue, all others are *auket value.
fTe STi. EludgtfKU  fld Closing dates are based Wuon the LoUn Departeent offical data and are not taken



61 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IPC INVESTMENTS IN TANZANIA
AS OF MARCH 31, 1988
Amount in US$ million
Fiscal                                                   Loan     EquitZ    Total
Year           Obligor           Type of Business
1960 and    Kilombero Sugar    Food Processing          4.0      0.7       4.7
1964          Company
1978        Highland Soap &    Soap Manufacture         1.3      0.4        1.7
Allied Products
Limited
1979        Metal Products     Household Utensils       1.3      0.2        1.5
Limited
1985        Amboni Limited     General Manufacturing   5.6       --        5.6
Total gross commltments                    12.2      1.3      13.5
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                     6.3      1.1       7.4
Total coammitments now held by IPC          5.9      0.2       6.1
Total undisbursed                           0.1      --        0.1



IUDUSTRIAL RTRAALIT&TIOI AND TRADE DJUSWKfh CORDIT
SunMlem-mtarv Dat Sheet
I.       TmTetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification                    -  April 1987
(b)  Project Preparation               -   September 1987
(c)  Appraisal Mission                 -   February/March 1988
(d)  Negotiations                      -  May/June 1988
Se)  Planned Date of Effectiveness     -  December 1988
(f)  Planned Release of Second Tranche -  June 1989
II.      Actions taken before Board Presentation
Recently adopted measures outlined in para. 102.
III.     Actions to be taken before release of Second Tranche
Release of the second tranche of US$70 million would be
contingent upon fulfillment of conditions outlined in para.
103.



-63 -
1988 SOCIAL  INDICATOR DATA SHEET
TANZANIA
Refor,ee Groups (MRe)
Most
Recewnt                  Lover mid
1965       1975    Estimate  Low-Ineome         tecom
AREA
Total land area (thou sq km)   945.1       949.1       94S.1
Agricultural (% of total)        40.9       42.4        42.1
GW PER CAPITA (currefnt US*)         90        8e0         240        280        730
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)        11.586      15.942     23.884
Urban pop. (% of total)             8          10         24         28         38
Population growth rate(%):
Total                                      3.2         3.4        1.1        2.1
Urban                                       9.6       11.1        5.7        4.2
Life expect. at birth (yra)        43         47          53         *1         50
Population projections:
Pop. in 2000 (thou)                                 37.066
Stationary pop. (thou)                             123.202
Population density per sq km
of agricultural land               30         40          53        349        404
pop. age structure (%):
0-14 yrs                         44          46         47         37         42
15-64 yrs                        93         Si         so          s9         55
I  and above                      3           3          3          4          3
Crude birth rate (per thou)        49         s0         s0          30         35
Crude death rate (per tnou)        22          is         Is         10         1O
Total fertility rate              6.6         6.4        7.0        3.9        4.?
Infant sort. rote (per thou)      138         12?         98         72         76
Child death rate (per thou)        29          26         22          9         ti
Family planning:
A_ceptors. annual (thou)                     34
users (% of married women)                    I
FOOD. HEALTH AND NUTRITION
tndex of food production per
Capita (1i79-81 * 100)             86          93         90        lie         106
Per Capita supply of:
Calories (per day)             1.970      2.308      2.3iS      2.327      2.507
Proteins (grams per day)         42          50         51         se         s6
Pop, per physician (thou)        21.7        22.6                    .8        7.5
Pop. per nurse (thou)             2.1         3.4                   4.0
Pop, per hospital bod (thou)                                        1.1        1.1
Access to safe water
(% of population): T,6tal                   39          $2
Urban                   se88       85
Rural                   36         47
4-
so 
sees-PS ten-SI        1050    1570   iS8O         150 .57 ttn      580
90 TANZANIA                                    a ttPNIA
= nfasT iUr enoup                                   NIA



-64-                                          x
1988 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
TANZANIA
Reference Groups (CRE)
most
Recent                   Lower mid
1965       1975    Estimate   Low-Income       Incom
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)        6.278       8.227     11.250
Female (%)                       51          so         49         34          20
Agriculture (X)                                                     6          55
Industry (%)                                                       14          16
Participatton rate ():
Total                                                              47          37
Male                                                                           S 11
Female                                                             35          23
Age dependency (5)               88.9        95.7      100.       71.6        82.7
HOUSING
Average size of household:
Total                             4          ..
Urban                              3         ..
Rural                             S           S
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total
Urban
Rural
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                   32          53         72         99         104
male                    40         62          90        110         109
Female                  25         44          as         8?         99
Secondary: Total                  2           3          3         34          42
Male                   3           4          4         41         47
Female                 1          2           2         25         36
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                          52          54         34         39          31
Secondary                         17         19         17                     23
Pupils reaching grade 6 (5)                    84         83          .          72
INCOhE  COWSUWPTIOM. AND POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)                         73         39        327         351
Percentage of private Income
received by:
Highest 10% of households                   32
Highest 20%                                  90o      ,
Lowest 20%                                    6
Lowest 40%                                   1
Est. absoluteQpoverty Income
level (USS per capita):
Urban                                       14?
Rural                                       109
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty income level (5)
Urban                            ,,          10
Rural                                        60
Passenger cars/thou pop.          2.7         2.5
Newspaper circulation
(per thousand population)         3.0        4.4         9.7       32.0       43.5
IECSE August 1088
..Na availble. Nete Most rcn stimate o f popltion and CNP ar capit asfo 166 unesohle mee.
Goup ara  a populaon weIgk. Count. -rae dpeds Go data b  a"n i nt snorm. Unle _mt note
196 re to any yer between 192 and I  1975 betwen 172 an itan mot  seatesmat e    NIP ad "W_



IBRD 17582R
j U GAN D A                                                                ..-' A,\  1   T  < ./ b i             ! UGANDA    k 
/_                                                                                         / XKENYA
RWANDA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I A     N Il I
ZAIRE  9   t t   |    /    T  MuFrA  9  4"$                                      - ZAR  '   '  { 1:oSLrQ 
MoNda                    vol            <               i f I,NDgXf A I R E
B U RU N D I                                                                       ZAMSIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ >~OAMlU
CA   M A                                  f            A N I | _
5 I N G ~ ~   ~        ~       ~        ~       ANAN 
ANI ASPRA~N   EWR
tK   v~~~  l    \s  )  r X  / -~    ~~~ -lL,  lA       MJ\A MISAAAW         i               e
y   ,,  w  d  Rb s t , / i W I - MAY 1985~ - is 
Ml~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UDJU                               MSS MA.~
ZAIRE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                ZMIU
'I,  -N G     RuFi~~~~~~~~~~MY 98



