Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1969 TA
      (Industrial Rehabilitation and Trade Adjustment Credit)
                              between
                    UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 30, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1969 TA
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 1988 between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (the Borrower)  and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Association  has  received  a  letter dated
November 9,  1988,  from  the  Borrower  describing  a  program of
actions, objectives and  policies  designed  to achieve structural
adjustment of the  Borrower's  industrial  sector and trade policy
(hereinafter  called  the   Program),   declaring  the  Borrower's
commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and  requesting
assistance from  the  Association  in  the  financing  of urgently
needed imports and services required during such execution;
     (B)  the  Borrower  intends  to  contract  from  the  African
Development Fund (AfDF) a  loan  (the  AfDF  Loan) in an amount of
twenty million Fund Units of Account (FUA 20,000,000) to assist in
financing the Program on the terms  and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the AfDF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and AfDF;
Page  2
     (C)  the Borrower intends to  obtain  from the Kingdom of the
Netherlands (the Netherlands) a  grant  (the Netherlands Grant) in
an amount of twenty  million  Dutch Florints (D.Fl. 20,000,000) to
assist in financing the Program;
     (D)  the Borrower intends to  obtain  from the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland  (UK) a grant (the UK Grant)
equivalent to  eight  million  pounds  Sterling  (u  8,000,000) to
assist in financing the Program;
     (E)  the Borrower has requested  from the Swiss Confederation
a non-reimburseable contribution  (the  Swiss  Contribution) in an
amount approximately  equivalent  to  twenty  million Swiss Francs
(SwF 20,000,000) to assist in  financing  the Program on the terms
and conditions  set  forth  in  a  bilateral  agreement (the Swiss
Contribution Agreement) to  be  entered  into between the Borrower
and Switzerland;
     (F)  Switzerland  intends  to   appoint  the  Association  to
administer  the  Swiss   Contribution   in   accordance  with  the
provisions of the  Procedural  Arrangements  dated  April 9, 1987,
(the Arrangement) between Switzerland and the Association;
     (G)  on the basis, inter  alia,  of  the foregoing, the Asso-
ciation has decided  in  support  of  the  Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in two tranches as
hereinafter provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
               "'Project' means the  imports  and other activities
          that may be financed out  of  the proceeds of the Credit
          pursuant  to  the  provisions   of  Schedule  1  to  the
          Development Credit Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
               "(c) Not later  than  six  months after the Closing
          Date or  such  later  date  as  may  be  agreed for this
          purpose between the  Borrower  and  the Association, the
          Borrower shall prepare and  furnish to the Association a
          report,  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the
          Association shall reasonably  request,  on the execution
          of the  Program  referred  to  in  the  Preamble  to the
          Development Credit  Agreement,  the  performance  by the
          Borrower  and  the   Association   of  their  respective
          obligations under the  Development  Credit Agreement and
          the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
     (c)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means  the  Standard  International Trade Classi-
fication, Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.  3),  published  by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
Page  3
     (b)  "TSh" and "Tanzania Shilling"  mean  the currency of the
Borrower;
     (c)  "Special Accounts"  means  the  accounts  referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Project   Preparation   Advance"   means   the  project
preparation advance granted  by  the  Association  to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated May 16, 1988, and June 7,
1988, between the Borrower and the Association;
     (e)  "BOT" means the Bank of Tanzania;
     (f)  "to  confine"  means   to   restrict  the  distribution,
importation or production of  an  item,  to one or more authorized
manufacturers or traders,  in  accordance  with  the Regulation of
Trade Act 1980 and the  Imports  Control  Ordinance Cap 292 of the
Borrower;
     (g)  "Swiss   Contribution   Account"   means   the   account
established  by  Switzerland   for   the   purpose  of  the  Swiss
Contribution; and
     (h)  "Procedural Arrangements"  means  the  agreement between
the Government of Switzerland  and the Association for cooperation
in the cofinancing  of  specific  projects  or programs within the
framework of the Eighth Replenishment, dated April 9, 1987.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to ninety-seven  million  six  hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 97,600,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of  the Credit and the amount of
the Swiss Contribution may  be  withdrawn  from the Credit Account
and the  Swiss  Contribution  Account,  respectively in accordance
with  the  provisions  of   Schedule   1  to  this  Agreement  for
expenditures made (or if  the  Association  shall  so agree, to be
made) in respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of goods and services
required during the execution  of  the  Program and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution.
     (b) Except as the Association and Switzerland shall otherwise
agree, the allocation  and  withdrawal  of  the Swiss Contribution
shall be  governed  mutatis  mutandis  by  the  provisions  of the
General Conditions.
     (c)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Program,
open and  maintain  in  dollars  a  special  account  (IDA Special
Account) and an additional special account for the proceeds of the
Swiss contribution (Swiss Special Account)  in its Central Bank on
terms and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special Accounts shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (d)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn  balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990, or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  4
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  March 1 and September 1
commencing March  1,  1999,  and  ending  September  1, 2028. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
September 1, 2008, shall  be  one  percent  (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern  Ireland  is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of
Page  5
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
    Section 2.09.  (a)  BOT is designated as representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  taking  any  action  required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction  to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby  entrusts  BOT  with  responsibility  for the pre-
paration of withdrawal applications under the Credit and the Swiss
Contribution and for  the  collection  of  the documents and other
evidence to be furnished  to  the  Association  in support of such
applications;  such  withdrawal   applications   with  respect  to
Category (1) of the table set  forth  in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement shall,  to  the  extent practicable, be consoli-
dated so as to apply  for  withdrawal  of aggregate amounts of not
less than SDR 500,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the  request  of  either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying  out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its  review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying  out the Program, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Swiss  Contribution shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall undertake an action oriented
study  of  three   industrial  subsectors,  namely  leather/shoes,
textiles and agro-processing,  with  a  view to rehabilitating and
restructuring these subsectors.  To  that  end, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications,  experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with the prin-
ciples and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis
of the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use  of  Consultants  by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with  consistently  maintained   sound  accounting  practices  the
expenditures financed out of  the  proceeds  of the Credit and the
Swiss Contribution.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
           (i)   have the  records  and  accounts  referred  to in
                 paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                 the  Special  Accounts   for   each  fiscal  year
                 audited, in accordance  with appropriate auditing
                 principles consistently  applied,  by independent
                 auditors acceptable to the Association;
          (ii)   furnish to the Association  as soon as available,
                 but in any case  not  later than six months after
                 the end of each  such  year,  a certified copy of
                 the report of  such  audit  by  said auditors, of
                 such scope and in  such detail as the Association
                 shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
Page  6
                 concerning  said  records  and  accounts  and the
                 audit thereof as the  Association shall from time
                 to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit  Account  or  the  Swiss Contribution Account were
made on  the  basis  of  statements  of  expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
           (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                 with paragraph (a)  of  this Section, records and
                 accounts reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)   retain,  until  at  least   one  year  after  the
                 Association has received the audit report for the
                 fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                 Credit Account or  the Swiss Contribution Account
                 was  made,   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
                 invoices, bills,  receipts  and  other documents)
                 evidencing such expenditures;
         (iii)   enable  the   Association's   representatives  to
                 examine such records; and
          (iv)   ensure  that  such   records   and  accounts  are
                 included in  the  annual  audits  referred  to in
                 paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                 of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                 auditors  as   to   whether   the  statements  of
                 expenditure submitted  during  such  fiscal year,
                 together  with   the   procedures   and  internal
                 controls involved  in  their  preparation, can be
                 relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that a situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement  is  hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section  5.02.  In   the   event   that  Switzerland  or  the
Association terminate the functions of the Association pursuant to
paragraph 5 of the  Procedural Arrangements, the Association shall
notify the Borrower  promptly  of  the  date  on which Switzerland
shall assume the rights  and  obligations of the Association under
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided  in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the minister of  the  Borrower  at the time responsible
for finance is designated  as  representative  of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
Page  7
          Ministry of Finance,
          Economic Affairs and Planning
          P.O. Box 9111
          Dar es Salaam
          United Republic of Tanzania
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                TREASURY                         41329
                Dar es Salaam
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                   By /s/ A. M. Hyera
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
                    and the Swiss Contribution
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Credit,  and  the Swiss
contribution the allocation of the  amounts  of the Credit and the
Swiss  contribution  to  each   Category  and  the  percentage  of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                   Amount         Amount of
                   of the         the Swiss
                   Credit       Contribution
                  Allocated       Allocated         % of the
                 (Expressed     (Expressed in       Expendi-
                   in SDR       Swiss Francs        tures to
 Category       Equivalent)     Equivalent)        be Financed
Page  8
(1)  Goods and    95,400,000       20,000,000      100% of
     materials                                     foreign ex-
     imported                                      penditures
     through
     the Open
     General
     License
     Facility
(2)  Con-          1,470,000                       100%
     sultants'
     services
(3)  Refunding      730,000                        Amount due
     of Project                                    pursuant to
     Preparation                                   2.02 (d) of
     Advance                                       this Agreement
                  __________       __________
     TOTAL       97,600,000        20,000,000
2.   For  the  purposes  of   this  Schedule  the  term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in a currency other than that of
the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made from Category (1) in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
      112         -                     Alcoholic beverages
      121         -                     Tobacco,   unmanufactured,
                                        tobacco refuse
      122         -                     Tobacco,      manufactured
                                        (whether or not containing
                                        tobacco substitutes)
      525         -                     Radioactive and associated
                                        materials
      667         -                     Pearls, precious and semi-
                                        precious  stones, unworked
                                        or worked
      718         718.7                 Nuclear    reactors,   and
                                        parts     thereof,    fuel
                                        elements     (cartridges),
                                        non-irradiated for nuclear
                                        reactors
      897         897.3                 Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                        platinum    group   metals
                                        (except watches  and watch
                                        cases) and  goldsmiths' or
                                        silversmiths'        wares
                                        (including set gems)
      971            -                  Gold,         non-monetary
                                        (excluding  gold  ores and
                                        concentrates)
     (b)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement,  and  to  be  financed  from  the  Credit  except  that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
Page  9
SDR 10,800,000 may be made  on  account  of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after September 1, 1988;
     (c)  expenditures  in  respect  of  Category  (1)  and  to be
financed  from  the  Swiss   Contribution  unless  all  conditions
precedent to the  initial  disbursement  of the Swiss Contribution
have been met;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than $1,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than  the  Association  shall  have  financed  or  agreed to
finance;
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption;
     (g)  expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to SDR 9,800,000 for petroleum products; and
     (h) expenditures  for  foodstuffs,  crude  fertilizers, crude
minerals  and  petroleum  products  from  the  Swiss  Contribution
Account.
4.   No withdrawal  shall  be  made  and  no  commitment  shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or  on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed  out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Swiss  Contribution  allocated  to Category (1), in
the table set forth in  paragraph  1 above, after the aggregate of
the proceeds of the  Credit  and  the Swiss Contribution withdrawn
from the Credit Account  and  the  Swiss Contribution Account with
respect to Category 1  and  the  total  amount of such commitments
shall have reached the equivalent of: (a) SDR 47,000,000, from the
Credit; and (b) SwF 10,000,000 from the Swiss Contribution, unless
the Association shall be satisfied,  after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement: (i) with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in  the  carrying out of the Program; and
(ii) that the actions  described  in  Schedule 3 to this Agreement
have been taken.
5.   If, after the  exchange  of  views  described  in paragraph 3
above, the Association  shall  have  given  notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and  actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved  progress   and   taken   actions   satisfactory  to  the
Association, then the Association may,  by notice to the Borrower,
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                            Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of  goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000  or  more  each  shall be awarded through
international competitive  bidding  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid,
     such  advertisements  should  be   placed  in  at  least  one
Page  10
     newspaper of general  circulation  in  the Borrower's country
     and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a  notice  in   the   United  Nations  publication,
               Development Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical    journal    of    wide    international
               circulation; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
               "As a  further  alternative,  bidding documents may
          require the bidder to  state  the  bid price in a single
          currency  widely   used   in   international  trade  and
          specified in the bidding documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to  cost the equivalent of less
than $2,000,000 each shall be  awarded  on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account in  respect  of  such contract, two conformed
copies  of  such  contract,  together  with  the  analysis  of the
respective bids and  recommendations  for  award, a description of
the advertising and tendering  procedures  followed and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account in  respect  thereof,  such documentation and
information as the Association  may  reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs  3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a  contract  are  to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special  Accounts, the copies of such contract
or the documentation and  the  information  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or paragraph
4 of this Schedule, as the case  may be, shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the  evidence required under paragraph 4 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs  3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts  on  account  of  which the Association has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Credit  Account  and  the Swiss
Contribution Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
     The Borrower has:
          (i)  (a)  expanded  the  existing  Open  General License
               Facility  in  accordance  with   a  list  of  goods
Page  11
               agreed with the  Association;  (b)  agreed with the
               Association on  a  list  of  goods  to  be included
               in  a  further  expansion   of  the  facility;  and
               (c) increased the aggregate ceiling per importer to
               at least $500,000 equivalent;
         (ii)  agreed with the  Association  on  an action program
               for the continuation  of  the  tariff and sales tax
               reform  program,  including  the  implementation of
               reductions in tariffs and  sales tax exemptions and
               the  institutional  strengthening  of  the  Customs
               Department;
        (iii)  reduced the maximum  export retention percentage to
               35 percent of  foreign  exchange revenue and agreed
               with  the  Association  on   a  limited  number  of
               exceptions;
         (iv)  commenced implementation of  a duty drawback scheme
               as agreed with the Association;
          (v)  deconfined all internal  trade  and import of goods
               except: (a) the  twelve price-controlled items; and
               (b) goods whose importation  is confined for health
               and security reasons; and
         (vi)  commenced  implementation  on  action  programs  as
               agreed with the Association, for the rehabilitation
               and restructuring of the leather/shoe, textiles and
               agro-processing subsectors.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  and services required
during the execution of the Program  and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit  and  the  Swiss Contribution in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (b)  the term "Authorized Allocation"    means: (i) an amount
equivalent to  SDR  30,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from the Credit
Account and deposited  in  the  IDA  Special  Account; and (ii) an
amount of SwF 6,000,000 to  be  withdrawn from the Swiss Contribu-
tion Account and deposited in  the Swiss Special Account, pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expen-
ditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation.    On  the  basis of such request or
requests  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,
withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)  (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Accounts, the
               Borrower shall furnish  to the Association requests
Page  12
               for deposits  into  the  Special  Accounts  at such
               intervals as the Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association  the
               documents and other  evidence  required pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for  the payment or
               payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment  is
               requested. On the basis  of  each such request, the
               Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,
               withdraw from the Credit  Account and Swiss Contri-
               bution Account  and  deposit  into  the appropriate
               Special Account such amounts  as the Borrower shall
               have requested and as shall have been shown by said
               documents and other evidence  to have been made out
               of the Special  Account  for eligible expenditures.
               All  such  deposits  shall   be  withdrawn  by  the
               Association from the  Credit  Account and the Swiss
               Contribution Account  in  the respective equivalent
               amounts,  as  shall  have  been  justified  by said
               documents and other evidence.
4.   For each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of a Special
Account the Borrower shall, at  such time as the Association shall
reasonably request furnish to  the  Association such documents and
other evidence showing  that  such  payment  was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule the Association  shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  If, at any  time  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account
in accordance with  the  provisions  of  Article  V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  Once total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the Swiss
Contribution less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the  Association  pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect  to  the  Program, shall equal the
equivalent of the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (c)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account or the
Swiss Contribution Account of  the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Credit or the Swiss  Contribution shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify  by  notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be  made  only  after  and to the extent
that the  Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in  a  Special Account as of the date
of such notice will  be  utilized  in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of  a  Special  Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may request;  or  (B) deposit into said Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount  outstanding  in  a  Special  Account  will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Page  13
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice  from the Association refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may,  upon  notice  to  the Association and
with the Association's consent,  refund  to the Association all or
any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds  to  the  Association  made  pursuant  to  para-
graphs 6 (a), (b) and  (c)  of  this Schedule shall be credited to
the Credit Account or  Swiss Contribution Account for cancellation
or subsequent withdrawal as the Association may determine.
