Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1969 TA
                                             (Amendment)
      (Industrial Rehabilitation and Trade Adjustment Credit)
                              between
                    UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated April 10, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1969 TA
                                            (Amendment)
                        AGREEMENT AMENDING
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April 10,  1989,  between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (the Borrower)  and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the  Borrower  and  the  Association have entered
into a Development Credit Agreement (Industrial Rehabilitation and
Trade  Adjustment   Credit),   dated   December   30,  1988,  (the
Development Credit Agreement) for the  purpose of assisting in the
financing of  the  program  referred  to  in  Recital  (A)  of the
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
     (B)  the Borrower has  requested  the  Association to provide
additional assistance  towards  the  financing  of  the Program by
increasing the amount made  available under the Development Credit
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has  agreed,  on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing,  to  provide  such  additional assistance to the
Page  2
Borrower  upon  the  terms  and   conditions  set  forth  in  this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                   Amendments of the Development
                         Credit Agreement
     Section  1.01.  Section   1.02   of  the  Development  Credit
Agreement is amended by  deleting  the  "and"  at  the end of Sub-
section (c), substituting "; and" for "." at the end of Subsection
(d) and adding a new Subsection (e) as follows:
          "(e) 'Amending Agreement'  means  the Agreement Amending
     the Development  Credit  Agreement (Industrial Rehabilitation
     and Trade Adjustment  Credit)  between  the  Borrower and the
     Association, dated December 30, 1988, as amended."
     Section  1.02.  Section   2.01   of  the  Development  Credit
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
          "Section 2.01. The  Association  agrees  to  lend to the
     Borrower, on the terms  and  conditions set forth or referred
     to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in various
     currencies equivalent  to  one  hundred  seven  million three
     hundred thousand  Special  Drawing  Rights  (SDR 107,300,000)
     (the Credit), which includes  an additional amount in various
     currencies equivalent to nine  million seven hundred thousand
     Special  Drawing  Rights   (SDR  9,700,000)  (the  Additional
     Financing)."
     Section  1.03.  A  proviso  is  added  at  the  end  of  Sec-
tion 2.04  (b)  of  the  Development  Credit  Agreement reading as
follows:
          "; provided, however, that  any commitment charge on the
     Additional Financing  shall  accrue  from  a  date sixty days
     after the date of the Amending Agreement."
     Section 1.04. Paragraph 4  of  Schedule  1 to the Development
Credit Agreement is amended  by  substituting "SDR 47,000,000" set
forth in subparagraph (a) for "SDR 56,700,000".
     Section 1.05. The following paragraph  is added at the end of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
          "6.  After a date  twelve  months  from the date of this
     Amending Agreement,  no  withdrawals  shall  be  made  and no
     commitment shall be entered into to  pay amounts to or on the
     order of  the  Borrower  in  respect  of  expenditures  to be
     financed out of the proceeds  of the Additional Financing. At
     any time after such date,  the  Association may, by notice to
     the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Additional
     Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
                            ARTICLE II
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effec-
tive until evidence  satisfactory  to  the  Association shall have
been furnished to the Association  that the execution and delivery
of this Amending Agreement  on  behalf  of  the Borrower have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
     Section 2.02. As part  of  the  evidence to be furnished pur-
suant to Section 2.01 of  this  Amending Agreement, there shall be
furnished to the Association  an  opinion or opinions satisfactory
to  the  Association  of  counsel  acceptable  to  the Association
Page  3
showing, on behalf of  the  Borrower, that this Amending Agreement
has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by,  and  executed  and
delivered on behalf of, the  Borrower  and is legally binding upon
the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
     Section 2.03. This Amending  Agreement  shall come into force
and effect on the  date  upon  which the Association dispatches to
the Borrower notice of its  acceptance of the evidence required by
Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
     Section 2.04. If this Amending  Agreement shall not have come
into force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of
this  Amending  Agreement,   this   Amending   Agreement  and  all
obligations of the parties  hereunder  shall terminate, unless the
Association establishes a  later  date  for  the  purposes of this
Section. If  this  Amending  Agreement  shall  terminate under the
provisions of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall
continue in full force and  effect,  as if this Amending Agreement
had not been executed.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly  authorized  representatives,   have   caused  this  Amending
Agreement to be signed in  their  respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States  of  America,  as  of  the day and year
first above written.
                   UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                   By /s/ a. M. Hyera
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice-President
                                                            Africa
