Document of                    FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2796-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND SINGRAULI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
May 1, 1980
This dwomnt h_ a restrided distIbution and nmy be _ed by rcipients only In the performance of
their ochd duties.. Its cntents -y not otherwise be disclosd withou Wod Bank auhorzkation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit  =   Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1            =   Paise 100
US$1            =   Rs 8.4
Rs 1            =   US$0.1190
Rs 1 million   =   US$116,047.62
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee ex-
change rate is subject to change. As of April 21, 1980,
the exchange rate was Rs 8.04 to US$1.0).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THIS REPORT
ARDC     -   Agriculture Refinance and Development Corporation Limited
GOI      -   Government of India
CEA      -   Central Electricity Authority
IDA      -   International Development Association
KfW      -   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NHPC     -   National Hydro Power Corporation Limited
NTPC     -   National Thermal Power Corporation Limited
REB      -   Regional Electricity Board
REC      -   Rural Electrification Corporation Limited
SEB      -   State Electricity Board
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Program
kV       -   kilovolt = 1,000 volts
kWh      -   kilowatt-hour = 1,000 watt-hours
MW       -   megawatt = 1,000 kilowatts
GWh      -   gigawatt-hour = 1,000,000 kilowatt-hours



INDIA                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND SINGRAULI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:         National Thermal Power Corporation, Limited.
Amount:              US$300 million.
Terms:               Standard.
On-Lending Terms:   From GOI to NTPC, with repayment over 20 years, including
five years' grace, at an effective interest rate of
10-1/4% per annum.
Project
Description:        Construction of the second stage of a coal-fired power
generating station, consisting of two 200 MW and two
500 MW units at the Singrauli thermal power station,
in the State of Uttar Pradesh, together with ancillary
equipment and related works, and about 2,000 km of asso-
ciated 400 kV transmission facilities. The proposed
project also includes technical consultants' services for
the thermal power units. Potential risks associated with
the design and timely implementation of the project will
be minimized by NTPC's appointment of engineering consul-
tants for the 500 MW units and management consultants who
have broad experience in major construction programs of
this nature.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. 1I contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                             US$ millions
Local   Foreign   Total
Preliminary Works                   0.3         -       0.3
Civil Works                        53.5        0.9    54.4
Electrical and Mechanical
Equipment                       209.6      153.6   363.2
Coal Handling and
Transportation                   13.4        0.9    14.3
Transmission                      122.9       15.5   138.4
Engineering and Administration   48.7          3.0    51.7
Duties and Taxes                   60.2         -      60.2
Base Cost                   508.6      173.9   682.5
Contingency (physical)             22.6        8.5    31.1
Contingency (price)               145.0       55.7   200.7
Total Project Cost          676.2      238.1   914.3
Total Project Cost Net
of Duties and Taxes        616.0     238.1   854.1
Financing Plan:                                              US$ millions
Local    Foreign  Total
IDA Credit                        161.9      138.1   300.0
KfW Loan                            -        100.0   100.0
GOI Loan and Equity               514.3        -      514.3
Total                         676.2      238.1   914.3
Estimated
Disbursement:                                        US$ Millions
FY81 FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87
Annual            50    90    80    45    15    10    10
Cumulative        50   140   220   265   280   290   300
Rate of Return:      13%.
Appraisal Report:   No. 2745a-IN of April 25, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA FOR THE
SECOND SINGRAULI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$300 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a project for the construction of the
second phase of a proposed 2,000 MW thermal power station. As in the case of
the first Singrauli thermal power project, the proceeds of the credit would
be onlent by the Government to the National Thermal Power Corporation Limited,
for 20 years, including five years' grace, at an interest rate of 10-1/4% per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2431-IN dated April 9, 1979), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 13, 1979. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large, low-income country with 652 million people (in
mid-1979) whose average income is US$180 per annum. The agricultural sector
dominates the economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor force and con-
tributing over 40% of value added. Although smallholder agriculture provides
a fullsome subsistence to many, the land base is inadequate to provide all
families in rural areas with an adequate livelihood under current conditions,
and many who are landless or nearly landless have only an insecure grasp on
the means of existence. Industrialization in India has not been rapid enough
to bring about the economic transformation that has led to higher productivity
and rapid urbanization in some other countries. The urban population was 18%
of the total in 1960, 20% in 1970 and is 21% now. The share of manufacturing
has grown slowly and since the late 1960s has remained roughly constant at
16% of GDP.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past, with GDP growing at a
trend rate of 3.6% per annum from 1950 to 1975. Agricultural output grew at
2.4% per annum over the same period. Slow growth in agriculture acted as a
drag on overall growth, not only because of its sheer weight in the total, but
also because of the need to use scarce foreign exchange to import food. Growth
in industrial output has been higher at 5.2% per annum between 1950 and 1975,
but not as high as in many other developing countries nor as high as can be
expected.
1/   Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report on a loan to the Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation of India (Report No. P-2783-IN), dated April 24,
1980.



-2-
5.        This slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditable domestic
saving and investment performance. Domestic saving has grown from 9% of GDP
in 1951 to the current high level of 24%. Gross domestic investment has risen
from 10% to 24% of GDP over the same period. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment and have financed no more than
5% of investment since 1970. Foreign savings have been important in financing
imports, and a shortage of foreign exchange has acted as a constraint on the
economy for most of the period. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance is less
than 2% of GDP now, has never risen above 3% and fell to less than 1% in the
early 1970s. Exports have grown relatively slowly--5.4% per annum in US
dollar terms and 2.8% per annum in volume terms between 1950/51 and 1975/76.
So far during the 1970s, exports have grown much more rapidly, by 18% per
annum in US dollar terms and 8% in volume terms over the period 1970/71 to
1976/77. During the same period imports grew by 17% per annum in US dollar
terms but only by 2% per annum in volume terms, reflecting a 28% fall in
India's terms of trade over the period.
6.        India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace than
has been achieved so far. Although the industrial sector is small compared to
the size of the total economy, it nevertheless has a highly diversified struc-
ture and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads
and ports--is extensive compared to many countries, although considerable
gaps remain. India is rich in human resources and institutional infrastruc-
ture, although there is much scope for improvement. India is reasonably
well-supplied with natural resources, not only land and water but minerals,
including oil, gas and coal. With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings, India should be able to manage these considerable
resources to accelerate the longer-term growth trend.
Recent Trends
7.        India has managed faster growth during the recent past.  Growth of
GDP in 1978/79 is estimated to be between 3% and 4%; this is a strong perform-
ance coming on top of the previous year's 7.2% growth in GDP and considering
agricultural output grew less than 2%. Even this agricultural growth is
highly creditable given the previous years' record harvests in most crops.
Industrial output grew by 8-10% in 1978/79. Over the four years, 1975/76 to
1978/79, growth in real GDP, agricultural output and industrial output has
averaged 5.3%, 4.4% and 6.9% per annum, respectively. Although these rates
represent growth over the depressed base of the early 1970s, they are signi-
ficantly higher than the longer-term past trend and comparable to the target
growth rates for the medium-term future. Buoyant domestic demand, stagnating
output and world inflation have led to significant increases in prices during
the first half of the 1979/80 fiscal year. The wholesale price index for
September 1979 was 18.4% above that of the previous September. Together, the
rise in the prices of food products, crude petroleum and mineral oils accounted
for over two-thirds of the increase in the index. However, prices of almost
all commodities moved up significantly over this period as reflected in the
9.6% increase in the prices of the residual commodities. Government attempts
to regulate the supply and price of commodities like sugar and edible oils,



-3-
ceilings on credit, adjustment of some interest rates and the seasonal downturn
of the fruit and vegetable prices after summer helped the wholesale price
index to level off after September. However, if allowance is made for the
seasonal factors, prices are still rising at approximately an 18% annual rate.
The Indian economy will no doubt continue to face inflationary pressure during
the 1980/81 fiscal year. Its intensity will to a large extent depend on the
developments in world inflation, especially the rise in oil prices and India's
success in alleviating the supply bottlenecks that emerged during 1979.
Although the current inflationary pressures need not seriously impair medium-
term growth prospects, given available aggregate resources and production
capacity, significant improvements are likely to be required in the organ-
ization of key sectors if an economic slowdown is to be avoided.
8.        The 1978/79 foodgrain crop exceeded the 1977/78 record crop of
126 million tons, and many non-food crops did well. The 1978 monsoon rains
were timely and adequate, although severe flooding in some areas destroyed
both lives and property and ruined some crops. The basic inputs into agricul-
tural production continued their rapid growth of the recent past. Additions
to area under irrigation have doubled from 1.3 million hectares a year during
the five-year period ending 1973/74 to 2.6 million hectares a year during
1977/78 and 1978/79. Fertilizer consumption in 1978/79 reached 5 million
nutrient tons, an increase of 18% over 1977/78. This growth has been impres-
sive, particularly since it followed two successive years of very high growth--
18% in 1976/77 and 26% in 1977/78--so that fertilizer consumption in 1978/79
was 75% higher than in 1975/76. However, prospects for agricultural produc-
tion in 1979/80 are not good. India experienced a severe drought in 1979.
The monsoon was delayed and subsequent rainfall was deficient throughout the
country. Consequent damage to the kharif crop has been substantial. Tenta-
tive estimates indicate a shortfall of 10-12 million tons in kharif crop from
last year's level of 78.7 million tons. Delayed sowing, lack of soil moisture,
low levels of water in tanks and wells as well as power cutbacks and recent
shortages in diesel fuel for irrigation pumps are adversely affecting the rabi
crop. Depending on the performance of the rabi crop, total shortfall in grain
crop is expected to be 10-12 million tons below the 1978/79 level.
9.        The growth of industrial output in 1978/79 came from a sharp rise
in the output of food industries, particularly sugar, a modest increase in
textiles, important increases in the hitherto depressed engineering sector
and the revival of demand for consumer durables. Production would have been
still higher but for recurring shortages of steel, coal, railway wagons and
electric power and capacity constraints in fertilizer, cement, vegetable oils
and petroleum products. Labor unrest also constrained output in some indus-
tries, particularly in textiles, steel and mining; man-days lost in 1978 ex-
ceeded the high level of 1977 and only in 1974 were the number of days lost
higher. Power production increased by 12% but continuing shortages in many
States necessitated power cuts and curbs on new demand. During the first
half of 1979/80 supply bottlenecks in basic industrial inputs began to retard
overall industrial production. In addition to coal and steel, cement, sugar,
cotton textile and cotton yarn output fell below last year's levels. Strong
demand has continued to sustain other important industries such as fertilizers
and chemicals, but it appears increasingly unlikely that these can counter-
balance the constrained sectors.



- 4 -
10.       The trade deficit grew and both the current account surplus and the
balance of payments surplus of recent years shrank in 1978/79. The import bill
is expected to reach US$8.4 billion, which brings the average rate of increase
in US dollar terms to 19% per annum since 1976/77. Non-foodgrain imports rose
even more dramatically by 28% per annum over the past two years. The growth
of imports and the liberalization of import control policies represents a
desirable adjustment to enhanced foreign resources. Although exports grew
much faster during the 1970s through 1976/77 than earlier, export growth in
1977/78 and 1978/79 has slowed somewhat. After rising by 12% in 1975/76
and 23% in 1976/77 in US dollar terms (virtually all growth in export volume),
export earnings rose by only 9% in 1977/78 (with little or no volume growth)
and an estimated 8% in 1978/79 (with 5-8% volume growth). Although part
of the decline is attributable to unfavorable conditions in foreign markets,
export profitability has been allowed to deteriorate somewhat. With net
invisible receipts in 1978/79 estimated the same as in 1977/78--US$2 billion--
the widened trade deficit resulted in a significantly reduced current account
surplus, from US$1 billion in 1977/78 to US$400 million in 1978/79. Despite
some increase in net aid disbursements from their low level in 1977/78, the
increase in reserves declined from about US$2 billion in 1977/78 to about
US$1.5 billion in 1978/79 to reach US$7.4 billion. Exports during the first
three months of this fiscal year are 32% higher than the same quarter of
last year. Imports in the first quarter of 1979/80 are around 7% higher than
the same period of the previous year. However, the impact of recent increases
in petroleum prices are only partially reflected in this figure. India's
total POL import bill for 1979/80 is likely to reach $3.2 billion, $800
million higher than earlier estimates. As a result, there should be a sharp
deceleration in the rate of growth of reserves sufficient to significantly
reduce the number of months of imports covered by reserves during 1980.
Development Prospects
11.       The faster growth of the recent past has been made possible by the
much-increased inward flow of foreign exchange from increased exports, workers'
remittances and external assistance; greatly improved agricultural performance;
the impressive saving effort; the liberalization of import controls; and ex-
panded public expenditure on development programs. Although sustaining the
high growth rates of the recent past in the medium-term is by no means assured,
especially if there is a repeated drought in 1980, India has a level of re-
sources with which to manage the economy that had not existed before. The
comfortable foreign exchange position, and the large foodgrain stocks have
greatly eased the pressures to deal with short-term crises and freed India's
economic managers to continue planning a more ambitious course for the economy.
The policy improvements needed to achieve the better performance now possible
have begun in some important areas but in others have yet to be initiated.
12.       The Draft Plan, which was released in March 1978 and is expected
to be finalized and approved by the National Development Council later this
year, sets out India's development strategy for the five years 1978/79 to
1982/83. The principal objectives of the Draft Plan are to achieve within



a period of ten years: (i) the removal of unemployment and significant
underemployment, (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of living of the
poorest sections of the population, and (iii) provision by the Government of
some of the basic needs of the people in these low-income groups. While the
Plan recognizes the importance of achieving more rapid expansion of the economy
than in the past to meet the employment and welfare objectives, the targeted
rate of growth at 4.7% per annum is lower than projected in most earlier Plans.
According to the planners, this reflects in part the increased emphasis given
to the distribution rather than the level of income generation, and in part
the need for greater realism in the macro-economic assumptions underlying the
plan. While the trade-off between growth and distribution is not immediately
obvious from the Plan model, the adoption of a more realistic growth target
is in itself well justified -- even at 4.7% per annum, the targeted growth
rate is higher than actually achieved during any of the previous Plan periods,
and is substantially above the longer-term trend growth rate.
13.       In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies, dev-
elopment programs and secular trends all seem favorable for resuming a period
of sustained high growth after 1979/80. Fertilizer prices have been reduced
progressively from their very high level in early 1975 and despite some fall
in market foodgrain prices, the fertilizer: foodgrain price ratio has fallen
to a clearly profitable range. Good harvests and higher farm incomes provide
the money to finance higher fertilizer purchases, creating something of a
virtuous circle. Pricing policies for many crops--rice, wheat, sugarcane,
pulses and others--have concentrated recently on supporting prices to maintain
incentives to farmers rather than trying to administratively control prices
to contain inflation. The ambitious irrigation and rural electrification
investment program in the new Five-Year Plan, if fully funded, will help pro-
vide the water control needed to increase yields directly and to induce further
productivity-increasing investments. The effective reorganization of the
agricultural extension service will raise yields as it takes hold gradually
across India. Finally, there are several heartening trends in foodgrain pro-
duction: one is the steady growth of area planted to high-yielding varieties
of rice; another is the growing adoption of summer rice cultivation in the
traditional wheat-producing areas (Punjab and Haryana). These two trends
along with the other favorable developments have caused rice production to
rise impressively in the last two years. Another good omen for foodgrain
production is the rapid growth of winter wheat cropping in traditional rice
areas (West Bengal, Assam and Orissa).
14.       In industry, despite some uncertainty in industrial policy and
the lack of strong policy stimulus to improve efficiency in the industrial
structure, recently strengthened demand forces, increase in planned invest-
ment along with adroit input supply management should allow the industrial
sector to continue to grow at the improved rate of the recent past, at least
for the near- and medium-term future. Over the longer term, growth of indus-
trial production at or above the rate experienced in the recent past--e.g.,
7% per annum during the last four years--will require some changes in policy
to induce a more efficient industrial structure. Recent industrial policies
have sent mixed signals to private manufacturers and investors. Some, such as
reserving certain lines of production for small-scale enterprises or prohibit-
ing the location of new firms in municipal areas, have been restrictive.



-6-
Others have been stimulative, such as the raising of the exemption limit of
industrial licensing for capital investment or favorable adjustments in the
pricing and production controls in several major industries, including cement,
steel, and textiles. In addition the liberalization of import controls is of
considerable benefit to increasing industrial production. However, there are
some worrisome supply shortages that are currently threatening continued rapid
industrial growth. Many can be handled through imports, if needed, as long
as India maintains a healthy foreign exchange position. However, two supply
constraints likely to persist in the future--namely, rail transport and
power--cannot be eased through imports. The new Plan contains a major power
investment program to increase capacity rapidly. The railway investment pro-
gram is more modest. Another crucial input into both of these sectors, and
into most other major sectors, is coal, whose supply needs careful management.
15.       The main reason for expecting sustained growth in industrial pro-
duction is improvement in demand prospects for each of the four major sources
of industrial demand. The first is market demand for manufactured consumption
goods, which is expected to pick up in response to the increase in disposable
income due in particular to improvement in agricultural output. Although its
effect has been delayed somewhat, this broad-based demand is finally making
itself felt and is expected to continue into the future unless the growth
in agricultural output is constrained by repeated droughts. Another source
of demand is public expenditure on development projects, which has grown in
a major way in the last few years and is scheduled to continue to grow under
the new Five-Year Plan. A third source of growth is export demand for indus-
trial goods. There has been a sustained growth in the export of manufactures
such as engineering goods, garments, gems, finished leather and some chemical
products. This export growth should continue in the future with proper policy
support.  A final source of growing demand is private investment by both the
household and corporate sectors.  There are as yet only a few signs of this
growth, such as increased disbursement by term lending institutions and in-
creased use of inputs; investments should become stronger as growth in the
other sources of demand continues and as capacity limitations begin to con-
strain production in more industries.  The net result of increasing demand
should be continued high growth in industrial production in the near and
medium term within existing policies.
16.       Import policy is an area where there has been significant improve-
ment in the recent past; but some improvement in export policy is required
to raise incentives to export. India has liberalized import control policy
significantly in the past two years and imports have responded. Future growth
in imports, and in the benefits of price stability, enhanced production and
increased efficiency which imports bring, will depend to a great extent on
how the now liberalized policy is administered. A delicate touch is required
to yield the benefits without bringing about undesirable damage to vulnerable
industries. India has the foreign resources to allow imports to grow at the
rapid rates of the past two years for a few more years and continue to relax
the very severe restraints imposed on the economy during the early 1970s by
suppression of imports. But, given the import liberalization undertaken so
far and the expected growth of imports, by the end of the Plan period (1982/
83), foreign exchange reserves will have fallen to six months of imports, or
less, and some adjustment in the balance of payments will be required. Part



- 7 -
of the adjustment will very likely be a reduction in the growth rate of
imports; the import bill need not grow 15% in volume terms indefinitely to
sustain the target growth in GDP. Part of the adjustment must come from the
achievement of a growth rate of exports in the vicinity of 7-8% or higher in
volume terms. Faster export growth is needed not only to provide the foreign
exchange to sustain the rapid growth in imports but also to allow foreign
demand and competition to improve the efficiency of Indian industry. Finally,
part of the adjustment should come from an increased net transfer of external
assistance.
17.       India's population policy continues to aim at reducing the birth
rate to 30 births per thousand people by 1983 through completely voluntary
acceptance of fertility control methods supplied by a family welfare system
integrated with the supply of basic health, maternal and child health and
nutrition services. Since 1977, the family planning achievements in terms
of number of acceptors have been below that needed to achieve the 1983 goal
or even to keep the birth rate from rising above its current level. The low
performance is primarily the result of the reaction to the harsh birth control
policies introduced during 1976. Since then family planning performance has
been gradually returning to the rising trend which was discernible before it
was disrupted by the intensive drive of 1976/77. Given continued support for
the program of family welfare, Bank estimates indicate that India's rate of
population increase should remain below 2% per annum and fall to 1.5% by about
the year 2000. Despite the declining trend in the rate of population increase,
a net reproduction rate (NRR) equal to one (replacement level) would only be
achieved around the year 2020. At this time, the total population is estimated
to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 84% over the mid-1979 level
of 652 million.
18.       In addition to stimulating overall economic growth and constraining
population growth, reduction of poverty in India requires special attention
to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
The prospects for alleviating their poverty by providing these families with
more land are not good because of the virtual absence of uncultivated arable
land, the slow progress in implementing land reform and the limited amount of
land that would be available if land reform were carried out. Estimates of
the amount of land that would be available if land reform were carried out vary
greatly. One estimate is that there would be about 9 million hectares avail-
able for distribution. This compares to roughly 45 million families in the two
poorest groups in rural India: landless families and families owning less than
one hectare of land, whose average holding is 0.31 hectares. An approach to
the amelioration of poverty more promising than land reform is the creation
of more employment opportunities for the landless and small farmers in rural
areas. Although the basic thrust must come from the market by a more rapidly
increasing agricultural output, there will be a role for employment-intensive
rural works programs. The new Plan provides for increased rural employment
both through direct employment schemes and through ambitious programs of
investment in rural infrastructure in addition to the more general rural
development programs.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 57 loans and 118 development
credits to India totalling US$2,529 million and US$7,255 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,051 million had
been repaid, and US$3,377 million was still undisbursed as of February 29,
1980. Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
February 29, 1980, totalled US$366 million, representing an increase of about
32% over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of
disbursements as of February 29, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
20.       Since 1959, IFC has made 18 commitments in India totalling US$72.6
million, of which US$17.4 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$40.7 million, US$31.6 mil-
lion represents loans and US$9.1 million equity. A summary statement of
IFC operations as of February 29, 1980, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better
capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in
supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and
railways. Family planning, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, improved water management and intensification and stream-
lining of extension systems, form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to proj-
ects benefitting small farmers. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,
and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on agriculture-, export- and
energy-related projects.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need



- 9 -
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity -.J competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry.  Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
24.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably
be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank
lending. The ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was 12%
in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of
February 29, 1980, outstanding loans to India held by the Bank totaled
US$1,519 million, of which US$579 million remained to be disbursed, leaving
a net amount outstanding of US$940 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On March 31, 1979, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$15.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was US$4.6 billion or 30% (IDA's US$4.0 billion and IBRD's US$0.6 bil-
lion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1978/79,
about 17.5% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Background
26.       The performance of the Indian power supply industry and the economy
as a whole are closely linked. Alternative sources of energy are not readily
available in the amounts needed, and shortage of power has an immediate impact
on other activities of the economy; thus, economic growth and improvement of
the standard of living depend critically on the development of the power sector.
In recent years, as in other parts of the world, energy matters have been
receiving top priority consideration in the policy planning of Central and
State Governments, on par with food production and distribution. Resources
allocated to the power sector have significantly increased during this period,
but pervasive power shortages prevail. While per capita consumption of elec-
tricity has been rising in India, it remains among the lowest in the world
at about 130 kWh per annum. Although investment in the development of the



- 10 -
power sector has been emphasized, demand for power has been outstripping sup-
ply. The direct loss of value added due to power shortages is estimated at
about 3% of GDP.
Development of the Power Sector
27.       In the past, investments in power generation, transmission and dis-
tribution were made largely by the States and, while transfers of power between
States took place as the power system expanded and demand grew, there was no
conscious attempt at the development of power on a broad national or Regional
basis. Hydro power possibilities were identified throughout India, but budget
constraints, water rights problems between States, and other considerations
prevented any large-scale development, leaving a large part of hydro power
potential untapped except for some developments that were carried out by States
individually or jointly with other States--e.g., Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab
and Rajasthan.
28.       Power Supply and Demand.  In the 1950s and 1960s, installed capacity
and power generation managed to keep pace with the nation's demand for power,
both growing at an average annual rate of about 12%. Since 1970, the situation
has deteriorated. Delays in commissioning new power projects, operation and
maintenance problems and insufficient investment under severe budget constraints
have led to a critical situation in which demand for power outstrips supply.
This was exacerbated by poor monsoons and an unstable coal supply caused by
disruptions in coal mining and transport. Between 1970/71 and 1974/75, growth
in power generation averaged only 5% annually. In the following years, 1975/76
and 1976/77, the situation improved as the result of two successive good mon-
soons, improved coal supply, and a concerted effort to improve project imple-
mentation, thermal capacity utilization and overall power system management.
Capacity grew by 10% in 1975/76 and 8% in 1976/77, while generation increased
by 13% and 11.5%, respectively, reflecting improved capacity utilization.
in 1977/78, however, generation increased by less than 4% in spite of a 9%
increase in capacity, due mainly to longer outage periods than normal and
longer periods to commission new plant than expected. The higher growth trend
resumed in 1978/79, with an increase of about 12% in installed capacity and 7%
in power generation. Even so, power shortages persisted in many districts of
the country, particularly in the Eastern Region, and India's economic activity,
particularly in the industrial sector, was adversely affected. Total installed
generating capacity as of March 1979 was 29,000 MW, including non-utility
plant. Of this total generating capacity, about 60% was conventional thermal,
38% hydro and the balance nuclear. Although additional new generation capacity
of about 10% (3,000 MW) is expected to have been commissioned in 1979/80, power
shortages will continue to prevail. Installed capacity in the Northern Region
as of March 1979 was 7,700 MW, consisting of 3,800 MW thermal, 3,700 MW hydro
and the balance nuclear. Industry consumes about 66% of all electricity sold,
while agriculture (mainly irrigation) accounts for another 14-15%. As a result
of accelerated agricultural development programs, there has been a marked
growth of power consumption in the rural areas where more than 80% of India's
population live. The number of electrified villages, for example, grew from
just over 3,000 in 1950/51 to some 230,000, or over one-third of all the vil-
lages in India, by 1979. The Northern Region has put special emphasis on
rural electrification. As a result, only 52% is consumed by industry, compared



- 11 -
with the all-India average of 66%. In line with the relatively high economic
growth rates attained in the Region, energy consumption has been growing at
an average annual rate of 14.5%.
Sector Institutions
29.       The institutional structure of the Indian power sector is complex.
One of the main reasons is that electricity supply is a concurrent subject,
within the jurisdiction of both the Central Government and the State Govern-
ments under the Indian Constitution and the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948.
This means that the responsibility for supplying power is shared between the
Central Government and the State Governments, and full agreement between the
Center and the States is required for the implementation of most actions.
With the rapid expansion of the power sector, there has been the increasing
need to coordinate the activities in the power industry beyond State bound-
aries, and various agencies have been established with a view to promoting
integrated power development in the country. The principal agencies in the
sector are: (i) the State Electricity Boards (SEBs); (ii) Regional Electricity
Boards (REBs); (iii) the Central Electricity Authority (CEA); (iv) the two
Central power generating corporations--the National Thermal Power Corporation
(NTPC) and the National Hydro Power Corporation (NHPC); and (v) the Rural
Electrification Corporation (REC).
30.       State Electricity Boards.  The SEBs were established by the State
Governments under the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948.  Their major task at the
time of establishment was to bring together the small individual, often
independent privately owned power plants and facilities within their respec-
tive States. The SEBs continue to promote the coordinated development of the
generation, supply and distribution of power within their respective States
and to control and regulate private sector power supply undertakings. At the
present time, the States own or control about 90% of India's power generation
facilities. While the SEBs are corporate entities and enjoy some autonomy in
the management of their day-to-day operations, they are under the effective
control of their State Governments in such policy matters as capital invest-
ment, finance, tariff changes and personnel. As a means of improving collab-
oration between the SEBs and establishing power systems on a broader regional
basis, four Regional Electricity Boards (REBs) were established between 1964
and 1966 by common resolution of the State and Central Governments, to help
develop integrated power systems in their respective Regions, and thus pre-
pare for the transition from separate power systems at State level to Regional
systems and finally to an interconnected national grid. The chairmanship of
each REB is assumed in rotation by the Chairmen of the SEBs in the Region, and
engineers of constituent SEBs are seconded to the REBs. At present, the REBs
function in an advisory capacity for coordination of generation schedules,
maintenance programs, and interstate power transfers. The potential role of
the REBs in the light of the progressing integration of Indian power sector
operations is being reviewed by the Government of India (GOI). The SEBs of
Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan and the Delhi Electricity Supply
Undertaking (DESU) are the major power supply authorities in the Northern
Region, and will be the recipients of power from the Singrauli station.



- 12 -
31.       Central Electricity Authority.  The CEA was set up in 1950 to be
responsible for developing a national policy for power development, and to
coordinate the activities of the various planning agencies involved in elec-
tricity supply. As a result of the amendments to the Electricity (Supply)
Act, 1948, which became effective in October 1976, the scope of the CEA's
functions was expanded. Accordingly, in addition to its general responsi-
bility outlined above, CEA was made responsible for the formulation of power
development plans, optimization of investments in the power sector, training
of personnel, interconnected system operations, and research and development.
The SEBs are required to submit their investment proposals to the CEA for
technical and economic appraisal in a national context.
32.       NTPC and NHPC.  In order to cope with the persistent inadequacy
of power supply to meet the growing demand--a situation which has increasingly
prevailed since 1970--GOI made a policy shift and has undertaken to supplement
the efforts of the States by constructing large-scale Centrally-owned thermal
power stations at coal fields in each of the four Regions, as well as large
hydro power generating stations--a step to interconnect the systems beyond
conventional State boundaries. This would lead ultimately to an integrated
national power grid. Accordingly, the National Thermal Power Corporation
(NTPC) and the National Hydro Power Corporation (NHPC) were established in
November 1975 under the Companies Act, 1956, as public corporations, wholly
owned by GOI, with authority to design, construct, own and operate generating
plant and associated transmission facilities and supply power in bulk directly
to the States. The Centrally owned generating stations, including the Singrauli
power development in the Northern Region, are designed to supplement the
States' activities and add new power generation capacity effectively within
the shortest period of time. They will ultimately form part of the national
power system and will supplement power supply under bulk supply contracts to
the States in the Region in which they are located.
33.       Rural Electrification Corporation.  To help SEBs undertake the task
of rural electrification, the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) was
established in 1969 as a public corporation, wholly owned by GOI. Its main
institutional objective is to finance rural electrification schemes prepared
by SEBs throughout India, functioning as a financial intermediary with tech-
nical expertise, and ensuring the efficient on-lending of funds drawn pri-
marily from GOI. In undertaking the task, REC is directed to coordinate its
lending operations with the activities of other agencies, such as the Agri-
cultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC), which provide financing
for rural development. Although the amount of REC financial support is small
in relation to total SEB operations in the power sector, REC currently supports
more than half of total rural electrification expenditures.
Future Development
34.       With the rapid growth of the power sector accompanied by the
increasing complexity of its operation, the need to undertake an integrated
national approach to sectoral development is recognized by GOI. Some encour-
aging developments have been initiated. For example, the unified operation of
power systems on a Regional basis has commenced, although still on a limited
basis. The Southern Regional grid has been in operation since 1972 with inter-
connected 220 kV transmission, and progressive integration of power systems



- 13 -
in other Regions is intended to pave the way for a national grid. Provision
was made under the Fourth Power Transmission project (Credit 604-IN) to help
finance the cost of consultants to study the technical, economic and financial
aspects of the long-term national plan for the power sector. Such a plan would
also include a 400 kV system study which is designed to establish primary grid
configurations to be adopted in developing the national grid. The 400 kV
system study was commenced by CEA and the first phase of the planned work has
been completed. Since the study is an essential prerequisite for formulating
sound policies for future development of the sector, GOI intends to continue it
as part of integrated long-term national power planning. The operation of
regional systems, which will be ultimately integrated into a national grid,
requires large numbers of technical personnel trained in operation of sophis-
ticated load dispatch equipment and interconnected systems operation. A UNDP
project designed to assist CEA in developing programs for staff training for
operation of the future load dispatch centers is expected to be implemented
shortly upon submission of a project proposal by GOI.
35.       The Government has recognized that all aspects of the sector need to
be reviewed and that satisfactory solutions have to be found for the various
sector development problems. Consequently, GOI established a high-level com-
mittee under the chairmanship of V.G. Rajadhyaksha. The Committee has appointed
seven panels of leading experts in both public and private sectors which are
reviewing: (a) power planning; (b) project formulation and implementation;
(c) operation and maintenance; (d) organization and management; (e) finance,
financial management and tariffs; (f) rural electrification; and (g) research
and development. The Committee is expected to submit its findings and recom-
mendations to GOI during 1980. The Bank Group will continue to take an active
interest in the Committee's findings.
36.       During the five-year period 1979/80-1983/84, new generating capacity
is expected to total some 18,900 MW, of which about 13,000 MW would be thermal
and 5,000 MW hydro. The construction of some 15,000 km of 400 kV transmission
is planned to enable the evacuation of the power output through the integrated
Regional systems. In the Northern Region, new capacity of about 4,700 MW is
expected to be commissioned (including 840 MW at Singrauli), which would bring
the installed capacity to 12,600 MW. In 1981/82, the year when the first 200
MW unit of the Singrauli development will be operational, the Northern Region
is still likely to have a capacity deficit of some 11% and the anticipated
shortfall is likely to reach more than 12% (or about 1,100 MW) in 1983/84.
Power shortages will therefore continue to persist until well beyond 1984.
With respect to rural electrification, by the end of 1983/84, the Government
plans to electrify an additional 100,000 villages and about two million irri-
gation pumps and to reinforce systems in the villages already electrified.
Bank Group Operations and Strategy in the Power Sector
37.       Since 1954, the Bank has made nine loans to India for power projects
amounting to US$334.5 million and IDA twelve credits totalling US$1,171 mil-
lion. Of the total, US$870.5 million is for financing of generating plant;
US$23 million is for the purchase of construction equipment for the Beas hydro-
electric project; US$380 million for the provision of high voltage transmission;



- 14 -
and US$232 million for the support of rural electrification schemes. Nine
loans and credits for generating plant, the Beas project (Credit 89-IN) and
the first three transmission projects (Loan 416-IN and Credits 242-IN and
377-IN), have been completed. The Fourth Transmission project (Credit 604-IN)
is proceeding satisfactorily notwithstanding initial delays in preparation of
specifications and in contract awards for sophisticated load dispatch equip-
ment; the credit proceeds of US$150 million were fully committed by the end of
1979. The loan to the Tata Electric Companies under the Third Trombay Thermal
Power project (Loan 1549-IN), which was approved in April 1978, is progressing
satisfactorily. The First Singrauli (Credit 685-IN of April 1977) and Korba
(Credit 793-IN of May 1978) projects are also on schedule. The First Rural
Electrification credit (Credit 572-IN of July 1975) has been fully committed.
The Ramagundam Thermal Power project (Credit 874-IN and Loan 1648-IN of February
1979) and the Second Rural Electrification project (Credit 911-IN of June 1979)
are still in the early stages of implementation.
38.       The Bank Group has cooperated with the Government in seeking solu-
tions to a number of difficult, complex and politically sensitive problems
which have confronted the Indian electricity supply industry since Independ-
ence. The sensitivity of Center-State relations and the political constraints,
arising from the fact that electricity supply is within the concurrent juris-
diction of both Central and State Governments, have dictated a policy of seek-
ing progress through cooperation. More specifically, the Bank Group's main
objectives of lending operations to the Indian power sector are: (a) accel-
erating the installation of generating capacity and promoting measures to
improve the technical levels of operation and maintenance of existing plant;
(b) fostering development of comprehensive long-range Regional and national
system plans which would assure implementation of a least-cost power develop-
ment program; (c) strengthening of the sector organization and (d) strengthen-
ing of the finances of the institutions involved in the sector, particularly
of the SEBs.
39.       The basic approach pursued by the Center has been one of seeking
consensus through persuasion. Some noteworthy results have been achieved,
which include: (i) amendment of the general provisions of the Electricity
(Supply) Act in 1976, to strengthen the role of the CEA and to authorize
the establishment of NTPC and NHPC; (ii) the establishment of the Regional
Electricity Boards and later of the Centrally owned power companies, which
mark the first important steps towards nationwide power operation; (iii) the
recent amendments to the financial provisions of the Electricity (Supply)
Act, 1948 which provide for the development of SEBs on a more commercial basis
through financing from internal sources a reasonable proportion of their
investments; (iv) tariff studies by a number of SEBs with a view to reassessing
tariff policies; (v) preparation of action plans by a number of SEBs designed
to maintain or restore the 9-1/2% rate of return through tariff increases,
rationalization of manpower requirements and other cost-effective schemes;
and (vi) progress of NTPC's generation/transmission construction program with
Bank Group assistance. Implementation of the program will make a significant
contribution to the gradual elimination of the shortfall of power; further
improvements are anticipated, which when they are fully carried out, should
have far reaching consequences to the Indian power industry.



- 15 -
40.       There remain a number of areas which have been the cause of conti-
nuing concern to the Bank Group and the Government. These include: (i) nation-
wide long-range planning for power development; and (ii) the financial position
of a number of the SEBs. The Government has requested Bank Group assistance
in pursuing its planned power development program. Given the --sive need for
funds in a short period of time and the opportunity to help in fostering integ-
rated power development in India, the Bank has financed three "super-thermal"
projects. The proposed operation is the fourth in the series. The construc-
tion of large coal-fired generation plant at Regional centers serves to integ-
rate sector development on a more rational basis than ever before and helps
to improve reliability of power supply. It also contributes to planning and
development of a Regional and ultimately national transmission grid and to
emergence of REBs as responsible planning and coordinating institutions. The
appraisal mission discussed with CEA, NTPC and NHPC the content of a long-range
national power development study designed to prepare a least-cost power devel-
opment program. Based on terms of reference suggested by the Association for
such a study, preparatory work has been initiated. Presently, India's Eleventh
Annual Power Survey Committee is engaged in projecting the medium- and long-
term power requirements, which form one of the basic inputs for the long-term
power planning studies. Completion of the long-term national power development
study is expected by early 1982. With respect to the SEBs' financial perfor-
mance, some progress has been noted, but the financial viability of SEBs
remains an important objective of Bank Group involvement in the power sector
(paragraphs 55 and 56).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The project was appraised by a mission which visited India in May/
June 1979. A report entitled "India - Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project
Staff Appraisal Report" (No. 2745a-IN, dated April 25, 1980) is being distri-
buted separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in
Washington in April 1980. GOI and NTPC were represented by a delegation
coordinated by Mr. S. C. Jain of the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry
of Finance. A supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
42.       The proposed project represents the second stage of the first
Centrally owned large-scale thermal power development in India, comprising
two additional 200 MW and two 500 MW coal-based generating units, together
with ancillary equipment and related works, and the associated 400 kV trans-
mission facilities (about 2,000 km of single circuit lines and associated
equipment). The proposed extension would bring the Singrauli power station
to its final installed capacity of 2,000 MW. The site of the power station
is near the Singrauli coal field at Kota in the State of Uttar Pradesh. The
two 200 MW units are expected to be commissioned in the latter half of 1983
and early 1984, and the two 500 MW units in mid-1985 and mid-1986.



- 16 -
Project Cost and Financing
43.       The project cost, including contingencies and excluding duties and
taxes and interest during construction, is estimated at about US$854 million
equivalent, of which about US$238 million represents the estimated foreign
exchange costs. Duties and taxes add about US$60 million.
44.       The proposed credit of US$300 million would provide about 35% of the
cost of the project, excluding interest during construction and duties and
taxes. The Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) of West Germany will provide
DM 185 million (US$100 million equivalent) towards financing the two 500 MW
turbo-generator units and auxiliary equipment. The balance of the funds
required, aggregating about US$514 million equivalent, would be provided by
the Government in the form of loan and equity capital.
Procurement and Disbursement
45.       All items financed under the proposed credit, would be procured by
NTPC through international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank/IDA
guidelines. The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 100% of:
(a) the c.i.f. cost of imported items; (b) the ex-factory cost, net of duties
and taxes, of items procured from Indian suppliers; and (c) the cost incurred
for technical advisory services of consultants. Indian manufacturers compet-
ing under international competitive bidding would be granted a preference
margin of 15% or the current rate of import duty, whichever is less. It is
expected that local manufacturers of equipment and machinery would submit the
lowest conforming bids for most of the items financed under the credit. Docu-
ments for individual contracts estimated to cost US$1,500,000 or more will be
subject to prior review by the Association. In order to allow NTPC to exercise
its option right under supply contracts for the First Singrauli project, which
were also in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines, retroactive financing up to
US$15 million for payments made after August 1, 1979 for repeat orders for the
two 200 MW turbo-generator units and auxiliary equipment, including 6.6 kV
switchgears, control and instrumentation system and data acquisition systems,
is proposed in view of substantial savings in project cost.
Project Implementation
46.       NTPC will implement the proposed project as part of its ongoing
Singrauli power development. NTPC is managed by a Board of Directors, which
presently consists of seven members, two of whom are full time. A competent
and experienced Chairman and Managing Director was appointed in early 1976 and
NTPC has made good progress in building up its organization and the manpower
since then. As a new and growing organization, NTPC places special importance
on the training of engineers, supervisors and operating staff as well as
managerial staff, and is implementing an acceptable training program which is
now concentrating on pre-operational spheres of activity such as planning,
design and construction.
47.       A master plan for project implementation has been prepared by NTPC.
Preparatory civil works have already commenced for this second phase at the
plant site. Much of the detailed engineering and design work carried out for



- 1 7 -
the ongoing first stage of the Singrauli thermal power development under Credit
685-IN is applicable to the proposed project. Since the manufacture and instal-
lation of 500 MW turbo-generator sets is a new development for NTPC, it has
selected consultants to assist in the design, the preparation of specifications
and bidding de ;ments, and the evaluation of bids for the two 500 MW units.
Employment of engineering consultants for the 500 MW units is a condition of
effectiveness (Section 2.02 of Project Agreement and Section 5.01(b) of
Development Credit Agreement).
48.       NTPC has also developed a comprehensive project management and
information system. In view of the importance of efficient project coordina-
tion and control to timely and successful construction of the plant and of
the high cost of delay in project implementation, NTPC has agreed to appoint
consultants with broad experience in major construction programs of this
nature. NTPC has undertaken to appoint such consultants by October 15, 1980
(Sections 2.02 of Project Agreement).
49.       Large reserves of coal are available at the Singrauli coal field
and no problems are foreseen with regard to coal availability. The Government
will ensure adequate coal supplies for the project (Section 3.04 of Development
Credit Agreement). Cooling water arrangements are adequate.
50.       Adequate measures would be taken to minimize potential adverse
ecological effects of the project, including stack emissions, heat dissipation
and ash disposal. The approval of the National Committee on Environmental
Planning and Coordination has been obtained, and appropriate occupational
safety standards would be strictly enforced (Section 2.09 of Project
Agreement).
NTPC Finances
51.       NTPC would begin to earn revenues in 1981/82 when commissioning of
the first 200 MW generating unit under the First Singrauli project (Credit
685-IN) is scheduled. As the generating capacity increases, NTPC's annual
revenue is expected to increase at a faster rate than its operating expenses
and produce rates of return on the capital base rising gradually to reach
9-1/2% by 1988/89 and 11% by 1990/91. By 1986/87 when scheduled implementa-
tion of the proposed project is completed, NTPC will have constructed and
commissioned generating capacity of 4,300 MW (fourteen 200 MW generating units
and three 500 MW units, including those of the proposed project, as well as
about 7,000 km of associated 400 kV transmission). In accordance with the
provisions of the Companies Act, the Government would provide funds so that
NTPC's debt/equity ratio would not exceed 1:1. NTPC's initial authorized share
capital of Rs 1,250 million (US$149 million) was increased in May 1979 to Rs
3,000 million (US$357 million). Further progressive increases of issued share
capital are planned during the construction period, reaching about Rs 22,000
million (US$2,620 million) by 1983/84. NTPC would inform the Association
prior to submission to its annual meeting of any proposal for modification of
existing limitations on NTPC's borrowing powers (Section 3.04 of Project Agree-
ment). The proceeds of the proposed credit will be onlent by GOI to NTPC and
conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Association



- 18 -
is a condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of Development Credit Agree-
ment). GOI loans would be repayable by NTPC in 20 years, including periods of
grace of five years, with interest at the rate of 10-1/4% per annum. This is
the standard rate at which GOI lends to public sector enterprises. The ex-
change risk will be borne by the Government. Inflation in India between
1974/75 and 1978/79 averaged only 1.5% per annum. With the sharp increase in
oil prices during 1979 coinciding with a severe drought, prices spurted by
almost 15% between April and December 1979 and are anticipated to increase
another 10% during 1980/81. Given past GOI determination and success in con-
taining inflation, and the likelihood of a strong agricultural recovery
and improved supply of industrial inputs, the rate of price increase over the
project period is expected to average somewhat below 7% per annum.
52.       NTPC has agreed to achieve in 1988/89, and maintain thereafter, a
rate of return of not less than 9-1/2% on the cost of the average net fixed
assets in service, and to set tariffs from the time of commissioning of its
first 200 MW generating unit at Singrauli at levels not lower than those esti-
mated to be required to meet this target (Section 4.03 of Project Agreement).
This results in lower returns in the earlier years, but in view of the high
initial capital investment in the early stages of NTPC's power development
and the time involved until thermal generating units reach their full output,
this approach to setting the tariff is appropriate.
53.       NTPC's forecast average bulk supply tariff for the sale of power is
estimated at about 29 paise per kWh (US43.5/kWh), excluding fuel surcharge.
Internal cash generated by NTPC would begin to cover annual debt service and
working capital increases from 1983/84. Any shortfall in funds prior to that
year would be financed by capital subscription from GOI.
54.       Under the three previous projects, NTPC undertook to sell the out-
put of power under bulk supply contracts satisfactory to the Association.
NTPC has agreed to provide a similar undertaking under the proposed project
(Section 2.10 of Project Agreement). GOI has obtained from the recipient SEBs
in the Northern Region their agreement to purchase not less than 85% of the
output from the Singrauli station. NTPC prepared a preliminary draft bulk
supply contract for its sale of power to the recipient SEBs. The draft out-
lines the manner in which power would be distributed to individual SEBs in the
region through the Regional load dispatch centers, the commercial and financial
arrangements for the sale of NTPC's power, etc. The draft is currently being
reviewed by GOI. By the time the first Singrauli unit is commissioned in
early 1982, bulk tariff contracts satisfactory to the Association would be
worked out. The important consideration is to ensure that determination of
the appropriate level of tariffs is consistent with the financial viability of
NTPC and with broader economic considerations.
Financial Performance of SEBs
55.       Historically, the financial position of the SEBs has been weak,
mainly because of the inadequate tariff levels in relation to costs, and has
been the subject of continuing dialogue between GOI and the Association.
The Bank Group has sought, under the previous power transmission loan and
credits, that the beneficiary SEBs will improve their performance, and SEBs



- 19 -
were to work towards a rate of return target of 9-1/2%. The two ongoing
rural electrification projects (Credits 572-IN and 911-IN) further promoted
improvement in rates of return of SEBs through required subsidization of
rural electrification losses by State Governments. While actual performance
has varied among SEBs, the overall trend showed an improvement through 1976/77,
when seven out of the sixteen major SEBs reached the target rate of return,
compared with only four in the previous year, 1975/76. A further two reached
their targets in 1977/78 with the help of rural electrification subsidies from
their State Governments. Uttar Pradesh SEB is expected to achieve the agreed
rate of return in 1979/80. Returns generally decreased in 1977/78 and 1978/79,
however, due to the adverse financial impact of forced plant outages, the
natural calamities of flooding and drought, increased purchases of relatively
more expensive thermal power and disruptions in coal mining industry and in
the transport sector, leaving ten out of the sixteen SEBs unable to reach the
agreed rate of return. The situation faced by some hard-hit SEBs did not
constitute "normal circumstances", and it can be justifiably argued that the
achievement of the 9-1/2% could not be realistically expected.
56.       Plans for the restoration of acceptable rates of return were dis-
cussed during appraisal with the Northern Region SEBs and the Delhi Electri-
city Supply Undertaking, and short-term action plans for restoring in the
current fiscal year rates of return to at least 9-1/2% were found acceptable.
The plans are now under implementation. They consist of: tariff increases
ranging from 10% to 14%, rationalization of manpower requirements, improvement
of generating efficiency, reduction of line losses, and improved billing and
collection procedures. In the case of Haryana, action plans include the
commencement of subsidization of rural electrification losses by the State
Government. By implementing such action plans, the SEBs in the Northern
Region have reached a 9-1/2% rate of return in 1979/80.
Project Justification and Risks
57.       The proposed project is the least-cost solution for easing the
acute power shortages in the Northern Region within the shortest possible
time. Compared to the practical alternative of smaller coal-based stations
that would be installed by individual SEBs in the absence of the project,
the present value of the cost stream of the proposed project is lowest at
any discount rate. The economic rate of return of the project, using observed
individual willingness to pay for continuous power supply, together with
tariffs for non-commercial customers, as a proxy for economic benefits,
including some quantifiable consumers' surplus, is 13%. This must be regarded
as well below the true economic rate of return on the proposed expansion of
power generation capacity since additional benefits, which are expected from
project implementation but whose quantification is difficult--e.g., industrial,
agricultural and commercial output maintained by the project's effect of
reducing shortages--are not included.
58.       Project risks are no greater than can normally be expected with
operations of this type. The principal risk would be the possibility of
slippage which could give rise to delays in scheduled commissioning of plant.
The progress of project implementation will be closely monitored during



- 20 -
engineering and construction and the use of experienced consultants would help
minimize delays in project implementation. The fact that a number of 200 MW
units and one 500 MW unit will have been in operation in India before the
project is commissioned will reduce the possibility of initial operational
difficulties during the start-up and the early stage of operations.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and NTPC and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the
IDA Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
60.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between India and NTPC
and appointment of engineering consultants for the design and preparation of
technical specifications of 500 MW units have been made additional conditions
of effectiveness of the Credit (Section 5.01(a) and (b) of Development Credit
Agreement).
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 1, 1980
By
Ernest Stern



ANNEX I
IDIA - SOCIL INICATORS DATA SET                         Page  1  of  5
RhRMCE GROUPS (ADfJUSTED AyUGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ * 1.)                                             - AMST RECENT SE   NEITE 'a
TOTAL          387.6                                                 SANE        SAME    IMI ERGEE
AGUCULTURAL    1818.3                                OST RECET     OROGRAPC    INCOME       INCOE
190  lb   1970 A  ESTIATE /b       REGION /c  GROUP Ld   GROUP A
GNP PER CAPITA (USs)                60.0        90.0    180.0            191.1     209.6       467.5
EMERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    142.0       181.0    218.0            69.1       83.9      262.1
POPUATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPATION, NC-YEAR (MILLIONS)   434.9         547.6    631.7Lf
UAN POPMLATION (PECEST or TOTAL) 17.9         19.7      20.7           13.2       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATIOR IN TEAR 2000 (ILLIONS)                    973.0
STATIOSARY POPULATION (MLLIONS)                    1643.0
TEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACIED               2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Em.                     132.0      167.0    192.0            86.6       49.4        43.3
PER SQ. 136. AGRICULTURAL LAND   247.0     308.0    347.0           330.2      Z52.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PRCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       40.8        42.5      42.0           44.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 YS.                        55.7        54.6      55.0           52.4       53.2        51.9
65 RS. AND ABOVE                  3.5         2.9       3.0            3.1        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROIWEJ RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             L.9        2.3       2.1            2.4        2.4         2.7
URBAN                            2.5         3.3       3.1            4.1        4.6         4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TOUSAND)    43.0        40.0      35.0           44.4       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PEt TOUSAND)    21.0       17.0      14.0            16.4      15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.2        2.9       2.4            3.2        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
AGCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0     3782.0   4518.0
3SUS (PERCENT OF MARIED wO)   ..           12.0      16.9            7.9       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        100.0      102.0    101.0            99.4       98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  95.0       92.0      89.0           93.0       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         51.0       53.0      48.0           56.1       52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIML AND PULSE      19.0        16.0      12.6           10.4       L3.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) NQOTALITY RATE    28.0       22.0      18.0           19.2       18.5        11.'
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT SIRTEN (EAS)   43.0        48.0      51.0           49.1       49.3       54.7
INFA.YT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TROUSAND)                           ..       134.0       ..              ..      105.4       68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        17.0      33.0           31.5       26.3        34.4
URBAN                             ,,        60.0      83.0           63.9       58.5        57.9
RURAL                             ..         6.0      20.0           20.1       15.8       21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        18.0      20.0           15.7       16.0        40.8
URBAN                              ..       85.0      87.0           66.8       65.1       71.3
&URAL                             ..         1.0       2.0            2.5        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PIB PHYSICIAN        5800.O0h    4890.0   3135.0          7107.9   11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PE NURSING PERSON     9630.Ojh   5220.0   6320.0         12064.0    5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          2590.OLi   2020.0   1231.0          2738.4    1417.1        726.5
URBAN                              .          .         ..             ..      197.3      272.7
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..              ..    2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..       ..              ..       24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
-OTAL                            5.2          ..       5.2             ..        5.3        5.4
RRBAN                            5.2          ..       4.8             ..        4.9        5.1
RURAL                            5.2          ..       5.3             ..        5.4        5.5
AVERAGE NUMIBl OF PERSONS PER ROOM
CTAL                             2.6        2.3        ..
dRSAN                              ..         ..        ..
IURAL                             ..          ..       ..
ACCESS 70 _ECTR'CITY (PERCENT
OF D3'E' LZNGS;
TOTAL                             ..         .          .              ..       22.5        S.1
113A                               ..         ..        .              ..       17.8        5.1
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..              ..         ..         9.9



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
SNDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHUT
nUIA                       PIFRZNCE GROUPS (ADJUST&DIAl" S
- NiDST  xciT  ESTEM
AMHZ        SANET MET HIM&E
NOT RCENT       nO0LAIC        IC 0O11      INCOME
160 Lb      1970 /b ZSTSmAT  lb       ISC0GION 1   GROUP Id    GROUP /a
EDUCATION
ALUlWo En0UlxrI RATIOS
nIAR:        TOTAL                 61.0         72.0      79.0             59.5        63.3        82.7
MALK                  10.0        57.0       94.0             74.9       79.1         67.3
?Rx                   40.0        35.0       63.0             43.7       48.4         75.8
SECONDARYt   TOTAL                 20.0         29.0      26.0             19.5        16.7        21.4
muZ                   30.0        39.0       38.0            27.6        22.1         33.0
PuEAI                 10.0        17.0       16.0             10.0       10.2        1i.3
VOCATIONAL ENL. (Z Of SICQDUS)   8.0               6.0        ..              1.3         5.6         9.8
PUYPL-TEACM RATIO
EIDM Y                             29.0         40.0      42.0             42.2        41.0        34.1
SECOIIDARY                         16.0         17.0        ..               ..        21,7        23.4
AQ1LT LITZRACY RATE (PWEZ)           26.0         33.0      36.0             25.5        31.2        54.0
CONSU!TION-
PIRSSEN0 CARS PE THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.7          1.0       1.2              2.3        2.8          9.3
RADIO RECEIVSRS PMR THOUHA
POPULATION                          5.0         21.0      24.0             15.5       27.2         76.9
TV UCEIVERS m   THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ,.          0.1       0.                          2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GEIUAL
INTERMST") CIRCULATION PCI
INOUSAND POPULATION                  11.0         16.0      16.0              6.2         5.3        18.3
CINMEA ANUAL ATTENDANCI PER CAPITA  4.0            6.3       3.6               *-         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LAaOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   18670.0    226670.0  261000.0/k
FEPALE (PERCENT)                   31.3         32.6      32.2             21.4       24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PE&CENT)              73.0         73.0      73.0             66.3        69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.0         11.0      11.0              9.6       10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                43.0         40.2      39.2             35.8        36.9        37.1
MALE                                 57.1         52.3      51.3             52.3        52.4        48.8
FEMALE                               27.9         27.1      26.2             15.7        18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATtO               1.0          1.1       1.1              1.3         1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCQIZ
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP aOUSZHOLDS   26.7          26.3/1      ..               ..          ,.        15.2
RICHEST 20 PERCENT Of ROUSZHOLDS  51.7          48. 971                       *          *         46. 2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT oP HOUSZROLDS    4.1           6.7/7      ..               ..          ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   13.6          17.27       ..               ..          ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      63.0             86.5       99.2        241.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      73.0             74.2        78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCONE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..       91.9        179.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      50.0             50.4       54.8        103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BEL0W ABSOLUTE
POVERTY  SNCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      47.0             44.3       44.1         24.8
RURAL                                ..           ..      52.0             52.4       53.9         37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusced group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, daca for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
'c    Souch Asia   !d  Low Income (S280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita,
1976);   'f  ;978 mid-vear population is estimated at 640.4 ojilion;   aj  1951-60;    h  1962;
1958;   7j  1967;   /k  1978 mid-year laber force is estimaced at 261 =illion;   /1  1964-t5.
Mast Recent Escimate of tiNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



ANNEX I
MEP'NITIOKEO ST 3XAL ThICATOES                                                                      Page   3   of   5
Notes:  Although the dat.ar.e drams fro  sources gene.rally judged the most suthorittive end reliabl, it shoud also he noted that thoy cap not be interna-
tiosal  comparble bec aus  of the lank of ntsndardled definitiona  and conoepta ued by different outinin onllentisg the data. Tie data as-c, oooetheiss,
usful to desoribe orders of magoitude,Iindicate treads, sod characterize  certais major differe-e  betwe-   ountries.
Theadjste  grup  vorgesfor each indicator aro pvoplatinn-oighted geomtric mesas, eoeldiag the eotrem   cane: of the indicator and the  -ct  opula1ted
ocutr  inonb gou.  Cscto lak of data, group avrages of all lodictore for Capital Surpios Oil Obportr- and of tdacator  of icoen  to Water nod bo-ets
Ddspoonl, Honuhig, Ionncve  intribution sad Poverty foe other coutry grups are populatios-seighted genastrin menew: cithout enien    f tie entrouc  -ao- and
the mont pultd coutry.  Sincet the cov rag f coutries    ng the iniators ded  .s avilability of data and is nob unifora.  -stino nct be c-ercined
is relting  verge  of weidctrt nte.  These avraesn  m-ety uaef.  as approiamations of  ezpcted" values when conpartg the ca-ue  of one
is.dlator at a time son  the.country and refrenceo groups.
IAND AREA (thousan.d eqm. .)                                                                Aconno to  loeaIo.a  Coecea o.onnDai                          t1i  urban  and  -ii 
.1Tta  srface area. -pricing land urea and inland water.-Nme fpol   toa,urba ,and rural  IeIe  by -nreta diopon..  a:,
Agricult-rl -  Mot recent e-timate of agricultural area naed teqempraril                    percen.tage:  of their reepecti-e populabin.-  Enoreta diapo..al ocy tocbude
or permaently for  -cps, peature:, maket and kitehea garden  or to                        the colnlnad disposal, eith or sithoun troatneot, of huma  ""-rta
lIe falow                                                                                 and  wseatrby eate-b n..e .ystema or thenc   of pit pricic-  and rualev
GNP PER CAPITA (tS$) - liP por capta. cti-ies at cureet aaket prics                           iisstdcatinnprPwiin-  ouaindndd  ye.e   fpacitgpyimn
calculated by sam  c-o-eoin  method am World Bkh Atla:, (1976-78 haul);                     tulftd  inamdical scuiat  nicer- by leve.'
i96t, 1970,-ad 1975 data.                                                                 Popeulationo per Narciog Person - Poplitico divided by o.mior of pc-aticiog nail
DEat C UiMPTION PEP CAPITA - Anouni o-eaption of nomrci.1 energ                           and fosale graduateeros  pratical acruen,adncontaio
-           (cal nd lgoi:,,  etrloum   nauralgH_ adhydr o-solear an   e-PpltonprHoia   o  - total, urban, an-drb- Population  (total, urban,
thermal 4electricity) in kilograam  of coal equi-slet per capita; i96o                      and -rura) diclded by their rep-oti-e nmber of hoopita1 boda acailblo  t
1970, and 1976 data,                                                                         Public and pricate goneral and aproaliced hootpita1 nod c-thbiiitat_oonec
Konpitale ace entabii=nent  peraseetly  etaffed by at Ioot no  ciphyicIa
PPULA,TIONs AN 51 VITAL STATISTIC S                                                            Eatablishaentn provIdIng principally cootodia1 rae   or not includod. cr.al
TtlPratiao. sad-tear(mdlli-n) - in cf July 1; 1960, 1970, and                         honpitals, hbeevr, include health and ondica1 cen ter  not pernnotly etaffid
197  dta                                                                                  by a phycinian  (but by a melci-  -siatant, nura, aidoif, etc.) oioh offer
trianPopuation(perent  f toa)-Patio of urban to total popointion;                    in-patienta--odati- and proide a Iiaitd c-ann  of medical fac:latiea.
differn    t defiitio     of uran a -co  la  aifeet ...mparbility of data                Ada   piesnr iHoscitel Bed - Total onute  of adaoione- to o  diuohbac-g   fc-on
among countries; i960, 1971, and i975 data.                                               hoopitalo  divided by the nubec- of bc-do.
Poulation Projection:,
Ponc.ision in near 2110 - Crent pnpulstioo projectinoc ar  bno  no.           d        iOUSING
1975 total population byaez  and  -e  and their mortality and fertiiity               Aeae lice of Sounehcid (prosprhueod)-ttl   n ,ad rura  -
rates  Projection parwtero for nortality rates comprise of three                        A  onha cnista of ac-u   f indTl =d1al  Ao lon  tir,ing quarter, an
-ela  ..Asaig Libfe copentacy so birth increaing with country-n                         their nab: ec1l.  n boarde  r   Lodgeur may or cay not to  _cobucd to thc
per capita Ioccar I-el, and Conale life eopectwcy stbilisiag at                         household for attiotioal  -purpcen
775yenr-.  Thc parsntc-ro Ccc fertility rate aloe have thc-ee leein                 AcoagnnbrofpeennPerro   - total  urban, and rura  - Ave-rmeou r
aco,ala  dcI-olin,i fertliity ac-rrdi,g In Income level and peact                       opc-noPc--on in  all urban, and coa   coidcnetoo    ati-
fandly nlsnntg perfcr-ne. E-hbroutc-r in then susinsed nee of th.ee                     -cpecicely.  oclincoclde cu-p=raec .t.t...                      an   ocr,io   at
nine comlotca   f   otality and fertility trends for projection                       A...s. to Electricity (Percet of dae-linu   total, urban, sod rurl-I             Ccc
Ppurpse.                                                                                ceniaeoftio..al doe1ilaga aith electricity in licig quarters an por-etngr ~
Itatinosr  popltion  - iIn,a  tatiosary Ppoplition thereis on gr-cth                      total, urban, and -urai doelliag  respc~ti-ely.
niace the bithcatc in  qu   tn the death rate, and ala  the age
e1-trunu    resiala  .onotant. This is achieve  oly after fectiiity raten           EDUJCdTION
debc   othe repfnentt ivel  f uit cet reproductio   cate, when                  Adjut&d In-lset Satins
eachigeceratioso   oanrolrstofeocl.  Tin  tatin-ar  pope-                               Pcinnr anhoni - total  main and fease   G ros. totl   nale and fenaieoroi-1
Jeoms  sine- ac.etimated on tie tuic of the projected characte-bihtos                     set of all agen at the prieary leve1a  porneotagec of ..espetivo prisary
of the Ppopution in the year 1100), and the rate of deciine of fertility                  nhool-ege   opulations;  orc-aliy inclu~des  thild-e  sgrd 6-li yea-  but
rote tc replacemet level,                                                                 adjusted for differet len,gthc of pc-m,ry ed-tontu;ioroutrccith
itea  stationary popultion is c-cached - Tie pear  les ataticoa.ry population               uniorroa.l oduatios onrolloet as  eooed 100 pencot s,inc   -oe  pupilo
nice has been  -ehed.                                                                     ac-c hbno o.r shor  tbeofficial school age.
Ppoplation Inanity                                                                          b.oundary school - total, oie and female - Coaputednoa-c   --cu,ory
Per so. ha.   Misd-c-nn population  -e atuar  kilometer (ill hectares) of                   education  -otic-es atlat fu   er f aPprod    ,ciry inot-utaio-
total arap-cideo  eea  ontinoal, oreoaho  triin dntrcioo                                                                                                        Cc ppi
Per an  .   agricultural land - Computed un nb-e for agricltc-li land                       usualy of 12 to 17 year:, of age;  o-renpondence  c-n-c are groe--ly
only.                                                                                     occluded
An49i9e St-utorclypos-nt  - Childc-re (0-1b yearo), curbing-age                       loainld       rlnot(ccn   fccodn)-Vuooa  iciuiom-A
5;4 yeas,,6nod retir-ed79 year  and over) no percentag- of edd-year                     t.ohebocl, indutrii, oriother p.g-nro  chich dc-rte indopendcntlyors
pouaien  i96, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                          dcpart-ets of sonoodary istitutiuso.
fppln.tioa Ic-neth                    tottal  .A-.Anua  ornth eaten of total sid-           tel-tear er ratio - primar   and se....dan-  tua   tude-to   -oodi
year Poplaina  o  1~950h,        ,9bI, nd 1970-77.                                          primay and s-codry 1-clnb  dicided by nunico of.teacher  inin n 0ccil-no
Population iroth Pte ) one-et) - urba   A- Anul genth rat.. of urban                            pandiog 1o1 
popultino  f o  15-hI,191 - 711, and 19711-75.                                     Adult Litennop rate (percet) - Lite-oto  dultn  (a1  no c-c-ead ant a-tic) a
CrueBieth Rate  c-c t                Aco ) - -Anua  live births~ per thcuoand of aid-          aprntg    fttlautpplto    gd1   rr   n   c--
yea  population;~ 1G0  1971, and 1077 data.
ly96._Da5tha5tp(prthoaoand(  - Aoseu.1 unatho per thou-und  C old-year                  CONiIUMpTr11N
popolhlth;160,71917ihd1977 data.                                                Paannngor C-v (cer th-uand pupulatiun) - Paonogc-c c-r  -upriceoioc
Grnco Seroduotics hate-Average nuber of da-ght-e      cu   ill car                          neating less than night pn-nun; ecolud.o abuanno, houroe  and niloIt
in her normal  -ependutive period if she -nperi-nen Pr:cont age-                          cehiclo..
specifico fertility robes; usually fire-year seragea ending is 196,0,                   Onb   evora(e   huad poultion) - All typo  o f --oi-rc fc- radio
1970, and 1971.                                                    ~~~~~broadeacts to general pulc  e   hocn  cC.  pui-to; e"nolue   nhrne
Panily Planiog - Acet-itc, Anonul (thousand:,   A-.Anua  sunhr of                          -ceice-oonoan-trina and in your. nh.. cego't trotin of radoctosct
acceptora of birth-control device  under  nopine  of national  foily                      effect; data for c-onet ye-  sup nut be cu-pa-slr nor ac-          t   -ciobies
PlnIn  progran.                                                                           oholinhod  iio-nisg.
PFmil  Plning - Ucer j ypeE-i.f sarn   nn)- Per...ntago of as-rod                         TV Ocieo(o  thousad aplatio-) - TbVei-r  for br-odoat t, gonerci
came   ochild-heard        l5T79    as   bh uc  irth-nootrn1 devices                   public per thcusad populatIon; ooludno unitcoe-d TV r-eoicr-  to outi-
to all married e-eninasun  agr group.                                                     and in yer-  abe: regict-atiun of TV ceta satinsffnct.
Seooacr Crcuatin (er thujfr.. ndpu~lts92o     - lSnac thetcrc-i-ulte
FOOD AnE NtiITION                                                                             ofLal   eea   nera   coppr,d-ined  n a p-rod-nol pblirstion
Iade.ouf mdP   utu~c  Capita  ~L969-7i,1llO) - Indec of per capita                          deoo    rmrl"ornriggnrlcc. C   ncciee   ob   dully
annualprouto  of all fond onodHities  Peodant ina eulde   ed ant                          if it appenrs at lea..d  four bla-  a neck.
fn-  a d to  n oleodar yea  tact:.  Cueadlties  over primary goads                      Ci-ee  Annual Attendanc  Per Capita  er lear-honed  on the  -ant- c  tiobsto
(eg.ega-one i-oanad of sugar  whih  areedibie and cuotin nutriet                       eald during the year,loudn sdoiaatdcr-ccnesnd   rin
n..cffee_an  boa a r  eclde).  Aggengate preduti.n  of  -sh  -ntnry                   -nit.
is bad on. d  si_laeag edoepc-ic  .eights.
Per capita suppl  of calore  (oe-n't of resuirenests) - Compoted fro                 IABOS FIRCE
eso rgy equivalent of oet fond supp ies aciaini country per capita                    Totai  labor Poc-n  ( thonoada-d    - .P ..nic-11y active porsoa, 1n-ludiog c-eed
per day.  A-iiable sopplie  conpc-ic  domes.tic production, import:,.. lesIecn.an  unaine  but nc-lding h-ue-co, son dc-pt0, etc  Infla~it, c
s_pnts, and changes in soodk.  Not supplioc  -1cide aninal fend, sneds,                 in  -aiou   -otor-e  nc-c-ct -apr-bls..
quantities ...ed in fond pr--aing, and lo.... in distribtut-o  Pequir-                Pmi(sa-    Peai  1sbo- Cforco as psc-cstsge cC ntal. lsboc  force.
nests ce-  setimatod by PAl banod os phyoilougi-l needs  o  nrmal                     AStrj              ..ct~) - Labo  r Cc-c   s  s-n , forr-ty, bhting and
un ticity and bealth onsidering c-ir-nameta  temperature, body ceighte,                 riehl.ig as percentage of tunai labor force
aeand sec dictributione of pepulation, and a1l.ioig it Percent fee                  Cadustry (poe..eat) - Labar force is Ing-otroic, ofuctu-ing enod
catss   bosohold level .                                                           electnbicitp,  ater and  .a   operstage of tubal labor f.ore.
Pvr -psit, -upply of rc-tbin (cran  per As)- Protco  contest of per                     Patcpainhae( eret) - total  male, and fobal  - Partip bins cc
Oapnt octsuppy offoodper  sp.  on npply of food is dofinod se                ac-s-ic pc-sb,  arec-puted as ot.,7 ml, nod ConIelbor Cn-con    r
aboveR.Ocquirme.ets for all coutrie  esctbliohed by USEDA p-uide foe                     eotage` of total, male and female pnpulatios of all agec respectively;
slnims  al11cance of 601 gram: of tubal protein per day and  0 grsm   of                1960, 1970, and 1971 data.  These  -r  IlO,a psrti-,patin  rates reflecting
anima  and poise pc-nonis, of ohich 1I gram   ah-Id heaimal prtcitei.                   ago- ..... s-tenbre of tho population, and inng tine tred.  A fesubimt-ts
Thesme obanHardo arc lose.r than tbc-  of 75 gram   of total protein and                are f- runtioa ...     cone
2I ge_m  of anIma protesin aeanavrge forc the corld, proposed by PAO                   gsoi  Deensdans   Rto-Plmtiof popostios under i  and 65 and  -cr to
in the Tbird Worid Pood So-r.ep,                                                        he_abo  foce  s  ge gnp of   -64 yearn.
Peecr is S-i   tei   _uoefo    nea   n   0c               Protein eupply of fond
deec-d fo anaaeadpeeingmser dyp.                                                    SNf1   Dt1 5TIXTIIN
Child (ages  -)MraiyRae(e  husd   - Ascrcs deaths por thousand                             eretgof Private income  bothp iscshad bind) - Poeiced by c-Iies.t
is ags gecup 1-4 years, t.ochildren in thi  ag.       ru;for most de-e1-                     paremat, richeeb2 P. pecent, poret 11percet, and ponr-t to perne.. 
oping sstris Hants derived from  life tabl:es, r.p                                        of ho...ehold.,
HEAhLTE                                                                                    POVEprY TARGET GROUPS
life Enpecac  at Bi,rth DYe1re  -A Average number of yearn of life                        Estimated Absolute Poverty Incoc level (liS erIr napibts). -  rba  sd rural -
re Mmaiiga irth  197        -97,ad 1977. dots.                                            Absolte povrty incom   leve  is that incunl-e  ib                   onnila
isf.at Mortality Sate (per th-unad) - Anecu1 deaths of infanto under one                    nutritlally adequate diet plus essential nun-food rqieet   isst
yerof age per thousand lice hirtb..                                                      affordable.
Accesa to Safe Wae  pecn of psltino  - tntal urban. andrurl -                             Estimated Reitive Poverty Incom  Leve  (nil per capita) - urban and rura  -
Number of people (tctn1, urban, and rrl  oi rasnal  aces  to                              Sural relative pocerty incom  leue  in one-third of acerage per capita
cae uster supply (iaciuden treated sufac   -tatre or untreated hut                        poreona   nc_s  of the ununtry. Ictn -eel in deri-d Cc-unthe rural leve
unotamisated oser suc  .e that Cc-n. prte-ted borehole, springs,                          cith sdj-t-eat for higher cet of liotag in nc-ia  ares:,.
and sanitary cells) a  pecnaeof their rep-tice populaticas. Is                          Sotinatedppuain  nb            bouoPvryIcmElcl(soo(-uOnad
aurban area a public fcuntainor cc  tadpoot located nout more thanrra   Percent of pouatc  (u.rban ad rural)' nb  are   hnuepc
200 meters from  a boee as  be considred as bein  aithcnr..a...able
acesof that house.  In rural arene reasonable ancasesld imply
that the houcecife ce meco cIo the bo-ahold do not have b  spend aFvcIc and lucil lab Pt                                                                         iio
dIsproportionate part .if the day is Ietchiag the familyc. saber needs                                                       Eces..eic Analysis and P-je-ti-s Dcprt-.tst
August 1979



ANNEX I
rCcm am r D                                               Page 4 of 5
*/
go in cgirA is 1977: W  150
b/                                                              nuOF/ri"
Gg06  IUTIOUL IRD=C  IF 1977/78                                                             L    3   o    o     r.  ant .rinea
1960/61-196/45     .l95/lIM2tZ2    197/7-L76
GNP at lIrkat ricas            101.47      100.0                                                3.9                 3.6                3.2
Gros Downstic Lel em t          21.65       21.3
Gross National saving           22.77       22.4
Current Account Balance  d/      1.04        1.0
Resource Salance   d/          - 0.31      - 0.3
OIS? VLA8OR UORCK AIS P3gE     =    IIN 1971
...vLaKLF cr rce           .. mr .
U1o             2                ls..    2..L               _          2 of atiaml Averaa.
A4riculture                      24.5           46.6             130.0    72.1             IS               6
industry                         11.8          22.3               20.2    11.2             502             1"
Services                         16.3          3.i1               302      16.7            MI
Total/average                    52.6          100.0            l10.4   100.0              292
Genral Goaer st                                            Ctrl   emet
Rs                                         31n-l4175-i/t"ln/7 in1n
Current Laceipts                164.42         18.9         18.2                            95.62         11.0           10.5
Current Ipanditures             157.29         18.1         16.5                            22710.                       la
Currant Surplus/Deficit           7.13          0.8          1.6                             0.35         M.e.            0.6
Capital 3xenditur.s  f/          62.58          7.2          7.0                            43.31          5.0            5.0
External Assistace (not) A/       9.82          1.1          1.6                             9.82          1.1            1.6
PHin   CG3DIT AID PlE              1970/71    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    19m/n    197lsnl 78     mtor 1977         t     Jer 1vn
(as billion ontesandiag at a  of period)
money end Quasi 1mey                121.4      196.4     220.3      254.7      306.9      365.1          334.8            395.S
bank  Cradit to Govermnt (net)       52.6       87.3      95.3      101.1      110.2      129.7          119.3            139.5
Bank Crodit to Ce_rcial Sector       64.6      107.0     126.7      153.9      185.1      210.0          195.3            223.5
(percentage or Index  imlers)                            JlnruJ  I7u.r. 1979
Money and Quasi 1on*y as Z of CaI    30.1       33.5       31.5      34.5       36.8        41.9
Wholafa1a Price Index
(1970/71 * 100)                   100.0     139.7      174.9      173.0      176.6       l85.8       1U4.5             164.6
Annual percentage chanes in.
Wholesale Price Index                 7.7       20.2       25.2     - 1.1        2.1         5.2          3.2               0.1
lank Credit to Governmant (net)      10.8       12.3       9.2        6.1        9.0        17.7         13.4              16.9
lank Credit to Corcial Sector        19.4       22.6       18.4      21.5       20.3        13.5         16.6              14.4
hi The per capita GIP aetiate is at mrket priese  calculated by the conversieon techniq    asd  in to World Atlas.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the avrag  exchange rate prevailing durin 2e period covered.
b/ Quick zatimatas.
c/ Computed from trend line of 1Q at factor cost series, including one observation before first ynr end one
obervation after lost year of listed period.
d/ world Bank  estimtes; not n ecsarily consistent with official National Account Itatistiec.
hi/ Trnafers between Centre and States have boen netted out.
f/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
A/ External grants and loans, less principal repaymnts, as recorded in the Central budget.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYHENTS            1975/76    1976/77    1977D78    1978/79                      AISZ EXP RTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1977/78)
(Us$ million)                                                      US$ lan.    -%S.
Exports of Goods                 4,672      5,753       6,276       6,800               Engineering Goods              610        11
Imports of Goods                -6,449    -5,928       -7,237       -8,400              Tea                            417         7
Trade Balance                   -1,777      - 175        - 961      -1,600              Geua                           377          7
NFS (net)                           310       360          650         700              Clothing                       331         6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                -1.467        185        - 311      -  900                      Products               278         5
i/                                                            .Jute Manufactures             267          5
Interest Payments (net)          - 216      - 180        - 50          -                Iron Ore                       265         5
Other Factor Payments (net)          -         -            -          -                Cotton Textiles                248         4
Net Transfers  j/                  470        730        1,400      1,300               Sugar                          244         4
Others                      2,530         45
Balance on Current Account      -1.213        735       1.039         400
Total                       5.567        100
Official Aid
Disburs Omnts                 2,341      1,953       1,628       1,805               EXTERNAL DEBT   ARCH 31. 1978 -,
Asortization                  - 531      - 560       - 645       - 725                                                    US$ billion
Transactions with IMF              242      - 337       - 330       - 158               Outstanding a*4 Disbursed               14.8
All Other Items                   - 45      - 216          384        205               Undisbursed                              4.3
Outstanding, including
Increase in Reserves (-)         - 794    -1,575       -2,076      -1,527                    Undisborsed                        19.1
Gross Reserves (end year)        2,172      3,747       5,823       7,350                                                h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  k/      1,365      3,276       5,668       7,350               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1977/78          15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                              IBRD/IDA LENDINE. DECEMBER 31. 1978
Imports                          1,417      1,581       1,817       1,980                                                    us$ million
of which: Petroleum            1,417      1,581       1,817       1,980                                                I
Exports                             43         37           33       n.a.               Outstand.1, .ud Disbursed          613        3,864
of which: Petroleum               22         21          18        n. .               Undisbursed                       615         1,992
outstanding, including                 /
Undisbursed             1,228         5,856
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971          US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972       US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                     Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978             US$1.00 - Rs 8.188
US$1.00 - Rs 0.122
h/ Estimated.
i/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
j/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
- included within official aid disbursements.
k/ Excludes net use of IMF credit.
1/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.
m/ Excludes exchange adjustment, but includes US$ 22 million due to third parties.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of February 29, 1980)
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                             1,163.2
60 Credits fully disbursed                                     3,624.6
312-IN     1972   India    Population                 --         21.2      .68
342-IN     1972   India    Education                  --         12.0    5.92
356-IN     1973   India    IDBI I                     --         25.0    8.44
378-IN     1973   India    Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                --          8.0    4.31
390-IN     1973   India    Bombay Water Supply I   --            55.0    7.22
456-IN     1974   India    HP Apple Processing
& Marketing            --         13.0    7.66
481-IN     1974   India    Trombay IV Fertilizer   --            50.0      .44
1011-IN     1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD 52.0          --     22.61
482-IN     1974   India    Karnataka Dairy            --         30.0   21.55
502-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Canal CAD        --         83.0   36.15
520-IN     1974   India    Sindri Fertilizer          --         91.0    1.04
521-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy            --         27.7   15.89
522-IN     1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --            16.4    6.34
526-IN     1975   India    Drought Prone Areas        --         35.0   11.33
1079-IN     1975   IFFCO    IFFCO Fertilizer          109.0       --     10.75
1097-IN     1975   ICICI    Industry DFC XI            95.6       --      4.17
532-IN     1975   India    Godavari Barrage
Irrigation             --         45.0   10.58
541-IN     1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development            --         34.0   13.44
562-IN     1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD           --         24.0    7.70
572-IN     1975   India    Rural
Electrification I       --         57.0   12.89
585-IN     1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                --         40.0   24.24
598-IN     1975   India    Fertilizer Industry        --        105.0   59.90
604-IN     1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --           150.0   84.90



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of February 29, 1980)
US$ million
Loan or                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower         Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                               1,163.2
60 Credits fully disbursed                                      3,624.6
312-IN      1972   India    Population                 --         21.2      .68
342-IN      1972   India    Education                  --         12.0    5.92
356-IN      1973   India    IDBI I                      -         25.0    8.44
378-IN      1973   India    Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                 --          8.0    4.31
390-IN      1973   India    Bombay Water Supply I   --            55.0    7.22
456-IN      1974   India    HP Apple Processing
& Marketing             --         13.0    7.66
481-IN      1974   India    Trombay IV Fertilizer   --            50.0       .44
1011-IN      1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD 52.0          -       22.61
482-IN      1974   India    Karnataka Dairy            --         30.0   21.55
502-IN      1974   India    Rajasthan Canal CAD        --         83.0   36.15
520-IN      1974   India    Sindri Fertilizer          --         91.0    1.04
521-IN      1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy            --         27.7   15.89
522-IN      1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --            16.4    6.34
526-IN      1975   India    Drought Prone Areas                   35.0   11.33
1079-IN      1975   IFFCO    IFFCO Fertilizer          109.0       --      10.75
1097-IN      1975   ICICI    Industry DFC XI            95.6       --       4.17
532-IN      1975   India    Godavari Barrage
irrigation              --        45.0   10.58
541-IN      1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development             --         34.0   13.44
562-IN      1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD                       24.0    7.70
572-IN      1975   India    Rural
Electrification I        --         57.0   12.89
585-IN      1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                --         40.0   24.24
598-IN      1975   India    Fertilizer Industry        --        105.0   59.90
604-IN      1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --           150.0   84.90



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANC  OtP PAYFNMIS            1975/76           (USS  1977/7d        127/79 lli)ISZ                        TS (AVAGCZ 1975/76 - 1977/78)
Exports of Goods                  4,672      5,753        6,276        6,800               Eagineering Gods                610         11
Imports of Goods                  -6,449    -5,928       -7,237       -8,400               Teo                             417           7
Trade Balsaco                     -1,777      - 175        - 961      -1,600               GM$                             377           7
NPS (net)                            310        360          650         700               Clothing                        331           6
Leather and Leather
Rtmource Balne.                   -1.467        185        - 311      -  900                        Prodects               278          5
i/                                                               Jute  amafactures               267          5
Interest Payments (nat)            - 216     - 180          - 50          -                Iron Ore                        265          5
Other Factor Fayments (eat)           -          -            -           -                Cottoo Textiles                 248          4
Net Transfers  J/                    470        730        1,400       1,300               Sugar                           244          4
Otbers                       2,530         45
BaLance on Carrtat Account        -1.213                   1.039         400
Totel             5.567        ~~~~~100
Official Aid
Disbursements                  2,341      1,953        1,628        1,805                 UIAZE L DET. U,  EcZ 31. 1978 -/
Amortization                   - 531      - 560        - 645        - 725                                                     US$ Uillto
Transactions with l)F                242     - 337         - 330       - 158               Outstanding and Disbursed                 14.8
All Other Items                     - 45      - 216          384         205               Undisbursed                                4.3
Outstanding, including
Increase in Reserves (-)           - 794    -1,575       -2,076       -1,527                     Undisborsed                         19.1
Gross Reserves (end year)          2,172      3,747        5,823       7,350                                                  W/l
Net Reserves (end year)  k/        1,365     3,276        5,668        7,350               DIOT siZlCI  RATIO FCR 1977/78            15.0  percent
Foel end Related Materials                                                                 IBD/IDA LENDING. DECOZHs  31. 1978
Imports                           1,417      1,581        1,817       1,980                                                      U3$ million
of which: Petrolue              1,417      1,581        1,817       1,980                                                   I=            IA
Exports                               43         37           33       A.M.                Outstoid,^ ..*  Diaburead           613         3,S64
of which: Potrolsm                 22         21            18        a.                 Undisbursed                         615         1,992
Outstanding, including                  /
Undiabursed              1,228         5,856
June 1966 to mid-December 1971            US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00 - US$O.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-Jua  1972 :   US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                   :  Floating Rate
Spot Rate  nd-Decber 1978             :   US$1.00 - Re 8.188
US$1.00 - Is 0.122
hi I*timated.
i/ Figures givon cover all iaeastnat income (net). Major payments are interest on foreigm loans
and charges paid to ltr, and major receipt is interest earned on foraign assets.
J/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
k/  Excludes net use of ltf credit.
1/  Amortization and intarast payments on foreign loans as a percentage  of merchandise exorts.
!/  Excludes exchange adjustent, but includes US$ 22 million due to third parties.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN     1979   India      ARDC III                  --      250.0     250.00
1743-IN*    1979   India      Thal Fertilizer         250.0       --      250.00
963-IN*    1979   India      Inland Fisheries                   20.0      20.00
Total                                  2,528.8  7,255.0
of which has been repaid               992.1      58.4
Total now outstanding                  1,536.7  7,196.6
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid   116.2        17.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/    1,519.1  7,196.6
Total undisbursed (excluding*)           579.4  2,797.6
*    Not yet effective
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of February 29, 1980)
Fiscal                                                     Amount (US$ million)
Year                    Company                         Loan      Equity      Total
1959         Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5        -          1.5
1959         Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        -          0.9
1960         Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4        -          1.4
1961         K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -          0.2
1963-66      Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.7        0.3        1.0
1964         Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.                 0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75-79  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.               11.8        1.4       13.2
1964         Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0        0.3        1.3
1967         Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0        0.1        1.1
1967         Indian Explosives Ltd.                      8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70      Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1        3.8       18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                              6.6         -         6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                 4.0        1.4        5.2
1980         Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.             7.5        1.1        8.6
TOTAL                                61.1        11.5       72.6
Less:  Sold                                   5.9        1.7        7.6
Repaid                               17.4          -        17.4
Cancelled                             6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                             31.6         9.1      40.7
Undisbursed                          11.7         1.7       13.4



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been prnceeding reason-
ably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$538 million in FY79, compared to US$497 million
in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal year through
February 29, 1980 totalled US$366 million, representing an increase of about
32% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$3,377 mil-
lion as of February 29, 1980, reflects the lead time which would be expected
given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 are also ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the
pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The
project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies
and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/
public sector.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$32.0 million in support of a lending program
for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets investment in the Tirhut Division of Bihar.
Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than estimated Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate and by low unit investment costs compared with appraisal esti-
mates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date to March 1980 and expand the
project area to cover the whole State. Physical targets have now been
achieved and the credit should be fully disbursed by the revised closing
date.
Cr. No. 947    Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been started under this project
after the completion of the Second ARDC Project towards the end of 1979.
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 1979, satisfactory progress was being made in
the construction of bag storage warehouses, despite problems of land acqui-
sition at some sites. However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and
port silos is not expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays
in the employment of consultants and the longer time required for the prepa-
ration of technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last
two seasons with favorable response from farmers.  The project is scheduled
for completion by December 1980.
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date:  January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
November 1979, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment and local production of electro-mechanical switching equipment
were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced growth rate for the installa-
tion of direct exchange lines. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts
and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Ln. No. 1743   Thal Fertilizer Project; US$250.0 million loan of August 20,
1979; Effective Date:  April 30, 1980 (expected);
Closing Date: November 30, 1984
The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a
change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphta and delays in completion of
engineering contracts. However, project construction is now proceeding
satisfactorily and commissioning is expected within the next six months.
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-project
preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further, some of the
sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration
by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects
to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the
project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Delays in project implementation were encountered as a result of
frequent changes in management in the early stages, and these have necessi-
tated an extension of the closing date by 18 months to June 30, 1981, to allow
for completion of works and withdrawal of the credit. Progress is improving,
however. As of May, 1979, construction on 36 of the 39 markets envisaged under
the project was underway or completed, and trade had shifted to about half of
these. An additional five markets may be included in the project at the
request of the State government.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is virtually complete. The two Population Centers, established
to design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. The Population Centers are expected to complete their
evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction of management
information and evaluation systems by the present closing date.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985



ANNEX II
PaRe 10 of 17
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899    Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 mil-
lion credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily. The water treatment
works were successfully completed on schedule at the end of 1979. Completion
of construction of the project sewerage works is scheduled for mid-1980.
Financial performance of the project entity is satisfactory. Implementation of
Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule.
Preliminary work in connection with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal.  In order to improve the situation, arrangements have be-
.nade to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
the severe floods of September 1978 and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants'
services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts. Staff
shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more exten-
sive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and service
areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of the final
sections of these areas. Inadequate attention and staff has been given to



ANNEX II
Paee 11 of 17
the financial analysis and marketing strategies required to ensure that anti-
cipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading components
and thus replicability is actually achieved. However, there is still ample
time to deal effectively with these problems; technical assistance is being
sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coopera-
tive scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative societies
(DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Karnataka 923,
Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response had been excellent and
project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the
establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS is good and con-
struction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a satisfactory pace.
Limited milk processing capacity has been the major constraint to DCS formation
in all three projects. Under the National Dairy Project, three subprojects
with an estimated total cost of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been
appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a further eight subprojects are
in various stages of preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy
equipment is well underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a
result in the start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974;'Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 12, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)          Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1934
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
C.losing Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of
March 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1985
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Nagarjunasagar compo-
nent of Loan 1251 where water losses have proven higher than anticipated.
Specific efforts are underway to redesign this project so that it can
achieve its original objectives.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project will not
fully disburse by the closing date, and GOI's request for an extension is
expected.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
December 14, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These seven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, and Orissa, in particular, significant gains have been made
under the projects. In West Bengal, where a change in government brought a
review of the organizational principles underlying the new extension system
and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a recent Cabinet deci-
sion has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the project and
revised implementation plans are under preparation. In Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts,
have hampered project implementation, although progress in areas where



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
regular extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the
system itself. Finally, in Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered
under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (which is not yet effec-
tive), project implementation is still in the very early stages, although
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken which
should pave the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension
system.
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects in FY80 is expected to meet or even
exceed appraisal estimates, although corresponding disbursements may lag
somewhat behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of the
Project Unit are being recommended to expedite further progress under the
project.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
As of October, 1979, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns had begun in the three participating States of Haryana, Orissa,
and Uttar Pradesh. Consultants were being recruited to assist NCDC and State
Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institutions. Initial project
preparations have been completed on schedule; disbursements are therefore
expected to follow the appraisal targets.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.  The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date:  May 17, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project was designed to expand the social forestry program
in Uttar Pradesh, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and supply
raw materials to cottage industries. The project provides for large-scale
tree plantation on 48,600 ha of public and village lands, primarily along
roads, rails and canals, and on village common lands and degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date:  October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by CR. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational



ANNEX II
Pane 16 of 17
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the
second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The bus procurement program supported by the project has proceeded
on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies having been ordered and 589
already in service. Total fleet strength has increased from 1,530 buses at
the inception of the project to 1,900 buses in September 1979, in accordance
with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion is lagging somewhat behind
fleet expansion, but should match fleet size by early 1980. However, delays
in construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat
behind schedule, although efforts are being made to speed up the works program.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, harbor construction at Mangrol and Veraval are under
way, and although some delays have been encountered, the project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and no major problems are evident. In Andhra Pradesh,
preliminary work on implementation is progressing satisfactorily, and harbor
works at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada are scheduled to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648   Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr.        US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
No. 874        May 22, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is the first of four power stations in the
Government's program for the development of large central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such
station, at Korba, is being financed under Credit 793.  The National Thermal
Power Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation
of these power stations. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding
satisfactorily. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW
extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. Loan 1648 and Credit 874 sup-
port the construction of the first three 200 MW generating units in Andhra
Pradesh together with related facilities and associated transmission. All
these large-scale thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$114 million have been ap-
proved to date. Although this project suffered delays in preparation of
technical specifications and evaluation of bids for highly sophisticated
equipment, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 911    Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0
million credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
financed by the Rural Electrification Corporation. There are now thirteen
State Electricity Boards (SEBs) eligible for onlending, compared with six at
the time of appraisal. The project got off to a slow start, due principally
to the need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to interna-
tional competitive bidding, but the position has improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed. Credit 911 provides continued support to
the Rural Electrification Corporation's lending program, and is helping to
finance about 1,700 rural electrification schemes in fourteen SEBs, including
the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is at an early stage
of implementation, and procurement is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore were commissioned in June 1978. Most contracts for
Phase III of Bombay High development have been laid, construction should be
completed by mid-1980 and the loan should be fully disbursed by its original
closing date.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND SINGRAULI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      (a)  Timetable of Key Events
This project is the second stage of the first
Centrally owned large-scale power station in
India. A report on the project site was
published in December 1974 and a supplemental
feasibility report was prepared in May 1979.
(b) The agencies which have prepared the project
Ministry of Energy/Central Electricity Authority/
National Thermal Power Corporation Limited.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank, and date
of the first mission to consider the project
Preliminary report became available in December
1974. The scope of this project was discussed at
the time of appraisal of the first stage of
Singrauli development in April 1976.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
May 25, 1979.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 21, 1980.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
August 20, 1980.
Section II:    Special Conditions
(a) NTPC to make necessary engineering consultancy
arrangement for the 500 MW units as a condition
of effectiveness (para 47);
(b) NTPC to appoint project management and information
system consultants by October 15, 1980 (para 48);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) GOI to ensure adequate coal supplies (para 49);
(d) NTPC to have due regard for ecological and
environmental factors (para 50);
(e) NTPC to inform the Association of any proposal
to modify existing limitation on its borrowing
powers (para 51);
(f)  GOI to conclude a subsidiary loan agreement with
NTPC satisfactory to the Association as a condi-
tion of effectiveness (para 51);
(g) NTPC to achieve and maintain 9-1/2% rate of
return (para 52); and
(h) NTPC to sell power under satisfactory bulk
supply contracts (para 54).



FGHANISTAN ~ ~ ~      ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         ~       ~        FHA  rN    1       d      o    s . 
:   CLAR R'R OF-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3-'                                                                      X                  X:-
-32-  Jnm L932jft'. ,_J AE  r _
4-   AaE           -;                                                                                00 * S  j40 X -; ! 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X -
Q ~     ~      ~      f                            >hkb                 A     ~      ^'/                                                                                          0
aa   X   RazunRJ'b  >  v             ( .i>>       l                                                                          ^/5'                    g   jv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
lk_-~--_                                           ,      olb^sl1swbbskyr\                                D          \>x           f
/  .      z]ari Xct   / ^  x         \ >  5         N  7                  1                       t('~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ DHUA  '1  t
.  OpUS L _ *8 k *,'' b^?.,, r.f~~~~~h h 
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ P   dA Nzrokuz Gu-(  R WSz<\_2m2     lzzupr      >Y t          d    C     <X*t
Z4L[_~~z%  < /  i P Phosr~~f$<S _e  IAEHS{  4
<  ~~~  FeiE   >   zdfbGi   0   / (;J                   \   0,5  g)           I kzlZi,. aA jMuithx       \3                   <    <\   7~~~~~~~~~B P,N G      E 1
0  :<             ,,                 X  ,.  0  -<    ;t>t><X-sJ;2 3 J2:.,m' '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'
1117- ~               \pl\1~                Y           Arwr      4hd?                         yce   Rd                                                                                               0
-2t   ::;  # 'SNosl;   AUrarR v ad      /  \i'filflors   J             t           /<           E nvdwrf~GI,
20,~~~ 20 hsw'//v                                                         -nrpr r              dca                  4>P_ 
)iea>xlSIbcisL ; *-kRdrg5 .SECOND SINGRAULI 
-16   tFIr:ux, 20            ,/       bbcrv;sa)  gdiG-udu2?                        THERMAL POWER  PROJECT                                                         ]w1- 
\   / %19ur   a  =olchJ           ' X 7  
K:haIsI i   /   ,t,;,   ladd h t                                                       SY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IDRO POWER STATIONS
Ss z Sholht - bZ j i he 9ez ^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THIR",A POWER STATK=NS
Vb^,svg tm ia t o/ \ | 13 Ii N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U,,EAR POVTER STATIONS
X S   Kudowb><&    /    7   / tEvno.e                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~         ~          ~~~SuBSTAThONS  a^
-12-   E  X      \   /   aTTX ' 20_;] p Eil;>>t                                                                   220 iV T fiNSM SS2ON LINES      _,                  l2'~~~~~~~~~~~220kV TMINMSI~  lt4l  12
t  sy    +Rwhi  n    /,S'>E *PEt s        _                        ___        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~220 kV ;RANSMISSON LKE  s.J 9
X, _   AKE"W L/  \\ MEVW IUPLm                                            POW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EP PEGION BOU0fMAPdES    o  od,
_   i\N}vru hToi7M/   lntuvasur                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INERNATIONAL 50UNDAPIES
t_7cdurv   , ~~~~~~~~~~,         01 ~~~2ijO                 4200          f0           d^
Sibolsn7/    '   S                                     EltOME~~~~~-.TEP5 
bepAtrKgnfOhW=#EasszafarA>evf Om=vS=r   hSTEwrn               Li NKA21
Or  E    dwh th,  9 oKS. V{h2Cho, 5 d>te9hd  p=d>ff1ilehld5 E E  *d   FrEsddnim   i  S   r   /  : p 1  <                                               b   i l          25 _~~~~~~88






IBRD 14517
82 30                                                                \    r2 45                            /TnJvo5e/          "i                        8re        NOVEMBER 979
I N  D  I A                                                                                                                n,                n non
Second Singrouli Thermal Power Project                                   rI                                                                                          \il Junction
PROJECT SITE LAYOUT                                                                                                                             /
Projected power plant facil,ties
Proposed 400 kv fronsmission lines (Project)
-- ----  Planned 400 kv tronsmission line  (Profecrl
Proposed railroads (Project)                                        .                              )
L    I Proposed coal mines                                                                                "I Magardua Juncton
1 Future coal mining areas                                                                *}25          t n                                                     t
Power placint facilities under construction(Singrauli Project I)
Water discharge pipe under construction (Singrauli Project I)
400 kV transmisston lines under construction (600 PAW stage, IDA credit 685 IN)     -t/
- - - 400 kV transmission line unaer construction by SEB                      K\
Railroad under construction (600 MW stage)                             's   %)/                                                                       /
2iW    i.    41Ash disposal area
L         IuExisting cool mines
Railroads
*    Railroad stops                                                                                              Sunhera
*    Thermal power station                                                (                                                                                                   Rani Tat
_ _      Roads                                                                                                                                                                             0
~2Rivers
-    Dams
O    Villages                                                                            OMircu
-    -- Stale boundaries
y   X   {   41    D  ~~~U T T A R    P RA DE S H                                   |
-24-15'                                                                                        t        .      J         I                    
k   MADHYA              PRADESH                                     X  2             a /            %/                                                             t    /t 2UTR PAE
Ba irpan
Singr I i                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cr                                     i
BIAD Ppri   Rnko
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~~  An di .nensel                                                              f             :,                                     =
-u.   . MQHEI {  X    tw|    (    F   10    '--/9    t           f        '/~~~~~~~~~A~A'DV    RESC'Rvo'S/f         X
\~~~~~~~~~Cnn watrm  reSe                                                                                  /
C9+p Ba dn   .... . V,,, /?<eC H I N AV
PAK-STAN,rt.'3    XX ,-B /  H-UTA/ 'lune  n
. '\   , '   'B URMA./-   |
INDIA1  S   t  
It                       oL -2400'                                                                                      KILOMEtERS n    2    4    6    3    10   12   14   16   24'00'-
Arab, nun            Auni' | jaLy Gf f3ff Gff7G/        i o            9     f                                                                 MILES5        2         4                  8        10
82s    - -Statf boundilrifrs45 \  \         ffilwasornu,nunueuruuntueueua,u.un,u,creurr,ov aru auu  uuu*lnull u
LANKA  --Inrereenieno Iuinuun82'45'                                                                                                          uu83 00



