UI             CREDIT NUMBER 1027 IN
Project Agreement
(Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
Dated                              ,1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1027 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION    (hereinafter called  the
Association) and NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
(hereinafter called NTPC), a company registered under the Indian
Companies Act, 1956, as amended.
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to three hundred million dollars
($300,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that NTPC
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NTPC, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to NTPC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS NTPC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NTPC shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public utilkty practices.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. NTPC shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be mutually agreeable to the Association and NTPC to assist NTPC
in: (i) detailed design and preparation of specifications for the
500 MW generating units under the Project; and (ii) the review
of NTPC's project management and information system and the
implementation thereof, such consultants for such review to be
employed not later than October 15, 1980.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) NTPC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by NTPC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, NTPC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) NTPC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) NTPC: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and impact), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
impact, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 3 -
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between NTPC and the
Association, NTPC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and impact, the performance by NTPC and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(d) NTPC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of NTPC and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. NTPC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, NTPC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) NTPC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) ITPC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by NTPC of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. NTPC shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction and
operation of the facilities included in the Project and shall
upon request furnish to the Association, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 2.09. NTPC shall take all measures necessary to
ensure that the execution and operations of the Project are


﻿carried out with due regard to appropriate ecological and environ-
mental factors in accordance with the environmental quality
standards prescribed by the Borrower's National Committee on
Environmental Planning and Coordination.
Section 2.10. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
NTPC shall sell to the State Electricity Boards and Delhi Electri-
city Supply Undertaking the entire output of power from the
generating units to be installed under the Project as delivered at
agreed bulk supply points under bulk supply contracts mutually
agreeable to the Association and NTPC.
ARTICLE III
Management an(  )erations of NTPC
Section 3.01. NTPC shall take out and maintain with res-
ponsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. NTPC shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound business,
financial, administrative and engineering practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
adequate and competent staff.
Section 3.03. (a) NTPC shall at all times maintain its
corporate existence and the right to carry on its operations and
to acquire and retain ownership of all lands and maintain and
renew all interests in land and other properties, and take all
steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
(b) NTPC shall at all times operate and maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound engineering
practices.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NTPC
shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets required for the efficient operation of its
business and undertaking.


﻿Section 3.04. NTPC shall inform the Association of any
proposal to modity existing limitations on the powers of NTPC's
Board of Directors to borrow funds before placing such a proposal
on the agenda for consideration by NTPC in a general meeting.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. NTPC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. NTPC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than seven months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of i!s financial statements for such year as so audited,
and (B) certified c>pies of the auditors' reports; and (iii)
furnish to the Assoc-ation such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of NTPC and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Secti.)n 4.03. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the
Association and NTPC:
(a) NTPC shall set tariffs and conduct its operations and
affairs in such manner as to achieve in the fiscal year beginning
April 1, 1988 and maintain thereafter an annual rate of return of
not less than nine and one-half per cent (9-1/2%);
(b) NTPC shall set its tariffs from the time of the commis-
sioning of its first 200 MW generating unit and until the fiscal
year starting April 1, 1988 at levels not lower than those esti-
mated to be required to achieve a 9-1/2% annual rate of return in
the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1988; and
(c) for the purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the annual rate of return for any financial year shall be
calculated by expressing the operating income for the particular
financial year as a percentage of the average of the capital base
at the beginning and end of such financial year. For the purposes
of the foregoing:


﻿-6-
(i) "operating income" means total operating revenues
from the sale of electricity and from other
services incidental thereto; less all adminis-
tration, operating and maintenance expenses,
adequate provision for depreciation, and taxes
(including income taxes); and excluding interest
and other charges on debt; and
(ii) "capital base" means the sum of (A) the gross book
value of fixed assets in operation, and (B) the
cost of intangible assets, less the amount of
accumulated accrued depreciation.
For the purposes of (i) and (ii) above, "depreciation" shall
be calculated using tte straight-line method on the value of
depreciable fixed assets in service.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of NTPC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
NTPC of this event.
Section 5.03. Ail the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For NTPC:
National Thermal Power Corporation Limited
NTPC Square
62-63 Nehru Place
New Delhi, 110019 India
Cable address:
THERMPOWER
New Delhi
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of NTPC may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or such other person or persons as NTPC shall
designate in writing, and NTPC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.


﻿- 8 -
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, NTPC shall prepare and forward to the
Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such. information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. NTPC shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so lon& as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied
goods shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to NTPC of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 10 -
India may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1. All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2. After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of NTPC and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in India equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3. In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4. If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid-; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 11 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the supply of two 200 MW turbo-generator sets
and boilers and other equipment and materials related thereto
under the Project may be placed by exercising the option to
purchase from previous suppliers of similar equipment being
financed under the Development Credit Agreement (Singrauli Thermal
Power Project) dated April 1, 1977 between the Borrower and the
Association, provided that the terms and conditions of such
purchase shall be satisfactory to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $1,500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, NTPC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifica tions and other bidding documents, together
with a description o,. the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, NTPC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the eva-
luation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform NTPC and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association' s concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to


﻿- 12 -
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, NTPC shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform NTPC and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, NTPC shall inform the Asso-
ciation of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform NTPC and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  -day of
198 .
FOR SECRETARY


