Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3663 BR
Loan Agreement
(Third Northeast Basic Education Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 10, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3663 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 10, 1994, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the States of Alagoas, Bahia, Paraiba, 
Piaui and Rio Grande do Norte (the Participating States, as hereinafter defined) with 
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to the Participating States the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreements of even date herewith between the Bank and 
each of the Participating States;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement.".
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"AMET" means the annual management efficiency targets referred to in the 
letter of even date herewith from the Borrower to the Bank;
(b)
"Basic Education" means grades 1 through 4 of primary education in the 
territory of the Borrower;
(c)
"Eligible Municipality" means a municipality that meets the eligibility 
criteria to carry out Municipal Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) included in a PAI 
(as hereinafter defined), as set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter 
defined);
(d)
"FAE" means Fundacao para Assistencia ao Estudante, the foundation for 
student assistance, established under the Borrower's Law No. 7.091, dated April 18, 
1983;
(e)
"FNDE" means Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Educacao, the national 
fund for education development, established under the Borrower's Law No. 5.537, dated 
November 21, 1968, and
Decree-Law No. 872, dated September 15, 1969;
(f)
"FSRMM" means Adicional ao Frete Para a Renovacao da Marinha Mercante - 
AFRMM, the Borrower's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine 
established by Decree Law 1.142 of December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, 
or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may 
substitute it, in whole or part, after January 1, 1988;
(g)
"MEC" means Ministerio da Educacao e do Desporto, the Borrower's Ministry 
of Education and Sports;
(h)
"Municipal Subproject" means a project consisting of the refurbishment, 
expansion or construction of Basic Education facilities located within an Eligible 
Municipality, administered by
such Eligible Municipality, included in the corresponding PAI (as hereinafter 
defined), and carried out or to be carried out by such Eligible Municipality;
(i)
"Operational Manual" means the manual providing the guidelines for the 
execution of the activities under the Project, as referred to in the letter dated 
August 25, 1993 from the Borrower to the Bank (re.: Loan 3604-BR - Second Northeast 
Basic Education Project), as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement 
between the Borrower and the Bank;
(j)
"PAA" means Plano de Acao Anual, the plan containing the activities to be 
carried out under the Project during any specific calendar year, as referred to in 
Section 3.06 (c) of this Agreement, which shall include the PAI (as hereinafter 
defined);
(k)
"PAI" means Programa Anual de Investimento, the Participating States' (as 
hereinafter defined) integrated annual program of State and Municipal Subprojects;
Page  3
(l)
"PFT" means the policy for the financing of textbooks for public primary 
schools in the territory of the Borrower, set forth in the MEC-FNDE's Resolution no. 6 
of July 13, 1993, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between 
the Borrower and the Bank;
(m)
"Project Agreement" means any of the agreements between the Bank and each 
of the Participating States (as hereinafter defined) of even date herewith, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all agreements 
supplemental to any of the Project Agreements;
(n)
"Participating States" means the States of Alagoas, Bahia, Paraiba, Piaui 
and Rio Grande do Norte, the Borrower's states in which the Project shall be carried 
out, individually referred to as a "Participating State";
(o)
"SE" means each of the Participating States' Secretariats of Education;
 
(p)
"SEF" means Secretaria de Educacao Fundamental, the Secretariat for Basic 
Education of the MEC, established by the Borrower's Law No. 8.490, dated November 19, 
1992;
(q)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(r)
"State Subproject" means a project consisting of the refurbishment, 
expansion or construction of Basic Education facilities located within a Participating 
State, administered by
such Participating State, included in the corresponding PAI, and carried out or to be 
carried out by such Participating State;
(s)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower, through MEC, and each of the Participating States pursuant to 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to any of the Subsidiary 
Agreements;
(t)
"Subproject Eligible Expenditures" means the civil works (including 
design and supervision) executed, and the equipment or furniture acquired, for 
purposes of the carrying out of a State or Municipal Subproject, and to be partly 
financed by the proceeds of the Loan;
(u)
"UESP" means Unidade Estadual Encarregada do Suporte ao Projeto, each of 
the units in charge of the coordination of the carrying out of Part A of the Project 
in each Participating State, within the respective SE; and 
(v)
"UNESP" means Unidade Nacional Encarregada do Suporte ao Projeto, the 
unit in charge of the coordination of the carrying out of the Project, within SEF.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of two hundred and six million, 
six hundred thousand dollars ($206,600,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the 
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such 
withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower, shall, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
Page  4
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on 
the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify  the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year.".
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  5
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause the Participating 
States, through the respective Subsidiary Agreements, to carry out their respective 
parts of the Project and to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
respective Project Agreements all the obligations of the Participating States therein 
set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
the Participating States to perform such obligations (including, inter alia, those 
funds required to meet all operation and maintenance costs not financed by the 
proceeds of the Loan), and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the 
Participating States under subsidiary agreements (the Subsidiary Agreements) to be 
entered into between the Borrower, through MEC, and each of the Participating States, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, such Subsidiary Agreements to 
include provisions whereby such Participating States shall be obligated, inter alia, 
to:
(i)
without limitation or restrictions upon the obligation of the 
Borrower set 
forth in Section 3.01 (a) above, provide funds 
equivalent to at least 23% of 
the amounts required for the carrying 
out of their respective activities under 
the Project, additionally 
to the funds required to finance all operational and 
maintenance costs 
related to the carrying out of such activities not financed 
by the 
Loan;
(ii)
distribute the books and didactic materials received under Part B 
of the 
Project;
 
(iii)
adequately supervise the performance of teachers, directors and 
other educational 
staff;
 
(iv)
allow and encourage teachers, directors and other educational 
staff to obtain 
training under Part C of the Project;
 
(v)
provide all the information required by the Borrower and the Bank, 
related to 
the carrying out of the Project, for the purposes of 
Sections 3.06, 3.07 and 
3.08 of this Agreement; and
 
(vi)
utilize the sample bidding documents referred to in Section 6.01 
(e) of this 
Agreement for the procurement of goods and works in 
accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part C.1 of 
Section I of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
 
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
The sample bidding documents referred to in Section 6.01 (e) shall be 
utilized in the procurement of goods and works (as applicable) under Section I, Part C 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
Page  6
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by each of the Participating States, pursuant to Section 2.03 of 
the respective Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, through SEF:
(a)
maintain a computerized information system, satisfactory to the Bank, for 
recording the financial commitments and disbursements under the Project, as part of 
the management information system referred to in paragraph (b) below, such system to 
be used in UNESP and in each UESP; and
(b)
by not later than June 30, 1994, establish and thereafter maintain a 
management information system related to the carrying out of the activities under the 
Project, satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 3.05. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
3.01 above, the Borrower shall, through MEC, until completion of the Project:
(a)
maintain, within SEF, UNESP, with functions, responsibilities and staff 
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
provide, promptly as needed, the facilities, services and other resources 
required for the discharge of UNESP's functions under the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, through SEF:
(a)
by not later than May 30 of each year, starting on May 30, 1994, furnish 
to the Bank a report, satisfactory to the Bank, assessing the progress made by each 
Participating State in
achieving its respective AMET;
(b)
by not later than June 30 of each year, starting on June 30, 1994, and 
based on the findings of the reports referred to in paragraph (a) above, determine, in 
consultation with, and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the amounts to be 
allocated to each Participating State, for the carrying out of Part D of the Project 
during the subsequent calendar year;
(c)
(i) by not later than September 30 of each year, starting on September 
30, 1994, furnish to the Bank, for comments, a draft of the PAA for the subsequent 
twelve-month period starting on January 1 of each year; and (ii) by not later than 
November 30 of each year, starting on November 30, 1994, review, jointly with the 
Bank, any such draft, and furnish to the Bank the final version of any such PAA, 
taking into account the comments made by the Bank;
(d)
monitor the execution, by each of the Participating States, of their 
respective parts of the Project; and
(e)
provide the technical support for Project management, administration and 
coordination that may be necessary to allow the efficient execution of the Project by 
the Participating States.
Section 3.07. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall, through MEC:
(a)
by not later than February 28 and August 31 of each year, until the 
completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank progress reports on the execution of 
the Project, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request;
(b)
by not later than June 30 of each year, starting on June 30, 1994, 
excepting in 1995, review, jointly with the Bank and the Participating States, the 
progress in the execution of the Project, any such review to be based upon the reports 
referred to in Sections 3.06 (a) and 3.07 (a) of this Agreement; and
(c)
take or cause to be taken any remedial action which shall have been 
Page  7
agreed upon by the Bank, the Borrower and the Participating States during the review 
referred to in paragraph (b)
above, as necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or the achievment of 
its objectives, such action to be taken in the manner and within the timetable agreed 
upon during such review.
Section 3.08. Without limitation or restriction to any of the provisions of this 
Agreement and of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
through MEC, by not later than May 31, 1995, furnish to the Bank the 
terms of reference for the review referred to in paragraph (b) below, satisfactory to 
the Bank;
(b)
by not later than June 30, 1995, undertake a review, with the Bank and 
the Participating States, of the progress in the execution of the Project, the 
performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the Project 
Agreements, and the Subsidiary Agreements, and the attainment of the objectives of the 
Project, such review to be based on the terms of reference referred to in paragraph 
(a) above; and
(c)
take or cause to be taken any remedial action which shall have been 
agreed upon by the Bank, the Borrower and the Participating States during the review 
referred to in paragraph (b)
above, as necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or the achievement of 
its objectives, such action to be taken in the manner and within the timetable agreed 
upon during such review.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, through MEC, by not later than March 31 of 
each year, starting on March 31, 1994, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, 
satisfactory to the Bank, showing:
(i)
the amounts transferred to each Participating State and Eligible 
Municipality 
for the financing of basic education, during the respective 
preceding calendar 
year; and
 
(ii)
the amounts to be allocated to each Participating State for the 
financing of 
basic education during the year in which the report is 
prepared, such 
allocation to be made in accordance with 
criteria consistent with those set 
forth in Portaria No. 1878 of 
MEC, dated December 30, 1992, duly published in 
the Official Gazette 
dated December 31, 1992.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall implement and cause to be implemented, prior to 
the beginning of each school year of Project implementation, Parts B (a) and (b) of 
the Project in a manner consistent with the PFT.
Section 3.11. In order to coordinate the carrying out of the activities under 
the Project, the Borrower shall permanently consult with the Participating States on 
the following aspects of Project implementation:
(a)
education management;
 
(b)
school books;
 
(c)
teacher training; and
 
(d)
school facilities.
 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
Page  8
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any of the Participating States shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the respective Project Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower or any of the Participating States shall have failed to 
perform any of their obligations under the respective Subsidiary Agreement; and
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Participating States will be able to perform their obligations under the 
respective Project Agreement.
Notwithstanding the rights contained in Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, 
it is understood that, if any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) above 
shall have occurred, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account for 
expenditures incurred by the Participating State in question, for the Part of the 
Project affected by such event or, in the case of Part D of the Project, for the State 
or Municipal Subproject affected by such event.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in 
paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue 
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Page  9
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco Central do Brasil, 
the Borrower's Central Bank established by the Borrower's Law 4.595, of December 31, 
1964 (the "Banco Central do Brasil");
(b)
all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given by 
the Borrower or by any Participating State, or by an agency thereof, or otherwise to 
be performed or given in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to 
enable the Borrower or any Participating State to perform its obligations pursuant to 
the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreements and the
Subsidiary Agreements, respectively, together with all necessary powers and rights in 
connection therewith, have been performed or given;
(c)
the Subsidiary Agreements have been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and each of the Participating States;
(d)
all UESPs have been established, with functions, responsibilities and 
staff satisfactory to the Bank;
(e)
the Borrower, through MEC, has furnished to the Bank sample bidding 
documents, satisfactory to the Bank, for the procurement of works and goods in 
accordance with the procedures
referred to in Part C.1 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(f)
adequate funds have been allocated in the Borrower's and in each of the 
Participating States' proposed budgets for 1994, related to the carrying out of the 
activities under the Project
during such year.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that this Agreement has been duly registered in Banco Central do Brasil;
 
(b)
that the Project Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Participating States, and are legally binding upon the Participating States in 
accordance with their terms;
(c)
that the Subsidiary Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and the Participating States and are legally binding upon the Borrower 
and the Participating States in accordance with their terms; and
(d)
that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given 
by the Borrower or by each Participating State, or by an agency thereof, or otherwise 
to be performed or given in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to 
enable the Borrower or any Participating State to perform their obligations pursuant 
to the Loan Agreement, the Project Agreements and the Subsidiary Agreements, 
respectively, together with all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, 
have been performed or given.
Section 6.03. The date May 11, 1994 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Page  10
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "P" - 8  andar
70048-900 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MEFP
61-1506 MFAZ BR
Brasilia, Brazil
With copies:
(a)
Ministerio da Educacao e do Desporto
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "L" - 5  andar
70047-900 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-1068
(b)
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
   da Secretaria de Planejamento, Orcamento
   e Coordenacao da Presidencia da Republica
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "K" - 5  andar
70040-906 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-2207
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Suely Dib de Sousa e Silva
Authorized Representative
Page  11
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works               65,000,000        50%
(2) Equipment and             26,300,000        100% of foreign
    furniture                                   expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(3) Books                     51,500,000        expenditures made
                                                on or before
                                                June 30, 1998:
                                                100% of foreign
                                                expenditures, and
                                                of local expen-
                                                diture (ex-factory
                                                cost) up to an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $33,500,000;
                                                75% up to an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $45,000,000;
                                                50% up to an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $49,500,000;
                                                25% with respect
                                                to the remaining
                                                amount
(4) Didactic materials        33,000,000        expenditures made
    (other than books)                          on or before June
                                                30, 1998: 100% of
                                                foreign expenditures
                                                and of local expen-
                                                ditures (ex-factory
                                                cost) up to an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $19,100,000;
                                                75% up to an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
Page  12
                                                $30,400,000;
                                                50% up to an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $32,100,000;
                                                25% with respect
                                                to the remaining
                                                amount
(5) Technical assistance,     11,000,000        100% of foreign
    studies and training                        expenditures
    (other than teacher                         and 70% of local
    training)                                   expenditures
(6) Unallocated               19,800,000
                             ___________
         TOTAL               206,600,000
                             ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $15,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1) through (5) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 above 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after a date falling 
one year prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
payments made by a Participating State or an Eligible Municipality for 
expenditures under Part D of the Project, unless: (i) the Bank has approved the 
corresponding PAI in which the State and Municipal Subprojects to be financed under 
such Part of the Project are included; (ii) the respective Participating State has 
achieved its AMET for the corresponding preceding period; and (iii) such expenditures 
are Subproject Eligible Expenditures.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase student learning, reduce 
repetition and dropout, and increase graduation rates in the Participating States, 
through improvements in the
quality of state and municipal Basic Education and in the efficiency of education 
management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Improvement of SEs' education management capabilities by:
(a)
strengthening SEs planning capability, through:
 
(i)
the provision of technical assistance to planning units in each SE 
for: (A) 
analyzing financial and system data; (B) developing plans 
Page  13
for school 
construction and maintenance, material and human 
resources development; (C) 
managing resources mobilization and 
allocation; and (D) overall education 
policy-making;
 
(ii)
the carrying out of a study to define minimum school quality 
standards with 
respect to the deployment and level of human and 
physical resources; and
(iii)
the provision of training to staff;
 
(b)
improving SEs' human resources management capability, through:
 
(i)
the carrying out of studies to:
 
(A)
review the quality and timeliness of the personnel census 
database and 
its correspondence with the payroll database;
 
(B)
assess the procedures and practices in their human resources 
departments;
(C)
survey staffing requirements and salary schedules by 
functional task; 
and
 
(D)
analyze policies and practices on personnel compensation and 
incentives;
(ii)
the provision of technical assistance to implement the 
recommendations of 
these studies, as appropriate; and
 
(iii)
the provision of training to senior staff;
 
(c)
improving SEs' school quality monitoring, through:
 
(i)
the establishment of a basic monitoring system of schools for each 
SE, in 
order to develop updated school profiles; and
 
(ii)
the provision of technical assistance for the implementation and 
monitoring of 
the minimum standards identified by the study 
referred to in Part A (a) (ii) 
of the Project, and for the 
dissemination of the respective information to the 
public;
 
(d)
developing a management information system for each SE, through:
 
(i)
the provision of technical assistance for:
 
(A)
designing any such system and developing an integrated 
relational 
database of school profiles, personnel, 
materials and facilities; and
(B)
installation, testing, and routine and emergency maintenance 
of computer 
systems;
 
(ii)
the acquisition and utilization of computer systems, including, 
inter alia, 
local area networks and relational database software; and
 
(iii)
the provision of training on:
 
(A)
survey instrument development, data gathering and 
compilation 
procedures, and data entry; and
 
(B)
computer fundamentals.
 
Part B:
Improvement of the quality of Basic Education in state and municipal schools, 
through the provision of books and didactic materials and technical assistance, 
including:
Page  14
(a)
2 textbooks and 2 workbooks per year for each student in grades 1 and 2, 
and 4 textbooks and 2 workbooks per year for each tudent in grades 3 and 4;
(b)
2 curriculum guides and 3 textbooks to each teacher, every 2 years;
 
(c)
approximately 80 reading books for each classroom in grades 1 through 4 
in 1994 and approximately 20 reading books for each classroom in each of the 
subsequent years, from 1995 to 1998; and
(d)
(i) the development and implementation of an alternative book selection 
and distribution system; (ii) the improvement of content quality and physical 
production specifications of books; and (iii) the training of teachers and school 
directors in basic book conservation techniques.
Part C:
Improvement of the quality of Basic Education staff, through the provision of 
technical assistance, as follows:
(a)
the planning, development and provision of training, ofrefresher seminars 
and of self-instruction materials for teachers, aiming at using effectively books and 
didactic materials and class time, and reducing repetition;
(b)
the planning, development and provision of leadership training for school 
directors, administrators, and technical staff; and
(c)
the planning, development and provision of school-based training focused, 
inter alia, on the school performance as a unit, teacher effectiveness, interaction 
among teachers,  effectiveness of school directors, student performance and 
enthusiasm, and connection between the school and the community.
Part D:
Carrying out of State and Municipal Subprojects.
Part E:
Provision of grants by MEC:
(a)
to schools located in the territory of a Participating State which adopt 
promising innovations in Basic Education, particularly those aimed at reducing 
repetition; and
(b)
for the carrying out of research evaluations of innovative Basic 
Education programs in the territory of a Participating State.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 1999
through October 15, 2008
10,330,000
 
Page  15
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment 
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to
the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods (including books and didactic 
materials) and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the 
Page  16
Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by 
two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all 
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid 
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank for the 
use of its borrowers, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to 
be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding 
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based 
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto, provided, however, that:
1.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate any 
preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be followed in the 
comparison of bids.
2.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following two 
groups:
(a)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder shall 
have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that such goods 
contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the 
complete goods.
(b)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
3.
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all evaluated bids 
in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking into account 
customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or 
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery of the 
goods pursuant to the bids. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with 
each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, 
it shall be selected for the award.
4.
If, as result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the lowest evaluated 
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the lowest 
evaluated bid from group A after adding:
(a)
to the evaluated bid price of goods to be imported in each group B bid an 
amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the amount of customs duties and other import 
taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of the goods 
offered in such group B bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and
(b)
to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied domestically offered in 
each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the amount of customs duties 
and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods offered in such group B if 
they originated from the same foreign country as the bid included in group B which 
enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes; or (ii) 15% of the evaluated 
bid price of such goods. If, as result of this comparison, the bid from group A is the 
lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from 
Page  17
group B, as determined under paragraph 3 above, shall be selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
The following may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Bank:
(a)
works under Part A.4 of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of 
more than $100,000 but less than $1,000,000 per contract or per bid package; and
(b)
goods (excluding books and other didactic materials) estimated to cost 
the equivalent of more than $50,000 but less than $300,000 per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000,000.
2.
The following may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison 
of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank:
(a)
works under Part A.4 of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or less per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent 
to $145,200,000; and
(b)
goods and computer maintenance services estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or less per contract of per bid package, up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $2,000,000 for
goods other than educational materials and $2,000,000 for educational materials.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded under Part A hereof; and 
(ii) the first contract for works and the first contract for goods, by each of the 
Participating States under the procedures set forth in paragraph C.1 above, 
independently of their costs, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Part E:
Other
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines the term "custom duties and 
other import taxes" includes the FSRMM.
Part F:
Special Provisions
 
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works to be 
Page  18
undertaken pursuant to Part C.1 hereof:
1.
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be the 
lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever appropriate, 
to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of 
the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification 
shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
2.
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised for at 
least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil.
3.
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture (consorcio) 
of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved by the Bank in advance in each case.
4.
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids, 
minimum and/or maximum amounts for the contract prices.
5.
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any change 
order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the quantity 
of goods (and related
services) without any change in the unit prices or other terms and conditions of sale.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower and the Participating States in the carrying out 
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause the Participating States to 
employ, through the Subsidiary Agreements, consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. 
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such 
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank for the use of its borrowers, with such modifications as 
shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the 
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
each with firms or to contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each 
with individuals. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the 
terms of reference for such contracts nor to single source selection of firms, to 
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank and to 
amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above for 
contracts with firms or $50,000 equivalent or above for contracts with individuals.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (5) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
Page  19
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
Page  20
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
