RESTRICTED
Report No. PA-101a
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of thfe report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT'
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
June 2, 1972
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1           =  0.750 Rand (R)
Rand (R)-1     =  US$1.33
WEICHTS AND MEASURES
1 Acre (ac)               =    0.405 Hectares
1 Mile (mi)               =    1.609 Kilometers
1 Pound (lb)              =    0.453 Kilograms
1 Short Ton (short ton)  =    0.907 Metric Tons
1 Imperial Gallon (gal)  =    4.7   Liters
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADS       -    Agricultural Development Service
BAC       -    Botswana Agricultural College
BDC       -    Botswana Development Corporation
BLDC      -    Botswana Livestock Development Company
BMC       -    Botswana Meat Commission
CELF      -    Cattle Export Levy Fund
GDP       -    Gross Domestic Product
LIAC      -    Livestock Industry Advisory Committee
LPPMU     -    Livestock Project Management Unit
MA        -    Ministry of Agriculture
NDB       -    National Development Bank
PMEA      -    Permanent Mission in East Africa
SACUC     -    Swaziland Agricultural College and
University Center
SAKK      -    Die Suid-Afrikaanse Kooperatiewe
Karakoeltelers Haatskappy Beperk
SIDA      -    Swedish International Development Authority
GOVERNiIENT OF BOTSWANA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......    ........................   i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION        .........................................  1
II.  BACKGROUND   ...........................................    1
A.   General   ..........................................  1
B.  Land Tenure and Land Use .........................     2
C.   Livestock in the Economy .........................    3
D.  Services to the Livestock Industry ....... . ......    7
E.  Policies for Livestock Development ...............    9
III.   THE PROJECT ...........................................   11
A.  Description ............................. I........   11
B.  Organization and Management           .    .          15
C. Cost Estimates                  ..                     17
D.  Proposed Financing ......................      -      - .......   19
E. Lending Operations    .             .20
F. Disbursement   ..21
G. Procurement   ..22
Hl. Accounts and Auditing    .          .22
IV.  MARKETS, PRICES, AND PRODUCER BENEFITS .22
A.  Markets and Prices ..............................   22
B. Producer Benefits .24
C.  Benefits to BLDC and Government .25
V.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION    .      .25
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .25
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a joint IDA/SIDA
mission, composed of Messrs. R. Khouri and D. Argyle (IDAk); T. Martin (PMEA);
F. Davis (Consultant); and C. A. Hultnaes, J. Mahner, and S. Ohlund (SIDA),
that visited Botswana in March/April 1971. Further information was provided
in February 1972 by a follow-up mission, composed of Messrs. D. Argyle and
T. Martin. Annex 9 was prepared by the Trade Analysis and Export Projections
Division, Economics Department, IBRD.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Livestock Improvement Programs and Services
Chart    -  Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture
(IBRD 5688)
Table 1  -  Mean Maximum and Mean Minimum Temperatures
Table 2  -  Average Monthly Rainfall
Table 3  -  Total Annual Rainfall
Table 4  -  Export Trade
Table 5  -  Ownership and Distribution of the Cattle Population
Table 6  -  Sheep and Goat Populations
Table 7  -  Cattle Numbers, Offtake, and Average Carcass Weights
2.   Marketing of Cattle, Beef, and Karakul Pelts
Table 1  -  Disposal of Throughput of Cattle Carcasses,
Lobatse Abattoir
Table 2  -  Export Values of Livestock Products
Table 3  -  Flow of Cattle to Slaughter
Table 4  -  BMC Slaughter Statistics
3.   Banking System and Credit
Table 1  -  Commercial Bank Statistics
Table 2 - National Development Bank, Loans Approved by Years
Table 3 - National Development Bank, Balance Sheet
Table 4 - National Development Bank, Income and Expenditure
Account
4.   Social Aspects of Establishing Project Ranches in the Western
State Lands
5.   Project Organization and Management
Appendix 1. Livestock Project Management Unit, Organization
Chart (World Bank 6780 R)
Appendix 2. Botswana Livestock Development Company,
Organization Chart (World Bank 6781 R)
Appendix 3. Duties, Responsibilities, and Qualifications of
Senior Project Staff
6.   Development Projections
Ranch and Farm Development
Western State Lands Breeding Ranch
Table 1 - Herd Development Projection
Table 2 - On Ranch Investments
Table 3 - Projection of Income and Operating Expenses
Table 4 - Financial Projection
Table  5 - Grazier Scheme Loan-Debt-Servicing



- 3 -
Western State Lands Fattening Ranch
Table 6 - Livestock Projection
Table 7 - On-Ranch Investments
Table 8 - Projection of Income and Operating Expenses
Table 9 - Financial Projection
Table 10 - Grazier Scheme Loan-Debt Servicing
Western State Lands Karakul Sheep Farm
Table 11 - Flock Development Projection
Table 12 - On-farm Investments
Table 13 - Projection of Income and Operating
Expenses
Table 14 - Financial Projection
Eastern Tribal Lands Fattening Ranches
Table 15 - Livestock Projection
Table 16 - On-Ranch Investments
Table 17 - Projection of Income and Operating
Expenses
Table 18 - Financial Projection
Table 19 - Grazier Schemes Loan-Debt Servicing
Northern State Lands Makalamabedi Fattening Ranch
Table 20 - Livestock Projection
Table 21 - On-Ranch Investments
Table 22 - Projection of Income and Operating
Expenses
Table 23 - Financial Projection
Management and Technical Services
Livestock Project Management Unit (L]?MU)
Table 24 - Ccst Projections
Botswana Livestock Development Compatny (BLDC)
Table 25 - Cost Projection
Table 26 - Projected Sources and Application
of Funds
Government Services
Borehole Installation and Maintenance Unit
Table 27 - Cost Projection
Trek Routes
Table 28 - Cost Projection
Technical Studies
Table 29 - Cost Projection
Government Financial Projections
Table 30 - Projected Sources and Application of
Funds



- 4 -
7.   Project Costs by Major Investment Categories and Foreign
Exchange Component
8.   Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursements
9.   World Market - Prospects for Beef and Veal
Table 1 - Beef and Veal Production by Economic Region
Table 2 - World Gross Exports of Beef and Veal and Live
Cattle by Regions and Principal Countries
Table 3 - Beef: Selected Indicators of Market Prices
10.   Financial Rates of return Models
11.   Benefits and Justifications
Table 1 - Economic Rate of Return to the Economy
Appendix 1. Assumptions Relating to the Economic Rate
of Return Calculation
MAP



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of the Republic of Botswana has accorded priority
in agricultural development to expanding livestock production and has requested
assistance from the Association and The Swedish International Development
Authority (SIDA) in financing a Livestock Development Project. This priority
reflects the importance of livestock in the national economy. Over 85% of
the population is engaged in agriculture and more than 80% of total export
earnings are from livestock products.
ii.       The proposed Project is essentially a land development scheme which
would increase the export of livestock products through ranch and farm devel-
opment by opening up unutilized land for the breeding and fattening of cattle
and by further development of existing sheep farms to raise Karakul pelt
production. The Project also calls for investments in management services,
agricultural services, and technical studies.
iii.      All Project ranches and farms would be established on presently
uninhabited, unoccupied, and unutilized land. These include 30 breeding
ranches, five fattening ranches, and 24 Karakul sheep farms in the Western
State Lands; nine fa-ttening ranches in the Eastern Tribal Lands; and a large
fattening ranch at Makalamabedi in the Northern State Lands.
iv.       Responsibility for ranch and farm development would be vested in
two organizations currently being established, namely, a Livestock Project
Management Unit (LPMU) in the Ministry of Agriculture, to be responsible for
all developments in the Western State Lands, and a subsidiary of the Botswana
Meat Commission, the Botswana Livestock Development Company (BLDC), to be
responsible for all developments in the Eastern Tribal Lands and Northern
State Lands.
v.        All ranch and farm sites would be granted for a renewable period
of 50 years by the Ministry of Local Government and Lands in State Lands and
by the Tribal Land Boards in the Eastern Tribal Lands. Ranch development
would include drilling and equipping boreholes, erectirLg perimeter fencing,
and purchasing breeding bulls. After such initial development the breeding
ranches in the Western State Lands would be allocated to individual cattlemen
or to groups of cattlemen from nearby villages.  These cattlemen would assume
the costs of development as a loan from Government and would operate the
ranches for the breeding and fattening of cattle. LPM,U would, however,
retain ownership of the fattening ranches and would operate them on a grazing
fee basis for the benefit of tribal cattlemen. LPMU would in addition assist
Karakul sheep farmers and cattlemen in drawing up and implementing plans for
the further development of their properties with credit from Government.
BLDC's role in the Project would be restricted to the development and operation
of fattening ranches - on a grazing fee basis in the Eastern Tribal Lands
and with' purchased cattle from the adjoining Tribal Area of Ngamiland at
Makalamabedi.



- ii -
vi.       Management services financed by the Project: would include the
Project Manager and Field Manager of LPMU and the GerLeral Manager and
Makalamabedi Ranch Manager of BLDC; together with necessary vehicles, furni-
ture, equipment and operating funds to get both organizations started during
the first two years of operations.  The agricultural services portion of the
Project would include the financing of borehole installation and maintenance
units, stock routes, and land surveys. Technical studies undertaken under
the Project would be concerned with the marketing of cattle, the management
of range, and the rehabilitation of communal pastures.
vii.      The total costs of the Project are estimated at about US$5.4 mil-
lion and the foreign exchange component at 44%, mainly for boreholes, fencing,
machinery, breeding stock, and expatriate staff. Participating farmers
would contribute about 11% of total Project costs; Government, 9% commercial
banks, 17% and BLDC, 1%. The remaining 61% would be shared equally by IDA
and SIDA.
viii.     The principal items to be financed under th,e Project would be
fencing materials, water pumping equipment, breeding animals, farm machinery,
and vehicles. Since purchases under the Project would be in numerous small
heterogeneous consignments staggered over a period of four years, international
competitive bidding would not be appropriate.  Project goods approved by the
Project Manager of LPMU or the General Manager of BLDC would instead be
procured by local tender. These would be advertised Ln Botswana and South
African newspapers of general circulation, as is the normal practice for
Government and BMC tendering. All the Project items are readily available
in the Southern Africa Customs Area, of which Botswana is a member.
ix.       The financial rates of return would be about: 14% on the breeding
ranches and 17% on the sheep farms. The economic rate of return of the
overall Project is estimated at 21%.
x.        The Project would generate annually an additional 1,200 short tons
of carcass beef and 28,000 Karakul sheep pelts for export at full development
in 15 years. These would be worth over US$1.3 million and would increase
the value of Botswana's present exports of livestock products by about 10%
annually.
xi.       Subject to appropriate conditions and assurances, the Project is
suitable for an IDA/SIDA Credit of US$3.3 million. The borrower would be
the Government of the Republic of Botswana.



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Botswana has requested assisltance from the
Association and SIDA in financing a Livestock Development Project aimed at
increasing production of beef and Karakul sheep pelts for export and at
reducing overstocking on communal pastures. The Project was prepared by the
Ministry of Agriculture with assistance from PMEA and would be the first
agricultural project to be financed by the Bank Group in Botswana. Inter-
national and bilateral aid programs are expected to provide Botswana with
about US$14.8 million in 1971, of which only US$0.23 million was earmarked
for livestock development.
1.02      The Project would include the expansion of cattle breeding and
fattening operations, the development of existing sheep farms and stock routes,
and the provision of technical assistance to execute the! Project and prepare
a second one.
1.03      This appraisal report is based on the findings of a joint IDA/SIDA
mission, composed of Messrs. R. Khouri and D. Argyle (IDA); T. Martin (PMEA);
F. Davis (Consultant); and C. A. Hultnaes, J. Mahner, and S. Ohlund (SIDA),
that visited Botswana in March/April 1971. Further information was provided
in February 1972 by a follow-up mission, composed of Messrs. D. Argyle and
T. Martin.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The Republic of Botswana is a land-locked Afr:Lcan country totaling
some 220,000 sq mi in area, about 12,000 of which are inland waters and
swamps. Much the same size as France, it lies between latitudes 18∞ and 270
South and is bounded on the south and east by the Republic of South Africa,
on the west and north by Namibia, and on the northeast by Southern Rhodesia.
The country touches on Zambia in the north and is flat to undulating, at a
mean altitude of some 3,300 ft.
2.02      Although Botswana straddles the Tropic of Capricorn, its climate
verges on the continental, with summers tending to be relatively hot and
winters frequently cold and frosty (Annex 1, Table 1). Rains are seasonal
(November to March), unreliable, and patchy, and droughts are a serious
threat to agriculture (Annex 1, Tables 2 and 3). Total annual rainfall
averages about 18 in on a countrywide basis and ranges from under 8 in in
the southwest to about 24 in in the extreme north and southeast. As a result,
most of the country is arid except for the eastern and northern portions
where semi-arid conditions prevail.



-2-
Botswana has two main water catchment systems::  the Okavango/Chobe
Y`-ver complex of steaming, tsetse-fly-infested swamps, which occupies most
-f the northwest corner, and the Limpopo River system in the east, with the
sy relatively fertile soils in the country.  The remaining parts are in
h  rilverless and infertile sandy wastes of the Kalahari Desert.  Most of
-e desert is covered by grassland, thorn-scrub, and woodland and is inhabited
.v vast herds of migrating animals and by bands of wandering bushmen.  This
ar'a opens up into dry savannah in the extreme southwest; between the confluence
-  the Molopo and Nossop Rivers.
'7 A @4   The main business centers are the capital, Gaborone (population
Kb.tt 18,000); Lobatse (13,000); and Francistown (20,000). All are along the
sastern border and are joined together by rail and road. The road swings
-sst-ward from Francistown to Maun on the edge of the OkaLvango Swamp and,
3Ithough it is unpaved throughout, it is negotiable year-round.  Apart from
a few secondary roads, transport elsewhere in the country is along desert
t-acks.
2 C75     Botswana's population has been growing at an aLnnual rate of 3%
h rIng recent years and currently totals some 650,000, which gives a population
density on a countrywide basis of about three persons per square mile,
-smpared with 83 in Lesotho, 58 in Swaziland, and 39 in the Republic of
1o"ith Africa.  Over 80% of the inhabitants live in the eastern Tribal Areas
the Limpopo catchment system.
9635    About 88% of Botswana's labor force (228,400) was engaged in
szriculture in 1967/68 and, of these, 21% were under the age of 15 years and
0m--y 10/ were in the employ of someone other than a close relative. During
:   period, average remuneration from full-time employment in agriculture
-IS under US$110 per year, compared with an average of about US$550 for the
281300 persons employed outside the agricultural sector. The average per
apita income in rural areas is, however, only US$45 to 60.
B. Land Tenure and Land Use
2:;7      Land in Botswana is owned either by individuals, by tribes, or
by the State.  Freehold land totals about 9,700 sq mi and is in six main
ricks.  Four blocks are along the eastern border (Tati, Tuli, Gaborone, and
Iohatse); one is in the south (Molopo); and another is in the west (Ghanzi).
ié-lese blocks were originally granted in perpetuity to the British South
d'fcrlca Company in 1895 but were subsequently subdivided and sold to Europeans
as cattle ranches.
2!.8      About half the country is tribally owned - a total of 107,600 sq zii
ws divided into eight territories, one for each of the principal tribes.
-ven of the territories are in the eastern part of the country (Bakwena,
Bangwaketse, Bamangwato, Bakgatla, Barolong, Bamalete, and Batlokwa) and the
_glhth is in the northwest (Batawana, better known as Ngamiland).  Village
communities in these territories are dependent on subsistence cropping of
nearby arable land and on grazing cattle, sheep, and goats on more distant
cormunal pastures.  Tribal law and custom permit individuals to fence in their
allocation of arable land but forbid any fencing on comminal pastures, which



- 3 -
nust be shared by all members of the comnunity.  A few private boreholes,
however, have been drilled on conmunal pastures either by individual cattle-
men or by groups of cattlemen (known in Botswana as syndicates) who, in turn,
monopolize the surrounding grazing by maintaining exclusive control of
watering points. Arable land is presently allocated by Tribal Land Boards,
but less than 6% of the 10 million ac available for cultivation are planted
in any one season. Yields are, in addition, low and unreliable.
2.09       The State owns two large tracts of land, with a combined area of
some 102,700 sq mi. One block occupies all the northeastern corner of the
country (Northern State Lands) and the other almost all the central and
western parts (Western State Lands). These State Lands; are virtually un-
occupied except for bands of roving bushmen, totaling about 20,000 persons,
a few scattered squatter villages that have sprung up around wells and bore-
holes, and vast herds of wildlife, mainly migrating members of the antelope
family. These herds move into the Kalahari Desert during the wet summer
months and graze around limestone pans where rain water accumulates. During
the winter, they move out of the desert in a general north-easterly direction
and travel to wetter areas. The inhabitants of the Western State Lands are,
to a large extent, dependent on game for the supply of meat but the number
of animals killed is controlled by Government through ithe granting of licenses
and represents a small fraction of the total wildlife population. Government
has established one national park and five game reserves on State Lands and
is renting smaller tracts to safari companies and private hunting parties.
Ownership of State Lands was passed on to the Presidenit of Botswana under the
Independence Order of 1966, and he, in turn, included the allocation of State
Lands in the portfolio of the Minister of Local Government and Land.  Only
a few tracts have so far been allocated on a short-ter, basis, for ranching
purposes and therefore carry no real security of tenure. Against this
background, Government decided to grant land for 50 years to individuals and
groups willing to settle and develop State Lands and to consider the
demarcation of village boundaries and commonages within- State Lands, the
intention being to site cattle ranches outside traditional communal grazing
grounds. Although Government has not yet conducted a cadastral survey of
State Lands, it has undertaken to expedite such a survey in the regions where
settlement will take place. These regions are close to existing villages and
veterinary cordon fences and would not adversely affect: the present migrations
of wildlife or the livelihood of bushmen.
C. Livestock in the Economy
2.10       The last national accounts, published in mid- 1970 and covering
1967/68, show that the country had a Gross Domestic Product (GDP) at factor
cost of US$55.6 million and a per capita GDP of about US$90. The contri-
butions of the agricultural sector and Government servilces to GDP amounted
to 46% and 20% respectively. Construction, transportation, trade, and owner-
ship of dwellings each contributed another 6%.  The mining and tourist
industries are still in their infancy, but they are beiing developed and will
play an increasingly important role in the economy. By 1980, the mining
industry is expected to employ about 5,000 more workers and to dominate
exports, mainly as a consequence of the Bank-financed Shashe Infrastructure
Project.



- 4 -
2.11      Botswana's economy is based on agriculture, mainly livestock.  Crop
production is primarily for subsistence purposes; only token amounts of such
grains as beans, cowpeas, and sorghum are exported. Ihe cattle industry is
by far the most imoortant in the country and accounts for over 80% of total
export earnings (Annex 1, Table 4). In 1969, this industry contributed about
US$1.2 million to Government's recurrent domestic revenue of US$9.75 million,
or around 11.5%.
2.12      The 1969/70 Agricultural Sample Survey was conducted by Government
on the more accessible holdings in Tribal and State Lands and excluded all
properties in the Freehold Blocks. It covered about 47,000 agricultural
holdings out of an estimated countrywide total of around 55,000 and shows that
cattle were kept on about 36,000 (77%) and sheep and goats on some 38,000
(81%). The average farm held 26 cattle, 8 sheep, and 24 goats and the median
farm, around half these numbers. Data from the previous year's survey
(1968/69) indicate that 86% of the total cattle population was on Tribal and
State Lands (Annex 1, Table 5) and that, of these, 65% were in herds of over
50 head, averaging about 126 animals.
2.13      Farmers on Tribal and State Lands normally graze their stock
during the seven-month dry period on communal pastures surrounding wells and
boreholes and move their animals farther afield in the wet season to graze
around natural catchments and ephemeral water holes. Communal grazing grounds
surrounding permanent sources of water are invariably overstocked and
deteriorating. Damage is marked by disappearance of grass, dominance of
weeds, and encroachment of bush. The general pattern is one of near complete
devastation within a radius of two to three miles from permanent sources of
water, with damage decreasing gradually until natural range is reached some
12 to 15 miles away. Ad hoc drilling of new boreholes on the fringes of
these communal pastures is leading to even more devastation. If not arrested,
this escalating and over-lapping process will eventually lay waste large
areas of land. Action in the form of land-use laws based on experience,
information, and data, from within and without Botswana, is presently pending
in the national legislature. Prompt enforcement would not only arrest the
indiscriminate exploitation of virgin lands, but would also assist in reha-
bilitating areas already devastated, primarily through compulsory control of
stocking rates and grazing.
Sheep and Goats
2.14      The sheep and goat populations totaled about 350,000 and 875,000
head, respectively, in 1970 (Annex 1, Table 6) and were estimated at about
370,000 and 1,000,000, respectively, in 1971. Both species are traditional
sources of milk and meat in rural communities and only token numbers of each
are marketed for consumption in urban centers or for export abroad.
'.15      An1 active community of Karakul sheep farmers lives in the extreme
southwestern corner of the country between the confluence of the Mlolopo and
Nossop Rivers. The industry is centered in Bokspits and was started in the
early 1960's by upgrading indigenous ewes with Karakul rams introduced from
the Republic of South Africa. The farmers of the area have organized them-
selves into a union and are currently marketing all their pelts in the



-5-
United Kingdom through the South African Karakul Cooperative (SAKK). Exports
of pelts have increased steadily during recent years, reaching about 10,000
pelts worth about US$60,000 in 1970.
Beef Cattle
2.16      The national herd totaled some 1,400,000 animals in 1969, about
115,000 (8%) of which were in the Western State Lands, 155,000 (11%) in the
Northwestern Tribal Area of Ngamiland, and 1,170,000 (81%) in the eastern
part of the country (Annex 1, Table 5).  Around 86% of the cattle were on
African holdings (1,238,000) and 14% on European-owned freehold properties,
mostly in the east along the borders of the Republic of South Africa and
Southern Rhodesia (116,000) and, to a lesser extent, in the Ghanzi District
of the Western State Lands (86,000).
2.17      Tswana cattle are the most prevalent breed in the country.  This
breed was developed in Botswana from Sanga and lateral-horned Zebu-type
cattle and compares very favorably with other African breeds in size, con-
formation, fertility, growth rate, heat tolerance, grazing ability, and,
particularly, hardiness to adverse and arid environmental conditions. Because
of these qualities, Government is reluctant to allow indiscriminate import-
ation of exotic breeds and is discouraging crossbreeding. Instead, the
present policy is to upgrade the national herd through the selection o:E better
quality Tswana bulls, and, in the meantime, to conduct crossbreeding experi-
ments with Tuli, Africander, Brahman, and Charolais bulls over Tswana females
to compare the performance of their offspring with pure--bred Tswana cattle.
Most of these bulls are offspring of past introductions by European farmers,
some of whom currently own large herds of either purebred Africander cattle
or of crossbred and upgraded animals.
2.18      Beef cattle ranching in Botswana is restricted to areas with
permanent sources of water, namely, around wells and boreholes, which pre-
sently number about 4,500. The estimated carrying capac:Lty of native pastures
ranges from about 15 to 25 ac/animal unit (AU) in the relatively fertile
semi-arid eastern portions of the country to around 35 to 45 ac/AU in the
infertile arid western parts; the semi-arid but infertile Ngamiland region
is somewhere in between, with 25 to 35 ac/AU. Two main types of cattle
operations can be distinguished: the African holdings otn Tribal and State
Lands and the freehold properties owned and managed primarily by Europeans.
2.19      African rural life on Tribal and State Lands is still governed
largely by tradition and custom. As far as cattle are concerned, this
means grazing on open, unfenced, communal pastures; uncontrolled breeding;
primitive technology and management; and accumulation of animals for dIaft,
prestige, and insurance purposes. Herds of mixed ages and sexes are usually
allowed to graze untended and are "kraaled" or penned at night only when
and where predators are around. This traditional technology has resulted
in low weaning rates (40% to 50%), high mortality (9% to 127%), delayed
marketing age (five to seven years), and reduced offtake (5% to 7%).
2.20      In contrast, freehold properties are operated on a commercial
basis, and, in most cases, are financially viable. Their European owners



use modern production and management methods such as fencing, rotational
grazing, controlled breeding, disease prevention, wat:er reticulation, and
mineral supplementation.  With these measures, they have so far increased
weaning rates to between 60% and 80%, lowered mortality to 2% to 47., reduced
marketing age to around three to four years, and raised offtake to 14% to 18%.
2.21      The Government-owned Botswana Meat Commission (BMC) has a monopoly
on the slaughter of all cattle destined for export (Annex 2). The Commission
was established in 1965 as a non-profit organization, distributing each
year's annual surplus as a bonus to suppliers of cattle. Its abattoir, on
the line of rail at Lobatse, has a potential annual throughput capacity of
some 200,000 carcasses if sufficient amounts of industrial water were made
available. Durina the first five years of operation, BMC slaughtered an
average of 109,000 head annually (Annex 1, Table 7). Exports were mainly
to the Repu1blic of South Africa (an average of about 39,000 chilled carcasses
annually) and, to a lesser extent, to Zambia (15,000 to 20,000 chilled
carcasses annually). The United Kingdom acted as a residual market, taking
up the remainder in the form of frozen boneless beef. Currently, the South
African Meat Control Board grants BMC a regular weekly quota of 1,000 chilled
carcasses and 30 tons of frozen boneless beef (equiva:Lent to about 200
carcasses), with all edible offal therefrom, for sale by auction at the
Newton market in Johannesburg, where a floor price is guaranteed by the South
African Government. Shortages of refrigerated rail cars and complications in
transiting beef shipments across Rhodesia are currently hampering exports to
Zambia. Government is, however, planning on direct road communications with
Zambia and has already commissioned engineering studies for an all-weather
road between Nata and Kazungula. It is also investigating the possibilities
of establishing a second abattoir in the northern part: of the country to
better benefit from the Zambian market for imported beef, which is expected
to reach 100,000 carcasses by 1980 (IBRD Report No. AE-4a), despite Zambia's
own efforts to expand beef production.
2.22      Internal marketing of cattle is improving gradually but is still
not as well organized as beef exporting.  About 60% of BMC's annual through-
put of cattle arrive directly from the producer, compared with only 40% in
1960.  This reduction of sales through intermediate buyers is largely a
result of efforts on the part of Government and BMC to provide farmers in
remote areas with better sales outlets than those offered by European
traders. These efforts include the licensing of Producer's Agents; the
provision of funds to purchase young animals; and the establishment of auction
sale yars, marketing cooperatives, and demonstration ranches for finishing
feeder animals (Annexes 1 and 3).
2.23      About 70% of the cattle slaughtered by BMC in 1969 were transported
to the abattoir by train, following trekking and/or trucking from the
eastern and northernn Tribal Areas to the line of rail. Most of the remaining
cattle came from the Western State Lands and, because of poor roads and high
transport costs, less than 30% were transported by truck; the others were
trekked.
2.24      By African standards, the national herd is remarkably healthy and
free of disease. Both Rinderpest and East-Coast Fever,, the scourges of the



cattle industry in countries farther north, are unRnown in Botswana.  'I'tir
only diseases affecting the acceptabilitv of beef on foreign markets axe l'oot
and mouth and measles, and both are being controlled on a national scale by
cordon fences, quarantines, and vaccination in the case! of foot and mouth and
by eradication of tape worms in humans and inspection of carcasses at the
time of slaughter in the case of measles. Less serious; are anthrax, blackleg,
and rabies, all of which are kept under control by compulsory annual
vaccination. Tsetse-fly-clearing operations are gradually pushing trypanoso-
miasis back into the Okavango Swamps.
2.25      External and internal parasites are common, blut are not a major
health hazard, particularly when animals are sprayed and dosed regularly,
as is done on many European-owned freehold properties. More important is
an almost countrywide deficiency of phosphorous in native pastures, whlich
Government is trying to rectify by advocating regular feeding of bone meal.
D. Services to the Livestock Industry
Education, Research, Extension, Cooperatives, and Animal Health
2.26      The cattle industry is serviced by a number of organizations,
all of which are staffed at the senior level by expatriate professional
officers. The Ministry of Agriculture is primarily responsible for agricul-
tural education, research, extension, cooperatives, and animal health (Annex
1, Chart) but, like all other ministries, is suffering irom shortages in
facilities, equipment, vehicles, trained personnel, and operating funds.
2.27      Technical high school education is provided by the Botswana Agri-
cultural College (BAC), which graduates about 35 agricultural demonstrators
and 25 veterinary assistants annually. More advanced training is offered at
the Swaziland Agricultural College and University Center (SACUC), namely,
a three-year diploma course in agriculture. Government expects about 30
Botswana citizens to graduate from SACUC between 1971 and 1973 and hopes all
will join the Ministry of Agriculture.
2.28      Only four Botswana nationals have university degrees in agriculture
or veterinary science, two of whom are presently abroad completing their
graduate studies. Nine more are in the process of earning undergraduate
degrees and are expected to return to Botswana for emplioyment with the
Ministry of Agriculture.
2.29      Present research efforts are concentrated in the fields of animal
breeding, animal health, and range management. The Division of Animal
Production is evaluating the performance of pure and crossbred Tswana and
Africander cattle on 14 field stations with over 1,200 breeding cows (para
2.17). The Department of Animal Health is conducting studies on trace mineral
deficiencies and on external and internal parasites at the central diagnostic
laboratory in Gaborone. Range management research is being expanded at
the Morale and Kalahari Stations.



- 8 -
2.30      The extension services of the Division of Animal Production are
concentrated in the Eastern Tribal Lands and are directed at the improvement
of range management and animal husbandry techniques. This program includes
six demonstration ranches and three mobile teams, with a staff complement of
about 10 expatriate professionals and 40 African technicians, but the program
is having little impact on the industry because research and administrative
responsibilities cut down on the amount of time thait these officers can
spend in the field doing extension work. Animal husbandry extension services
in the Western State Lands are practically non-exisitent.
2.31      The Division of Cooperatives is promoting the establishment of
livestock marketing cooperatives in village communiities to service the small
producer by reducing trekking costs and eliminating intermediate buyers.
Currently, 22 such cooperatives are in existence. These have been marketing
increasing numbers of cattle and accounted for aboul: 7% (6,800 head) of BMC's
total cattle purchases in 1969.
2.32      The Department of Animal Health, staffed by 26 expatriate pro-
fessional officers and 213 technicians, is responsible for the prevention
and control of animal diseases; the maintenance and control of quarantine
stations, cordon fences, and stock routes; the inspection and grading of
meat; and the eradication of tsetse fly. The depart:ment is discharging its
responsibilities with ability and efficiency and, for the control of foot
and mouth disease, has divided the country into four regions by means of
cordon fences (Map). Animals are allowed to move from one region to another
only after they spend at least 14 days in a strategically sited quarantine
station. By this method and with the aid of mobile inspection teams and
preventine vaccination (SAT I, II, and III) in the endemic areas (Okavango
Swamp environs in the extreme northwest), the Department has kept the disease
under control.
Boreholes
2.33      Two departments in the Ministry of Cormerce, Industry, and Water
Affairs share responsibility for borehole development (Annex 1). Siting and
drilling are carried out by the Department of Geological Survey and Mines and
equipping and maintenance by the Department of Water Affairs; no charge is
made for drilling unsuccessful boreholes. These departments are currently
fielding 10 drilling rigs and 20 mobile maintenance units, but can hardly
cope with the backlog of work. Drilling operations should improve with
the planned purchase of five additional rigs in the next two years.
Agricultural Credit
2.34      Botswana has no Central Bank and, together with Lesotho, the
Republic of South Africa, and Swaziland, is in the Rand (R) Currency Area.
1T H.-uikting systelu in Botswana was developed primarily during the past 10
vea; aSnnk is concontrated in the three main business centers - Gaborone,
Lolatse, and Francistown (para 2.04). Agricultural credit is provided by
the National Development Bank (NDB) and by the only two commercial banks,
Barclays DCO and Standard - both with headquarters in London (Annex 3).



- 9 -
2.35      NDB was established in 1964 to assist in the development of industry,
agriculture, and housing. Capital funds now total about US$1.4 million,
mainly from Government and United Kingdom grants and from revenue derived
from the sale of State Lands. Other lending activities include the adminis-
tration of United Kingdom Exchequer Loans, most of which are earmarked for
housing.  NDB's total portfolio was about US$2.0 million in December 1970,
of which around US$400,000 was for livestock, mainly in the form of loans to
individual cattlemen or groups of cattlemen for boreho:Le development (para
2.08). New loans for livestock development amounted to about US$150,000
annually during the past two years and now carry an interest rate of 8%.
NDB has recently appointed a new general manager who has considerable
experience in agricultural lending in Uganda. At present, NDB has a staff
complement of five, but it is planning to raise the number to eight in the
near future to improve its capability to assess and supervise loans. So
far, the bank has relied on Ministry of Agriculture technicians to assess
loan applications and collect repayments on loans granted.
2.36      The two commercial banks, Barclays DCO and Standard, are the main
sources of credit to the livestock industry and are providing short-term
loans and overdrafts at interest rates prevailing in the Rand Currency Area
(8-1/2% to 10-1/2%). Their aggregate lending to the private sector increased
from about US$4.6 million in 1967 to around US$12.0 million in 1970, an
important part of which was for livestock. Barclays Bank is also advancing
funds to cattlemen fattening animals on Government's new demonstration
ranches (US$40 to US$55 per head) and hopes to increase this kind of lending
under the proposed project (Annex 3).
2.37      Because many cattle arrive at the BMC slaughter plant in an
unfinished condition, BMC in 1969, organized a special "Grazier's Scheme"
(Annex 1) to help improve the quality of cattle. Under this scheme, BMC
purchases unfinished herds of feeder steers and places them for periods of
12 to 18 months in the care of farners with surplus feed.  From the value, of
the cattle when they are eventually slaughtered, BMC deducts the original
cost of the herd, plus interest at 9% per annum and US$3.60 per head super-
vision fee; the balance goes to the farmer. BMC is receiving financial
assistance from Barclays Bank, which supplies funds for the scheme at 8-1/2%
per annum. The scheme is of considerable assistance to farmers short: of
working capital and a total of some 7,000 steers, worth about US$450,000,
was financed under the scheme in 1970. Plans call for increasing this number
to at least 15,000 per annum.
E.  Policies for Livestoc'. Development
2.38      Aclhiivement of national self-sufficiency in the production of
basic foodstuffs and expansion of the livestock industry to increase exports
and rural incomes have been accorded priority in agricultural development
(National Development Plan, 1970-75). The Plan states that rapid advances
in livestock production, amounting to a 280% rise in offtake, can be achieved
by raising animal husbandry standards, introducing a commercial attitude



- 10 -
in the ranching community, and bringing more :Land into beef production. An
increase in weaning rates to 65%, a decrease in slaughter age to three to
four years without loss in carcass weight (para 2.20), and expansion of the
national herd to two million animals are cited as reasonable targets. The
proposed production parameters are already being exceeded on almost all free-
hold properties and on Government stations where stocking rates are not too
high and where management of animals and pastures is good (para 2.20).
2.39      Substantial tracts of presently unoccupied and unutilized land are
currently available only in the western parts of the Kalahari Desert, close
to the border with Namibia and away from the main migration routes of wildlife
(Western State Lands, para 2.09).  The development of this region was, how-
ever, contingent on the availability of dependable and economic sources of
subterranean water.  Such an aquifer was only recently discovered.  Evidence
of the suitability of this region for livestock production is provided by
freehold ranches in nearby areas inside and outsidet Botswana. The ranches are
still in existence, in many cases after more than 50 years of continuous
commercial operation, and on most only minor changes in the normal Kalahari
Desert flora are evident.  This is largely a conseq uence of conservative
stocking rates and of good management of stock and pastures.
2.40      Tne Western State Lands also provide proof of the Kalahari Desert's
sensitivity to abuse, as typified by the process of devastation taking place
on the communal grazing grounds of the few African settlements fringing the
region. Although only a small portion of Kalahari has been affected so far,
areas of devastation are spreading and will continue to do so unless suitable
controls and sound range management practices are introduced (para 2.13).
2.41      Insofar as development of the Kalahari desert is concerned, the
proposed Proiect represents a cautious first step toward providing the inha-
bitants of traditional villages with the credit and technology to initiate
commercially viable ranching operations on unutilized land (Annex 4). Two
types of ranches would be established - one for the breeding of cattle and
the other for the fattening of feeder animals. On both, conservative stocking
rates would be rigorously controlled to minimize disruption of the Kalahari
Desert flora. The immediate result of opening up more land would be a
decline in the number of animals on existing overstocked communal pastures.
To ensure that these residual numbers would not rise again above prescribed
levels, causing further devastation of communal past:ures, Government would
enforce new laws (para 2.13) regulating grazing and watering of stock, burning
of vegetation, and cutting of trees. The Project would, in addition, provide
funds and expertise for studies and research in range management, animal
husbandry, climatology, and associated environmental factors to monitor and
evaluate changes brought about by Project activities, for it is only under
such controlled conditions that meaningful scientific data can be collected
and interpreted. Furthermore, comparison of this daLta with that collected
from communal grazing grounds, freehold ranches, and. virgin veldt could,
hopefully, lead to a solution of the problem of rehabilitating areas already
devastated. The socio-cultural problems associated with the establishment
of ranches in uninhabited areas and with the translocation of segments of
village communities would be the subject of concurrent studies to be carried



- 11 -
out by Government, SIDA is considering financing such studies on a grant
basis as part of a development program in the villages associated with the
present Project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
3.01      The proposed Project is essentially a land development scheme on
remote, uninhabited and unutilized State Lands and Tribal Lands. The Project
aims at increasing Botswana's rural incomes and exports of beef and Karakul
sheep pelts by establishing new cattle ranches and by furither developing
existing sheep farms. The Project would finance:
(a) Ranch and Farm Development
(i)  30 breeding ranches, five fattening ranches, and
24 Karakul sheep farms in the Western State Lands; and
(ii)  nine fattening ranches in the Eastern Tribal Lands
and the Makalamabedi fattening ranch in the Northern
State Lands;
(b) Management and Technical Services
(i) Livestock Project Management Unit in the MLnistry
of Agriculture; and
(ii) Botswana Livestock Development Company - a BMC
subsidiary;
(c) Government Services
(i)  Borehole Maintenance and Installation Units;
(ii) Stock Routes; and
(iii) Surveys;
(d)  Technical Studies
Ranch and Farm Development
3.02      All Project ranches and farms would be established on presently
unoccupied and unutilized land (Map). Those in the Western State Lands would
be developed by a Livestock Project Management Unit (LPMU) to be established
in the Ministry of Agriculture, and those in the Eastern Tribal Lands and
Northern State Lands, by the Botswana Livestock Development Company (BLDC),



- 12 -
a BMC subsidiary presently being formed (Annex 5). IRanch and farm land would
be granted for 50 years to cattlemen and farmers by l:he Ministry of Local
Government and Lands in State Lands (para 2.07) and by the Tribal Land
Boards in the Eastern Tribal Lands (para 2.08). Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations.
3.03      Basic ranch development would include drilling and equipping of
boreholes and erecting of perimeter fencing. After such initial development,
leases to the ranches would be issued to individual cattlemen or to groups
of cattlemen from nearby villages who would assume the cost of development
as a loan from CSovernment and who would operate the ranches for the breeding
and fattening of cattle. The fattening ranches would, in contrast, be
operated on a grazing fee basis for the benefit of rural communities - by
LPMU in the Western State Lands and by BLDC in the Eastern Tribal Lands.
BLDC's Northern State Lands Makalamabedi fattening ranch would, in addition,
be operated by the company as a commercial concern and would be stocked with
feeder cattle purchased from the adjoining Tribal Area of Ngamiland. LPMU
would also assist ranchers and sheep farmers in drawing up and implementing
plans for the further development of their properties with credit from
Government. All the proposed ranches and farms in the Western State Lands
are off the main migration routes of wildlife and close to existing frontier
and veterinary cordon fences. Their combined area accounts for but a small
fraction of Kalahari. The Department of Wildlife and National Parks considers
that the establisshment of such ranches would have minimal effects on wildlife
populations, particularly if two to three-mile-wide unfenced gaps are left
between ranches every 20 to 30 miles so that strays and stragglers can pass
through.
3.04      Although the Project area in the Western State Lands is more
than sufficient to accommodate all the Project ranches, it nevertheless
borders on the communal grazing grounds of a number of villages. Goverment
is demarcating these communal grazing grounds to avoid any future claims
to land by village communities.
3.05      Each of the Project ranches in the Western State Lands would be
sited around a single borehole and each of those in the Eastern Tribal
Lands around two. The boreholes would be for stock watering purposes only
and would be wIdely interspaced. They are unlikely to yield more than
1,500 gal/hr and would therefore have little effect on the water table.
Siting and drilling would be carried out by the Department of Geological
Survey and Mines, which has had considerable experience in such work (para
2.33), while equipping and maintenance would be undertaken by the Department
of W4ater Affairs (para 2.33). The costs of drilling and equipping boreholes
would be financed under the Project, as would other necessary on-ranch
investments such as those for water reticulation, fencing, dwellings, tools,
and breeding stock in the case of breeding ranches and Karakul sheep farms.
Government would bear the cost of drilling blank borelholes as is the normal
practice (para 2.33). The Project would also provide LPMU and BLDG with
funds to purchase farm machinery (tractors, trailers, and vehicles) for the
development and operation of fattening ranches. Stocking rates on the
proposed ranches would range from 25 ac/AU in the Eastern Tribal Areas to



13 
about 40 ac/AU in the Western State Lands. These rates reflect the product-
ivity of pastures and are considered conservative by staff members of the
Ministry of Agriculture, who point out that stocking rates on nearby freehold
properties, both in Botswana and across the border in South Africa and Namibia,
are considerably higher.  Another way to compare stocking rates is to consider
the number of animals watered from a single borehole -- in most of the Western
State Lands villages somewhere between 2,000 to 7,000 cattle and on the
Project ranches, in the same area, no more than 550.
3.06      Western State Lands Breeding Ranches.  These ranches would be for
the breeding and fattening of cattle. Each would have! an area of about
16,000 ac and a carrying capacity of 1 AU/40 ac -- a ranch small enough for
cattle to reach water without having to travel more than five miles a day
and yet large enough to carry the costs of development. The ranches would
be developed by LPMU but Twould be handed later on to individual cattlemen or
groups of cattlemen from the nearby villages of Kalkfontein, Karakobis,
Makunda, Kuli, Nojane, Tshane, and Kang (pars. 3.02), mUiny of whom have
indicated interest in the proposed ranches and willingiess to take over the
cost of development as a loan from Goverment (Annex 4). These cattlemen
would be required to bring a balanced herd of around 225 cattle onto each
ranch and build it up over 13 years to about 530 head (Annex 6, Tables 1 to
5). They would supplement their incomes during the building up period by
fattening feeder stters purchased under the Grazier's Scheme (para 2D37).
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that all cattle brought onto a
breeding ranch would be managed as a single herd and not as separate herds.
A further assurance was obtained during negotiations that Government would
take necessary measures to control overstocking of the communal pastures of
villages from which cattle would be drawn to stock the nearby breeding ranches
as well as on Project Ranches.
3.07      Western State Lands Fattening Ranches,  Theset ranches would. each
have an area of about 16,000 ac and a carrying capacity, of 1 AU/40 ac (Annex
6, Tables 6 to 10), LPMU would develop and operate the ranches and would
provide the inhabitants of the villages, referred to in paragraph 3.06, with
an opportunity to fatten cattle for slaughter on a grazing fee basis.  LPMU
would purchase immature village cattle under the Grazier's Scheme and finish
them for slaughter if the number of fee paying cattle is insufficient to
utilize available grazing during the initial years of operation.
3.08      Western State Lands Karakul Sheep Farms.  The existing Karakul
sheep farms are on State Lands in the extreme southwesitern part of the
country around Bokspits. Government has not yet formalized the boundaries
of these farms nor has it granted farmers title to the land. The farms
average about 17,000 ac and have a carrying capacity o:E 1 Karakul sheep unit/
10 ac. Most are unfenced and have only one borehole.  All would require
additional investments in breeding stock, boreholes, water reticulation,
jackal-proof perimeter fencing, and subdivisional fencing (Annex 6, Tables
11 to 14). LPMU would assist these farmers in drawing up farm development
plans and NDB would provide the credit to implement them (para 3.03).
3.09      Eastern Tribal Land Fattening Ranches.  These ranches would be
in the Eastern Tribal Lands and would provide village communities withn



- 14 -
services similar to those offered by fattening ranches in the Western State
Lands (para 3.07). The ranches would be developed anid operated by BLDC.
Each would have an area of about 20,500 ac and a carrying capacity of 1 AU/25
ac (Annex 6, Tables 15 to 19).
3.10      Northern State Lands Makalacabedi Fattening anh.  This ranch
would be developed and operated by BLDC for the fattening of cattle purchased
from the adjoining Tribal Area of Ngamiland (para 3.03). The ranch would
have an area of about 190,000 ac and a stocking capacity of 1 AU/30 ac
(Annex 6, Tables 20 to 23). It would depend on pumped water from the
Botletle River because geological studies have so far indicated that potable
aquifers are unlikely to exist in the area. Water rights to the Makalamabedi
Rnach from the Botletle River have already been acquired by the Ministry
of Agriculture and will soon be transferred to BLDC.
Management and Technical Services
3.11      The ranch and farm development portion of the project would be
implemented by t- o separate organizations - LPMU would be responsible for
all developments in the Western State Lands (para 3.Cl1a(i)) and BLDC for all
developments in the Eastern Tribal Lands and the Northern State Lands (para
3.01a(ii) and Annex 6, Tables 15 to 26).  Project funds would be used to
finance the two senior positions in each of these organizations, namely, the
Project Manager and Field Manager of LPMU and the General Manager and Makalama-
bedi Ranch Manager of BLDC as well as all the operating costs of BLDC during
the first two years of operation. Included on the staffs of the two organiza-
tions are three SACUC diplomates (para 2.27) who would initially serve as
extension officers, but who, with training, might later on be promoted to
more senior and responsible positions.
Government Services
3.12      Borehole Installation and Maintenance Units.  Three mobile borehole
installation and maintenance units would be financed by Project funds and
added to the existing service (para 2.33) to expedite the equipping and
servicing of Project boreholes (Annex 6, Table 27). These units would be
operated and maintained by the Department of Water Affairs of the Ministry
of Commerce, Industry, and Water Affairs.
3.13      Stock Routes.  Further development of two major stock routes
(Ghanzi/Lobatse and Maun/Francistown) and three minor ones (Letlakeng/
Gaborone, Seleka/Mahalapye, and Rakops/Palapye) would be financed under
the Project to facilitate the flow of cattle from the traditional breeding
areas (Annex 6, Table 28). Investments would be mainly in fencing and
watering installations to ensure that both feed and water are available to
trekked animals. The stock routes would be administered by the Department
of Animal Health of the Ministry of Agriculture (para 2.32).
3.14      Surveys.  The Project would provide funds for the survey of
Project ranches and farms and the demarcation of village communal grazing
grounds on State Lands (para 3.04).



- 15 -
Technical Studies
3.15      Project funds, administered by the Ministry of Agriculture, would
be used for technical studies. Two of the studies woulid be conducted by
consultants (two man-years), namely, a study on the marketing of live cattle
in the country as a whole and a study on the rejuvenation of the communal
pastures of the villages associated with the breeding ranches in the Western
State Lands. Other studies would be carried out by the scientific staff of
the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Water
Affairs and include the effects of fencing and ranching on the migrations of
wildlife, the collection of meteorological and botanical data, and the
measurement of liveweight changes in cattle. Project ftnds for studies
carried out by these two ministries would be mainly for the purchase of
necessary equipment, with Government bearing most of the staffing and opera-
ting costs (Annex 6, Table 29). The studies would proviLde information for
the present as well as future livestock development projects and their terms
of reference would be mutually agreed upon by Government: and IDA/SIDA lbefore
they are undertaken. All the proposed technical studies would be initiated
within 12 months of the date of effectiveness of the Credit and that those
undertaken by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Commerce,
Industry, and Water Affairs would continue to be funded after the Credit is
fully disbursed.
B. Organization and Management
Livestock Project Management Unit
3.16      A Livestock Project Management Unit (LPMU) wouLd be established in
the Ministry of Agriculture to implement all the developments called for by the
Project in the Western State Lands. LPMU would be headed by a Project Manager,
who would be directly responsible to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry
of Agriculture (Annex 5, Appendix 1). A Livestock Project Coordinating
Committee, chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture,
would coordinate participation of other ministries, agencies, and departments
of Government to rapidly and efficiently implement the Project.  The secretary
of this committee would be the Project Manager of LPMU and members would
include representatives from the Ministries of Agriculture; Finance and
Development Planning; Local Government and Lands; Commerce, Industry, and
Water Affairs; as well as representatives from NDB, BMC, and BLDC. Assurances
were obtained from Covernment during negotiations that LP'MU would be established
before the Credit becomes effective and that LPMU's prescribed duties and
responsibilities would be acceptable to IDA.
3.17      The specific responsibilities of LPMU (in the Western State Lands)
would be to:
(a) develop the breeding ranches and fattening ranches in
accordance with Project proposals;



- 16 -
(b)  operate the fattening ranches on a grazing Eee basis
for the benefit of village cattlemen;
(c) allocate breeding ranches to individual catt:lemen or
to groups of cattlemen;
(d) prepare detailed plans for the further deve:Lopment of
Karakul sheep farms; and
(e) provide Project cattlemen and sheepmen with extension and
advisory services.
LPMU would require assistance from the following organizations to achieve these
goals:
(a) the Ministry of Agriculture for staffing and veterinary
services;
(b) the Ministry of Local Government and Land for the survey,
demarcation and allocation of land;
(c)  the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Water Affairs for
siting, drilling, equipping, and maintaininlg boreholes; and
(d) the Central Tenders Board for assistance in procurement.
3.18      The Project Manager of LPMU would be experitenced in ranch development
and would have proven organizational ability. He would be stationed in
Gabarone and would be assisted by a field manager stationed in Ghanzi. The
qualifications and terms of reference of these two senior posts are outlined
in Annex 5. Because such personnel are unlikely to be found in Botswana,
Government has requested that they be recruited from abroad. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that, as a condition of effectiveness of the
Credit, Government would recruit a Project Manager for LPMU, acceptable to
IDA, and would appoint him on terms and conditions saitisfactory to IDA.  The
field manager of LPMU would also be appointed after consultation with IDA.
He would be assisted in his work by two SACUC diplomates (para 2.27) and four
demonstrators (Annex 6, Table 24).
Botswana Livestock Development Company
3.19      The Botswana Livestock Development Company (BLDC) to be established
as a limited liability subsidiary of BMC would develop the nine Eastern
Tribal Lands fattening ranches and the Northern State Lands Makalamabedi
fattening ranch. The company would also be responsible for the operation
of the fattening ranches for the benefit of tribal cattlemen - on a grazing
fee basis in the Eastern Tribal Lands and with purchased cattle at Makalamabedi.
BLDC would be wholly owned by BMC but would not pay any dividends. Profits
over and above taxes and contingency reserves would, instead, be paid back
to suppliers of cattle as bonuses as is the case with the parent company
(para 2.21). BMC would provide BLDC with accounting services on a fee basis
during the initial years of operation.



- 17 -
3.20      BLDC would be governed by a five-man Board.  The Chairman and two
members would be appointed by BMC. The other two members, one of whom would
be the Project Manager of LPMU, would be appointed by Government.
3.21      BLDC's chief executive would be the General Manager.  He would be
assisted in the development and operation of the Makalamabedi fattening ranch
by a senior ranch manager. The suggested qualifications and terms of
reference of these two managerial posts are outlined irL Annex 5. As such,
persons are unlikely to be found in Botswana, Government has proposed that
they be recruited from abroad.
3.22      The overall duties and responsibilities of BLDC were discussed during
negotiations and it was agreed that effectiveness of the Credit would be
contingent on the:
(a) establishment of BLDC under a charter acceptable to
IDA; and
(b) recruitment of a General Manager for BLDC acceptable
to IDA on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
Government
3.23      The Government of Botswana would, through its various ministries,
agencies, and departments, be responsible for implementing the Government
services and technical studies portions of the Project (Annex 6, Table 30).
Phasing
3.24      The expected phasing of ranch and farm development is outlined below:
Project Years       Total
1      2       3     Units
-----Units-------
Settlement Management Unit
Western State Lands Breeding Ranches          8      12     10        30
W1estern State Lands Fattening Ranches        1       2      2         5
Western State Lands Karakul Sheep Farms    6         10      8        24
Livestock Development Company
Eastern Tribal Lands Fattening Ranches        3       3      3         9
Northern State Lands Makalamabedi
Fattening Ranch                           1/3    1/3    1/3         1
C. Cost Estimates
3.25      Total Project cost including a physical contingency on 10% on all
inputs except livestock and an overall price contingency of 15% is estimated
at about US$5.4 million (Annex 7). The foreign exchange component is about



- 18 -
US$2.4 million, or 44% of total Project cost. The following table summarizes
Project costs by major investment category:
R (thousands)        US$ (thousands)         X         %
For-                   For-            Project  Foreign
Category 1       Local  eign   Total  Local  eign   Total   Cost    Exchange
Ranch and Farm
Development
Installations         490    895  1,385    654  1,19.3  1,847    39            65
Machinery, Equip-
ment Supplies         64    118    182       85    158    243        5        65
Breeding Stock        389    124    522    530    165    695    15             24
Subtotal          952  1,137  2,089  1,269  1,516  2,785    59             54
Feeder Steers         591    -       591    788    -         788    17         -
Total           1,543  1,137  2,680  2,057  1,516  3,573    76             42
Management and
Technical Services
LPMU                  128    150    278    171    200    371          8        54
LDC                   101    114    215    134    152    286          6        53
Total              229    264    493    305    352    657    14            54
Government Services
Borehole Units          8      23      31     10      31      41      1        76
Stock Routes           25      61     86      34      81    115       2        70
Surveys                65      -       65     87      -       87      2        -
Total               98      84    182    131    112    243        5        46
Technical Studies       103      88    191    138    11.7    255        5        46
Grand Total    1,973  1,573  3,546  2,631  2,097  4,728   100              44
Price Contingency
(15%)                 278    219    497    371    291    662    -             -
TOTAL PROJECT COST  2,251  1,792  4,043  3,002  2,388  5,390   100               44
/1   Includes 10% physical contingency on all inputs except livestock.



- 19 -
D. Proposed Financing
3.26      Project costs would be financed as follows:
Commer-                            Ranchers
cial                 Govern-       and      Total
IDA/SIDA    Banks        BLDC        ment     Farmers    (100%)
US$        US$         us$         uS$        US$          USS
'000   %   '000   %   '000   %   '000   %   '000   %    10O0
Ranch and Farm
Development
Physical Devel-
opment            2,138  77     -    -      -    -    116   4    531  19   2,785
Feeder Steers        -    -      788  100          -    -         -    -         788
Management and
Technical Services
LPMU                 201  54           -    -           170  46      -    -      371
BLDC                 212  74      -    -    74   26           -      -    -      286
Government Services  243 100       -    -     -    -           -      -    -      243
Technical Studies    117  46       -    -    _      -    138  54      -           2 55
Total          2,911  62    788   17   74    1    424   9    531  11   4,728
Price Contingency
v15%)               397  -      118   -    10    -      59   -      78   -     662
TOTAL PROJECT COST 3 308  -       906   -    84    -    483   -    609   -   55390
The IDA/SIDA Credits of US$3.3 million would finance about 61% of tota:L Proj-
ect cost, namely, around 77% of ranch and farm development; 63% of management
and technical services; 100% of Government services; and 46% of technical
studies. About US$0.9 million (27%) of the proposed IDA/SIDA Credits would
finance local currency expenditures (Annex 7). IDA and SIDA have provision-
ally agreed to share equally in the Credit but this is still subject to
confirmation.
3.27      The commercial banks and BMC would provide short-term loans for
the purchase of steers under the Grazier's Scheme and would advance money to
farmers placing cattle on BLDC fattening ranches.  Their financial partici-
pation would amount to about 17% of total Project cost.
3.28      Government's US$483,000 contribution (9% of total Project cost)
would be in technical services, technical studies, and siubsidies on boreholes
and breeding bulls (Annex 1).  Much of this contribution would come from the
reallocation of present staff and resources and would not involve substWantial
outlays of additional funds. Government would, however, provide necessary
funds for Project goods and services pending reimbursement from the IDA and
SIDA credits.



- 20 -
3.29      The contributions of ranchers and farmers would amount to about
11% of total Project cost and would be mainly in livestock.
E. Lending Operations
3.30      The IDA/SIDA Credits of US$3.3 million would be made available on
normal IDA/SIDA terms to Government, which would bear the foreign exchange
risk. Government would lend the Rand equivalent of' S$1.55 million to ranchers
and farmers and about US$1.15 million to BLDC for ranch and farm development
and technical services.
Ranchers and Farmers
3.31      Sub-loans would be made for 30 cattle breeding ranches and 24 Karakul
sheep farms in the Western State Lands. The cattle breeding ranches would be
developed by LPMU in conjunction with other Government Ministries, and, on
completion, settlers would be selected (para 3.06), after an initial credit
worthiness assessment by NDB. Each settler would then be granted a ranch for
50 years and would simultaneously obtain a subloan from government equal to
the cost of development, plus a small amount for start-up supplies. NDB would
act as fiscal agent for Government. Subborrowers would pay 8% interest
which is the normal rate charged by NDB for long-term 'Lending, but interest
would be deferred and capitalized for two years. Subloans would be repaid in
equal annuity installments from years 6 to 18.
3.32      Development plans for Karakul sheep farmers, who are already
occupying State Land and have partially improved their farms, would be
prepared by LPMU. The plans would be implemented and the land granted for
50 years if the applicant is deemed credit-worthy by NDB. The costs of
development would be taken over by the applicant as a sub-loan from Govern-
ment. These subloans would be for 14 years at 8%, with interest deferred
and capitalized for the first three years. They would be repaid on an
annuity basis between years 7 and 14.
3.33      NDB would act as agent for Government and wouild receive the cost
of administering the sub-loans. Assurances with respect to the foregoing
terms and conditions (paras 3.31 to 3.33) were obtainecd during negotiations.
Botswana Livestock Development Company
3.34      BLDC would be responsible for the development: of the nine fattening
ranches in the Eastern Tribal areas and the large Makalamabedi ranch in
the Northern State Lands. Plans for development of each ranch would be
prepared and submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture for approval and BLDC
would develop the ranches and operate them. Funds required for full develop-
ment, plus start-up supplies would be provided from a Special Project
Account with Government pending reimbursement from the IDA/SIDA Credits.
Such funds would be extended on the basis of one-third equity and two-thirds
loan. Loans to BLDC would be at 8% interest over 20 years, with interest



- 21 -
deferred and capitalized for the first two vears. Subloans would be repaid
on an annuity basis from years 5 to 20. Assurances on t:he above terms and
conditions were obtained at negotiations.
BMC and Commercial Banks
3.35      An important part of the Project is the provision of short-term
working capital by BMC and the commercial banks.  It is envisaged that BLDC
would obtain funds at 9 to 9-1/2% interest under the Graziers scheme for the
purchase of steers for Makalamabedi and the Eastern Tribal Land fattening
ranches.  Advances to farmers placing fee paying cattle on BLDC fattening
ranches and LPMU's Western State Land fattening ranches would be made by both
commercial banks.  These banks would also assist with the purchase of steers
for the Project cattle breeding ranches. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that Government would by June 30, 1973 negotiate and present
to IDA and SIDA for approval, arrangements supplying short-term funds, rising
over the first three years to about US$1 million for purchases of and
advances on feeder steers.
F. Disbursement
3.36      The proceeds of the IDA/SIDA Credits would be dlisbursed to LPMU
and BLDC through Government against appropriate documentation certified by
the Project Manager of LPMU for claims connected with LPMJ and by the General
Manager of BLDC for claims connected with BLDC.  Reimbursement from the
proceeds of the IDA/SIDA Credits would be for 100% of:
(a)  the expenditures made for the development of breeding
ranches, fattening ranches, and Karakul sheep Earms in
the Western State Lands, including the purchase of
breeding bulls and Karakul sheep;
(b)  the costs of developing the Eastern Tribal Lands
fattening ranches and the Northern State Lands Makala-
mabedi fattening ranch;
(c)  the total emoluments for a period of four years, including
taxes of the two senior managerial posts in LPIJU and the
two senior managerial posts in LDC; and
(d)  the costs of vehicles, furniture, office equipment and
radio sets incurred by LPMU and BLDC during the first
year of operations.
Govermnent would also be reimbursed for 100Z of the costes of expanding the
borehole installation and maintenance unit, developing stock routes, and
conducting surveys, as well as 46% of the costs of technical studies. Full
disbursement of the IDA/SIDA Credits should be achieved in-t four years
(Annex 8).



- 22 -
G. Procurement
3.37      The principal items to be financed under the Project would be
fencing materials, water pumping equipment, breeding animals, farm machinery,
and vehicles. Since purchases under the Project would be in numerous small
heterogeneous consignments staggered over a period of four years, interna-
tional competitive bidding would be difficult to organize and costly to
administer. Project goods approved by the Project Manager of LPMU and the
General Manager of BLDC would instead be procured by local tender. These
tenders would be advertised in Botswana and South African newspapers of
general circulation, as is the normal practice with Government and BMC
tendering. All the Project items are readily available in the Southern
Africa Customs Area, of which Botswana is a member. No country enjoys
preferential tariff rates on any of the Project items except for fencing wire
where the United Kingdom has an advantage of R 0.83 (US$1.10) per ton - less
than 1% of costs.
H.  Accounts and Auditing
3.38      NDB and BLDC would maintain accounts that would be audited annually
by an independent accounting service acceptable to IDA.  Satisfactory auditing
services are available in Gaborone. The Government would also keep separate
accounts on LPMU, borehole maintenance and servicing units, stock routes,
surveys, and technical studies and would have them audited in a manner
satisfactory to IDA. Reports of all audits would be forwarded to IDA within
five months of the end of the financial year. Assurances on these points
were obtained from Government during negotiations.
IV. MARKETS, PRICES AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
A. Markets and Prices
Beef
4.01      Botswana's domestic market for red meat is filled mainly by sheep,
goats, and game. Annual beef consumption on a countrywide basis is estimated
at only 16,000 carcasses.
4.02      The beef industry, based mainly on traditional Tribal cattle
raising, emerged as the primary source of foreign earnings largely because
of markets for carcass beef in the Republic of South Africa, live cattle in
Zambia, and processed meats in the United Kingdom (Annex 2). In recent years,
an increasing proportion of offtake has been in the better carcass grades,
reflecting a greater number of cattle being managed outside traditional
Tribal methods, namely, on freehold farms and around privately developed



- 23
wells and boreholes. The Government-owned abattoir at Lobatse was also
expanded and renovated in the late 1960's to handle about 200,000 carcasses
for export annually.  These developments, together with strict health control
in the field and hygiene at the abattoir, have enabled the industry to
exploit the increasing demand for higher priced beef in Botswana's three
most important markets. In addition to 50,000 to 70,000 carcasses shipped
annually to South Africa and Zambia, large amounts now move as boneless
frozen beef to the United Kingdom and South Africa. These markets, plus
others (Switzerland, Mauritlius, and Hongkong", are also taking increasing
quantities of high quality frozen cuts such as striploins and rumps. All
cattle are now slaughtered within Botswana and only token quantities are
canned. Furthermore, Government is considering the establishment of a new
abattoir in the northern part of the country to exploit the Zanbian market
and to better cope with the peak-up of slaughtering during winter, which
ocassionally strains operations at Lobatse.
4.03      The Project aims at producing an increased number of high grade
and well-finished carcasses to augment beef exports. An. additional 1,200
short tons of beef would be generated by the Project at tull development
in 15 years, or about 4% of 1970 production,  No difficulties should be
experienced in marketing this quantitty of beef in Botswana's traditional
markets, which are expected to remain buoyant during the foreseeable future
(Annex 9). This view has been confirmed by the Comodities and Trade
Division of FAO.
4.04      The average price (inclusive of bonus) paid to producers in 1970
was US$22.05 per 100 lb of cold dressed weight (CDW) and represents a 27-1/2%
increase over the US$17.30 paid in 1965 (Annex 2). Beef prices rose again
in 1971 but the exact benefits to producers have not yet been determined and
await the payment of bonuses by BMC.
Karakul Pelts
4.05      Karakul pelts are marketed through SAKK (para 2.15) and sold at
public auctions held five times a year in London (Annex 2). Average sales
price for South African pelts during recent years was US$8.12 per pelt, with
a range of US$7.00 to US$9.80. Pelts produced in Botswa-na in 1969 realized
an average of US$6.72 each and can be expected to go up when they are
significantly improved by better on-farm pelt preparation and by genetic
improvements in the present low grade flocks.
4.06      Annual world production is currently around 22 million pelts
(USSR, 14 million; South Africa, 5 million; and Afghanistan, 3 million),
but only 10 million are sold annually by public auction (USSR, 3 million;
South Africa, 5 million; and Afghanistan, 2 million).  The balances are
retained in the producer countries for local manufacture and internal use.
Since 1962, German and Italian merchants have been the main buyers, and
London brokers consider that auction prices will continue buoyant in the
foreseeable future. Botswana should, therefore, encounter few difficulties
in marketing the 28,000 pelts generated by the Project in eight years' time.



- 24 -
B. Producer Benefits
4.07      The benefits realized on a typical breeding ranch and Karakul sheep
farm during the repayment period of a loan are sumnarized below:
Breeding Ranch               Karakul Sheep Farm
Average During                  Average During
Before      Repayment          Before        Repayment
Development   Period /1        ])evelopment    Period /2
-------------------        Us         -----            --
Net Income              1,023        6,338               927         3,481
Debt Service              -         4,283                 -          1,983
Net Income After
Debt Service          1,023       2,721               927          1,488
Incremental Income
After Debt Service      -          1,034                -            881
Incremental Herd/
Flock Value                        1,431                -          2,363
/1   18 years.
72   14 years.
4.08      The estimated financial rates of return over 20 years would be
about 14% for the breeding ranches and 17% for the Karakul sheep farms
(Annex 10). These rates would be reduced by about 2% if output prices were
to fall 10% and by about 1% if operating costs were to rise 10%. As prospects
for both beef and Karakul pelts are deemed favorable (paras 4.03 and 4.06),
the above rates of return would be satisfactory.
4.09      The net benefits to farmers placing cattle on fattening ranches
would be about US$19 on each fattened animal after payment of grazing fees
to BLDC. This extra income comes from added body weight and better quality
carcasses.  Additionally, farmes would be able to market more cattle at
an earlier age, which would enable them to produce more beef on the same area
of land.
4.10      The Project would assist a large number of individuals.  About 100
cattlemon and sheopmen would be expected to borrow imoney for ranch and farm
development and would, in turn, employ about 200 fanm workers. Additionally,
BLDC would employ about 100 individuals at headquarters and on the fattening
ranches. The fattening ranches would have a combined annual throughput of
about 18,500 cattle and it is estimated that these animals would come from
and benefit some 4,000 families.



- 25 -
C. Benefits to BLDC and Government:
4.11      During the 20-year life span of the Project, BLDC would have
repaid its debt to Government, set aside some US$100,000 in reserves, and
distributed some US$0.8 million in bonuses to cattle producers. During the
same 20-year period, Government would have realized a profit of US$0.8
million over its 50-year repayment comiittments of the IDA/SIDA Credits.
V. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The Project would increase Botswana's 1970 Livestock export
earnings by about 10% in 15 years' time when all the rarLches and farms are
in full production, as is shown below:
Increase over 1970 Production
Item            Unit               Amount                  %
Carcass Beef     Short ton              1,200                4.0
Karakul Pelts    Number                28,000              280
Net Export
Sales          US$ millions               1.3             10
The Project would also generate an additional US$100,000 annually in Govern-
ment revenue at full development - an increase of around 8% over the 1969
level (para 2.11) mainly from taxes on the sale of about 18,500 cattle each
year.
5.02      The Project's benefits to the economy are set out in Annex 11.
In calculating the rate of return, benefits are based on the average net
return of meat to the country, including taxes and levies. Costs exclude
import duties but include expenses of Project staff. On this basis, the
rate of return to the economy would be about 21%. Other benefits include the
establishment of new outlets for village feeder steers, the generation of
breeding heifers for expansion of the national herd (about 700 annually at
full development), and the introduction of improved techniology in primitive
areas.
5.03      The direct and indirect benefits of the Project, together with
continued opening up of unutilized land by BLDC and introduction of improved
tecl-wology, management, and services, should spur further. livestock develop-
ment and strengthen the industry on which most of the population are
dependent for a living.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACRED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      The conditions of effectiveness of the Credit are that:



- 26 -
(a)  LPMU had been formed with duties and responsibilities
acceptable to IDA (para 3.16);
(b)  a Project Manager for LPMU, acceptable to IDA, had been
recruited and appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA (para 3.18);
(c)  BLDC had been established under a charter acceptable to
IDA (para 3.22); and
(d)  a General Manager for BLDC, acceptable ito IDA, had been
recruited and appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA (para 3.22).
6.02      Assurances were obtained from Government during negotiations that:
(a)  land would be made available for a renewable period of
50 years on all Project ranch and farm sites (para 3.02);
(b)  all cattle brought onto a breeding ranch would be managed
as a single herd (para 3.06);
(c)  overstocking on the communal grazing grcunds of villages from
which cattle are taken to stock the breeding ranches would be
controlled (para 3.06);
(d)  all the proposed technical studies would. be initiated within
12 months of the date of effectiveness of the Credit (para
3.15);
(e) terms of lending to BLDC, cattlemen and farmers would be
acceptable to IDA (paras 3.33 and 3.34);
(f)  arrangements would be made by June 30, 1973 to provide short-
term funds for purchases of and advances on feeder steers
(para 3.35); and
(g)  audited accounts of Project expenditures would be kept by
NDB, LPMU and BLDC and reports of these accounts would be
forwarded to IDA within four months of the end of the
financial year (para 3.38).
6.03      Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the Project is
suitable for an IDA/SIDA Credit of US$3.3 million. The Government of the
Republic of Botswana would be the borrower and wouLd assume the foreign
exchange risk.
June 2, 1972



ANNEX 1
Page 1     
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Improvement Programs and Services
A. Animal Health and Disease Control
1.        The Department of Animal Health, staffed with a full complement
of 26 professional (all expatriate) and 213 sub-professional officers, is
responsible for the control, prevention, and eradication of animal disease.
Potentially, the greatest danger is foot-and-mouth disease. Sources of in-
fection are checked by vaccinating some 400,000 head of livestock annually
in strategic areas of Northwest Botswana where a joint program between the
Animal Virus Research Institute of the United Kingdom and the Botswana
Government continues. To assure early detection of any outbreak, a system
of stock routes, outspans, and fenced quarantines has been developed and
all livestock movements are subject to close inspection. In addition to
the stock route quarantines, the country is divided by cordon fences into
four zones, which are in turn subdivided into 11 districts. Movement be-
tween the four main zones is permissible only after a 14-day quarantine
period in a fenced area. Movement between districts in the same zone is
allowed after inspection by an officer of the Department.
2.        A second important activity is that of meat inspection and hygiene
surveillance at the abattoir. This involves ante-mortem inspection of ani-
mals, maintenance of satisfactory sanitary conditions on the slaughter
floor, inspection of carcasses and internal organs, reports on pathological
conditions, and muscle cuts to inspect for measles. The department has
been successful in attaining and maintaining the strict meat hygiene re-
quirements of the Republic of South Africa, United Kingdom, Switzerland,
and, recently, Hong Kong.
3.        Botswana is not plagued with rinderpest and African east coast
fever but there are many other diseases and parasites that cumulatively
cause considerable loss to the livestock industry. With many, prophylaxis
is possible and the Department supplies some 35 different vaccines to stock
owners and administers free but compulsory annual vaccination campaigns
against anthrax, quarter evil (black leg), and rabies. To expand service to
the livestock industry and make available, at reasonable cost, those vaccines,
instruments, remedies, and mineral supplements that Government cannot supply
free, 12 livestock advisory centers are being set up at major livestock
concentration points. These centers are in addition to the main veterinary
supply depot in Gaborone and the six sub-depots that sell supplies. A mobile
retail unit will operate out of each sub-depot.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.         The Department operates a Tsetse Control Service, using selective
spraying techniques to eradicate Glossina morsitans, the vector carrying
trypanosomiasis. This program is operating with considerable success in
the Okavango swamp area and the Chobe District of Northwest Botswana. The
disease is not a problem in the Project areas.
5.        The Department now has a small diagnostic laboratory in Gaborone
to handle material for diagnosis and for research into mineral deficiencies,
helminthiasis and protozoology, and for making taxonomic surveys of
ectoparasites, all of which are of potential importance to the Project.
B. Artificial Insemination
6.        An artificial insemination (AI) scheme is underway, financed by
a R 300,000 bilateral grant that provides for a three-year capital invest-
ment phase to establish six artificial insemination centers and a bull
camp. Each center is designed to hold 800 cattle. Farmers are to bring
their cows to the center and leave them for a four-month period, at a
charge of R 2.50 per head. Although the centers will not be of benefit to
the Project Settlement Farms, the AI service does give training to indi-
viduals who wish to conduct artificial insemination on their own farms.
This service could be of future interest and benefit to the Project Settle-
ment Farms, provided the AI service can provide semen from unquestionably
superior bulls.
C. Cattle Export Levy Fund and Livestock
Industry Advisory Committee
7.         Government assesses an export levy fee ofE R 2.25 per head on all
cattle slaughtered for export. This is convenientLy collected by the
Botswana Meat Commission (BMC) through deductions fErom the gross value of
each animal before remitting proceeds to the producer. Twenty cents per
head of this levy passes to the Cattle Export Levy Fund (CELF), which is
used to finance small, but often effective, projects. At present, these
include a Livestock Subsidy Scheme for providing irmproved bulls to farmers
at subsidized prices and an education program to control measles in cattle
by reducing the incidence of tapeworms in humans.
8.        The Livestock Industry Advisory Committee (LIAC), composed of
representatives of both private and public sectors, has been administra-
tively established to tender advice to the Minister of Agriculture. It
also offers assistance to the President in matters involving expenditure
of funds from CELF.
9.         LIAC provides a twice yearly forum for the discussion of questions
concerning the livestock industry.  This permits Government to receive first
hand the views of a representative group of farmers and also to explain and
discuss in detail measures that have been proposed prior to the institution



ANNEX 1
Page 3
of a particular policy. These discussions are reported to have frequently
resulted in improved legislation for, or administration of, the livestock
industry.
D. Programs for Reducing Slaughter of Unfinished 'Cattle
10.       It is generally recognized that appreciable gain can accrue to
both producers of cattle and to the economy of Botswana by attaining a
better finish on about 40% of the cattle being sent to BMC{ for slaughter.
Two established programs include objectives of improving the finish of
cattle sent for slaughter.
11.       The Grazier's Scheme operated by BMC is primarily designed to
assist cattlemen with surplus grazing and water, but insufficient funds to
buy feeder steers to utilize these resources. BMC will purchase, before
despatch to the abattoir, herds of suitable immature or unfinished steers.
Individual herds are then placed in the care of a cattleman, with surplus
feed, who will carry the cattle up to the stage of maximum returns when
slaughtered. At that time, BMC estimates the value of the herd and deducts
the original cost of the herd plus an interest charge of 8-1/2% per annum
and a supervision fee of R 2.50 per head. The cattleman receives the balance.
BMC has at present about 6,500 cattle under the scheme, but intends to in-
crease this to at least 15,000.
12.       The first loans under the Grazier's Scheme were made in January
1969. Through January 1971, loans had been finalized on 7,521 cattle out
of a total of 17,622 applied for by 147 farmers. Through January 1971,
farmers had sent in 896 head for slaughter with results as indicated below:
Results Through January 1971
Financial Returns
Average Gross Profit/Head to all Producers (on 896 head)....R 12.02
Average Profit/Head/Month
Fenced Farms - on 521 head ............................. R  1.93
Unfenced Farms - on 375 head ........................... R  0.19
(Wide variation in gross profit/head existed between producers within each
group.)



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Outcome of Grading
All Cattle            Grazier Cattle
Grade              Slaughtered       Returned for Slaughter
(%)                     (M)
Super                  0.3                      1.1
Prime                  4.4                     14.8
1 A                   10.6                     12.5
1 B                   14.7                     12.6
2                     25.0                     25.1
3                     29.6                     24.9
4                      6.5                      1.3
Detained               8.0                      7.2
Condemned              0.9                      0.5
13.       Demonstration ranches have been operated by Government to show
farmers that better prices can be obtained by using improved management
techniques and by finishing cattle prior to slaught:er. There are a total of
eight demonstration ranches on which individual far-mers can place cattle for
finishing by paying a grazing fee of R 0.60 per month (deducted from
slaughter sale proceeds). The ranches are also int:ended to demonstrate
other grazing and husbandry practices and are now fully stocked with fee-
paying cattle. They have facilities for about 200 head each at any one time
but are too small to be commercially viable fattening units at the ongoing
grazing fee. Now that their demonstrational purpose has been fulfilled
Government is planning to use them for other purposes.
14.       Oxen are reported to have gained an average of 0.9 lb per day on
the ranches and the average net gain to the farmers after deducting grazing
fees is over R 20 per beast over a six-month period.
15.       Frequently, farmers have urgent need for money before their cattle
are ready for market. A farmer, upon depositing his cattle on a Government
ranch, can obtain cash through a loan scheme run in conjunction with Bar-
clays Bank. The loan principal and accrued interest is also deducted from
the sale proceeds of the cattle.
E. Borehole Siting and Drilling
16.       The Geological Survey and Mines Departmenit undertakes the explora-
tion of underground water resources as part of its general geological sur-
vey activities and also runs the Government Drilling Branch for the drilling
of boreholes.
17.       Modern geological and geophysical techniques are employed for the
location of favorable drilling sites and considerable data are available
from the drilling and operating records for the 4,500 boreholes in the
country. Hydrogeological research continues with the long-term objective
of producing an accurate detailed map of all Botswarna's underground water



ANNEX I
Page 5
resources. The siting of the 78 boreholes required by the Project over a
four-year period is well within the capacity of the Department.
18.       The Drilling Branch drills approximately 100 to 130 boreholes a
year, using four high-speed compressed-air-operated and six percussion
drilling rigs. In order to cope with the increased demand for water re-
sulting from the rapid population increase and agricultuiral and mining
developments, Government plans to increase its drilling capacity by acquir-
ing five more rigs and two special air drill attachments. With the addi-
tion of these units, it is considered that drilling capacity would be
adequate. Private contractors are also available. Government subsidizes
water development to the extent that no drilling charge Ls made for unsuccessful
boreholes.
F. Borehole Equipping and Maintenance
19.       The Department of Water Affairs operates 20 mobile units for
equipping and maintaining private and communal boreholes throughout the
country. Each unit comprises a specially outfitted lorry, special tools,
tentage, radio, spare engines, and pumps, and is staffed with one fitter
and five assistants. These field units are backed up by additional vehicles
for transporting heavy materials.
20.       Payment of an annual fee of R 35 per borehole gives the owner two
free routine servicing visits per year. Additional maintenance visits are
charged at R 25 per visit. Maintenance materials are charged at cost.
June 16, 1971



I                                             I



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
MINISTER
OF AGRICULTURE
DIVISION                              PERMANENT SECRETARY                             BOTSWANA
OF PLANNING        _                          DEPUTY                                   AGRICULTURAL
AND STATISTICS                           PERMANENT SECRETARY             TUD             COLLEGE
I.(Technical)
DEPARTMENT     DIVISION       DIVISION    I  DIVISION     DIVISION OF    DIVISION OF    DIVISION OF
OF ANIMAL     OF ANIMAL       OF LAND      OF COMMON   AGRICULTURAL   AGRICULTURAL   COOPERATIVES
HEALTH      PRODUCTION    UTILIZATION      SERVICES      EXTENSION      RESEARCH
DIVISION  JIACONNGICOOPERATIVE1
OF TSETSE                                 ACCOUNTING                                  DEVELOPMENT
CONTROL                                       UNIT                                       CENTERj
IBRD - 5688



I                                                     I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I



HO                                                  REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mean Maximim and Mean Yinimum Temperatures in Degrees Farenheight
Ghanzi            Tsabong             Maun               Francistown            Gaborone
Max.  Min.      Max.       Min .     Max.       Min .     Max.       Min .      Max.      Min .
January       90.6   65.4      94.5      65.7       89.5      66.7       87.3       65.7      90.4       65.4
February      89.4   64-3      92.6       64.6      89.1      65.8       86.3       64.8      89.5       65.2
March         87.5   62.8      88.6      61.0       88.4      64.6       84.2       62.1      86.7       61.6
April         83.7   55.7      82.1      51.8       86.5      58.6       8QF.5      57.1      81.9       54.0
May           73.3   44.6      76.4       12.5      81.9       49.3      75.9       47.9       76.7      43.9
June          73.9   39-9      70.7      35.0       76.7      43.3       74,4       41.6      71.7       37.5
Julg          74.5   38e9      71.1      34.1       77.0      43.3       7507       41.6      71.9       36e7
August        79.7   44.2      76,7      38.5       82.7       48.7      81.8       46.1       77.3      41.3
September     87.e  51.6    O83.8         48.0      903         7.3      87.7       elII       84.6      50-
October       92.1   59.7      88.0      53.8       94.5      64.6       89.O       61.7      93.2       59.0
November      91.0   63.1      91.1       60.7      92.9       65.7      93.3       64.9       89.1      62.9
December      90,6   63.2      94.0       63,5      90.0       66.4      87.7       65.3       90.3      64.0



an
7<                                                       R-f"IPUBLIC OF BOTSWAINA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Average Monthly Rainfall (inches)
Month        Ghanzi    Nojane       Tsabong       Maun   Francistown   Serowe         Kaye       Mochudi    Tshane
January            3.95       1.84          2.03        4.19        3.g9        4-03       4.19         3-35        2.97
February            3.51       2.85         1.83        3.78        3.31        4.00       3.67          2.71       2.68
March               2.89       1.45         2.10        3-15        2.39        1.13       2.55          1.91       1.49
April               1.49       0.87         1.24        1.13        0.74        1.56       2.26          2.10       1.60
May                 0.28      0.59          o.48        0.19        0.19        o.64       0.60         0.44        0.28
June               0.05       0.23          0.41        0.04        0.10        0.07       0.34         0.19       0.21
July               0.02       0.03          0.09        0.01        0.02        0.14       0.12         0.12        0.14
August              0.02       0.02         0.03        u.00        U0,3        0.00       0.12          0.11       0.00
September           0.09       0.09         0.19        0.06        0.07        0.05       0.36          0.34       0.15
October             0.76       0.27         0.58        0.60        0.84        0.72       1.55         1.49        o.64
November            1.92       1.61         1.12        1.79        2.34        3.15       2.55          2.02       1.45
December            2.57       1.28         1.10        3.25        3.52        1.83       2.91          2.71       1.07
Total         17.55      11.13        11.20       18.19        17,46       17.32      21.22        17.49      12.68          x M
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( I-.            



4~~~~~~~ 
H                                                   RITUBLIC OF BOTSWITANA
H                                  ~~~~~~~~~~LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Annual Rainfall (inchlesl)
1961     1962       L        196hi    1965    1966        1967    1968            L921-5O
Gab)ronTes            18,80    15-89       13.75   15J83      9.93   22.27       36.36   T.093            21258
5Ser owe              21.12, :2 I21         ic6,2   J),.65    8.92   15.23       2)4.66   13.85            8.1i5
Fr,ania, 4A,,Yf;rn    1-8. 11 p    1.f;t.: 6,,i< SX1    ).53.    1.)4) 1   28.211,    21.01 ,,,5,         3.72,, 5t
M, I I laJ. 8Iyy r   e ..   i 26 !. 126 - 1 2    'j33        7.02   13.61       228)4  '17 Si'3          1, I.2,
cllwij               27;i, 2of) t7242 2X7  , :71.1 *71 ,     9.22   23.27       65.28   12.9 90
Kas&ae                33*148    23.6d3     2.3.82   13 638   1)420   31.02       29$54   281              26286
Glianzi               15 . oo    9.8`4     30.86    6.75    11.77   13-35        24.77   22 $85           18 659
Source: Meteorological Office
, H



AIM 1
Table 4
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMNT PROJECr
EKcport Trade
1963    1964    L965    1966    1967    L968   l 969
Livestock and
Livestock Products        7.4     7.7      9.5    10.4     8.5      7.2   10.2
Minerals                    O.4     0.3      0.2     0.1      -       0.2    0.6
Other                       0.3     0.4      0.5     0.3     0.7      0.1     2. -/
TOTAL            8.1      8.4;   10.2    10.8      9.2     7.5   13.1
1/ Previously unrecorded exports
June 16, 1971



ANNEX 1
Table 5
RE.PUBIIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ownership and Distribution of the Cattle
Population in 1969
Percent of Total
Category                                    Cattle Numbers      Cattle Population
Total Cattle Population                               1,h440,000
Cattle on Freehold Properties                           202,000              14
Cattle on African Hcldings                            1,238,000              86
Total              100
western State Tands
Freehold Properties (Ghanzi)   86,000
African Holdings                29,000
Sub-total                 115,000                                 8
Northwestern Tribal Lands (Ngamiland)
African Holdings               155,000
.,astern ,art of the Country
P3reehold Properties           116,000
African Holdings             1,05)4,000
Sub-total               1,170,000                                81
Total             100
,J,r,- ,17



ANmJiE7 1
Table 6
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPTCNT FROJECT
Sheep and Goat Populations
Sheep                       Goat
Y ear                    Numbers                     Numnbers
1960                      88,476                     251,179
1961                      96,16o0                    273,854
1962                     111,524                     314,721
1963                     127,500                     359,614
1964                     136,847                     378,)489
1965                     125,335                     335,.124
1966                     151,133                     398,458
1967                     211s764                     646,842
1968                     2318,336                    703,254
1969                     278,830                     846,509
19701_                   350,000                     875,000
1/ Estimated
June 16, 1971



'-
CD
REFBnLIC OF BOTSW'vAiA
LITESTOCK DEVELOPME1;I\ PROJECT
Ciattle Numbers, Offtake, and Average Carcass Weights
2/                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Average
Cattle 1/        Export-!          Live               Local _              Total          Carcass
Year          Numbers         Slaughter          Exports           Consumption          Off-take          Weight
No                No                 No            No     Percent        lbs
1960          1,271,838         78,839            8,377             12,286          99,502    7.8          na
1961         1,319,127          78,602           12,624             12,642         103,868    7.9          na
1962         1,351,778          93,306           18,228             13,024         124,558    9.2         500
1963         1,349,773         103,406           27,348             13,405         144,159   10.7          na
1964         1,346,533         111,758           15,045             13,812         140,615   10.4          na
1965         1,097,332         142,736           19,568             14,219         176,523   16.1         406
1966           916,229         132,232           16,422             1)4,652        163,306   17.8         405
1967          1,104,229         88,535            7,367             15,084         110,986   10.0         470
1968         1,250,209         103,776                               15,540        119,316    9.5         499
1969         1,441,197           93,074                             16,000         109,074    7.6         501
1970         1,500,000         127,317              882             16,483         i44,682    9.6         459
1/ National Development Plan 1970-75 and Veterinary Services stock census.
2/ Throughput of abattior at Lobatse- since 1966 owned by Botswana Meat Commission.
j National Development Plan 1970-75.
/ Estimated on the basis of 16,000 carcasses consumed by a population of 629,000 in 1969 and an annual
population growth rate of 3% from a base of 543,000 in 1964.
5/ Botswana Meat Corporation data from 1966 onwards.
S/ Estimated.
IF3 b>
-, l



I                               I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I 



ANNEX 2
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketing of Cattle, Beef, and Karakul Pelts
A. Cattle and Beef
Botswana Meat Commission
1.        The Botswana Meat Commission (BMC) is a Goverrment-controlled
statutory corporation that was established in 1966 by transferring assets
of the Bechuanaland Livestock Producers Trust and by nationalizing the
former Bechuanaland Protectorate Abattoirs Ltd. and its subsidiary, Export
and Canning Company Ltd. It is governed by a board of directors, the
majority of whom, including the Chairman, are appointed by the President
of the Republic.
2.        BMC has a statutory monopoly over export meat and live cattle from
botswana. It operates one abattoir at Lobatse -- on the line of rail --
which was recently modernized; sufficient slaughtering, refrigerated storage,
and by-product handling facilities were added to raise its throughput capacity
to 200,000 carcasses per annum, with a maximum daily capacity of 1,000
carcasses. Over 800 persons are employed in the abattoir.
3.        BMC sets and publishes annually, in advance, a schedule of weekly
prices by grades and makes immediate payments on a cold dressed weight
(CDW) basis to producers for stock slaughtered. Payments for condemned
sides are made at 70% of the regular price, under an insturance scheme fi-
nanced by a premium of R 0.60 deducted on all cattle slaughtered. Pro-
ducers also receive an annual bonus from BMC's operating surplus after
deductions for taxes, debt servicing, and reserve funds have been made.
This bonus amounted to 12% on payouts to producers in 1969 and 12-1/2% in
1970.
External Markets
4.        The Republic of South Africa, Botswana's primary market, has
awarded BMC a weekly quota to sell 1,000 beef carcasses by auction at
Johannesburg's Newtown market where a floor price is guaranteed by the
South African Government. These 40,000 to 50,000 carcasses sold each year
normally fetch good prices -- R 360 per short ton in 1968. In 1969, how-
ever, the auctions were oversupplied and Botswana's average receipts dropped
to R 342 per ton. BMC has another quota on the Newtown market for 30 tons
of frozen boneless beef per week and also sells significant quantities of
first grade frozen cuts such as striploins and rumps as well as offals.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        Botswana's exports to other African countries (Zambia, Swaziland,
Congo, and Ghana), averaging some 30,000 head priLor to 1968, included sub-
stantial sales of live slaughter cattle to Zambia.  LiLve cattle sales to
Livingston were stopped in 1968 in favor of direct exports of carcass beef
and offal by BMC to Lusaka. Total sales of chilled beef carcasses to these
other African countries were 19,000 in 1968 and 26,500 in 1969, of which
only 13,000 (in 1969) were supplied to Zambia because of transport diffi-
culties with Rhodesian Railways and because of Zambia's inability to take
large quantities when BMC's supplies are plentiful.  Zambia, with its large
import requirement, estimated to reach 100,000 carcasses per annum by 1980
(IBRD Report No. AE-4a), remains a potentially large purchaser for BMC car-
casses at prices comparable with the Johannesburg market.
6.        The United Kingdom is an available and important market to which
BMC supplies frozen boneless beef. Because of BMC's reduced throughput,
sales dropped from the equivalent of 32,000 carcasses in 1968 to 25,000 in
1969, but with increased slaughter of cattle rose again to about 50,000
carcasses in 1970. Botsuwana also exports small quantities of beef to
Switzerland and Hong Kong. Disposal of beef carcasses and the export values
of livestock products are summarized in Tables 1 and 2.
Internal Marketing
7.        Whereas slaughter for export and the subsequent sale of meat and
by-products are highly and efficiently organized by BMC, the internal
marketing of cattle by some 40,000 producers to BMC is less well developed.
It is estimated that, in 1969, over 60% of cattle sent from all tribal
areas to BMC for slaughter were marketed direct and that the balance was
sent in by traders and grazier-speculators. This is a considerable improve-
ment over the estimated 40% marketed direct in 1962, and is likely a result
of efforts on the part of Government and BMC to provide farmers in remote
areas with better sales outlets than those offered by the traders and spec-
ulators.  These efforts Include:
(a) the licensing of Producers' Agents, whose function is to
assist producers in obtaining quotas and railway bookings,
check cattle identification, grading, and payment;
(b) the establishing of auction sale yards; and
(c) the establishing of producer marketing cooperatives, which,
by 1969, numbered 22 registered societies handling some
6,800 head (7% of total marketings to BMC). During 1969,
two of these societies handled over 500 head each.
8.        Total deliveries from all sources to BMC during 1969 were 93,000
head, of which some 69% (64,000) arrived by rail and the remainder by road
(mostly trekked). Details by areas are shown in Table 3 and Map 1. The
main routes used are as follows:



AOINEX 2
Page 3
(a) from Ngamiland and northern Botswana -- by trek to Fran-
cistown and thence by rail;
(b) from Ghanzi and Kuli to Lobatse; and
(c) from Mokopong (Molopo area) to Lobatse.
These are all adequately watered and (a) and (b) would be using Project
funds to fence off grazing around the watering points. Three minor trek
routes, mainly for use by cattle from the Eastern tribaL lands, would also
be developed under the Project.
9.        Except for 1965 and 1966, when average CDW of cattle supplied to
BMC was only 405 lb because of emergency de-stocking in the drought, the
average CDW is around 500 lb per head. This is a comparatively good weight
for predominantly traditional cattle in a developing country, but, never-
theless, reflects the large number of unfinished cattle sent for slaughter.
Government has recently introduced two schemes designed to improve slaughter
weights; these are:
(a) the BMC-operated Grazier's Scheme (Annex 1), which gives
farmers with available grazing but no financial resources
the opportunity of obtaining loans to purchase and fatten
feeder steers. Since most of the feeder steers available
for purchase would come from overstocked areas, the Scheme
can be expected to increase slaughter weights, and first
indications are that this is particularly true for graziers
with fenced farms; and
(h)  the establishing of Demonstration Ranches (Annex 1) on
which tribal cattle can benefit, on payment of- a grazing
fee, from controlled grazing and improved management tech-
niques.
10.       During recent years, there has been significant improvement in
carcass grade. The percentage falling into Grade 2 or better has increased
from 38% in 1965 and 1966 to 57% in 1969 and 1970. Furthermore, the BMC
price paid to producers has also increased by some 28%. The result is that
the average return to producers has shown a continuing upward trend from
R 46.47 per head in 1964 to R 78.51 in 1969.
11.       Using the 1969 BMC slaughter statistics (Table 4), the price es-
timated on a group of typical three- to four-year-old steers grading 50/50
Grade 1B and Grade 2 would be R 89 (including a conservative 10% bonus)
for an animal killing out at the BMC average for these grades of 545 lb
CDW. Prices calculated in a similar manner, using an estimated grading
spread, give the following typical prices at the abattoir:



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Steers, 3 to 4 years      R 89 per head
Heifers, 3 to 4 years    R 81  "    "
Cull cows                 R 54
12.       Fixed marketing expenses are:
Condemnation Insurance Premium   R 0.60 per head
Cattle Export Levy Fund            R 2.25  "    "
Total                      R 2.85        "
Producer Agent fees are fixed by law at 2-1/2% of the BMC price paid.
Movement expenses may be divided into three categories:
(a)  By Road -- Trucking.  A proportion of slaughter cattle and
feeder steers (currently some 5,000 head) are moved from
Ghanzi to Lobatse by lorry at a standard charge of R 12
per head for the 400-mile journey, i.e. R 0.03 per head
mile. It is doubtful whether this charge gives a return
to the transporter unless a return load or some other fi-
nancial consideration is taken into account.
(b)  By Road -- Trekking.  The cash cost of trekking is probably
only R 0.003 per head mile but the weight iand grade losses
evaluated on cattle trekked from Makalamabedi to Francis-
town were 7% and one grade, which, for an animal killing
out at 512 lb in Grade 2, would be a loss of around R 15.
(c)  By Rail.  The freight charge from Francistown to Lobatse is
R 2.27 per head for slaughter stock.
13.       Because of the distances involved, and the small number of cattle
ready for slaughter at any one time, individual producers in the tribal
areas cannot deliver slaughter stock to BMC by themselves. The forming of
cooperative marketing societies is helping to overcomne this situation for
the benefit of the small producer but large numbers of immatures and
slaughter stock are still sold to traders and grazier-speculators at very
low prices, which vary with locality and season.  Thus, in Ngamiland the
trading price varies between R 3.50 and R 5.00 per 100 lb liveweight for
all classes of stock bought in the villages.  In the outlying villages in
the Western State Lands, similar low purchase prices prevail and give the
following cash returns to producers:
Yearlings            R 10-R 14 per headl
Thin cull cows       R  6-R 10  "   t
Fat cull cows        R 15-R 20  "
Slaughter steers    R 30-R 50  "
Better prices prevail in and around Ghanzi and good quality feeder steers
will fetch R 6 to R 7 per 100 lb liveweight.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
B.  iCarakul Pelts
14.       Karakul pelts are sold through Die Suid-Afrikaanse Kooperatiewe
Karakoeltelers Maatskappy Beperk (SAKK), which is registered in the Repub-
lic of South Africa as a cooperative company with its headquarters in the
town of Uppington, some 200 miles by road from the Project area. SAKK has
about 4,000 members, including the Karakul sheep farmers in Botswana, and
maintains strategically sited depots in South Africa's Cape Province for
pelt collection and the sale of consumer goods. During the last 12-month
period, SAKK handled 1.2 million out of Cape Province's total production
of 1.5 million pelts, and has a turnover of some R 10 million per annum.
After collection, the pelts are bulked up and shipped direct to Eastwood
and Holt Ltd. -- a firm of brokers in London -- who classify and sell them
by auction without reserve. Five sales are held each year.
15.       Producers receive the London price per pelt, :Less the broker's
commission of 4% and SAKK's freight and insurance charge of R 0.12 per
pelt. The South African Karakul Board raises a levy of R 0.20 per pelt
for sales promotion. SAKK extends credit facilities up to R 4 per pelt
delivered at 1/2% above the current commercial bank rate; it also pays an
annual bonus of some R 0.05 per pelt.                              X
16.       Average prices realized on the London auctions for all South
African pelts have risen from between R 3.20 and R 4.20 per pelt in the
early 1950's to fluctuations between R 5.00 and R 7.00 since 1962. The
1970 average price was R 5.80. During 1969, pelts from Botswana producers
averaged R 4.80, compared with the London average price of R 5.94 per pelt.
17.       Annual world production and approximate quantities reaching the
free world markets (mainly by public auctions in London and Leningrad) are
(millions of pelts):
Total Production       Auction Offerings
USSR                                           14                      3
South Africa and Namibia                       5                       5
Afghanistan                                     3                      2
The balances not offered are retained in the producer countries for manu-
facture and internal use.
18.       German and Italian merchants have been the main buyers since 1962,
and, provided there are no major changes in fashion trends and in discrim-
inatory taxation, London brokers consider that the auction prices will
continue buoyant in the foreseeable future.
June 16, 1971



I                                                                I



REPUBLIC CF BOTSWANA
I-
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT ROJECT
DisQosal of Throughput of Cattle Carcasges, Lobatee Abattoir (BIE)
1962     1963      1964      1965       1966      1967      1968      1969      1970
No.      No.       No.       No.        No.       No.       No.       No.        No.
Beef Carcasses
South Africa                     40,925    39,627    34,648    32,940      17,465    37,672    51.034    40,087    40,012
Other African markets            18,287    14,486   15,052    17,995       13,813    14,567    19,219    26,551    16,304
To boneless beef and canning
(mainly for UK)             31,122    46,593    59,172    86,624     97,287    34,839    31,947    25,158    69,848
Condemnatiors                     2,972     2700       2,886     ,177      3,667      17        1         J278 
Total slaughter                   93,306   103,406   111,758   142,736    132,232    88,535   103,776    93,074   127,317
Live Cattle Sales
Zambia and Rhodesia                 2      27,348    15,045    19,568     624        22                   --          882
Expcrt eofftake from
cattle industry               111,534   130,754   126,803    162,304   318,654   95,902   103,776    93,074  128,199
OL



ANNEX 2
Table 2
REPUBIIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Expcrt Values of Livestock ProductN,s
(in thousand Rand)
1965         1966         1967          1968         1969
Cattle (live)               838          793          414            18             5
Cattle (carcasses)        5,802        6,911        3,856         5,832        8,i;62
Sheep and goats              54           68           78           219 
Canned meat                 753          670          269            _             10
Meat extract                432          125        1,320
Hi-des and skins            658          893        1,676           526          811.
Offals and tallow            -           362           64           170          125
Bonemeal                    184          173           81            43            27
Carcassmnea                  -           158           88           106            88
Other by-products           369           75          447            45            82
Total                            10,228          29          6,961        9,878
April 16,1971



ANNEX 2
Table 3
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWAXA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Flow of Cattle to Slaughter
at BMC Abattoir at Lobat;si
1969
Soirce Area           Loaded for BMC          Cattle Pop               Offtake
(head)                                    (-dercent)
BY RAIL:  69%
Francistown )               17,870                353,884                5.0
Maim        )
Palapje
S erowe     )
Mahalape    )              36,373                 517,'25                7.0
Machaneng )
Machundi   )                4,.487                 52.,196               8.6
Molepolole  ),361                                 131,652                4.1
Gaborone    )
B! ROAD:   31$
Lobatse     )
Werda       )
Kaive       )              28,983                 385,O44                7.5
Ghanzi      )
Total Export                    93,0711
Local Slaughter                16,000
Tatal Offtake                  109,074              1,)1jd,197               7.6
April 16,1971



ANNEX 2
Table 4
REPUBLIC CF BOTSWAiA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMNT PROJET'
BMC Slaughter Statistics for 11969
Grade      No. of Head     Average CDW       Flocr Prices       % of Through-
lb.          it) R/100 lb CDW    put bv Number
Super            390            525                  19.93               0.4
Prime          3.657            514                  18.13               3.9
Grade 1A       8,071            461                  16. i               8.7
Grade lB      11,3h9            579                  15.'0              19.7
Grade 2       24,754            512                  14.00              26.6
Grade 3       249240            463                  12.52              26.0
Grade 4        3,785            363                  ii.'0               4.1
Detained       8,q49            504                  11.52               9.2
91579             501                  1h.o8             gR.6
Condemned      1,279            485                   8.82              1.4
Total     93,074            501                  14.01            100.0
1/ Does not include the bonus.
April 16, 1971.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banking System and Credit
A. Banking System
1.        The banking system of Botswana reflects its membership in the
Rand currency area, which also includes South Africa, Lesotho, and Swaziland.
The Central Bank of South Africa sets the monetary pattern for the Rand
currency area. While Botswana is disadvantaged somewhat by reduced autonomy
in monetary and fiscal policies, it also realizes the advantages of belonging
to a strong currency area, of reducing balance of payments problems, and in
expediting trade between its small land-locked populat:Lon and its natural
trading partner, South Africa. The advisory and interniational role, usually
fulfilled by a Central Bank, is, in Botswana's case, carried out by the
Ministry of Finance and Development Planning.
2.        There are two commercial banks in Botswana -- Barclays DCO and
Standard -- both with headquarters in London. Although they normally refer
to the head office of the related South African Bank for day-to-day matters,
major policy is largely controlled from London. The banks have a similar
coverage, being concentrated in the more populated Eastern area. Apart from
branches along the line of rail," they have only a few sub-branches, mainly
served on a part-time basis, in the rest of the country. Mobile units also
serve some areas on a periodic basis. Deposits with the commercial banks
rose by over 50% to R 17 million between 1967 and 1970 (Table 1).
3.        The National Development Bank (NDB) was estalblished in May 1964,
mainly to lend for development of agriculture, livestock, housing, and
industry. The bank is small, with a total staff of six, and relies on a
considerable amount of technical assistance from Government, particularly
from the Ministry of Agriculture and Commerce, Industry, and Water Affairs.
At the end of 1970, assets were about R 1.9 million, R 1.35 million of which
was in loans, including about R 300,000 to local authorities. Lending to
agriculture was about R 550,000, including about R 300,000 for the livestock
sector. Loans for the livestock producers are mainly to syndicates of tribal
cattle owners for boreholes (Table 2). NDB is in a sound financial position
and most of its assets are either capital contributions from Government and
other sources or long-term loans from the British Government (Table 3).
Generally, NDB has made small profits each year (Table 4), which are added
to its reserves.
4.        NDB has had staff difficulties for several years but it has
recently engaged an experienced general manager and it plans to make further
appointments, including two field officers to service the livestock project.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
As a result of the establishment of the Botswana Development Corporation, it
is likely that NDB will direct more of its activities to agriculture and
livestock. Its participation in the livestock project would almost double
NDB's total loan portfolio and would increase livestock lending three- or
four-fold.
B. Availability or Credit for Livestock
5.        Lending to the private sector has increased sharply rising from
R 3.2 million in 1967 to R 9.8 million in 1970 (Table 1). While no details
have been released either by Government or by the banks for competitive
reasons, livestock lending is a major component and has gone up substantially
over this period. The banks have also placed more emphaLsis on lending to
African farmers. Loans made to cattlemen by the commercial banks usually
carry an interest rate of about 9-1/2%. Most lending is on a fluctuating
overdraft basis, with feeder steers being the major lending item. In
addition, Barclay's provides a line of credit to BMC to assist cattlemen
under the BMC "Grazier's Scheme" (Annex 1). Interest charged to cattlemen
under the Grazier's Scheme is 1% above the prime rate charged to BMC by
Barclays (at present 8%). Barclay's is also making advances to tribal
cattlemen that are placing cattle on Ministry of Agriculture demonstration
ranches (Annex 1, paras 13 and 14). Farmers may receive advances of R 30
to R 40 per head while cattle are on the demonstration ranches and they are
charged a 9-1/2% per annum interest rate. While the amount of lending under
the demonstration ranches is small, both commercial banks have expressed
their interest in increasing short-term livestock lending to Botswana farmers
and in assisting those receiving settlement ranches as well as those placing
cattle on BLDC's finishing ranches.
6.        NDB restricts its lending to development purposes and does not
assist with short-term loans. Its past rate of new lending has been about
R 100,000 per annum for livestock (para 3) and loans arie made at an interest
rate of 8%.
April 19, 1972



ANNEX 3
Table 1
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Commercial Bank Statistics
Balances at
30-9-67       30-9-68       30-9-69        30-9-70
Deposits
Current                     5,486          5,037       4l,714           5,890
Saving                      2,1475         2,953        3,1418          3,680
Time                        4 _288         5,642        5,821           7,521
12,249         TY3,63 2     }3,953          17,0931
Advances
Central Government          2,349          1,799         2,235          1,847
Local Authorities             294            237           285           1140
Personal Accounts           1,340          1,396         1,854          2,034
Business Accounts          1,922           ?1539          86            7,769
5,9O5          TM5                        211,790
% Advances                      48.0           45.0          59.0           69.0
Deposits
April 28,1971



ANNEX3
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT FROJECT
NATIONAL DEVEIOPMENT BANK
Lo&1 Appsroved By Years
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31st       1966       1967       1968       1969        1970
WATER DEVELOPMENT
Number                          34         53         33         47          38
Amount                      95,9495    96,275     863,496    98,960      93p401
AGRICUITlURAL DEVELOPMENT
Number                         330        363        243        293         158
A.mount                     61,194     93,273     66,008    108,195      75s556
CO-OPERATIVES
Number                           -          3           -         I           1
Amount                           -    23,000           -      3,500      10,9000
COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL
DEVELOPMENT
Number                          10         13          7         16           5
Amount                     211,620    3214,160    139,980    110,905     58, 200
PURCHASE OR IMROVEMENT
OF FARM LAND
Number                           1          4          1.          -
Amount                         653     19,100      5,000           _
MUNICIPAL HOUSING SCHEME
Number                           -          -          ,3         I
Amount                           -          -   143,00C     50,000           -
TOTAL LOANS APPROVED             375        436        287I       358        202
TOTAL AMOUNT                 368,962    555,808    440,14814   371,560    237,157
Apri1 17, 1972



'~T;iTh~TiCo BOTSWALNA
.iE~~~~~9    'T ROJD70
969    1970                                                         .      1970
ASSETS                                  P. t 0-W   R 9 000     LiABLhIT-f ES                                R t0 C0 R3 I00
loans from Capital F>p Sp6ial L;r Fids                                                                      629      616
General A  culture                     32      40
Borehole - r                                  108            Botsvena '?ost Office Savimggs Bank Find     211      256
Farm Property                         1143     89
Houm-1ng                              204     194            Other Loan Funds and Acorued Intererit         47      45
Business                              172     265
Various                               140     150            Capital Funds                                 954   1,018
Interest Aoirued on above                      39
Other Liabilities                             64       26
Loans from Special Loan F                                        lds 
1,905   1,961
Housing                               197     1814i
Water Supply Development 2/           149     155
Various                               161     132
Other Assets                             39      314
Deposit with Commercial Banks           510     550
Cash Accrued Interest                   109      19
1,905   1,961
1/   For specifie pwpeses
~/   Mainly for borehole development for cattle production



ANNEX 3
TabIe l
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NATIONAL DEVELOMENT BANK
Income and Ependiture Account
For The Years Ended 31ot December 1969 & 1970
1969           1970
.(R)             R
INCOME
Note 1   Interest Earned                       106,586        111,540
Note 2   Administration Fees                     8,,760          6,922
Rents Received - Staff Houses             666          1,631
Loan Application Fees                     100            189
lIT5IIy        120, 2t2
EXPENDITURE
Note 3  Fees & Salaries                         16,699          22,692
Note 4   Travelling Expenses                     1,373            975
Note 5   General Administration Expnses          6,350          4,182
Note 6   Interest Paid                          52,588         53,320
Provision for Audit Fee                 1.,290         1,010
Provision for Doubtful Debts           20,000         15,000
Note 7   Bad Debts Written Off                   8,000          9,971
mIn,300        107,150
SURPLUS                                 9,812         13,132
April 17, 1972



ANNEX 4
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Social Aspects of Establishing Project
Ranches in the Western State Lands
Land Tenure
1.        The village communities of the Western State Lands were formed
around wells and boreholes by migrants during the early part of the 20th
century. Continued development of permanent water sources has encouraged
the growth of these communities, but no steps have yet been taken to give
them official tenure to the land they are using. Although Government had
in the past granted freehold title to ranches in the nearby Ghanzi District,
it has recently decided to discontinue the practice and instead to issue
50-year leases for the settlement and development of State Lands. This
new change in Government policy would require careful explanation to the
village communities.
Availability of Settlers and Cattle
2.        The proposed Project would establish 30 ranches in the Western
State Lands for the settlement of farmers from the seven nearby villages
of Kalfontein, Karakobis, Makunda, Kuli, Nojane, Tshane, and Kang. The
farmers would be expected to bring a balanced herd of 225 animals on to
each ranch and build it up over 13 years to 532 head. Preliminary inquiries
in five of these villages (Ghanzi District) have revealed that at least nine
individual farmers with sufficient cattle numbers would be interested in
acquiring a ranch and that 22 more with herds of 50 to 200 animals would be
willing to form syndicates of two or more partners to achieve this goal.
These interested farmers, together with those that would come forward from
the villages of Tshane and Kang, should get the Project underway.
Partnerships
3.        While only 22 farmers are now willing to share ranches, more
would be interested when it becomes well known that participation in such
an arrangement is a possible means of acquiring a ranch. Such sharing is
already practiced in the area through the financing, management, and repay-
ment for boreholes, where each person retains ownership and responsibility
for his own cattle. Those sharing boreholes or willing to share ranches
generally have some kinship and are accustomed to collaboration. However,
many problems will arise from the complicated structure of rights and obliga-
tions which traditionally affect ownership of cattle. Not only is an indivi-
dual owner subject to family influences, but members of partnerships will
have to face the additional problems of sharing their calttle with each other.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Whereas it may seem desirable in the interests of good management for
individual rights to be exchanged on the basis of a cattle valuation, for
monetary shares in the syndicate, the many rights and obligations of the
participants and their families may make this reorganization extremely
difficult. On the other hand, it would be undesirable for the manager of
a syndicate to have to cope with the demands of many masters, each expecting
a return from his part of the herd. Since the financial viability of each
ranch will depend upon the building up and maintaining of the herd indicated
in the livestock projections (Annex 5 Table 1), it is important to ensure
that the withdrawal or death of a member of a syndicate does not cause the
collapse of the ranch's economy to the detriment of other partners. 'These
and other similar problems of organization and rights must be resolved if
the members are to enjoy a feeling of security at least equal to that which
they enjoy in their present situation.
Ranch Management
4.        Very few farmers under the present communal system manage their
own herds and it is believed that breeding ranches would also be managed
by designated managers, both in the case of ranches allocated to individuals
and those allocated to partnerships. As the resident manager assigned would
be either a close relative or a member of the group, the practice should be
satisfactory. Both the villages and the breeding ranches should benefit
from an arrangement that would permit the senior citizen to remain living
and providing leadership in the village. A younger and perhaps more flexible
man could then be selected to reside on the ranch.
Village Problems
5.        The Project would relieve grazing pressure in the villages, but
much of this benefit would be wasted unless further consideration is given
to resolving the problems of future management of the commonage allocated
to each village. The Government is working out a proposal for the develop-
ment of village areas, which would include among other things demarcation
of those areas, registration of livestock holdings, organization of borehole
facilities and under-utilized grazing areas and provision of extension
services. SIDA is considering a grant for this purpose and for studies of
the sociological problems involved.
June 2, 1972



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
LIVESTOCK PROJECT MANAGMENT UNIT (LPMU)
Livestock Project Co-- ordinating Committee
Ministry of Agriculture                 Chairman   Permanent Secretary, Minister of Agriculture                       National Development Bank (NDB)
Secretary - Project Manager, SMLJ                                                           Board
Representatives  - Ministry of Agriculture
- Ministry of Commerce, Industry
and Water Affairs
10                    - Ministry of Finance and Development Planning   i
- Ministry of Local Government and Lands                                                      1
Permanent Secretary                                     - BLDC                                                                General Manager
I                     -   ~~~~NDB                                                 I_    _  _   _  _   _   _  _   _   
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                                                                                   1
|         ~~LPMU|                                                                                                       ll
LPM U                                                                          I          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Field Stf
Project Ml\.anager                                                                                                             F
|Field Managerj
I                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Technicians                    Technicians                     Technicians
Karakul Sheep Farms              Breeding Ranches               Fatteniing Rarnches
World Bank-6780 (R)



II 



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
BOTSWANA LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT COMPANY (BLDC)
B LDC
BOARD Chairrnan
Member
Member      Appointed by BMC
rBotswana Meat Commission (BMC)
Member      Appointed by Government
BMC Accountancy_
General Manager       iuihiuimmaammuhiiiui..imE*II U                          Service
BMC Grazier's Scheme
Manager of Makalamabedi                                         Managers of Fattening Ranches  ass$**%
Fattenina Ranch                                               in Eastern Tribal Lands                                                    -
r1ommercial Banks
VVorld Ban,k 6781(R)



I



ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Duties, Responsibilities, and Qualificationls
of Senior Project Staff
A. Duties and Responsibilities
1.        The Project Manager of the Livestock Project Management Unit (LPMU)
would have the following duties and responsibilities:
(a) To execute the responsibilities of LPMU in ac:cordance with
the policies and procedures set forth in the loan documents;
(b) To hire, with the approval of the Permanent S',ecretary of the
Ministry of Agriculture, all LPMU staff;
(c) To establish the duties and responsibilities of all LPMU staff;
(d) To provide such training, direction, supervision, and technical
assistance as is necessary to ensure the successful completion
of each scheme;
(e) To approve the technical feasibility and financial viability
of all ranch development plans;
(f)  To make recommendations to the Permanent Secretary of the
Ministry of Agriculture on the suitability of all applicants
for ranches;
(g) To ensure that adequate records are kept on all LPMU schemes;
(h) To prepare quarterly and annual progress and expenditure reports
for transmission to IDA after approval by the Permanent
Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture;
(1)  To establish the terms of reference of research and investigation
programs for approval by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry
of Agriculture and IDA; and
(j) To advise on, and assist with, the preparation of subsequent
livestock development projects.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 2
2.        The General Manager of the Botswana Livestock Development Company
(BLDC) would have the following duties and responsibilities:
(a) To propose policy and other matters, as necessary, to the
BLDC Board;
(b)  To execute the responsibilities of BLDG in accordance with
the policies and procedures set forth in the loan documents
and the company charter;
(c) To hire, subject to such conditions as the Board may impose,
the staff considered necessary to operate BLDC;
(d) To establish the duties and responsibilities of all BLDC
staff;
(e) To provide such training, direction, supervision, and
technical assistance as is necessary to ensure the financial
viability of BLDC;
(f) To approve the technical feasibility and financial viability
of all investment plans before presentation to the BLDC Board:
(g) To ensure that adequate records on all BLDC ranches are kept,
(h) To prepare quarterly and annual progress and expenditure
reports for transmission to IDA after approval by the BLDC
Board; and
(i) To advise on and assist with the preparation of subsequent
livestock development programs.
3.        The Field Manager of LPMU would have the following duties and
responsibilities:
(a) To be responsible to the Project Manager for the development
of the breeding ranches, fattening ranches, and sheep farms
in the Western State Lands;
(b)  To assist with the selection and training of settlers:
(c)  To direct his ranch managers in their duties to ensure that
their ranches are run efficiently;
(d)  To ensure good public relations between administrators and
settlers; and
(e) To operate the fattening ranches in the Western State Lands
efficiently and profitably.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 3
B. Qualifications
4.        The Project Manager of LPMU and the General Manager of BLDC would
have the following qualifications:
(a) Good training in agriculture or allied science such as
animal husbandry;
(b) Broad professional experience in livestock production and
land development and settlement schemes in semli-arid areas; and
(c) Successful experience in the management of large-scale
development projects.
5.        The Field Manager of LPMU and the BLDC Makalamabedi Ranch Manager
would have the following qualifications:
(a) Good training in farm management, ranch management, or
animal husbandry; and
(b)  Broad professional experience in ranch managenent and pasture
and livestock development, with part of such experience in
semi-arid areas.
April 19, 1972



I                               I



NLestern Stt   ad   rclneRnh(6.000 acre6)
3EPr  8 IGoree  Ir4usjtae
Unit Price
eofre             Years     Yeer 7        Bofore                _                                                                     End of Year.
Unit              DUveloyenot         1.6      onw-rds       cereloprent              1          2 =                     4          5           6                                                                               _ - 1  11   12  20
-    ---    -Rnd -------
Inventory
Breeding   Ofd                                   tOad                   44             55           66             75                 95         99           102        130        116         125        138        15U        151        163       150        161           10
Fulls                                              I                    77             77          120              2                  3          3            3           4          4           4          4          5          5         5          5          5              5
Calves                                                                  11             16           22            (38i               (30)        (52)         (59)        (66)      (76)        (81J      ([8)        (97)      (1lb)      (132)      (1D0)     (1D0)          (1D5)
Heifers   ared - 2 years                                                22             33           44             19                 19          19          26          3U         33          38         41         44         49        53         53         53             53
Steers neared - 2 yers                             '2                                  33           44             19                 19          19          23           29        33          38         40         44         48         52         52         52            52
Heifers 2 - 3 yees                                                      33             49           d0             17                  1           1            1           1         2           2          2          4         16         21        24          24            24
Steers 2 - 3 years I                                                    33             55           66             17                 18          18           18         25         23          32         37         39         43        47         50          50            50
Heifers2-4years-                                   n                    49             55           77                                                                       1  1  1  1  1       2          2          2          4         16        20         23             23
Steers 3 -4 yeas                                                        49             77           83             11                 16          17           17          17        24          27         31         36         38         42        4d         48             48
Steers 4- 5 yezrs                                                       55             77           -              1D                 10          -            *           -         -           -          -          -          -          -          -         -              _
Steer- 5s    6 years                               *                    60             -            -                                 -           -                       -          -           -          -          -          -          -         -9
Falterdny rull    s W.                                                  44             44           49              7                  7           9           10          15        16          17         18         20         22         27         22         22            22
Total nutaer           2-                                                                         -             225                227         238          263        296        333         365        401        441        480        513        527       532            532
Sub-total              2!im  lts-                AU                   33             33           33            18L                181         174          191        215        237         263        200        315        343        369        378        381           381
Other ljvestocr                                  '                    _              _                           23                 23          23           23          23        23          23         23         23         23         23         23         23            23
Porchsdd steers-/                              Fead                   -              -            -              -                  76         126          12         136        135         11                     6           0         -         -           -             -
Total1 AU                                        AU                   -              -            -             203                274         322          349        373        395         401        396        403        386        302        401       404            404
Deaths-5
freedirN cews                                    Head                   -              -            -               7                  5           4            4           3          3          4          4          4          5          5          S          5             5
Pulls                                                                   -                                          -                  - _                                  -           I         -           I         -           I         -           I         -              I
Heifers veaned - 2 years                                                -              -            -               2                  1           1            1           1          1          1          1          1          1          1          2          2             2
St-vrs  neared - 2 years                                                -              -            -               2                  1           1            1           1          1           1         1          1          1          1          2          2             2
Hetfers 2 - 3 years                                '                    -              -            -               2                  1          -                                                                                                      I -  .  .  _  _  _  1   1  1
Steers 2 - 3 yeas                                                       -              -            -               2                  1           1            1           1          1           1         1          1          1          1          1          2             2
Stees 3 - 4 yeas                                                        -              -            -               I                  I
Steer 4 - 5 yers                                                        -              -                            I 1               -           -                       _                                 _          _          _          _      .  _
Suf,iotal                                                             -              -            -              17                 10           7            8           6          7          7          8          7          0          8         12         12            13
Psechtsed stears                                                      -              -            -              '                  -            4            5           4          4          4          3          3          2          1         -          -             -
TotI l                                           d                    _              _            _              17 2G                          11           13          10         11         11         11         1F         11          9         12         12            13
P rchases
Bolls                                                                   80             80          15D             -                   2           -            I           F          1           1         1          1          1          1          I          1             1
Steer-s                                                                 -              4.           44             -                  70          90           90          90         90          70        50         40         -
Total                                                                 -              -            -              -                  72         90            91          91         91         71         51         41          1          1          1          1             1
Sales-/
u11bSul1s                                                               77             77           8d             -                   I          -            -           -          -            1          -          -        -            1        -           7            -
Steers 2 - 3 ye.rs                                                      33             -            -               4                 -           -            -           -          -            -          -          -         -          -         -           -            -
It i ers 1- 4 yees                                                      49             60           801 1                              1                                    1          1           1          2          7          2         4         1i         2D            23
Strs 3 -4 ye rd                                                                                      r -  82  QC 1,                                            17          1          17          20         27         31        3S         38         42         46            48
SleE4 - 5ye.rs                                 '-                                   82                                             IL -   1   1
Ste        S - c yecr                                                   6G             8Z2          -               9                  9
FOll Lees                                                               44             44           53              7                  7           7            9          1l         15          16         17         10         20        22         22         22             22
Syt-total                                                             -              -            -              21                 28          34           37          20         33          42         40         61         58        65         00         09             93
Purcnsed steer                                                                       0 82         82             -                  -           31           75           n         800        8U          77         57         43        19                     -             -
Total                                            ft                                                              21                 28          65         13          114        113         126        123       100         101        84         00         09            93
Tlchtcal 3oef ichLnts
SeaSOn                                 -                                                -           -                9                  6          5            4            3         3           3          3          3          3          3          3          3             3
Calves ve:ned rate                       Z of breedirg covs             -              -            -              50                 S0          55           60          65         70          70         70         70         70         70         70         70            70
Cov  and culllins                                 7d5 c                                                            10                  10        1.           10          1          15           6         15         15         16         15         15         15            15
2 year heifers cull d for fattenir7                                     -              _            -               5                   5           5           5           5          b           5                    If,        37         44         47         47            47
3U)IS 3oined                                   cQos/oull                -              -                           42                 30          30           33.         3t         3 30        30         30         30         30         30         30         30            30
carryire capaciTy                               acresOAt                -              -            -               4r                4G         40             40         40         40          40         43.        40         40         48         40         40            40
Stockirn  rot'                                                          -               -           -               19                5          SG           4c'         43         41          40         4t         4G         41         41         43         4t            40
Oft-take                                   lf tota]l nurrer             -              -            -               9.3                12.4        15.0         11.3       1i.6       11.1        12.D       12.o       12.7       13,2       13.5       15.5       ln.9          17.5         I w
i!  SurclEs hoif-eru  035j fartoned for slau  tar.
2/  Saloes - 0 3, h,rfers ans steer, 3-4 years  nd fattening cull covs           AU,4U  goats - l/O AU, .-. e  thear -1  AU.
37  Each fr-r cr   11  Iso  ring  .n nd keep 6 do,keys/horses for  crK and 100 goats for suesistelnr nemi hush control.
il  Kept fYr aVeraSe 10 nenths.
5l  f1 app,l  d In tin ,ye,, y-   saf e tn sell fettoea ero,-  stcars  reJ heeifcs   -' years.
6e  Sale Wkise  armn r  a1' moeteneont d er-keti.  esrsos.



REPU"LIC OF BOTSW4ANA
LIVESTOCK DETLOPDEiT PROJECT
Western State Lands Breeding Ranch (16,000 acres)
Ce-Ranc; Investments
5-
Average             Average                Average              Development Phasing                 Total Cost
lnits per            Cost per      Cu st per                             Year                     for 30 Ranches
Utrit              Ranch                  unit                  Ranch                  1           2
__                                        (R)                    (R)                  C7 7R                                 (R)
M               O~~~~eadstock-/
EgiN-.p[ td 3reholet/                                          each                   1                 4,600                  4,600               4,600           -                    138,0OW
Reservoirs, 10,O; gal.                                        ez ch                 2                    500                  1,000                  50I        5C0                    30,000
Troughs                                                       each                  4                     50                    200                  i(O         100                     6,000
Piping          3s nuiIes                                                           2.5                  640                  1,6                    -        1,60G                     48,000
External Fencig-                                              miles                15                    190                 2,85G                2,85C          -                     85,500
Internal Fencin4/                                             miles                11                    1GL                 1,760                   -        1,760                    52,80C
Suildingsb/                                                   sets                  1                    5ilJ                   50L                 5CC          -                      15,000
Cattle Yards                                                  sets                   1                   2LI                    200                 2            -                      6, 000
Small Tools and StIF li2s                                     sets                                     1,LOU                  1,C00                 6(t         400                    30,0O0
SuLvtotal                                                    -                    -                     -                 13,710                9,350      4/,3u0                   411,30C
Physical  contingency   4  10%                                                    -                                        1,370                  930         44'                    41,10(A
Sua-total                                                    -                    -                     -                 15,08G               10,280       4,6C0                   452,40W
Livestuck-
eulls                                                         head                  2                     8G                   10                  16U          -                      4,8GU
Total New Investment                                         -                    -                     -                 15,24G               10,440       4,8(t                   457,200
Livestock (Se:ller's Contritution)
Breeding dnd CUIl Coes                                        head                 B2                     44                 3,600
Bulls                                                         head                  2                     77                    150
Cal ves                                                       head                 38                     11                    420
neifers ond Steers  ieaned - 2 yrs.                           head                 38                     22                    840
Beilers and Steers 2-3 yrs.                                   head                  34                    33                  1,120
veifers and Steers 3-4 yrs.                                   head                  12                    49                    59C
Steers 4-S yrs.                                               head                  1L                    55                    55G
Sccrs S-, yrs.                                                 jad                  9                     6l                    54L
Total                                                    hocd                 225                    -                   7,810
Government Conlrirsi iso
lorehole Subsiey 7/                                          each                   1                   990                    990
'ull Suosidy                                                   -                    2                     ac                    160
Total 3overnnsas  SUsi;Y                                    -                    -                     -                   1,15L
1/  Costs incI G c u iiysic 1 coni ingencias et  arounc 35, nc tr nsport where appl ica61. U.
2/ Average uo    .  >.
3/  Includes labor ccst.
4/  Laor paid Isaof Operatin; Expenses.                                                                                                                                                                   o
S/ Caterials tsr are. smill !iauses and one stors.
6/ Purchased '          Alie  nverrnent's u,l suo:sir*  scihnlc.
/  Veinm  cos iz unssssu saful soreoole crilling on  rSls of iwo successes per three dril11ns.



REPU3LIC OF 8OTSWANA
LIVESTOCK 0EVELOPMENT PROJECT
H                                                                             Western State Lands Breeding Ranch (16,000 acres)
RPojection of Income and Operating Expenses
-a
Before                                                                 Duiring Years
kDevelopment       1         2        3        4         5        6        7        8       9         10       11       12        13 - 20
Income from Sales
Cul1 bulls                                           -               77      -        -         -                  77           -            -         88                 88         -
Steers 2-3 years                                     132             -                          -                  -       -        -
Heifers 3-4 years                                     49             60       60       60        50       60       60      160     160     160        320     1,280   1,600        1,840
Steers 3-4 yvars                                     -               -     1,312    1,394    1,394    1,394    1,968   2,430   2,790   3,240        3,420     3,780   4,140        4,320
Steers 4-5 years                                     -              820      820      -         -        -         -       -        -       -          -        -         -          -
Steers 5-t years                                     540            738      -        -         -        -         -       -        -                  -                              - -
Cull cows                                            3C3 308                 308      396       440      660      7L4      901     954   1,060      1,166     1,166   1,166         1,166
Suo-total       1/                               1,021          2,U003    2,5WL    1,850    1,894    2,114    2,8G9   3,491   3,904   4,406       4,994     6,226   6,994        7,326
Purch.sed Steers-                                  -               -     2,542    0,150    7,052    7,052    7,C52   G,314   4,674   3,526        1,558                            -
T.Ltal Sales                                     1,021          2,G03    5,042    8,0O0    8,946    9,166    9,861   9,805   8,578   7,986        6,552     6,226   6,994        7,326
Operatino; Expenses
Rent @ jcent/acre                                    -               80       80       80        80       80       8         0      80        C        80        80       so           80
Pumping @06u cents/AU                                 81-           162      193      209       224      237      241      242     242     232        235       241      242          242
Salt and minerals @ R1.50/AU3                        -               11       83      524       56u      593      602      594     605      579       588       602      606          630
Veterinary @ 3  cents/AU                              61             82       97       105      112      119      120      119     121      116       118       120      121          121
Labour (h R 180 per man yoar                         180            180      480      360       3a0      360      300      300     360     360        360       3it      360          360
faintenance of fire,reaks   /R2/mile                 -               30       52       52        52       52       52      52       52      52         52        52       52          52
Naintenance of assets  1ASxof cost (R13070)          -               91      131       131      327      327      654      654     654     654        654       654      654          654
anager                                               -              40u      4W       4G0       400      400      4u0      400    496       405       400       400      4G0          4G0
SuL-total                                          322          1,038    1,51o    1,861    2,115    2,168    2,509   2,501   2,514   2,473        2,487     2,509   2,515        2,515
Physical  contingency  (  10%                       32           1.4       152       180)     212      217      251      25      251    247         249       251      252          252
Sub-total                                          3Y4          1,142    1,6,8    2,047    2,327    2,385    2,76C   2,751   2,765   2,720        2,730     2,700   2,767         2,767
Livestock Purchases
8ulls o    1R3 - R150    1                                       -                     80        80       8U       8u      15b     150      150       150       150      150          150
Grazier Scheme Steers-                               -            3,030    3,966    3,960    3,960    3,960    3,080   2,20(   1,760         -         -          -       -            -
Sub-total                                                       3,08;    3,9Wiu   4,040    4,(40    4,040    3,160   2,350   1,910        150       150        150     1S0          150
Total Operating Expenses                           ,4            ,222    5,628    u,087    6,307    6,425    5,920   5,C11   4,675   2,870        2,886     2,910   2,917         2,917
1/  jn averago Wainh  t 7.. pcunrKS livowei.ht rso osld  18 IF  n   I itor at 1,0G0 pounds liveweight (weight gain C.5  l:s/day).
2/  District Council ch r-,o 3 acnis/head/month.
3/  In y.ars 1 jnd 2  R4C. b-an year  11oded under supplitea tunar  a- co   Investments.



RcEPJLIC CF 30T5491A
l IVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Western State Lands Breeding Ranch (16,000 acres)
Financial ProjectiorhI
Hefore                                                                During Years
Developmont       1         2        3        4         5        6        7         8        9       10        11       12      13-18     1c-20
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -Rand - - - - _ - - - _
I  Cash Inflow
(a' Sales                                         1,021        2,0L3    5,L42    8,000    8,946    9,166    9,851    9,805    8,578    7,98        6,552    5,225    6,994   7,326       7,326
(b) Long-termn Loan                                 -         10,440    4,900       -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -        -        -         -
(c) Grazier Scheme Steer Loan                       -          3,080    3,960    3,960    3,960    3,960    3,080    2,200    1,760         -        -         -        -        -         -
(d) Total Cash Inflow                             1,021       15,523   13,802   11,960   12,9G6   13,126   12,941   12,085   10,338    7,986    6,552    6,226    5,994   7,326          7,326
11 Cash Outflow 2/
(a) Farmers Investment-                             -            -         -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -         -
(b) Loan Investient                                           10,440    4,80L       -
(c) Purch,sc of  r-Jier Scheme Steers               -          3,080    3,96U    3,960    3,960    3,950    3,080    2,200    1,760         -         -        -        -        -         -
(d) Total Recuiren, F4xenses                        354        1,142    1,668    2,127    2,407    2,465    2,84C    2,901    2,915    2,870    2,885    2,910    2,917   2,917          2,917
(e) Total Cash Outflow                              394       14,662   10,428    6,087    6,307    6,425    5,920    5,101    4,675    2,870    2,886    2,910    2,917   2,917          2,917
III Cash  alance Refore Service Dlarge                   757          86u    3,374    5,873    6,539    6,701    7,021    6,904    5,663    5,115    3,666    3,316    4,077   4,4L9          4,409
IV  (a) Long-term Loan-/
1. Interest                                     -            -         -               1,286    1,286       -        -         -        -        -         -        -
2. Amortization                                 -            -         -        -        -         -      2,034    2,034    2,034    2,034    2,034    2,034    2,034   2,034        2,034
(3) 5razier Scheme Loan/l
1. Interest                                     -            -         277      429      441       434      434      355       256      204        32      -        -        -         -
2. Capital Repayment                            -            -       2,255    3,821    4,042    3,960    3,900    3,301    2,339    1,912         360      -        -        -         -
(c) Total Debt Service                              -            -       2,532    4,25.   5,769    5,68b    6,428    5,690    4,629    4,150    2,426    2,034    2,034   2,034            -
V   Cash 9a]ance After Service  Charge                   707           830      842    1,623       770    1,021      593    1,214    1,034        966    1,24d    1,282    2,043   2,375       4,400
VI  Incremental Cash Salncct After Servica Lharge        -              93       7S      85c         3      254      (174)    447       267       199      473       515    1,276   1,608      3,642
1/ Negative fi ures are in brackets.
2/  The firmer would not t Financially able to contril;ute Oc ßn-rQnch development costs, but would transfer his posent herd.
3/  At annual interesl of 8r.  Interest due in years 2 anc 3 i. ccpitalised.  Total debt at end of year 3 is therefore  116,075.
4/  At annual inter!st cf 9/-  Interest and Capital deducted by 37C from proceeds when cattle are sold.
-Yvo\



REPU3LIC OF 3OTSilANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PR8IJECT
Western State Lands Breeding Ranch (16,000 acres)
Crazier Scheme Loan - Cebt Servicing @ S,o per annum Interest
Steers                                                           Steers
Steers           Sold          Value of                                            Sold            Capital                                             Total            Total
Purchased          Aftwr        1st Sdle         Interest         Capital           After             Out-           Interest          Capital         Interest         Capital
Year        Loan         @ R 44          Ome Year           R R 82          Paid           Repaid         Tvo Years         standing            Paid           Repaid            Paid           Repaid
(lie)  7~~~~~~~F  7~~~7     (R               (R            7W~~~~~~              7F              h               TY             7W               NW
_|;            -          7k~~~               ~        ~~~TT    -T~  (. ∞)  (R)           R                (R)            (io)               R                 R                R                i               R
I        3,a 8070                          -                                                                          -                         -
2        3,9O              9go             31           2,542              277            2,265              -                 -                -                -              277            2,265
3        3,9-:L            92             'I1           3,3t2              356            3,u06              34               815               73              815             429            3,821
4        3,2.-             93              42           3,444              353            3,388              'iI'             954               85              954             441            4,1Yf2
5        3,0j-             9C              4 2          3,444              353            3,88              4J4               872               78              872             434            3,960
6        3,080 )l                          42           3,444              358            3,l)88             44               872               78              872             434            3,960
7        2,2.              50              33           2,780              277            2,429             44                872               78              872             355            3,301
8        1,7,u0            4u              23           1,886              198            1,688              34               651               58              651             256            2,339
9              -              19           1,558              158            1,4L               24               512               46               512             2 04           1,912
10                                         -               -                -                -360                                               32              3
25,9)              -              -               -             2,334           26, 52              -              5,908               528            5,908           2,862           25,960
I>
u-n 5I



7i21p7!MTJ,C OF BOTSMlANA
H                                                 LIE',STOCK DWV2LOP'MENT PROJECT
we.tern Itate Lands rat e             ch(   6  000 Acres
Livestock Projection
Before
nevel-    ------------------------------ Years -----------------------          -
Unit  opment    1       2     3      4     5      6     7      8      9     10   11  -  20
Purchased Grazier Scheme Steers
Oneninga Tnventory                   AU      -        -    200   290   275   270   260   245   240   230    215           210
Purchases                            AU      -       200   190   180   180   170   160   160   150   140    140           140
)eaths 1/                            AU      -        -      6      9     8      8      8     8      7     7       7        7
cales  2/                            AU      -              911  186   177   172   167   157   153   148    138           133
Closing Inventory                    AU      -       20C   290   275   270   260   245   240   230   215    210           210
Throughput Fee Paying Cattle 3/         All     -       60    90   120   130  1U40   150   160   170   180    190           190
Total Stocking                         AIJ     -       260   380   395   100  IJOO   395   400  1400   395    400           400
1/' At 3' per annum.
!/ i       -alf  (less deaths) of those purchased in anly one year are soid after one year, and the balance (less deaths) after
two years.
3/ Tt is assumed that tribal cattle would remain on the ranch for 12 months growing out and finishing for slaughter
and that the throughput of fee paying cattle will build up to 90W of carrying capacity.
cot oN



RERJBLIC O OTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELUPlENT PROJECT
Western State Lands Fattening Ranch (16000 acres)
On-Ranch Investments I/
I-
Average               Average              Average             Total Cost
Units per             Cost per             Cost per               for 5
Unit              Ranch                  Unit                 Ranch                Ranches
(R)                  (R)
Weadst ock 2/
Equipped 3orehole 3/                         Each                  1                   4,600               4,600                 23,0D0
Reservoirs IC,00W gal.                       Each                  1                     500                  Soo                 2,500
Troughs                                      Each                 4                       50                  20D                  1,000
Piping                                        1iles               0.5                   640                  320                 1,600
Fencirnp                                     Ri les               33                     220                7,260                35,300
Manaeora House                               Each                  1                     990                  990                 4,950
Labor Houses                                 Each                 2                      330                 660                  3,30l
Store/Office                                 Each                  1                   1,100                1,100                 5,590
Handling Yard and Wei;hbridPe                Sets                  1                   1,200                1,200                 6,000
Ranch Transport 4/                           Sets                  1                     585                  585                 2,925
Miscellaneous Equipment and Tools            Sets                  1                     640                  640                  3,200
RadiL Set                                    Each                  1                     608                  600                  3,00n
Shared E-uip;ent 5/                          Sets                  1                   1,519                1,519                 7,595
Supplies and St,art Up Costs 6/                                                                             3,787                 18,935
Sub-to',l                                                       -                      -                23,961                119,805
Physical  contingency  @  10%                                                                             2,396                 11,980
Total                                                                                                    26,357                131,785
Governiuent Contribution
3orehole SuYsidy 7/                           Each                 1                     990                  990                    -
1/ All invetleents are made in Year 1.
2/ All costs include contin(encies at around 5  and transport.
3/ Average 7iU ft.
4/ 5 ;orses/dunkeys @ R5u; 3 sets harness C R45; 1 cart @ R200.
51  1 x 5 ton truck A R3,li0; 1 tractor A 1,100; 1 trailer @ R75; 1 set disc harrows @ R375;
1 naunted .jrc,oer AL R370. Totil ?R7,905
5/  cinj cost of salt, veterinary, parts, cunIruction labor, etc.
7/  kiej G12 cost of drilling unsu-oces; ul  uoreaoles un the oasis of 2 sucLes,es per 3 c,rillinis.



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Western State Lands Fattening Ranch (16,000 acres)
Projection of Inrcome and Operating Expenses
86tore                                                             During Years
Developrent           1          2           3          4         5          6         7          8         9          10          11-20
- - -- - -- - -- -    - -    - -    - -   -__- - Rand- - - - - - -- - - -- - - - - - - - - -
I ncome
Crazing Fees from Tri al Cattle
@ Rl.20/AU/month                                         -              864       1,296      1,728       1,872     2,016      2,160     2,304      2,448     2,592       2,736        2,736
Sale of Grazier Schewe Steers
@ RS2 per head 1/                                        -                -       7,708     15,252      14,514    14,104    13,694    12,874    12,546    12,136        11,316       10,906
Total Income                                            -               864       9,004     16,980      16,386    16,120    15,854    15,178    14,994    14,728        14,052      13,642
Operating Expenses -
Pumping Oosts @64/AU                                       -                -         -          237         240       24G        237       240        240       237         240          240
Salt and "inerals @ Rl.O/AU                                -               -          -          419         424       424        419       424        424       419         424          424
Veterinary Z 3OW/AU                                       -                -          -           119        12u       125        119       120        120       119         120          120
Labor (i R18C per man-year                                 -               -          134        360         360       350        360       360        360       360         360          360
Maintenance of 4ssets 0 1,-5i of Cost                      -               -          -          200         499       499        998       998        998       998         998          998
Operating Shared Equipmesnt 3/                             -               -          -          306         3W        300        3CD       3G         3U0       300         300          300
Stationery, Eartags ano liscellaneous                      -                -         -           1UO        100       100        100       100        100       10          1W           100
Replacement of Ranch Tr.xn.port and Tools 4/               -                -         -           176        176    . 176         17T       176        176       176        176           176
Managers Salary 5/                                         -              689         890         890        890       890        890       890        890       890        890           890
Replacement of Shired E. uipment 6/                        -                -         -           253        253       253        253       253        253       253        253           253
Sub-total                                               -               689       1,G124     3,G54       3,362     3,362     3,852      3,861      3,861     3,852      3,861        3,861
---s   ca          contit an,_y       .3 10%            -                69         102        3 0         336       336       385        380        3So       3t         386          386
Sub-total                                               -               758       1,126      3,359       3,698     3,698     4,237      4,247     4,247      4,237      4,247        4,247
Purchase of Craziar Scliee Steers , R44/head            -             8,800       8,360      7,920       7,920     7,480      7,040     7,040      6,600     o,160      6,160        6,160
Total Operatin,_ Expenses                               -             9,558       9,486     11,279      11,618    11,178    11,277    11,287    10,847    10,397    10,407          10,407
1/ On average boujht at 7G(, pounds livawei;ht and sold 18 months later at 1,000 pounds livewaight (weight gain 0.55 lhs/day).
2/ In years 1 ano 2 R2,008 each year of suppl ies and start up costs is proviced from Project Funds.
3/ For firesreak maintenance and for the transport of s.t, ninerals, fuel, etc.
4/ Transport 1/bth of cost ,385 - F)3 per annum. Tools R78 per anniu.                                                                     
5/ One-half the Manager's salary cnly is ch.rqed as the lanager will spend nalf his time on Government extension duties in the village area.
6/ All items are replaced over a 6-year period.



REPUBLIC OF P.TSWANA
LIVESTOC( DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Western State Lands Fattening Ranch (16,000 acres)
Financial Projection
Before                                                          During Years
Development        1          2         3         4         5          6         7       8           9       10         11      to      20
-J                                                                                                                 Rand-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------                        ------ad--                               ----------                            
I   Cash Inflow
Ta  Fees and Sales                                           864     9,O4    16,980    16,386    16,120    15,854    15,178    14,994   14,728   14,052          13,642         13,642
(b) Long-term  Loan                         -            26,357       -         -          -         -         -                    -         -        -          -               -
(c) Grazier Scheme Steer Loan               -             8,800     8,350     7,920      7,920     7,480     7,040      7,040     6,6U0    6,160    6,160       6,160           6,160
(d) Total Cash Inflow                       -            36,(.21    17,364    24,900    24,3U6    23,600    22,894    22,218    21,594   20,888   20,212       19,802          19,802
II  Cash Outflow
(a) Investment                              -            26,357
(bj Purchase of Grazier Scneme Steers       -             18,800    8,360     7,920      7,920     7,48C     7,040      7,040     6,600    6,160    6,160       6,160           6,160
(C) Total Operating Expenses                -               758     1,126     3,359      3,698     3,698     4,237      4,247     4,247    4,237    4,247       4,247           4,247
(d) Total C.sh (Outflow                     -            35,915     9,480    11,279    11,618    11,178    11,277    11,287    10,847   10,397   10,407        10,407          10,407
III Cash Balance 9efure rrazier Scheme
Do-It Service                                -              10      7,878    13,621    12,688    12,422    11,617    10,931    10,747   1U,491    9,805          9,395          9,395
IV  5e.-t Service - razior Scheme
1. Interest 1/                              -               -         792       921        875       861       822        776       770       731      684        678             678
2, Repaymant                                 -              -       6,916      8,430     8,072     7,920     7,549      7,110     7,040    6,669    6,230       6,160           6,160
V    Cash Balance After Qr zir Scheme
D3ebt Service                                -              1W         170     4,27I     3,.74     3,641      3,24      3,045 2,9373,0912,891                    2,557          2,557
VI   Cumulative Cash  a] nce io LPI4U              -              1W         276     4,546     8,287    11,928    15,174    18,219    21,156   24,247   27,138        29,695         52,7U8
1/   At annual interest 9%
tv M
t- >ci
ko a'



REPlB3LIC 0 iOTSW.4hA
LIVESTOCK DFVELOPVENT PRt)JECT
Western State Lands Fattening Ranch (16,0O acres)
Grazier Scheme Loan - Dabt Servicing at 9, par anntim Interest
Steers                                                         Steers
Steers          Sold          Value of                                          Sold           Capital                                          Total           Total
Purchased        After         1st Sale         Interest       Capital           After              Out-        Interest         Capital        Interest        Capital
Year        Loan         @ R 44         One Year         @ R 82           Paid          Repaid         Two Years         standing         Paid           Repaid            Paid          Repaid
-W            (No)            (No)           (R)             Wiir          7W)            7W∞)                (R)             T                (R)            (R)            (R)
1         8,8U0           2ub                                                     -                       -                       -                                        -
2         8,360      19                   94            7,7U8            792            6,916            -                                -                -              792          6,916
3         7,920           18O             89            7,298            752            b,546            97              1,884           169             1,884            921           8,430
4         7,92u           18U             85            6,970            712            6,258            92              1,814           163              1,814           875           8,072
5         7,480           170             85            0,970            712            6,258            87              1,662           149             1,662            861           7,920
6         7, 4C           1O U            80            6, 5;Lo          673            5,887            87              1,662           149              1,662           822           7,549
7         7, Y;L          16             75            u,158            633            5,517            82              1,593           143             1,593            776           7,110
8         0,6W            15             75            .5,150           633            5,517            78              1,523           137             1,523            770           7,040
9         o,1oo           14u             70            5,740            594            5,146            78              1,523           137             1,523            731           6,669
lb        6,1ib           140             65            5,330            554            4,776            73              1,454           130             1,454            684           6,230
11-20      u,160           14C             65            5,33L            b54            4,776            68              1,384           124             1,454            678           6,160
t73 M
) ON



REPU8LIC OF BOTSUANA
LIVESTOCKI DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Western State Lands TlarakuirSheep Farm (17,000 acres)
Flock Oevelop ent Projection
Unit Price
Year 6         Before                                          End of Years
,,                                                        Unit         0-5 yrs.       Onward       Daveloprent-            1         2         3       4        5       6       7        8 - 20
- - -  Rand----                - - - -                      - - -- - - - - -   Rand- - -- -- - - - - - - -
I nventory
8reeding Ewes                       Head           9              17              425               769       839       899     987    1,100  1,221  1,350         1,350
Ewes &-1                            Head           6              10               90               153       192       230     269       296    322    206          206
Mature 8iams                        Head          44             100                8                26        28        30       33       37     41      45          45
Total Flock                         Head           -               -              523               948     1,059    1,159   1,289    1,433  1,584  1,601          1,601
Other Livestock 2/                   KU 3/         5               5              190               190       190       190     190       190    190    190          190
Total Kiarakul Units                 KU            -               -              668             1,062     1,153    1,234   1,345    1,475  1,617  1,688          1,688
Deaths tnd Losses
8reeding Ewes                       Head           -               -               43                21        38        42      45        49     55      61          68
Ewes 0-1                            Head           -               -                9                 5         8        10       12       13      15     16          10
inature 2as                         Head           -               -                I                -           1        1        2        2       2      2           2
Total                                Head          -               -               52                26        47        53       59       64      72     79          80
Sales 4/
Cu11 Ewes                            Head          -               -               38                20         37       80       85       94    105    116          128
Cul I Rams                          Head           -               -               -                  1         3         3        3        3       4      4           5
Total Cull Sules                    Head           -               -               38                21        40        83       88       97    1(,    120          133
Ewe  Lami,s Pclted                  Pelts          -               -               80                38       192       231      270      296    338    526          604
tar Lamus Pelted                    Pelts          -               -              170               192       385       462      540      592    660    733          810
Total Pell &des                     Pelts          -               -              250               230       577       693      810      898    998  1,259        1,414
PFurcilas^S
8recdin, Ewes                       Head           -               -               -                300        -             -
lature Rams                         Head           -               -                1                19         6         6        8        9      10     10           7
Total                               Head           -               -                1               319         6         6        8        9      10     10           7
lechnicul Co-efticients
Ceaths and Loeses all Stock          Head          -               -               10                 5          5        5        5        5       5      5           5
li-eeding Ewes Culled               Head           -               -               10                 5          5       10       10       15      15     15          15
Rams Culled                         +.,            -               -               -                 10         10       10       10       10      10     10          10
Lam.:ing ate                                       -               -               EO                90       100       110      120      120    120    120          120
Rams Joined                       Ewes/Ram         -               ,               50                30         30       30       30       30      30     30          30
Stocking Capacity S/              Acres/AU         -               -               20                10         10       10       10        10     10     10          10
Stocking kite                     kresAU           -               -               25                1i         15       14       13        11     10     10          10
Ewe Lamhs Pelted                 %of Ewe Lans   -                  -               47                20         50       50       5C       5U      51     72          75
I/  The r---ettlemnt 1 iveiostck inventory i, irrn,ferred in by the firmer.
21 Each ftan sill also carry 5 donkeys/horsos rur use and IU cows and 1LL3 goats for sut,sistence.
3/ KU - Karakul Unit.  Cattle, horses and donkeys - 6 KU each; goats - 1 KU each; Karakul sheep ovar 1 yr. - I KU each;
Karakul sheep 0-1 yrs. - j KU each.
4/ No. s-o,c of iool are shown because the curreot price does not warrant its sale.
5/  Pre-okevo opmont capacity is restricted ,y lack of water.



REPURLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELO0FbENT PROJFCT
Western State Lands Karakul Sheep Farm (17,000 acres)
On~-Farm Investments
Average             Average             Average          Development Phasing
Units per            Cost per            Cost per                 Year                 Total Cost
Unit                 Ferm                 Unit                Fam                1           2           for 24 farms
ro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-n -                                                     ()TRT                                (R    (R)                       R)
Deadstock I/
Eiuipped loreholes 2/                                each                      1               2,0D0               2,000            2,000          -             48,000
Water Pnips                                          each                      3                 100                 300              1OO          200            7,200
Punping Engines                                      each                      2                 180                 360              -            360            8,640
Reservoirs 8,000 gal.                                each                      1                 2G0                 200              200          -              4,800
Reservoirs 2,000 gal.                                each                      3                  60                 180                60         120            4,320
Troughs                                              each                      5                  30                 150                60          90            3,600
Piping                                               miles                     6                 320               1,920              960          960           4'i,080
Jackal Proof Ring Fencing 3/                         miles                    15                 340               5,100            5,100          -            122,400
Internal Fencing 3/                                  miles                    12                 160               1,920              -          1,920           46,030
Pelt Prep ration Equipment                           sets                      1                 20C                 200              200          -              4,800
Suppl ies                                                                                                            500              300          200           12,000
SuS-tIo                                                                      -                 -                12,830            8,980        3,850          307,920
Livestock
Rreedingj Ewes                                       each                    3LG                  10               3,0O0            3,000          -             72,000
lTature i4ms                                         each                     25                  50               1,250              950          300           30,000
Suetol                                                                       -                 -                 4,250            3,950          300          102,G00
Sub-ta hl Niew Investment                                                    -                 -                17,080           12,930        4,150          4G9,920
Physical  contingency  @  10%                                                -                 ,                 1,710            1,290          420           40,990
Total 'ie  Investmcnt                                                                                           18,790           14,220        4,570          450,910 G /
Liveslock (Farmaers Consri)ution)
Lreeding Eves                                        each                    425                   9               3,825
Ewes uwl yrs.                                        each                    9G                    5                 450
iature lins                                          each                      8                  44                 352
)onkeys/Horses                                       each                      5                  55                 275
Cattle                                               each                     10                  33                 330
Goats                                                 sach                   100                   4                 40i
Total Fariers Con'ri.jution                                                  -                 -                 5,632
3overrwnunt C ntrioution
iorehole Subsidy 41                                  each                      1                 990                 990
__                                                                                              H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 CD
1/ All culso   includee physical contirgencies  t around 5Z, and transport where applicable.
2/ Averarc 3   ft.  Includes transport and physical contingencies.
3/  Inludes labor costs. 
4/   ein,j cost of unsuccessful -orehole d-illin~ on the oasis of ora  success per 2 drillings.
5/ Fi,ures do not add due to r unogI.



r                                                                                                                        3            4
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOFPENT PROJECT
Western State Lands Karakul Sheep Farm (17,000 acres
Projection of Income and Operating Expenses
I-4
Before                                                  Dtring Years
I"                                                                             Developent            1           2            3           4           5           6            7           8 - 20
-                               -----------Rand -----------------------
Income from Sales
London price per pelt                                        (5.30)           (5.70)      (6.10)       (6.40)      (6.60)       (6.60)      (6.60)      (6.60)        (6.60)
Sale of Pelts                                             1,325            1,311       3,520        4,435       5,346       5,861        6,587       8,309         9,332
Sale of cull ewes and rams @ R4                             152               84         160          332         352         383         436          480           532
Total Income                                            1,477            1,395       3,680        4,767       5,698       6,249        7,023       8,789         9,854
Pelt Miarketing Expenses
London Agent's cornission @4;                                53               52         141          177         214         234         263          332           373
Freight and insura~nce costs @ 12 cents/pelt                 30               28          69           83          97          107         120         151           170
Karakul 30ard (sales promotion) levy @ 2G cents/pelt         50               46         115          139         162          178         200         252           283
Sub-total                                                 133              126         325          399         473         519          583         735           726
Operating Expenses
Land rent 2   cent/acre                                       0               85          85           85          85           85         85           85            85
Purping @ 15 cents/KU                                        100             159         173          185         202          221         243         253           253
Salt, minerals, fecd, veterinary and dipping
6 40 cents/KU  I/                                          80               125        261          494         538          590         647         675           675
Labor @ R3C/man month                                       360              36u         30l          720         720         720          720         720           720
Maintenance of Asonts ( lZ.-; of capital cost                -                87         123          123         3081         308         616         616           616
Sub-total                                                 540              816       1,U(2        1,607       1,853        1,924       2,311       2,349         2,349
Physical  contingency  ( 10,%                              54               82          100         161         185          192         231         235           235
Sub-total                                                 594              898      1,1U2         1,768       2,038        2,116       2,542       2,584         2,584
Livestock Purchases 21
M,t,r      l r a ms @ _ 'rIJ3 _                                               -                       4                        9G O      ,OuO   1,C 
Total recurrent expenses                                  782            1,024      1,427         2,497       2,951        3,535       4,125       4,319         4,010
1/ Under On ilnch lnvestments Ri3u  allowed in Yeer 1 nc R20C allowed in Year 2 for salt, veterinary supplies, etc.
2/ Purchases in Year I and 2 are capital expenditure hrim loans.
I-3 >
L ah



REPU3LIC OF FOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK OEVELOPUrNNT P%(rUT
Western State Lands Karakul Sheep Farm (17,000 acres)
H                                                                                                   Financial Projection_-
8efore                                                           During Years
Oevelopment            1           2           3          4           5           6           7         8-14           15- 2
-------------------Rand-  ----------------------
I  ' ash Inflow
Ca) Sales                                             1,47?             1,395       3,680      4,7i7       5,698       6,249       7,023       8,789       9,854           9,864
(c) Long-tervi Loan                                     -              14,220       4,57G        -           -           -           -           -           -
(c) Total Cash Inflow                                 1,477            15,615       8,250      4,767       5,698       6,249       7,023       8,789       9,864           9,864
II  Cash Outflow
Ca) F2rners' investment 2/                              -                 -           -           -          -           -           -
()  Loan Investrent                                     -              14,220      4,570         -           -           -           -           -           -
(c) Total Recurrent Costs                               782             1,024       1,427      2,497       2,951       3,535       4,125       4,319       4,010           4,010
(c) Total Cash Outflow                                  782            15,244       5,997      2,497       2,951       3,535       4,125       4,319       4,010           4,010
III Cash ialance Before Service Charge                        695               371       2,253      2,27u       2,747       2,714       2,898       4,470       5,854           5,854
IV   Sorv ce sharge
a Long-term Loan
(i)  Interest                                                                   1,138      1,5         1,5(3       1,503       1,503
(ii) Amortization                                   -                 -           -          -           -           -           -        3,269       3,269
() Toi  5--lCt Servicc                                  -                 -         1,138       1,5w       1,5         1,5'i   1,503           3,269       3,269             -
V    Casn 3Ilance After Service Char)e                        695               371       1,115         767       1,244       1,211      1,395       1,2C1       2,585           5,854
VI   Incré';onti, Cash  alance After Servi;.C,r3e             -                 (324;       426          72         549         516         7(0        5;i       1.89.           5,159
1/  'Iee tive fikurts are in t)rackets.
27   Thc ' reor would not ne financiclly c la  c conri: ute ft on-ranch develcpmnnt ccs's,  ut 'cuic transfer his present herd.
3/  At annual interest nf 86.
F3 >N
uit x
I-'
,~~~~~~~~n o



P>                                                       REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
tJ-I
H                                                   LIVESTOCK DEVEI3PMENT PROJECT
H
EASTERN TRIBAL LANDS FATTENING RANCE  - L2.1.5C  ACRES
LIVESTOCK PROJECTION
Before           -                   Year-----------------------
Unit       Deveiopment        1        2        3       _        5    6  -  20
Purchased Grazier Scheme Steers
Opening Inventory                  AU              -             -       300    250       100      25          -
Purchases                       AU              -            300      100     50        -      -            _
Deaths 1/                       AU              -             -         9      8         2      1           -
Sales 27                        AU              -             -       141    192        73      24          -
Closing Inventory                  AUJ              -           300      250    100        25      -            _
Fee-Paying Cattle
Annual Throughput 3/               AU              -            500    1000   1300       1450   1500         1500
Number on the ranch at any         AU               -           250      500    650       725    750          750
one time
Total Stocking                          AU              -           550      750    750       750    750           750
1/ At 3% per annum.
2/ Half (less deaths) of those brought in any one year are sold after one year, and the balance
(less deaths) after two years.
3/ It is assumed that tribal cattle would remain on the ranch for 6 months finishing for slaughter and
that the throughput of fee-paying cattle will build up to 90% of total capacity.
\fl



REPU3LIC OF R)TSWIAhA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOFPMNT PROJECT
Eastern Tribal?Lands Fattening Ranch (20,500 acres)
On-Ranch Investments-.
Average                Average              Average              Total  Cost
Units per               Cost per             Cost per                for 9
Unit                 Ranch                   Unit                 Ranch                 Ranches
21                                                                 ~~ ~~~~~~(R)            FR-)                (TR)
badstock-'
Equipped %rehole23                                       Each                   2                     3,075                7,150                64,350
Reservoirs 10,000 gal.                                  Each                    2                       500                1,000                 9,000
Troughs                                                 Each                    4                        50                  200                  1,300
Piping                                                  Miles                   3                       530                1,590                14,310
Fencing                                                lMiles                  45                       210                9,450                85,050
!'1anagers House                                        Each                    1                       90                   900                  8,100
Labor House                                             Each                   4                        3,0                1,200                10,800
Store/C'ffice                                           Each                    1                     1,000                1,000                 9,000
Handling Yards, Spray Race and N'eighLridge             Sets                    1                     2,700                2,700                24,300
PFznch trGnsport 4/                                     Sets                    1                       730                  730                  b,570
'iscellaneous Eguipment, Tools, etc.                    Sets                    1                       640                  640                 5,760
Radio Set                                               Each                    1                       600                  600                  5,400
Shared Equipment 5/                                     Share                   1                     1,480                1,480                 13,320
Supi lies and other Start Up Cosis o/                                                                                      2,000                 18,000
Sub-total                                               -                    -                        -                 30,640               275,760
Physical contingency @ 10%                                                                                               3.0E0                27;580
lotal                                                                                                                   33,700               303,340
Government Contri,utfion
Borehole Subsidy 7/                                     Each                    1                     1,320                2,640
1/ AlI investriients Lre made in Ye r 1.
2/ i1l costs inclure continqnenci t-   around 5% and transport.
3/ Averaye 4siL. ft.
8 horses/donkeys , 30; 5 solts  ddOlery IO R4u; 1 cart @4 R18i.
S/1 x i-ton truck (L R3,0W; 2 br coors (4) R3,1W0; 1 trailer @  1R750; 2 sets of disc harrows " 2375; 1 large towed gracdr
C3 R2,000; 1 rounted grader   Z WO7t; and 1 ripper for pipe laying @ R250.  Total R13,32).                                                                                  >
o/ In Year 1 being cost of s.lt, volerinary, parts, ccnstruction labor, etc.                                                                                                     tz
7/ Being cost of unsuccessful borenole drilling on the basis of one success per 2 drillincs.                                                                                     m  >
N I



REPUBLIC OF t0TSWANIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELORIENT PRWECT
Eastern Tribal Lands Fatn-gRac     2,0  acres)
Projection of Income and Operating Expenses
F-
Before                                                            During Years
N)<                                                                          Development             1                   2                   3                   4                 5                6-20
-  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --   - -Rand- -
I rnome
Grazing Fees from Tribal Cattle
@ R 1.20/AU/month                                 -                3,600                7,200              9,360                10,080            10,800            10,808
Sale of Grazier Scheme Steers
C R 82 per htad  I/                               -                   -                11,562             15,744                5,9836             1,968
Total Income                                      -                 3,606              18,762             25,104               15,066             12,768            10,830
2/
Operating Expenses-
Pumping Costs @6 41/AU                              -                                      45C                 450                   450               450               450
Salt and Y inerals @ R 1.05/AU                      -                   -                   795                 795                  795               795               795
Veterinary and Dippirg @ R l.0i/AU                  -                   -                   750                 750                  750               750               750
La or @ R 180 per man-year                          -                   720                720                 720                   720               720               720
V ainenemnce of Assets i 1w54  of Cost              -                   -                   285                 286                  716               716             1,432
Operatirkn  Shared Equipment 3/                     -                   200                 300                 300                  300               300               300
Stationery, Eartags and Yiscellan2ous               -                   -                   200                2GD                   200               2(1               20u
Replacement of Ranch Transport and Tuols 4/         -                   200                 200                 200                  200               200               200
:'anagerls Salary                                   -                 1,780               1,780               1,780                1,780             1,780             1,780
Replacement of Shared Equipment 5/                  -                    90                 141                 141                  141               141               141
Sub-total                                         -                2,990               5,622               5,622                6,052              6,052             6,768
Physical  contingency  ß  10%                     -                   299                 562                 502                  605               605               677
SuL-total                                         -                3,289               6,184               6,184                 6,057             6,657             7,445
Purchase of Grazier Schme Steers                    -                13,2(0               4,400               2,200                  -                 -
Total Operating Expenses                          -                16,489              10,584               8,334                6,657             6,657             7,445
1/  On average bou;ht at 703 pounds 1 iveweight and sold 18 months later at 1, 0[ pounds 1 iveveight (weight gain U.55 lb/day).
27  In Year 1  R2,00C  of supplies and st.rt up costs are provided from project funds.
3/ For firebreak maintenance and for the ransport of salt, minerals, dipping fluid, fuel, etc.
4/ Transport 1/6 of cost R73D . R122 por annum.  Tools R78 per annum.
5/   nly the lorry, 1 traclor, I tr,ile,, 1 harrow and 1 mounted grader blade are replaced.  Replacement cost R7,595 over
6-year lIfe - Rl,2665 per annum.
r0t'



REPUBLIC OF 0TSWANA
LI VESQ(_0 DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Eastern Tribal Lands Fattening Ranch (20,500 acres)
Financial Projection
Before                                            During Years
oevel opment       1               2              3               4               5                6-20
I Cash Inflow                                                         ---------------- -                       _Rand
a)j Fees anJ SGales                                 -            3,600          18,762         25,104           16,C66          12,768            10,800
(b) Long-term Loan                                  -           33,70G             -                              _                _                 _
(c' Crazier Scueme Steer Loan                       -           13,2li           4,400          2,200
(d) Total Cash Inflow                               -           5L,500          23,162         27,304           16,066          12,768            10,810
I  Cash Gutf low
a) Loan Inves;ent                                   -           33,700             -              -               -                -
(b) Purch;se of C.razier Scheme Steers              -           13,200           4,400          2,200             -
(c, Recurrent Expenses                              -            3,289           6,184          6,184           6,657            6,657             7,445
(d) TotLl G.sn Outflow                              -           50,189          1(,584          8,384           6,657            6,657             7,445
III Cash 3alance 'crsre Grazier Scheme Debt Service      -              311          12,578         18,920           9,409            6,111             3,355
IV Dest Service Orazier Scheme
Ta) Interest I/                                                    -             1,188            650              283              39               -
(5) Repayment                                       -              -            I ,374          6,284           2,712              430               -
V   Cash 1aLdnce ,'. ter Giraier Scheme '-bul Service    -              31-1           1, 016        11,986           c,414           5,642             3,355
'11  Cumulative, (' s; -Ilance tb BLDC    21              -             311            1,327         13,313          19,727          25,369            28-724
1/At J  per innwi interest.
21 3i Ye,r 20 cumulaB ive balance would be 275,694,
Scm  r
_______________________________________~~~ 31
_______________________________________~~~~ 1,1
___________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1198
____________________________________ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~~             o 6,41
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                          , 6 4



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTCOCK DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Eastern Tribal Lands Fatteniing Ranch (20,500 ac)
Grazier Scheme Loan - Debt Servicing at 9% per annum Interest
Steers                                                         Steers
_,                                                  Steers           Sold         Value of                                           Sold          Capital                                          Total          Total
Purchased         After        1st Sale         Interest         Capital          After           Out-          Interest        Capital        Interest        Capital
Year       Loan        @ R 44          One Year        @ R82             Paid           Repaid         Two Years       standing          Paid          Repaid           Paid          Repaid
- RT          No) T(FIT                      (R)             TR               (R)          UTo                TR               (R)                          NR ()R)
1       13,20C          3(J              -              -                -               -                                                                              -               -
2        4,41k           1(W            141           11,562           1,188          10,374             -               -               -               -            1,188           10,374
3        2,2ub            5b              47           3,854             395           3,458             145           2,826             254           2,825            650            6,284
4          -              -               2:            1,968            198           1,770              49             942              85             942            283            2,712
5          -              -               -              -               -               -                24             430              39             430             39              430
I>:
mx
vD C),



RIETPIUBLIC O.4' BOTSWANA
LIV0ESTOCK JEVTELLP1aIT PROJPJCT
Northern State L.rfls  Makalamabedi  attenh  190,000 Acres)
Livestoci P-ro.iection
0
4
Before          -YersÖ
Unit         l evelopment      1        2               14        5-20
Pllrr'h>ed Grazi.er Scheme Steers
Gnening Inventory  ........         AI                      -        -   1,950   4,173   5,46o    5,772
Jurchases       ......     ..       AU               -           1,976   3,250   3,900   3,900    3,900
Leaths 1/ .............             AU               -              26       84     149      169       157
Sales  2/ .......  ......           AU               -                      943   2,1464   3,1419    3,725
Closing Inventor    .......         AU 7                         1,950   4,173   5,1460   5,772    5,772
Leveloped acres at year-end       acres              -          95,000 1J42,500 190,000 190,000  190,000
Carrying CaDacitv..c.#.....         AU               _           3,200   4,800   6,3oo   6,300    6,300
'./  .' aL4-  t )3,  rer annr .
2/ Ar.irrmals Pattened Cor an average of about 18 rnonths.
3/ Stockineg rate at about 90O', of carrying capacity.
Wiu
ro 



REPUBLIC OF MOUSMANA
LIVESTOCIK DEVELOPMlENT PROJECT
Northern State Lands Makalamabedi Fattening Ranch (190,000 acres)
On-Ranch Investments
0
Development   Phasigr,
Number               Cost             Total                              Years
Unit            of Llnts            per LUit            Cost               1                2                3
1/                                                      _                    (R)                (R)              (RR              (R)              (R)
Deadstock -
Duomping Station 2/                              sets                I                3,600              3,600            3,6W
Pipe Line and Fittinrs 6' Rigid PVC 3/           miles              12                3,432            41,184            41,184
Pipe Line and Fittings 4' Rigid PVC 3/           miles              26                2,112             54,912           15,840           19,536           19,536
Pipe Line and Fittirgs I 1/4" Plastic 3/         mi1es               2                  898              1,796              830               480             480
Reservoirs 1i,000 gal.                           each               11                  501              5,5G0            2,5C0             1,500           1,500
Troughs and ball valves                          each               30                   60              1,800              840              480              480
Fencing, gates and grids                         miles             170                  220             37,400           24,200             8,250           4,950
Roads                                            miles              26                  30C              7,800            4,500            3,300
Cattle Yards                                     sets                3                  600              1,800              600               600             600
Ibighridge, spray race and engine                set                 1                1,65G              1,650            1,65U
Vehicles, trectors, nuchinery 2 equipment 4/     set                 1               21,870             21,870           21,870
Radio set                                        eacI               1                  600                6W               600
Staff housing and furniture 5/                   set                 1               21,250             21,250           21,250
Labor Youses                                     each               20                  350              7,0{0            4,900            1,050            1,050
Office/Store/torkshop                            set                 1                2,000              2,000            2,000
Office furniture and equipment                   set                 1                  550                550              550
Supplies - Other Start Up Costs 6/                                                                      20,562           20,562
Sub-total                                                                                            231,274          167,482            35,196          28,596
Livestock
Hosres/donkeys                                   each                8                   50                40L              200               200
Saddlery                                         sets                8                   40                320              160               160
Sub-stotal                                                                                               720              360               360
Staff and Services
ana9ger 7/                                       man years           3                8,000             24,000            8,000             8,000           8,000
Lorry operating                                  miles          78,000              7.7 cents            0,0Om            4,214             1,202             6U)
Sub-total                                                                                             3U,U6            12,204             9,202           8,600
Sub-total                                                                                            262,000          180,046            44,758          37,196
Physical  contingency  L  10                                                                         25,20L           18,004             4,476           3,720
Total                                                                                                288,200          198,L50            49,234          40,916
1/  Prices incluo;  contingencirs at around 10% sut not transport.
2/ 2 X 5 hp diesel er,ines, 2 centrifugal pumps, suclion pipe, foot valves, etc., 1 stand-by 5 hp diesel engirc, foundations and pumphouse.
/  Includes cosa  of ourying in a trench 2 feet deep.
/  1X 7 ton lorry, 2 X 1I ton trucks, 1 motor cycle, 2 tractors, 2 trailers, 1 plough, 1 harrow, 1 mounted grader blade, 1 portable welding set,
I electric Iiihi plant, and small tools.
5/  For Manager and Assistant Manager, with furniture.
6/  In Year I ri , casts of salt, veterinary, parts, consructilon labor, etc.
7/  Post to so luc lised in year 4 when dvealopmeun  prc rsm is complete.                                                                                                      r'a



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTUCK DEVFLOPMABT POIIJECT
Northern State Lands Makalamabedi Fattening Banch (190,000 acres)
Projection of Income and Operating Expenesa
Before                                                                   obring Years
Development            1                2               3                4                5                6                7               8-20
Income                                                                                                                                      ond ---------Ö-----------------------------------------------
Sale of Gra.ier Scheme Steorn   R79 per head 7-                 -                _              75,60           191:,620         270,100          294,240          295,250          294,250          294,240
Operating   pensee 7/
Pumping Costs @ 25 cents/AU                                    -                 -               1,il0            1.300            1,460            1,460            1,380            1,400            1,400
Salt and Minerals @ R1.06/       t                             _                 -               4,820            5,510            6,200            6,200            5,860            5,930            5,930
'eterit ay nd Dipping 0 50 cents/AU 3                           _                 -              2,200            2.600            2,930            2,930            2,760            2,BO0            2,800
Labor V 5S                                                      -                 -              8,150            9,080            9,080            9,080            9,080            9,080            9,080
Management Salaries 5                                           -                 -              2,000            2,000            5,000            5,000            5,000            5,000            5,000
Tractor Operating                                                                                  4 -  500         500              450              450              500              500              500
Stationary, Eartags and Miscellaneons                           -                -                 600              800              800              800              800              800              800
Vehicle Operating and Travelling Erpanse_                       -                 -              3,000            3,200            3,500            3,600            3,800            4,000            4,000
Maintenance of Water Assets @ 1%                                -                -                 868            1,088            1,088            1,088            1,088            1,088            1,088
Maintenance o71Other Assets @ 1%-5%                             -                 -                 960           1,026            2,565            2,565            5,130            5,130            5,130
Replanements                                                                                     4 -  1,429       4,429            4,479            4,429            4,429            4,429            4,429
Sub-total                                                    -                 -              28,639           31,533           37,502           37,602           39,827           50,157           80,157
Physicol contingency @ 10%                                                     -               2,86h            3,153            3,740            3,760            3,983            b,o16            4,016
Sub-tot                                                                         -             31,501           34,576           51,152           41,362           43j,Bo           55,173           55,173
Purchas-  of Gratser Scheme Steers 1/                           -               73,110         120,250          155,300          155,300          L45,300          14,j300          155,300          144,300
Total Op-rating Mapensep                                      -              73,100          151,751          178,876          185,447          185,662          188,110          188,573          188,473
......         ......_.    _    .......     .    ..... ...   . .. ... . __....     ..... ....    _ . ......          ......__... _........_
1/  On average bought at 700 poands liveweight and sold 18 months later at 1,000 pounds li-eweight (weight gain 0.55 lbs/day).
2/  Sn Year 1 supplies and start op coste found from Project Fonde (see Annex 5, table 17).
3/ Four dippings per annum only.
Y. Lear 1:                                      R                     5/  Expatriate nonager year6 1-3 paid fIne loan.
1 clerk                C R1,200 - 1,200
1  -echanic            c R1,000 - 1,000                   6/  Inclodes operating cost for the lorry transporting
2 vehicle drivers      @ R1,000 - 2,000                       salt, minerels, fel and dipping flsid, etc.
2 tractor drivers      @ R  720   I l,hbO
2 ppmp operators      @ R  750      580                   7/  At the follosing percentages of capital cost:
6 laborers             @ R  180   1 ,08                        tractors, veticles, machinery and equipment,
~7J0                        horses and s.ddlery            ---          20%;
Yeor 2 add:                                                           (I trnet-r nct reploend);
4 laborers             @ R  180 -   720                       pumping engi ccc, spiay race engines, weighbridge,
1 cattle g..rd         A R  220 .   720                        radio, forsitore and office eqnipnent --- 10%.
Year 3 add,
4 laborers                R  180    720
1 cattle gard          A R  220     O20
9,050



4                                                                                                         4      
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
a
H                                                                        Northern State Lands Makalamabedi FatteninR Ranch
Financial Prqjection
Before                                                          During Years
Development          1             2              3             4              5             6              7            8 to 20
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Rand  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _,
CASH INFLOW
(a) Sales                                                                -        74,460        194,620       270,100       294,240        294,240        294,240         294,240
(b) Long-Term Loans V                                -             189,250        40,434        32,116              -              -             -              -
(c) Grazier Scheme Loans                              _             73,110        8?V250        IJ_8100        13S00          _- -               -
Total Cash Inflow                                              262,360        197,144       274,836       283,100        294,240       294,240        294,240          294,240
CASH OUTFLOW
(a) Loan Investment                                   -            189,250        140,434       32,116                             -             - _
(b) Purchase of Grazier Scheme Steers                 -             73,110       120,250        144,300       1144,300       144,300       11414,300      144,300         144,300
(c) Operating Expenses                                -                  -         31,501                      11,5176  X12   4X,362        43,810         44.173          44,173
Total Cash Outflow                                -            262,360        192,185       210,992       185,442        185,662       188,110        188,473         188,473
.e=e         ,_= =v r    _s_..  ------  ..... -  ---=-----=            -=.-         ..,..            ...... w_r
CASH BALANCE BEFORE DEBT SERI CE                        --                            4,959        63,844        97,658        108,578       106,130        105,767          105,767
Interest Grazier Scheme  2/                        _                  -          6,578        13,975        18,311         19,480        19,480         19,480          19,480
CASH BALANCE AFTER GRAZIER SCHEME INTEREST              -                  -         (1,619)       49,869        79,346         89,098        86,650         86,287           86,287
CUMULATIVE CASH BALANCE TO BLDC                         -                            (1,619)       48,250       127,596        216,694       303,344        389,631        1,511,362   -
I/   Includes operating expenses during first year establishment period
2/  9% per annum
3/  Cumulative at year 20
CD os



zt6t 'o£ A0
X~~~~~~0 0 0   o-a0                                                          00~           Fs t 00 0c
U 4 - V ( 00- -C01: 6.                             .            0-  Oa G0
8 T + o _      4   .0      0 3f ∞                                   '                    o g
o ~ ~ ~ ~ a   a-             o >4 ß01 0 Co  04(                                            0     (-0SSt83                 4nZ4> <
4' ~  ~     ~    - o;.r  ,        '1                       0-00   HO a10                   0        0 ::            {   :
000-  .0 3-                           (          1o               0   00 g          IW
ta~~~~ 0p                       0           01              0      00     000
f ~ ~ ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ -                 0-              0 G.  00 .=
3        0o '*'                                                      O       C-
0  0.   oo-a                                                       U0
-       O
0~~~ ~~                                                                                          0 0-D
3~~~~~~~~~~         
((0~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~ 0. 
0-   Vl4.                                                                         -  W  Y  Y  0-  VV1  
Iw   toO    (0   00000000000               o0-''00'  30                   0-4o.r.B∞
4040I v4                          0 104lYI 
40( o 0      .(0 010    r000-'             1-100       0 
(0 40 dO  MO00  00                          0000030001
.O.0 ,.,,.,/ * .... O, .. - - ... .... -00    (
,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\e 31qL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
90   40   II:00    -HO00                                             -0 



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Msnagement and Technical Services - Botswana Livestock Developmert ComparE (BLDC)
Cost Projection
H                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project YearsToa
Cost
-Rn
Equipment
Vehicles (2 in number)                            6,000
Other items Y                                     5,4oo
Replacements
Sub-total                                      11 TT0
Physical contingency a 10%                      1, 10o
Sub-total                                      _____                                                                12,54o
Operating
1 General Manager                                15,000          15,000           15,000            15,000
1 Ranch Manager Makalamabedi                      8,000            8,000            8,000            8,000
1 Stenographer                                    3,000            3,000            3,000            3,000
1 SACUC Diplomate                                 2,000            2,000            2,000            2,000
1 Clerical Officer                                1,200            1,200           1,200             1,200
2 Drivers                                         1,000            1,000            1,000            1,000
Company Secretary & Accountancy Fee to BMC        5,000            5,000            5,500            6,000
Audit & Board Expenses                            3o000            3,000            3,500            4,ooo
Office Rent                                       1,000            1,000            1,000            1,000
Vehicle Running &- tavel-ing bxpenses             2,00,            3,000           3,00              3,000
Utilities, Postage & Telephone                      300             t00               400              400
Stationery                                          400              500              500              500
Radio Maintenance                                   200              200              200              200
Freight & Handling Charges                          200              200              200              200
Insurance, Bank Charges, etc.                     2,000                                              2,000
Sub-totalI                                                      4330o e6-500 00  6, _3  
Physical contingency @ 10i                       hb30            4&,550           h 650            h,750
Sub-total                                      48,730     m       0,0                              2               2
Total Cost                                     61,270             50,050         52 250                            21h,720
oi    0e
_'Furnit.ure, office equipment and 2 radio sets



REPUBLIC OF BOT5WEANA
LIVFSTOCE DEVEIWP4NLT PROJECT
Rotesaso Livestock Dlevelopbrent Comopany (BLDC)
Irojecree Sococco ate]l Ocolicocbon of Foolds
-     -     -   -     -     -   -     -   -     -   -   -     -     -   -     -     -   -     -   -   -     -   -     -     -   -     -     -   -     -     -   -   -   -     -   -     -   -     -   -     -   -     -   -     -   -     -  Y---   -   -   -     -   -   -   -   -     -     -   -   -     -   -     -   -   -   -   -   -     -   -   -     -   -     -   -     -   -   -     -   -     -     -   -   -     -     -   -   -   -     -    -  -  -    -  -  -
1          2          3          I,          5          6          7           8          9         10         11          12         13         lb          15         16          17         18          19         20
Ö8---------- ---------------- ---- ---- '-000Ö------ ------------------ --------------Ö--------------    ' 000  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------Ö------------
TN 810W
Contribution fros  IDA/SIDA Credit for:
(a) Development  1/       200.                                      140.5      133.2           -          -          -           -          -          -           _          _          -          -           _           -          _           _          -           _          _
(b) Teohbioal Sero-cev     7/                             60.1b      47.6       25.3        25.3
Payments end Surplsene    _/
(e) Eastern Tribal Land Fattesing Ranches                   .9        3.9       39.9        58.?       72.?       46.3       37.2        30.2       30.2       30.2        30.2       30.2       30.2        30.2       30.2        30.2       30.2        30.2       30.2        30.2
(b) Msk.elaebedi Fattening Reevh                             -       (1.6)      49.9       79.3        89.1       86.7       86.3        86.3       86.3       86.3       8b.3        66. 3      16.3        86.3       66.3        86.3       86.3       86.3        86.3        86.3
TnTAL                                  351.7      191.6       246.3      162.8      161.3       133.0      123.5      116.5       116.5      136.5      116.5      116.5       116.5      116.5       116.5      116.5      116.5       116.5      116.5       116.5
OUTFLOW
Development
(a) Esetern Tribal Lend Fottesing Rano-sh                101.1      101.1      101.1
(b) Maksla-ebedi Fattening Ranch                         189.3       40.4       3?.1
(a)Forig  Eeist               /25.3                                    25.3       25.3       25.3           -          -          -           -          --------                                                                                               ---
(b) Otoer Co...  3i6. 23                                                        29. 25t70              41.6       36.6        33.3       39.0       28.0       25.0        25.0       25.0       25.0        25.0       25.0        25.0       25.0        25.0       25.0        25.0
PA0NENT TO GOVEI]RNMRIT
( o) Loss 2/
istretad8L                                                                    3.7        o.            -          -                      -          -           -          -          -           -          -           -          -          -           -           -          -
lnterest st 8%                                                             35-7      8n.6 
A-tortiaatio-  of Pro-ipi ar Inte-o;                             _  _   _   Z  J -         58      .3        5.           -3      90.3        56.3       58.3       58.3        58.3   5 8.3          58.3        58.3       58.3        58.3       58.3        58.3       58.3
TTAL                                   351.7      191.6       220.1       7.9        99.9       YA,9        91.3       38.3        86.3       83.9       83.3       83.3        83.3       83.3        83.3       83.3        83.3       83.3        83.3       83.3
331 .PL3 .vR DhIThOea   AND RseovSMo        -.                    -          -       28.2      609.         61.1,    38.1         32.2        28.2       30n.2      33.2        33.2       33.2       33.2        33.      2       33.2             33.2        33.2       33.2        33.2
'/   Foil costs of land d-volop-eot loss Government sobcidiec - 1/3 egqity contribution, 2/3 loss
0/     Costs of l.fC Gnerl Mosog-r and MYk.la1nebedi Ranch Mapoor for 8 years pls costs of -chic les & offi-c sqoip-st and general op-rating speness is tho first 2 years.
'/   Surplus of income over opsestieg s-p--se for ronbhec
/   Ceneral Mana3ger R16,53111  per ansum and Makalamebedi Ranch Manager R8800 pee accum
5/   Lo-ai stoff, vehicles and g-rercl operating c-,cnses 
6/   Loan ropaysents on 2/3 loan cooponest at 8r ocr annos ictevest capitolised and deferved for 2 Years.
Principal cepsy-vto year-- 5 to 29.
7/   Surplos shcald allos benu  payv nt to osenro of catt-l tgooht for fa' ceciof oh Okanvke.,di as  evl an                                                                                                                                                                                C'
accumolation of some rose eves.



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWIPA
LIVESTOCK DEVELORIIENT PR(JECT
Borehole Installation and Uaintenance Unit
Cost Projection
0
V
Nuober                      Cost                    Total
Unit                     of Units                    per Unit                   Cost
_                                                                           -                          (~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R-)  TR
Dcadstock
7-ton Lorries for Mobile Teams                        Each                         5                        3,460                    17,300
Cabooses for the above                                Each                         5                          200                     l,00
7-ton Lorry for IVulage                               Each                         1                        3,460                     3,460
8adic Sets                                            Each                         3                          600                     1,800
Equipping and Yaintenance Gear                        Sets                         3                        1, 40                     4,200
Tentage                                               Sets                         3                           85                        255
Sp.res for engines and panps                          Sets                         3                          100                       300
Sub-tctal                                                                        -                          -                      28,315
Physical contingency 4 10%                                                                                                          2,832
ToLtl Cost                                                                       -                          -                      31,147
1/ Total cost will be incurred in thc Projects Year 1.
ro x
-4 0



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVEL0PMENT PR0JECT
Stock Trek Routes - Improvement and New Construction
O                                                                            Cost Projection
Nunber              Average                                 Development Phasing
of               Cost per              Total                     Years
Unit              Units                Unit               Cost                 1            2
T ~~~~~~(R)                                (R)
Deadstock
Equipped Boreholes                    Each                1                 2,500                2,500              2,500         -
Sand Extraction Plants                Each                3                   500                1,500              1,000         500
Piping                                biles               9                   530                4,770              2,120       2,650
W.atering Point Equipment-            Sets                9                   300                2,700              1,200       1,500
Housing for Pumpers                   Fach                9                   600                5,400              2,400       3,000
Fencing                               Miles             162                   380               61,560             30,780      30,780
Sub-total                                                                                     78,430             40,000      38,430
Physical  contingencv  (4 1jo                                                                  7,840             4,wO0        3,840
Total                                                                                         86,270            44,C00       42,270
1/ Includes a small reservoir and drinking troughs.
z
(D X
co N



REPUBLTIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Studies
Cost  Projection
Expendit ore Phasing
Number      Cost                                                      Years
Unit  of Units  per Unit  Total Cost               1            __3                           4              5             US$
(R)                          (R)            (R)           (R)            (R)           (R)
Funds from IDA (Foreign Exchange Component)
Consultancy 1/                                            Man-years    2        20,000      40,000                -         20,000        20,000             -              -         53,333
Equipment for Pasture Surveys 2/                             Each       1        2,500       2,500             2,500           -              -                                        3,333
Meteorological Stations 3/                                   Each       3        1,000       3,000             3,000           -              -              -              -          4,000
Portable Cattle Scales                                       Each       3          600       1,800             1,800           -              -              -              -          2,400
Share of Government Staff, Vehictes and Equipment                       -          -        32,700             6,540                                                     6,540        43,600
Sub-total                                                -         _                  80.000            13,840        26,540         26,540         6,540          6,540        106,666
physical contingency t 10%                                    -                    -         8,000             1,384         2,654          2,654           654            654        10,666
Total                                                    -         -          -       88,000            15,224        29,194         29,194          7,194         7,194        117,332
Government Contribution
Share of Government Staff, Vehicles and Equipment             -         -          -        72,300            13,460        13,960         14,460        14,960         15,460        96,400
Share of Government Hydrological Staff and Facilities    -              -          -         5,000             1,000         1,000          1,000         1,000          1,000         6,667
Vehicle Running and Travelling Expenses                       -         -          -        15,000             5,000         2,500          2,500         2,500          2,500        20,000
Ear Tags                                                      -         -          -           500               100            100           100            100           100            667
Replacement of Equipment                                      -         -          -        1,000                200           200            200           200            200         1,333
Sub-total                                                -         -          -       93,800            19,760          17,760       18,260         18,760        19,260        125,067
Physical contingency @ 10%                                    -         -          -        9,380            _,976          1.776          1,826         1,876          1,926         12,507
Total                                                    -         -          r       103,180           21,736         19,536        20,086         20.636        21,186        137.574
GRAND TOTAL                                  _    -         -            191,180            36,960         48,370        49,280         27,829        28,380        254,906
1/  To assist the Government and the Livestock Development Corporation in planning future livestock, wild life, and livestock marketing programs - two man-years at inclusive
cost of R 20 000 per man-year for consultants internationally qualified in their respective fields.
2/  ltems as follows:  5 prismatic compasses @ R 30                                  =  R 150
5 Abney levels @ R 25                                       =  R 125
5 x 35 meter measuring tapes @ R 10                         =  R  50
5 steelyards (for productivity assessments ) @ R30          =  R 150
2 prismatic binoculars @ R 100                              =  R 200
1 x 35 mm camera and fittings @ R 500                       -  R 500
] drawing board and drawing equipment                       =  R 150
1 wild level, tripod and staffs                                 R 250
5plane tables @ R 10                                        =  R  50
1 wild stereoscope                                          =  R 300
1 field soil testing kit and augers                         =  R 350
unspecified equipment                                     =  R 225
R 2,500
3/  Stations will be established in the Western State l,ands Ra-ch area, on the Makalamabedi Fattening Ranch and in the Karakul sheep farming area.  A station will contain
a Stevenson Screen, wet and dry bulb hydrometer, max and min thermometer, self recording rain guage, wind anamometer, "A" pan evaporimeter, soil, and ground thermometers.
The overall cost also includes rain guages for distribution to individual Project Ranches and Farms.



REPUBLIC OP BOTSWANAB
[SOESPOCE EEIILOP_IWNT PROJECT
Pro)eted Souc-        a)Aplcto    f Ponds
1       2       3       4        8       6       7       8       9        10       11        12       13        14       15        16       17        18        19        20
Original C-nrliho~tio  fra-  IDA/SlOA Credit far:
(a D-nlopa-ot  if582.7  593.5  529.4  94.0                                                                   -        -       -       -       -         -        -                  -         --                          ---
(b)  Techica-l Setic- a  /                                           112.3   90.8   58.3  59.3          -                -                                                                                                                
c)Technical Readies 3/                                             13.2   29.2   29.2   7.2          -       -                -       -       -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        ---
Pa -ooad S-rploces
(a B-edir0 Ranhes--  Interet                                        -       -        7.7  19.3      29.0   21.2       9.2     -       -       -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -          -
- A-noity Poy eo.                            -       -           -            -      14.3    30.3    24 .3    541.4   545       54.3     54.3      54.5     341.3     54.5     54.3      54.5      94.5     40.0       18.2
(b)  Earplas Western State Laads' ratt-oif R-chca1                     E.i     9.4     4.8  12.6       19.7    18.0    16.8    13.5   15.1   14.3         14.5     13.3      12.8     12.8      12.8     12.8      12.8     12.8      12.8       12.8
()Rck-Al Sheep Pares 5/-ta-ost                                      -       3.1   15.3  24.I9       27.1   22.1    28).3      9.8     -       -         -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -         -         -
A- . onity Payp..ntq                                                                  18.2   48.4,   72.6(   72.6       72.6     )2.h      72.6     22.6      34.3     30.2       -         -        --
(d)   Rors-an  Li-ts-oc    enri opoe,lConpanpl7  (BLOC)
-  Intcrcl                            -               35.7   9E.6      -        -       -       -       -       -         -         -        -         -        -         -                  ---
Booity PaYoonts                     -                   -           58.3   58.3   58.3    59.3   58.3   58.3           58.3     58.3      58.3     58.3      58.3     58.3      58.3     58,3      58.3       58.3
Toxota, i-   ctew... Meat Censin(BMC)                                       (8. 1)    2.7   28.6  60.1I    69,40695    70.9    72.2    33.            72.I -5   73.6     70.2      7.        27       7.        25       3.       72.5      72.5       72.5
Talt                                                       (1.1   711.7  7078  07.6   203.-5  208.6  235.4  257.9  273.5  272.8   271.5   269.1   2169.2    270.)4   757.6    228,3    188.3    198.1    183.6                       16,1.8B
(a)  Liveatch Prajeotl4acaReohll aiLdPF )1,195.2  386.0  374.2  84.6                           -       -        -       -       -        -        -         -                 -         --                           -        --
(b)  Trek Rodeo, Borhole So~ils and S-ooy                             97.1   68.8    22.8    -          -      .        -        -               -                            -        -                                      .        --
(c)  BLDG Ranhes 9/                                                  290.4  141.5  133.2 -                     -        -        -       -       -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        --
Technical S-ci-es
(a)  19M48                                                            S-       --                                  a .  na. -,34.' O 3.aU   25.0C   20y    2nE  2ai. i  16.0  160.    12,8      12.8     12.3      12.8      12.8     12.9       12.8
(b)  BLDE,                                                            60.6h  4i7-     25.3  25.3
TechnIcal Stodi-s                                                           37.0   L8.7   49.3  27.0                                                                                                                                            
Gnenc oS.bidies                                                       24.1   33.6    29.3    -          -       -       -        -       -       -         -        -         -        -         -                                           
PanseLa  In IDA/SIDA 10                                                      2.0      8.138 1.                 68     o.        69     1. 46.8            8      3.8       06       396       83      3038.      8.0      379       7.7     37.5       37l
Focal                                                     798.8   786.9 ~711.6  710.-9       58.8 ~57.-8    9~6.8    4 1.8   36.       3 -  6.8  58.     59.16    54.5     5(1.3     50.2     58.0      P9.9       98.7    49.5        49.4
A--ol S-rpl-s/EcEfiiL                                                      (80.),) )95.2)  (2.6) 88.7   196. 7  i55.8  183.6  216.1  236.7  236.0    212.7   214.5    214.7   220.1   202.14   174.3    198.2    196.91   139.1                       112.4
Pocolalloc  Socplas/SciScII                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(88.9))5173.6)(176.2)(87.5)    57.2  713.0  386,6  612.7  899.4, 1045.4  1296.1  1512.6  1727.3  1943.4.  7149.8  2328.1  2976.3  7629.7  2759.8    2071.8  a
j/  Coals af Ranch and Pare D-nclp-ct pod iG-ern-  Serices
2/Panof F-ciEc, Technici-n, Vehicles and nffire llqaip-ot.
3/Cost of (c'ooCnlts, Vehile  and Sqaipecat.
7/  Pays,ntnL  to Garo---t Cros  30 ranh laaao at 8% intcreut  Ncas 030 a  -osL  tesrae  aL                     ).
5/S-pl-s of B Pattening Ranches.
5/Passn-tn to OovvrooaL  Cros Pfac i-ncas es%  -nlepet l-vy  -lacsts(ssonudo5)
7/  Pa-ocecs-  loan L. ELSE eqivairt of 2/3 of IDA/SIDA fcdo advaocd.  Tens - 85  itee-ovt - dcfocred aed  -apicali-d fc                               ac  Pci-cipal -opaid ove         --ar  5 Ia TO.
9/  30 B-odief Eaoh-e, 5 Pa   -st Oa -lc, Of Carahal SheepPas.
9/  9 liatco-  tribal hood Pltt-Sef Ranche  and ohlebd    ooh
161  3/4 of 11 Serice   bsrgc Tear  I Ia 18; 17  -. cep3nc   Tone  11 - 20.
T /IEnladol aBoot 002.2 mIlli-On  sAi  usingt InJ0A/SEEA and -rpoyablt, Years 21 so 5/0.



li-ts8tti i S0050016
L, F.9TOCk D)EvELOIRhERT PROJ IC
Projet Cos httojo  mocstmnot Cttegorios u_dFote1ntolochnge_Cotjpocon-
iTteotonk Project Nmmegemeni iktiC (I.Stio)        loiseone Livesoete onio          Coonosy 1051 D- vBLDC )      ToiL1                              Foreign             Tot.1
recodiolg     Fatitening    Sheep      Sb              Pot treing     MitioioI-hedi      totb                   Prohject          L8                 Exhangt            Foreign          IDAEISaA
nannies        Seethes      Pars     Feral.. lehe                        Soo-h           eTsI]      Foit1        Cos            tqoto-l-n            Coton...nt         SEekoege       lontethotto-
---- '---   ---------------------- ---- --- -----R'0 0- - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - -Xo-10                                                            O o10
RANCh ANS FAtS DLOPMStNS
nestNl lttionsi
Peopig Eqoip-ent  I                                                           -         15.8      15.8                  -               3.6           3.6         19.4         1                 25.9               70                 1.1               25.9
Sqoipped Bor-hole- 1/                                        167.7           28.0       21.6    267.5                 86.1               _           88.1        355.6       1t                476.1                60                284.5             364.5
Revonirn o-d T-oght                                           26.0            3.5       12.7      52.2                10.8              7.3          18.1         70.3         2                 93.7               70                 65.6              93.7
Plnl'g                                                        48.0            1.6       46.1      95.7                 14.3            97.9         112.2        207.9         6                277. 2              8g                22. 8             277.2
tes e                                                        1283            96.2      168.5    343.1                 85.1            3F.4          1 22. 5     465.6         13               62C.8                70                634.6             620.a
BYildtngt and Poenscoce                                       15.0           13.8        -        28 8                27. 9             R.3          08.2         87.0         3                116.0               30                 34.8             116.0
CitSle yards,   Rproy goons I Wighbhidge-                      6.0            6.0        -        12.0                24.3              3.2          27.8         39.6         1                 53.1               30                 15.9              53.1
Roed-- -                                                                                                                -               7.R           7.8          7.0        _                  10.4                50                 5.2              10.4
Tr-nporo                                                       -                                                                        6.0           6.0          6.0        -8.0                                  50                  4.0               8.1
TranshoortCetigeiss 8 50%                                     41.1            8.9       31.5      81.5                25.0             1            4-4         125._          4               167.9                65                108.4             167.9
S0n6-tiotl                                           452.1           98.1      346.4    896.6                275.5           213.i2        488.7      1385.3         40              1847.1                 65             1,1929            1,737.5
Hachinery, Osoiemneni  SdSpp
lehirlet, Iretooes tod M;onhtoes                                              2 7.6                2 7.6               13.3            71.9          35.2         42.8         1                 57.1                80                45.7              57.1
Pools, iqoipoent, Sopples, ladlond
Ph9Cttioi Co3io2  30.0                                                       25.1       16.8     71.9                 29.2            21.7          50.9        172.3          4               163.7                60                 98.2            132
P1'A.1 Ce-ting-enh- 8 le                                   3.0             3.         .8.                           .                .             .          16.                             22.1               651.                                 21
So,h-noe1                                              33.            36.0       18.5     87.5                 46.7            48.0          94.7        182.2          5               242.9                65                158.3            242.9
iioesiosh
2/
Breediog Stock - Cateit                                      779.5            -          7.9    237.4                   .               '                        237.4         7                316.5                -
BItedlng i B B9 9.6                                                               6                  -               -              -            0          -                  12.8                                                     6.4
Sleep oed loots                             13.3                     234.0    247.3                  _                0.7           0.7        248.0         2                330.7               50                165.4             150.7
Rosses And Donkeys                          10.0            2.9        6.6      19.5                 6.6              -             6.6         26.1         1                 34.0               _                  -                  -
Sub-toLal                                             262.4            2.3      24.5    513.0                   6.6             0.7           7.3        121.6         1                694,8                23                165.4            157.1
1/
Feeder Steet -C G-tie  Sokene                                127.0           44.0        -       171.0                 50.0           215.3         265.3        436.3        12                581.7                .                  -
Adoozceoo PlFen toololg
Prtnenect 4/                               -             i7.0        -        17.0               138.0              -           138.0        155.2         4                206.7                -                 _
SOoh.totl 127.0                                                      61.0        _       g86.0               188.0            215.3         403.3       591.3         16               788.4                -
Lotel Cpsts ot Rnch ttd Isno lovelono                           074.5           198.0     61t34  1,685.9                 516.8           477.2          993.0     7,679.9        76              34573.7                63             1,516.6           2,137.5
MANACECENT An A TECHNICAL SERVICFS
St,.snn9ok n7 0,7ect M-tnge--mt Ulit                                              -                                                                                 278.1          8               370.8                54                201.5             201.5
lsorsitteoco ltsvcoock Dtccopine Coloyoyp--                                                     -                          -               -             -          214.7          n               211.3                 3                151.6             7U.7
Oocslioncccioo csg CO9LL OF H aesnc-JC tinsl Soo icen                          -                     _                                     _             _          4.92.         14               657.1                54                353.1             1533.5
GOVERNMERTAUTTUIcE
go-chole I.ntOllntot sod                U-iitenaete Cmt           -               -        -         -                     -               -             -            31.1         1                41.5                75                 31.1              41.5
Teek Ruts _                                                                                                                                                           86.3         2                115.0               70                 80.5             115.1
Surveys                                                           -                                                                                       -          65.3          2                 86./               -                  -                 86.7
Tlocal CntLn of Coocer2c4t Senoicet                                -                                           -           -        -                               102.4          5                243.2               46                111.6            243.3
LICIiNICAI. STUDIES                                                  -              -         .         -                     .               -                     _191.2           5                254.9                46                112.3            117.3
Totti Cest                                                                                                                  _                             _        3,544.3       100              4,728.I4               44             27,098.6         27,n.3
Pioen ctiogeney (15%)                                                                                                                      _-196.6                                                  662.1                44               29!.3             39n.0
TOTAL PO7JECT COST                                                                                                                                                                                           44O42.7  ,37d.5  24 7,389.9      3,308.3
4/  Cmi.:ilvlBtrf                                                                                              I -d 4 1   1h,
1/ Ihtl'.c:occ.,.1.ccccs'c  .icto,1... c.-...I.. pil.iil..ss   s1ic--c''. Cc--.            1         .s,'-i ts1cicoThi-G-  fc    ' I.is -c  i-nn- Fcoct
.I/1  Ifln,'i-ss I (   si-.Sc-sci.woccrz rc,-qirc-c,I t.rr .i4cl.nocc Lc C.oc-  Ti, r   i.c y cii Ico:  o t.t  L, t,.F i' ,P 9 foiiotysgn rooshes.



ANNEX 8
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disburseents
(US$1.65 MilJion IDA Credit)
Quarter                                      Quarter
Disbursed     Balance           Ending      Disbursed     Balanc e
1973                                         1976
March 31         30         1,620            March 31       110           200
June 30          80         1,54o            June 30         90          110
Sept 30         110          ,4430           Sept 30         70            40
Dee 31          120         19310            Dec 31          40
19714
March 31        120         1s190
June 30         130         1,060
Sept 30         I40           920
Dec 31          130           790
1975
Maroh 31        130           66o
June 30         120           54o
Sept 30         120           420
Dec 31          110           310
Masr 30, 1972



ANNEX 9
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
World Market Prospects for Beef and Veal -/
1.        World beef and veal production has been growing by 2.7% yearly
since the early 1960's (Table 1) and reached 29.7 million tons in 1969
(excluding the centrally planned countries). 2/ Roughly 3.0% of this total
represents veal production.  Production in the developed countries expanded
slightly more rapidly (2.8% per year) than in the developing countries (2.6%
per year), mainly because more intensive and advanced production methods
(e.g. feedlots, intensive grassland management, and such) were applied.
2.        The growth of meat consumption reflects a rising demand responsive
to rising incomes. World per capita consumption of all meats has been
increasing by about 1.1% yearly since the mid-1950's, largely because of a
strong expansion in developed countries. Beef is the preferred meat and
consumption is expected to continue increasing with rising income.
3.        World trade in beef and veal accounts for only about 5.0% of total
production, and has expanded at about 6.0% yearly since the mid-1950's
(Table 2). The value of these exports, which has been growing more quickly
(10%) as a result of price increases (Table 3), amounted to nearly US$1.5
billion in 1969. Developed countries accounted for over 60% of world
exports in 1965-67, compared with 56% in the mid-1950's. Major exporters
in this group are Australia and New Zealand, which toget:her account for about
30% of world beef and veal exports (excluding live cattle). The share of
the developing countries in world exports decreased from 44% in 1955-57
to 40% in the mid-1960's. Major factors accounting for this decline were
an inability to provide sufficient supplies to the world market, inadequate
sanitary regulations, and various trade barriers that irnpeded free access
to import markets. Argentina is by far the largest exporter among the
developing countries, accounting for about 25% of the world total, while
exports from Botswana account for only about 1.5%.
4.        In contrast to many other agricultural commodities, the trade
outlook for beef and veal is encouraging in the medium term, although
domestic supplies are expected to continue to meet the larger part of
demand in most countries. Import demand in the developied countries is
1/   A detailed analysis of the world market situation is given in Survey of
International Trade in Beef and Veal, Sec 170-106, March 16, 1970.
2/   Complete production data are available only until 1969; trade statistics
are complete up to 1968.



ANNEX 9
Paee 2
expected to increase by about 3.0% yearly in the 1970's. Among the developed
countries, the United States and the EEC show the largest growth in beef
and veal imports, and if the centrally planned countries continue to expand
their imports as they have in the past, the growth rate for total world
imports will be higher. In addition to the increased commercial demand in
the developed countries, there is an increasing demand in developing
countries as well, but this demand, which represents an import value
of over US$700 million, may not become effective because of scarcity of
foreign exchange.
5.        Even without taking the demand in thie developing countries into
consideration, indications are that exporters may not be able to satisfy
the commercial import demand in the medium tern.  Consequently, prices
are likely to continue rising moderately, encouraging domestic production
in some importing countries as well as substitution of other meats for beef
and veal.
6.        As indicated in Annex 3, Botswana's beef and veal exports go
mainly to the Republic of South Africa, European markets (mainly the United
Kingdom), and other African markets (mainly Zambia). The South African
market takes between 40 and 50% of total exports from Botswana and in 1969
Botswana' s exports to this market amounted to about 20,000 m tons.  Beef a-:
veal imports into South Africa have been rising steadily since 1967 becaus-
domestic production was unable to meet the rising demand although rising
consumer prices prevented an increase in per capita consumption. The import
demand is unlikely to decline in future although increases in imports should
be moderate. It is, however, possible that the increase in exports from
the Project will be shipped to South Africa since they will amount to
only slightly more than 1,000 m tons at full development (Chapter V).
7.        Another market for Botswanian beef and veal is Europe, particularlY
the United Kingdom, which took over 50% of Botswana's beef and veal exports
in the early 1960's. The development and growth of the nearby African markets,
particularly Zambia, however, reduced exports to that country, and in 1969,
less than 6,000 tons, or about 25%, of Botswana''s beef and veal went there.
This compares with 16,000 tons, or 60%, in 1965. Although imports of bee'
and veal into the United Kingdom are not expected tC) increase, Botswana
should be able to expand her exports to the United Kingdom, at least to
levels achieved in the early 1960's.  This is not so much a matter of demand,
but of supply, which Botswana has difficulty in providing.  There are also
prospects on other European import markets, most of which are expanding.
8.        As stated before, the increase in the import demand of Zambia was
the major reason for the decline in shipments to the United Kingdom.  With
an improvement in living standards, imports into Zambia should increase,
particularly since domestic production in that country is not expanding in
line with demand.



ANNEX 9
Pa2e 3
9.        It is thus likely that future prospects for Botswanian exports
will be concentrated in the neighboring African countries where demand. is
increasing and long-run transportation and marketing problems are less
formidable than shipments to Europe. However, should exports to African
markets not develop as expected, then opportunities for exports to European
markets would be favorable.
June 16, 1971



w J w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEXg 9
Table 1
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVE LOPMEKT PROJECT
Beef and Veal Production
by  Economic Reions, 1961 to 1969
tmillion tons)
Average
1961-63  1964_9E,i    1967'    1968     1969
Developed Countries            16.01     17.82     18.69    19.24     19.40
Developing Countries            8.57      8.66      5.97     6.41      6.45
Centrally Planned Countries     4.03      4.74      5.97'    6.41      6.45
World Tatall/             28.61     31.22     3hLbl    35.64     36.10
World Tota12/             24.58     26.48     28.44    29.23     29.65
1/ Excluding Asian centrall_ planned countries.
2/ Excluding all centrally planned countries
Source: FAO, Second ad hoc Consultations on Meat and Pciltry,
doc. CCP:Mah 70/4, April 24, 1970.
April 21, 1971



AKNEX 9
Table 9
REPIUBLIC OF BOTSWAIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPET:! PROJECT
World Gross EXports of Beef and Veal and Live Cattle bv
Regions and Principal Countries, Average 1955-57, 1965-67 and 1965
Beef and Veal                                                                         Yearly Pates
(carcass weight)                                     Live Cattle                        of Change
1-955-57 to
______________________   _______________________196 5-67
1955-57 1965-67 1963                          1955-57 19f5-67 1968              Beef & Live Veal Cattle
( 1,300 tons . .......)               ,        ..               000 ].,0OO head  .......  .,.,,).(Percert .... )
Dvc.loped Countries
Woos    5570pe                   5i.6            166.5           296.4           93             451          1,034         12.4          17.9
Denrark                           56.9            81.9            98.6          277             184            156          4.1          -4.0
Treland                          21.2             91.0           117.1          705             631            625         16.2          -1.2
United Kingdom                     5.5             8.5              3.0           3             259            161          3.9          55.0
Yugoslavia                       10.8             73.5            82.9           87              64            170         21.0          -3.0
Others                            6.1             27.4            21.1           48             118            196         16.2           9.8
Total Western Europe          151.4            451.8    6      T191         T,2-1           1,737          2,342         11.6          TI
CH,orto America
Canada                           10.4             25.3            22.7          171             471            354          9.3          10.7
United States                    22.7             11.2             8.o           39              48             36       - 6.8            2.1
Total Nlorth -Arerica         33.1             365T            30.7          210             519            390          1.0           9.5
Other Developed
Aastral ia                      145.2            287.3           255.9           20               7              4          7.1          -9.9
New Zealand                     110,8            110.3            20.1           -                               4 4      -cm
South Africa                      8.6             19.3            17.8            6               1              1          8.4
.rapan                             --                                 -                                          1--
Total Other
Devaloped                 264.6            416.8           393.8           31               9             10          4.6          11.7
otal Dee'o,red              449.1            904.9         1,043.6       1,457            2,265         2,746           7.2          4.t
Developing CountrIes
Latin America
Argentina                       303,3            376.7           254.9           98             143            163          2.2           3.9
Brazil                           12.0             22.7            39.2            1               5                         6.6           -
Mexico                            7.7             23.7            32.6          235             ,57            712          2.8           g.c
uraguay                          20,7             58.4            95.6            3               6              9          ∞0.9          7.2
Others                            1.1             21.6            57.3         log              105             64         35.0          -o.4
Total Latin America         344.2            503.1           47796          44                              9503
Africa                              8.4             31.2            34.7          287             356            343         14.o           2.2
As 5 i a                            *0.6            1.* 5           3.4         125             252            222           9.6          5.3
Total Developing            353,.2           535.8           517.7         858            1,392          1,515          4.3           5.0
World (exctl,dtog Centrally
Planned)                        802.3          1,440.7         1,561.3        2,315           3,657          4,257          6.o           5.0
Dentrally Planned
Eastern £urope                  10.6             56.o            8O.9           71             458            535         18.0          21.0
USSR                            38.7               -                             -        _                           -                  -
China  M ainland)                o.4               -              -             892             CD'S          1122          -          - 2.2
Mongolia                          -                -              -                                             49∂  962    _          -1.2
Total Centrally
planned                   49.7            s6.o             80.9         267              624L           741          1.2           8.9
World (including Centrally
PlanLedA                        852.0          1,496.7         1,642.2        2,582           4,281          4,998          5.&           5.2
Inclnding intra-trade.
2/ EstzL,=ed.
Sou rce:  lm-O, Trade Yearbook, 1958, 1968, and 1969 issues.
Xhy 1-, 1571



ANNEX 9
Table 3
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Beef: Selected Indicators
of M-arket Prices,, 1955-69--
United
Kingdom        Australia        Argentina
1/             2/               I/
1955                441.9           365.2             428.6
1956                367.2           330.0             452.4
1957                378.7           299.0             452.4
1958                451.8           315.8             435.7
1959                512.7           421.8             516.7
1960                525.3           475.3             507.1
1961                486.2           475.3             452.5
1962                491.4           439.5             442.5
1963                457.0           459.3             450.0
1964                620.7           467-4             647.5
1965                661.6           486.4             682.5
1966                660.1           535.3             612.5
1967                633.4           570.4             550.0
1968                637.8           591.5             523.0
1969                646.1           628.0             519.2
1/ UK weighted average of import unit values for bonzeless beef and
chilled and frozen quarter beef.
2/ Average Australian export unit value (carcass we:ight basis).
3/ Average import price (c.i.f.), Federal Republic of Germany for
Argentine frozen quarter beef.
Source:  1955-1967 - FAO, Review of Characteristics, Trends and
Maior Problems of the Wcrld Me,at EconomV, doc.
CCP:Mah 69/3, May 27, 1969;
1968-1969 - Official national trade statistics.
April 21, 1971



I



REPOBLIC OF BOTSWANIA
LIVk33TOCK DRVYLOFY2T FROJ1CT                                                                                  aXl
1it
PinolanaL Rates of Retorn
o5                               Before
-Dvrlonsent      1             2            3            4             5            6             7            8                           C 10        11            12        13-19           20
Mlkl la -bodi Ranch                                                                                    BLLC RANCHES
Sales                   --          --          74.5        194.6         270.1        294.2         ?94.2        294.2        295.2         29b.2         294.2         294.2        294.2       295.2          294.2
Re-ideel Vajr- Steers --            --           --           __           __            __           __           __            --           __                                                                 2] ).2
L-ensetente             __        (189.3)        (4S.0)       (32.1)       __
Operating Cootg         --          --           (31.5)       (34.6)      (41.1)        (41.5)       (43.8)       (44.2)        (44.2)       (4.:2)         (44.2)       (54.2)       (i.          (44.2)        (44.2)
Steer Poonh.e.r         --         (73.1)      (120.3)       (141.3)     (144.3)      (14h.3)       (144.3)      (145.3)      (145.3)       (144.3)       (144.3)       (144.3)      (144.3)    (1L4.3)         (144.3)
Balenge            --        (262.L)      (117.7)       (16.5)        85.7        108.5        106.1         105.7        105.7        105.7          105.7        105.7           5         105.7          32..)
Finooih1 Bets of Rater   17%
Egtster  lihb. L-ad FatteIeg Rs-oh
Sales and FPees         -            3.6        10.8           25.1         i6.1         12.8          10.8         10.5                       oo.8   15.8   10.8                      --            --           10.6
Inveetoents             --         (33.7)
orerotlog Csste         --          (3.3)         (6.2)        (6.2)        (6.7)         (6.7)        (7.5)         (7.)         (O           (7.1)         (7.5)        (7.4)        -_            __           (7.L)
Steer P-rohasee                    (13.2)         (4.4)        (2.2)         -             -            -             -            -
Bas:a                         (46.6)         8.2         16.7           9.4          6.1           3.4          3.4          3.            3.           3.           3.           --           --             3.4
Fi-.ncial RBta of Returp 1  128
L5ff47 RANCHBES AND PA0.3
Weet-ra Stoic Land Breeding Rmch
Seles                   1.0          2.0           5.0          8.0          9.0           9.2          9.8          9.8           5.6          L.O           6.6          6.2         7.0           7.3           7.3
Inor-mnta' H-erd Value                                                                                                                                                                                            25.8
Investr,nto                                      (10.4)        (4.8)
Operating Expennes   (0.3)          (1.1)         (1.6)        (2.1)         (2.4)        (2.5)        (2.8)         (2.9)        (2.9)         2. 9)        (2.9)        0.95        (2.2)         (2.9)         (2.9)
Purchase of Steams                  (3.1)         (4.0)        (5.0)        (4.0)         (3.9)        (3.1)        (2.2)         (1.8)
Bsl-ace         0.7        (12.6)         (5.4)         1.9           2.6          3.8          3.9           4.7          3.9          5.1           3.7          3.3          4.1           .L          33.2
Oncenoental
BRlst1-                     (13.3)        (6.1)         1.2           1.9          3.1          3.2          .4 -          3.2          L.     4      3.0          2.6         3.L           3.2          29.5
FiPnooiel Rate of Ret.rn 1L2
Westernl Stet  Lgd Fattering Renal
Ssein  and Fenn                      0.9           9.0         17.0         16.5          16.1         15.6         15.2          15.0        1h.7          14.1          13.6        13.6          13.6          '3.6
TIcremental Herd Valon                                                                                                                                                                                             9.2
Onreoarente                        (26.4)
Opera.ting  E.p-sas                 (C.8)         (1.1)        (3.4)        (3.7)         (3 7)        (4.2)         (4.3)        (4.2)        v;-2)         (L.2)        (4.2)       (L.2'         (4.7)         (L.2)
Puch-ot of Stan-e                   98.8)         (8.4)        (7.9)        (7.9)         (7.5)        (7.02)       $2.)          (6.6)        (6.2)         '6.2'        (6.2)       (6.2)         (6.2)         :6.2)
R._alae                     35.1          (0.5)         5.7           L.8          4.9          5.6           3.9          5.2           4.3          3.7          3.2          3.2          3.2            2.1
Finan-ial Rate of Retarn -    9%
Karokid Shoep Parnts
SaSen                   1.5          1.4          3.7           5.8          5.7           6.2          7.3          8.5           i.9          9.9           9.9          9.          9.9           9.9           9.9
7carnea-tal Flank Value                                                                                                                                                                                           25.7
-nvestanote                        (22.2)        (5.6)
Operoti9g Enpeness    0.8           (1.0)         (1.4)        (2.5)        (3.0)         (3.5)        (4.1)        (5.3)         (4.0)        (5.0                       ) (5..)     (4.0)         (.3)         (4.3)
Bsianoe         0.7        (13.8)         (2.3)         2.3           2.7          2.7          2.9           5.5          '.9          5.9           0.2          S.9          5.5          5.9            5.9
Increnent sl
Blaln-e                     (14.5)        (3.n)         1.6           2.0          2.0          2.2           3.8          7.2           5.2          5.2          5.2          3.2          5.2            5.2
Fina-nial Rate aS Return 17%
1/ Regative Figores are in breohets.
Z/  Nuch ef the benefits go ti  Sn11 fa-,mree        ho plans cattle on r-nhen oe a fee payiog baste.



I



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVFSTDCK DEVE OPMINT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return to the Economy
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Year -------------------------------------------------------------------_-__________________
1             2             3            4           5           6           7           8            9          10          11          12          13          14          15-19            2D
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  (R '000)  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
BENEFITS
Incremental Sales:  Beef j/                    (88.8)         35.6         314.2        660.6       763.8       764.0       779.2        794.4      802.9        797.7       787.5       772.1       781.1        793.9       797.2           797.2
K-rokol Pelts              0.5          12.4          41.1          75.8        97.2       114.7       137.5       167.8       192.7       201.3       201.3        201.3       201.3       201.3        201.3          201.3
Incremental Herd and Flock Value                   -                                                                                                                                                                                       1, 629.7
TOTAL                               (88.3)         68.O         355.3         736.h      861.0        878.7       916.7       962.2       995.6       999.0       988.8        973.4       982.6       995.2       998.5         2,628.2
COSTS
Inoestnents:  Beef Ranches  2/                 390.3         369.0o        339.6         47.0            -           -           -           -           -           .           -            -           -           -           -
Karakul Farms  2/                83.6         165.3         155.61        35.5
Government Sebsidy  _/                          26.1          33.6          29.3             -           -           -           -           -
Increoent.l Operating Costs:
Beef Ranches   /                 16.4          80.9         12I.1        159.4       175.6       188.5       197.8       205.9       206.3        206.1       206.0       206.5        206.9       206.9       206.9           206.9
Earakul Farms  6/                1.1            5.5          17.5         34.0        50.4        63.7        75.5        80.3         78.7        76.3        76.3        76.3        76.3         76.3        76.3            76.3
Investments:  Trek Routes  2/                   43.2          41.5             -             -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -            -           -           -            -
Borehole Units  2/               77.1             -             -
Surveying                        27.0          22.0          ?2.0             -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -            -           -                 -             -
Technical Sorviceo:  BLDC  2/                   59.8          50.1          51.2         52.2        41.6        36.6         33.0        30.0        78.0        25.0        25.0        25.0         25.0        25.0        25.0            25.0
SMU  27                  81.5          65.3          65.3         65.3        42.0        36.0         30.0        25.0        20.0        20.0        20.0         16.0        10.0        12.0        12.0            12.0
TOTAL.                              718.9         813.2         8B0.L        393.6        309.6       321:.8      336.3       36 1.2      333.0       327.4       327.3        323.8       326.2       320.2        320.2          320.2
NET FLOW TO THE ECONONY                         (837.2)       (76S.2)       (669.1)        363.0       551.6       553.9       560.61      h21.0       662.6        6'1.6       661.N       6b9.6       6S8.2       675.0        63b8.3       z,30,u.
(Econo=ic Rate of Return to the Economy over 20 Years:  21%)
1/   Based on returns to foraers,the turn over tax and levies paid to  bovernment hy BMC
2/ Excludes estimated cost of import duties
3/ Governsent subsidy on boreholes and breedtng bolls
(Ti Ecclodeo land rental



I
I



ANNEX 1 1
Appendix 1
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA.
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Assumptions Relating to the Economic Rate of Return Calculation
1.        The computation of the Economic Rate of Return Table 1 rests on
the following assumptions:
(a) each of the ranch models described in Annex 5 iS an average
ranch type to be financed under the Project;
(b) development of ranches and farms would be phased as follows:
Project Year
Model                      1   2   3   Total
Number of Raunches
Beef Settlement Ranch            8  12  10    30
Stateland Finishing Ranch        1   2   2      5
Tribal Land Finishing Ranch    3   3   3        9
Makalamabedi Finishing Ranch   1  -   -         1
Karakul Sheep Farms              6  10   8    24
19   7   3    69
(c) except for livestock which reproduce indefinitely, invest-
ments under the Project would have an assumed useful life
of 20 years. Therefore, cash flows have been computed over
20 years and the incremental value of the herd has been im-
puted as a cash inflow in year 20;
(d) ranchers would sell fat steers at net average returns of
between R 0.083/lb and R 0.079/lb liveweight which is an
average net return over the last three years for different
areas;
(e) price of Karakul pelts is based on average price of London
market over the last three years. Present returns in Botswana
are lower, but with importations of improved breeding stock
and better hide preparation, returns equal to the average
London prices should be achieved;
(f) market input prices reflect reasonably well the economic
value of inputs; and
(g)  the Project cash flow consists of the aggregation of the in-
cremental value, including taxes, of meat and the Karakul
pelts produced from the 69 ranches and farms, phased in (b)
above, less the costs of investments, Government subsidy,
incremental operating costs of farms and ranches, and Project
related technical services and Government services.



7
I
I



-REP UBL COF        !
CAT ~~~~~~9t  r ~~~~~REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I            ,1     GRAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.11
I   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                             æ~1"   ' I D
I ATIA WA RNA                                                  '
P        A             w  A 
WESTIPN"'5<9
I                                         S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     A1   I      
N  ATE  AND5                                                                 BAK LNDS\. 
-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B
IT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
,.            j    A     - - - - - - -



