'hULA-( 4'iN' .C,(kY'
1`0 BE RETURNED TO sRE]OR;TS DSK,          RESTRICTED
Report No. P- 1092
FILE COPT
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF
THE PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 7, 1972



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND REC4ENDA.TION OF THE PRESIDET TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWAA FOR A LISTOCK DEVELODPENT BROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Botswana for the equivalent of US
$ 1.65 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a livestock develop-
ment project to be jointly financed with Sweden, who will also provide
the equivalent of US $ 1.65 milion.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report on Botswana (AE-4a) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on October 31, 1969 and an updating memorandum (AE-18)
on June 16, 1971. An account of the economy was last given in my report
to the Executive Directors for the Gaborone-Lobatse road project dated
January 13, 1972 (Report IDA R72-6) and is updated and attached in Annex II
together with Country Data.
3.        The economy has grown at about 3 to 5 percent annually for the
last three years, and per capita GNP is estimated at about US $ 100 p.a.
Incomes in the towns are higher than in the country, so that the level of
GHNP per capita does not fully reflect the poverty in rural areas, where
the average is about US $ 45, including remittances received from relatives
in wage employment mainly in South Africa.
4.        Agriculture plays an important role contributing close to 50 per-
cent of the gross national product and providing livelihood for about 90
percent of the population. The agricultural sector is backward, and most
of those dependent on agriculture are subsistence farmers on very small
holdings. Livestock dominates the agricultural economy and accounts for
about 80 percent of total export earnings. Botswana's arid climate offers
limited arable potential and crop production is not sufficient for domestic
consumption. Botswana is therefore a net importer of basic foods.
5.        Botswana is rich in minerals and recently mining has emerged as an
important new economic activity. Last year, the first large-scale mining
project - the De Beers diamond mine at Orapa - reached full production and
in 1973 the Shashe copper-nickel project is scheduled to come into
production.  In addition to these, a number of other mineral deposits are
being explored, which could lead to further mining developments in the near
future.
6.        Botswana's National Development Plan for 1970-75 emphasizes (i)
the elimination of the recurrent budgetary deficit; (ii) rapid expansion
of employment opportunities, and (iii) an equitable distribution of income



- 2 -
and wealthe  Conscious that shortage of capital and skilled manpower within
the country will handicap growth, Botswana's economic strategy is to izrport
capital and skill to develop mining and other viable export industries and
to reinvest government revermes from these industries to improve conditions
in the rural areas where the majority of the people live.
7.        The government's budgetary position, which has been supported by
the United Kingdom for many years, is slowly improving and the recurrent
budget is expected to be balanced in -this fiscal year. The surplus expectzd
daring the period 1972-75, which arises from the customs revenues as a
result of imports connected with the construetion of the Shashe Mining
Project, will be put into a Revenue Equalization Fund to help covei futt'
shortfalls in the recurrent budget. Capital for financing public develop-
ment is not generally available within Botswana. In the foreseeable future
the capacity of the economy to generate savings will remain severely
limited, and development projects will have to depend almost entirely on
external support. Because of the heavy dependence of Botswana on capital
imports the major portion of capital for development projects should be on
concessionary terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
8.        IDA, lending to Botswana has totalled US $ 11.1 million and haF
been for two projects for road development, one for water supply, and one
for the engineering of infrastructure needed for the 9hashe copper-nickel
mine. This last credit led to a Bank loan of US $ 32 million for the
Shashe Infrastructure Project (776 BT), from which US $ 0.91 of the credit
was repaid. Annex I contains a summary statement of the Bank loan and IDk
credits in Botswana as of May 31, 1972, and notes on the execution of on-
going projects.
9.        The Association will continue to assist Botswana in preparing
suitable projects. The emphasis will be on projects which complement the
government's development strategy particularly in agriculture and mining.
Over the next few years a third road project and second phase of the live-
stock project are likely to be presented for IDA financing.
10.       The execution of development projects has been generally satis-
factory though the infrastructure and the water supply projects have been
delayed for reasons beyond the control of the government and in both cases
overrun problems have arisen. The developments that have taken place after
the signing of the Shashe Infrastructure Loan were reported to the
Executive Directors on February 29 this year. As you will recall the
sponsors of the mining project made modifications in the mining plan and the
financial plan for the mining project.  These changes and delays in completi--
the sales arrangements did not delay physical work on the project but
necessitated the postponement in maldLng the loan effective. All outstanding
matters were settled and the loan declared effective on March 7, 1972.



PART III - THE LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY
11.       Livestock and livestock products currently account for approxi-
mately 80 percent of the country's exports and provide the principal
source of cash income in the rural sector. The cattle population has not
increased significantly over the past decade. A severe drought reduced it
by about 35 percent in 1965 when large numbers of cattle died or were
slaughtered either to forestall death from starvation or to provide
farmers with much needed cash. It has only recently recovered to the herd
size of the early sixties of about 1.4 million. The goat and sheep popui-
lation tripled in the last decade.
12.       Water and its proper management are vital to the livestock
industry. Supplies come from wells, boreholes, and surface water. Surface
water is seasonal and unreliable so that during the dry season cattle are
concentrated around boreholes and wells. Heavy overgrazing often results.
There is an urgent need for expansion of reliable water supplies and the
government is encoaraging farmers to drill boreholes through a credit
scheme operated by the National Development Bank.
13.       Inadequate transport is a major obstacle to the efficient
operation of the livestock industry in the North and West. Long overland
treks are necessary which often result in significant loss of weight and
hence lower prices to the farmers. The economics of stock routes has been
studied but no other more economical transport mode was found. The govern-
ment is therefore planning to improve stock routes by providing adequate
water supplies and grazing along the routes.
1.       The majority of the cattle - about 86 percent - are grazed in
tribal areas under the traditional system of management. Animal husbandry
standards are low. The traditional system militates against the prevention
of overstocking and upgrading of stock. Cattle have importance in the
social structure; they are a form of insurance and are generally not sold
unless there is an urgent need for cash. A change in attitudes is being
encouraged by extension advice and the grading system of the abattoir
which offers higher prices for younger and well finished animals.
15.       Marketing of livestock has mainly been in the hands of speculators
and traders who purchase cattle for a low price and arrange for fattening
and transport themselves. To redace intermediaries who are skinning off
some of the profits which might otherwise accrue to the farmers, the
government is encouraging the farmers to retain ownership until the cattle
have been fattened and then to market directly to the abattoir through
licensed agents or marketing cooperatives.  The old system, however, prevails
and accounts for about 40 percent of the cattle marketed from tribal areas;
it has the attraction of providing cash to the farmers at an earlier stage.
16.       The Botswana Meat Commission (EM0) which operates the abattoir in
Lobatse, processes all of Botswana's meat destined for export. The abattoir
has a potential throughput capacity of 200,000 carcasses per year. The
quality of Botswana meat has been consistently high and is meeting the
strict hygiene requirements of countries such as the Repablic of South Africa,



- h -
United Kingdom, Austria, Switzerland, and Hong Kong.  The bulk of Botswana's
meat products are exported to the United Kingdom and the Republic of South
Africa. The Zambian market used to provide an important outlet for live
cattle from northern Botswana. Such exports have recently declined but
steps are now being taken to increase meat exports to Zambia. Botswana
meat products are also marketed in other African countries such as Zaire,
Swaziland and Ghana.
17.       The government is serving the cattle industry in a number of
ways to increase production and improve beef quality, and hence increase
rural incomes. To prevent the spread of animal diseases, it has developed
a network of stock routes and fenced quarantines. Movement of livestoc6
from one area to another is subject to close inspection and a two-week .3tay
in the quarantine. The government also administers free but compulsory
vaccinations and is operating a Tsetse Control Service in the northwest in
an attempt to eradicate or prevent animal diseases. To convince farmers of
the benefits of grazing control and good husbandry, the government has
established demonstration ranches where farmers can learn husbandry
techniques and in addition place their cattle for fattening for a monthl-y
grazing fee. This offers cattle owners an opportunity to receive the full
benefit of the weight gained by the cattle when the cattle are slaughtered
at the abattoir. The scheme has been gaining acceptance and these ranches
have now reached full capacity. Technical education is provided by the
Botswana Agricultural College, and research in animal breeding, animal
health and range management is being undertaken. Government has also
prepared an Agricultural Resources Conservation Bill which, when passed,
will provide legal backing for enforcement of good land management asid
conservation practices, and as a complement to legislative measures, is
having all livestock holdings registered, expanding agricultural extension
work, providing funds for further water development, and opening up new
areas for grazing.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
18.       The project is part of the government's program of opening up
unoccupied land for ranching under proper management. The project aims
at raising the incomes of cattlemen and farmers by increasing production
and improving the quality of livestock.  It comprises:
(a) the establishment of thirty breeding and five fattening
ranches of about 16,000 acres each in the west, and the
improvement and expansion of twenty-four Karakul sheep
farms of about 17,000 acres each in the southwest;
(b) the establishment of nine fattening ranches of about
20,000 acres each in the eastern part of the country and
one 180,000 acres ranch - the Makalamabedi fattening
ranch - in the north;



-5.
(c) the establishment and operation of mobile borehole
installation and maintenance units, and stock route
development;
(d) project management and land surveys; and
(e) marketing and ecological studies.
19.       Breeding ranches would be allocated to individuals, cooperatives
or associations who would provide a herd of about 220 cattle for each
ranch from the village commonages. Removal of cattle from the villages
would be beneficial since it would reduce overstocking and help prevent
further devastation of the velt now taking place on the commonages.  Fatten-
ing ranches would provide small-scale cattle owners with the opportanity
of placing their cattle in areas with sufficient water and grazing for
finishing. The grazing fee charged would be deducted from the slaughter
proceeds and the balance returned to the cattle owners. Borehole instal-
lation and maintenance units would supplement the government's existing
service and would expedite the equipping and servicing of boreholes, while
further development of stock routes would facilitate the flow and improve
the condition of cattle from the traditional breeding grounds. The study
of cattle marketing in the country would help the government devise a
marketing structure that would reduce the dependence on intermediaries
and thereby bring greater returns to the small-scale cattle owner.
Collection of meteorological and botanical data and information on live-
weight changes would be collected in the ecological study, and would provide
valuable data for further development of the livestock industry.
20.       Breeding and fattening ranches in the west would be established
by a Livestock Project Management Unit (LPMU) to be set up in the Ministry
of Agriculture. Government would make land available and extend loans to
the cattlemen selected for the ranches equivalent to the cost of ranch
development. Such loans would be repaid over a period of 18 years with
8 percent interest annually. Government would also provide loans to the
sheep farmers at 8 percent interest but with a somewhat shorter repayment
period. The National Development Bank would administer the loans for an
annual fee from the government to cover its administration costs. LPMU
would operate the fattening ranches in the west and would supervise breed-
ing ranches and improvements on sheep farms. A Project Manager would head
the LPMU. In the absence of qualified Batswana for the position of Project
Manager, the manager is likely to be recruited from abroad. His salary
would be paid out of the proceeds of the IIA and Swedish credits.
21.       The fattening ranches in the east and north would be established,
owned, and operated by the Botswana Livestock Development Company (BLDC), a
subsidiary to be established and owned by the Botswana Meat Commission
(BMC) which in itself is a wholly owned government entity. The government
would make approximately $ 1.1 million available to the subsidiary out of
the proceeds of the IDA and Swedish credits to cover ranch establishment in
the east and north, and management cost in the first few years. One third
of the value of establishment costs would be provided as equity and the
remainder as loan. The loan to BLDC would bear interest at 8 percent



- 6 -
per annum  capitalized over the first two years, with five years of grace,
and be repaid over a 15-year period. No dividends would be paid on the
equity invested, and profits over and above taxes and contingency reserves
would be paid back to suppliers of cattle as bonuses. A General Manager
to head the company would also be recruited from abroad and his salary
reimbursed from the credits.
22.       To induce the farmers to fatten their cattle rather than sell
them to speculators before the cattle are ready to be slaughtered, the
government would make arrangements for advances to be made to the farmers
against the value of the cattle when placing them on the fattening ranches,
These advances would have the advantage of providing farmers with cash to
meet their immediate needs. These funds together with short-term loans
for the purchase of feeder animals to stock the ranches and farms in the
early years would be made available either from the government or the
banks in Botswana at normal comercial rates.
23.       Provision for borehole installation and maintenance units,
further development of stock routes and surveys would be undertaken by
the responsible ministries and departments in the government. The studies
to be conducted, which would be on marketing of live cattle and environ-
mental aspects of the project, would be undertaken by consultants and by
government's scientific staff.
24.       A Coordinating Committee whose members would be selected from
the various ministries, departments, and agencies associated with live-
stock production would meet on a regular basis to review particularly the
progress of the project and ensure coordination during the construction
stage.
25.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US $ 5.4 million
equivalent, of which about 44 percent would be in expenditures outside of
Botswana. About 39 percent of financing will be provided from sources in
Botswana by (a) the government, US $ 0.5 million; (b) participating
commercial banks, US $ 0.9 million; (c) BIDC, US $ 0.1 million; and (d)
ranchers and farmers, US $ 0.6 million. The balance of US $ 3.3 million
or 61 percent of total project cost would be jointly financed by Sweden via the
Swedish International Development Authority (SIMA) and IDA., shared equally.
The joint financing arrangements with Sweden provide for disbursements by
the Association and Sweden pari passu. The terms and conditions of the
Swedish credit are the same as those of the IDA credit.
26.       Goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the credits would
consist largely of fencing materials, pumps, breeding animals, farm
machinery and vehicles. These items would be procured over a period of
four years in numerous small consignments and are therefore not likely
to interest bidders on an international scale.  Project goods would,
therefore, be procured in accordance with the government's procurement
guidelines. The establishment of ranches and farms and the drilling of
boreholes would be undertaken by the government and BLDC with some sub-
contracting to local contractors for smaller works on the basis of local
tender. The government's procurement guidelines are noted in Annex III.
Botswana is part of the Southern Africa Customs Area, and there are no
customs duties on imports from other countries in the Area. Certain



-7-
preferences are given on imports from the United Kingdom; the only item in
the project which might be affected is fencing wire on which the UK's
preference is about 1 percent of the value.
27.       The project, which would increase the value of exports of live-
stock products by about 10 percent when the ranches and fams are in full
operation, would directly benefit some 4,000 families. Farmers utilizing
the fattening ranches would make an average net gain of about $ 20 per
fattened animal over a six to twelve month period. This net gain would be
a substantial contribution to the family income in the rural economy. The
estimated financial rates of return on pro ect ranches and farms are
included in the Project Summary (Annex III).  The quantifiable benefits are
estimated to yield an economic rate of return of about 21 percent. These
and other benefits including reduced pressure on over-grazed communal
pastures and the introduction of improved technology, management, and
advisory services, should spur further livestock development.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
28.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Botswana and the Association, the draft Joint Financing Agreement between
the Republic of Botawana, the Kingdom of Sweden and the Association, the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the text of a Resolution
approving the proposed Credit are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
29.       The draft credit documents generally follow the form used in
other credits where the Kingdom of Sweden is a co-lender with the
Association and contain the provisions normally used for livestock projects.
A default under the Sedish credit agreemant would be an event of default
under the Development Credit Agreement between Botswana and the Association.
30.       The draft Joint Financing Agreement provides for concurrent but
separate disbursements by the Association and the Kingdom of Sweden in a
ratio of one to one. A subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the
Association would be entered into between the government and the Botswana
Livestock Development Company and the execution of the loan agreement
would be a condition of the effectiveness of the proposed credits. The
operating policies and procedures governing the onlending of proceeds of
the credits for the cattle ranches and the sheep farms are set forth in
Schedule h of the draft Joint Financing Agreement.
31.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 8 -
PART V - RECONENI)ATION
32.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 7, 1972



ANNEX I
Page 1
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO BOTSWANA
AS AT MAY 31, 1972
Amount, less refunding
(US$ million)
No.   Year    Borrower       Purpose                  Bank     IDA.    Undisburxsed
63    1964   Bechuanaland  Road project                       3.6          _
172    1970    Botswana      Engineering design and            1.6         0.1
preliminary works for
the Shashe project
233    1971    Botswana      Water supply for                  3.0          2.5
Gaborone-Lobatse
776    1971    Botswana      Infrastructure for       32.0                 26.0
mining development
303   1972    Botswana       Reconstruction of the             2.0          2.0
Gaborone-Lobatse road
Total                                         32.0    10.2
Total undisbursed                              26.0     4.6         30.6
Projects in Execution
172 BT $2.5 million credit for enxineering design for Shashe
About US$0.91 million of this credit was refunded out of proceeds of the
Shashe Loan (776 BT). The outstanding amount of US$0.08 million is expected to
be disbursed by the Closing Date of June 30, 1972.
233 BT $3.0 million credit for Gaborone-Lobatse Water Supply
Disbursements have been slow due to delays in construction caused by
heavy rains and poor management by the contractor. Construction is about four to
five months behind schedule. Management is expected to improve. Further delays
may however be caused by the fact that an overrun of $400,000 is expected to
arise with the award of the last major contract. The Closing Date is December 31,
1973.
303 BT $2.0 million credit for the Gaborone-Lobatse Road
The credit was signed on April 27, 1972 and has not yet become effective.
Prequalification for the project indicated considerable interest from numerous
contractors, and the tender documents are now being prepared. The Closing Date
is March 31, 1976.



ANNEX I
Page 2
776 BT $ 32.0 million loan for Shashe Infrastructure
The Bank loan for the Shashe Project became effective on March 7
this year. Construction is proceeding on schedule and about $6 million h --&
been disbursed. All contracts have now been let and a cost overrun of
$2.4 million is likely.  The Closing Date is November 1, 1975.



ANNEX II
WORLD RARE GROUP
I. COUNTRY DAlA
COVNTRY: Botewana                                                       POPULATION:  625,000 (mid-1971)                                               iDERSITY   1.1 per km2
AM:  570,000 km2                                    ~~~~~~~~~~Rate of Growth 2.0% (from 1961. to 1971)                               ibid      36.6 per km2 of arable lend
ARYE:  570,000 km2
HEALTH:
Population per physician 24,000 (1970)
Population per hospital bed 330 (1971)
EDUCATION:                                            DISTTBLTION OF CATTLE OWNERSHIP
Adult literacy rate  20Y  (1970)                    59%' of cattle owned by top 12% farmers
Primary school enrollment 5054 (1970)                5% of tattle owned by bottom  50% farmers
GROSS NATIONAL PRODVCT (1967/68):                                                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTR    (constant prices):
ooj min.               761968-717e (etm )betoe 3. to  5
GNP at market prices    54.5                 100
Gross Investment         11                   20
Gross National Savinge -16.6                 -30
Current Account Balance 27.7                  50                                                       GNP PER CAPITA: S 100 (1970)
Exports of Goods, Xr7   11.1                   20
Imports of Goods, NF8   37.1                  68
OUPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITT    1967/68:
Value Added                            labor Force                               ValUe Added Per Wr
(USS mmn.)            96thousands                                           (U8$)                                   r fntinl avrge
Agriculture                              24.4               46                  200             91                   122                           51
Industry                                  6.4               12                    4              2                 1600                           667
Services                                 22.0               42                   16              7                 1375                           573
Total/Average                       52.8              100                  220           100                   240                           100
TRAL GOVERShT FINCE                                             CREDIT:                            Bsmk Oredit to Public Sector                   Bank Credit to Private Sector
m  19710/71      T
R mln. % of GUP                          end of year                          R mln           %hange over                    R mln           % ohange over
previous year                                  previous year
Current Receipts      11.7      26)                         1968 (September)                        2.0                   -                        3.9
Current Expenditures 15         35)
Current Deficit (-)  -.1       (9)                          1969                                    2.4                   -                        6.6                 -
Capital Expenditures  8.5      (19)                         1969 (September)                        2.5                  25                        5.7                 46
Externa Assistance   8.7       (19)                         1970                                    2.1                 -12                       12.5                 89
(net)                                                       1970 (September)                        2.0                -20                         9.8                 72
1971 (September)                       1.7                 -15                       10.5                   7
FORERIGN TRADE:                                                                                             EXTElOAL PUBLIC                    31 BT ON   CER   31. 1971
Merchandise exports (average 1968/tO)           Jlmn             %                                                                                                                      n.
Total Outatanding  Inclusive Undisbureed                             58.1
Livestock and livestock products                 12              75                                                  Outstandirg and Disbursed                                      23.9
Other commodities                                 4              25                                            Total Debt Service (1971)                                            0.8
Total                                            16             100
Merchandise Imports (t mln.)         1968          1969         1970                                        IBRD/IDA LElDING. DECEMBER 11. 1971                           (S mln.)
. . . . . .21,              NN])IDA
31          41            47                                            Outstanding end Disbursed                              -               5.1
Undisbureed                                           32.0              1
Outstanding, Inclusive Undisbursed                    32.0
Exobange Rate:  Before December 21, 1971            08  1-R 0.71
R 1.VSS 1.40
Sinoe December 21, 1971            08  1-R 0.75
R 1.OSS 1.33
Oate:               June 1. 1972
Department: Eastern Africa Demsrt:r.t



ANNE1X II
Page 2
II. THE ECONOMY
1           0Botswana is a landlocked country in Soutlhern Africa borderinv
on Namibia to the west, the Republic of South Africa to the south and
east, Southern Rhodesia to the northeast, and Zambia to the north,
with an area of about 600,000 km2 (the size of France). The Kala!hiri -
part ulSeles  desert and part savannah - covers much of the center nnr]
south-west of the country.  The Okavango/Chobe rivuir hasin, Whli-ch
oc. upies most of the north-west country, is mainly- a regiJon of tsetse-flly
infested swamps. Most of the population is concentrated in the eastern
part of the country where the Limpopo river systera and more favorabl.
rainfall rive rise to important agricultural activity and where deposits
of minerals in exploitable quantities have been discovered.
2-.       The population of Botswana - about 630,000 - is Frowinw
at about 2 percent a year. The high birthrate is expected to continu.i
for the next too decades in spite of the family planning program ash±ch
ia  being introduced.  The reduction in births resulting from the family
planning effort is expected at first to be counter-balanced by a decrcase
in infant mortality which is being brought about by better child care
and increased use of immunization against childhood diseases.
3.        It is estimated that the economy is growing at about .,!  per
year.  The per canita GNP is estimated at about $100.  However, as
income distribution is somewhat skewed in favor of townspeople, the
level of GNP per capita does not fully reflect the poverty in the rur-l
area.  The average rural per capita income is about $45.  Here agair tne
wealth is unevenly distributed and the median rural income is -scll
below this level. In fact, about 30 percent of rural households hav"e
no cattle and cnnsequently no income except for subsistence from small
plots of arable land.  Livestock dominates Botswana's economy, contribu-
ting about 80 percent of total export earnings in l169. Other agri--
cultural production is not sufficient for domestic consumption anr
3otswana is therefore a net importer of basic foods.
11l Botswana is rich in mineral resources and recently mining hFas
emerged as an important new economic activity in the country.  Last
year, the first large-scale mining project reached full production - the
De Beers diamond mine at Orapa - and in 1973 the Shashe copper-nickel
project is scheduled to come into production. In addition to these,
a number of other mineral deposits are being explored, which could lead
to further mining developments in the near future.



ANNEX II
Page 3
5,        Employment opportunities for unskilled and semi-skilled
workers are scarce; nevertheless, the unemployment figures are
relatively low as they do not reflect the substantial seasonal or
disguised unemployment that exists.  One indication of unutilized labor
is the number of Batswana working in the Republic of South Africa, at
present numbering more than 4o,000.  About 90% of the total resident
labor force is engaged in agriculture. Employment outside agriculture
numbers about 33,000 out of an estimated labor force of about 240,000.
Although the development of mining activities in Botswana will increase
g,overnment revenues substantially, it will provide employment for only
a small number of people (about 5,000).
6.         The government has prepared a National Development Plan for
1,97(-'75.  Its main objective is to stimulate development in the rural
areas by promoting the development of 'Livestock and food crop production
in,addition to providing basic social services including education, health
and W2aLer supply. In launching an agricultural development program the
govfernment hopes to reduce the disparity not only between rual and urban
incomes, but also between the few wealthy cattle owners and the rural
population at larg,-e. The Plan is also intended to tackle two of the
most important constraints on Botswanals development - the scarcity of
experienced manpower and the need to improve the basic infrastructure
of the economy.
7.        The scarcity of educated and skilled manpower is a major
constraint to development in Botswana.  At present 93otswana nationals
fill only 251 of those civil service positions requiring at least five
years of' secondary education and less that 10% of those requiring
higher qualifications. The government is attempting to localize these
positions and hopes to triple secondary school enrollment between 1969
and 1975.  It is also expanding vocational training.
8.        The relative lack of basic infrastructure in Botswana is
particularly apparent in transport.  The scattered population and thc
larFe size of the country, mean high transport costs which hamper
development. Moreover, again becausd of long distances, the invest-
ment cost of improvin- the transport system is high, which is a
particularly difficult problem in a country as short of financial resources
as Botswana.
9.         Botswana's shortage of financial resources is perhaps its
greatest obstacle to more rapid develorwent.  Traditional agriculture
has been unable to provide the government with sufficient tax base to
finance even the most rudimentary services. The recurrent budget has
therefore been subsidized through grants-in-aid from the United Kingdom.
Since 1967, the UK has financed about 30 percent of the central
government's recurrent expenditures and has provided grants and loans
for most of !3otswanats public investments. There has, recently, been



ANNEX II
Page 4
a significant improvement in the government's budgetary position as a
consequence of the revision in the Customs Union Agreement among
Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland and ?outh Africa, which has substantially
increased the share of the three developing countries in the customs
revenues accruing to the common customs pool. The government hopes
to be able to balance its recurrent budget without exterral budgetary
support from 1972 to 1975. The surplus expected during that period,
which mainly arises from the customs duties on capital imports for the
Shashe Mining Project, will be put into a Revenue Equalization Fund to
help cover future shortfalls in the recurrent budget. Capital for
financing public development expenditures, however, is not available
within Botswana.  The capacity of the economy to generate savings will
remain severely limited until the new mining developments start contri--
buting to the domestic income. Until then development projects will ha-re
to depend almost entirely on external support. For the same reasons
coupled with the dependence on capital imports giving rise to heavy debt
servicing obligations, the major portion of capital for developme.n-t
projects should be on concessionary terms.



ANNEX III
Page 1
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNMARY
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Borrower:        Republic of Botswana
Amount:          US$1.65 million equivalent
Terms:           Standard
Project:         To help finance jointly with a Swedish credit equivalent
to about $1.65 million, ranch and farm development, bore-
hole and maintenance units, stock route development,
technical assistance, and land surveys and technical
studies.
Cost of                                           ------(US$ million)------
Project:                 Component                Foreign    Local    Total
(a) Ranch and Fanr Develop-
ment                          1.8        2.3      4.1
(b) Management and Technical
Services                      0.3        0.4      0.7
(c) Government Services           0.1       0.2       0.3
(d) Technical Studies             0.2        0.1      1-2
Total                   2
Financing;                 Sweden                 US$ 1.65 million
IDA                   US$ 1.65 million
Government            US$ 0.5 zlllion
Commercial Banks       US$ 0.9 million
Ranchers and Farmers  US$ 0.6 mil.±on
BLDC                   US$ 0.1 million
Project
Implementation             1973-1976
Period:
Estimated              -    ----------_US$ million------------
Disbursements              FY     FY74   ET75  EY76    Total
of IDA Credit:             0.3h   0.52   0.48   0.31      1.65
(Disbursements from the IDA and Swedish
Credits will be in a ratio of one to
one.)
Procurement      Goods to be financed out of the credits would be procured
Arrangements:    according to the government's procurement guidelines which
provide for competitive bidding.  Tenders would be
advertized by the Central Tender Board in newspapers of
general circulation in Botswana and South Africa. The
same procedures would be followed on smaller works in the
project not to be constructed by the government. No
country enjoys preferential tariffs on goods to be procured



ANNEX III
Page 2
in the project except for fencing wire on which the
United Kingdom has an advantage amounting to less than
1% of costs. Botswana is in the Southern Africa Customs
Area and imports-from the member countries would enter
free of city.
Economio Rate    21 percent
of Retumrn:
Financial Rate  Fattenin4  Ranches    Breee  Ranches    Sheep Farms
of Return:             9-17%   -                               17%
Appraisal
Report:          PA-lOla, June 2, 1972



~~~~-  -                                                                                                                -I--yE
X  i                                                                 NA$ I/4/t
et.--  '-3    > Je                                             /         I  /                        834                  m/0mJ9      ______C 
. ,           D,  039       -                                                          i /i; /                                     A0 '0
0   A   f  f    fff't ff    ff ~~~~709    A                                                        09'>  >'> '''/   X,       0 
*,      X,                                . V     -+                                                    



