CONFORMED COPY
EttDtiopment Eredit
agreement
(Livestock Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
DATED JUNE 30, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
D)clopment Eredit
agreement
(Livestock Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
DATED JUNE 30, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT between the KINGDOM OF SWEDEN, on the one hand and
the REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA, on the other hand (hereinafter called the
Agreement).
WHEREAS the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Botswana, desiring
to strengthen the cooperation and cordial relations between them, have agreed that
as a contribution to the economic and social development of Botswana, the
Kingdom of Sweden (hereinafter called Sweden) shall extend to the Republic of
Botswana (hereinafter called Botswana) a development credit (hereinafter called
the Swedish Credit) to assist in the financing of a livestock project described in
Schedule 1 to the Joint Financing Agreement (hereinafter called the Project), to
be undertaken by Botswana;
WHEREAS Botswana has entered into a development credit agreement of
even date (hereinafter called the IDA Credit Agreement) with the International
Development Association (hereinafter called the Association) with regard to further
assistance towards the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS Botswana, Sweden and the Association have also entered into
an agreement of even date (hereinafter called the Joint Financing Agreement) in
respect of the allocation, withdrawal and use of the proceeds of financing under
the aforementioned agreements and the execution of the Project, as well as other
matters;
NOW THEREFORE Sweden and Botswana agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
The Swedish Credit
1.   Sweden shall make available to Botswana a development credit in an amount
of eight million Swedish kronor (SKr 8,000,000) subject to the provisions of the
Agreement, of which the attached Annex forms an integral part, and to such other
provisions as may be agreed upon between the Parties.
2.   Unless otherwise agreed Botswana shall be entitled to withdraw an amount
of seven hundred fifty thousand Swedish kronor (SKr 750,000) during the Swedish
fiscal year 1972/73 and during each of the following fiscal years of Sweden, until


﻿4
the Closing Date, such amount as Botswana and Sweden shall have agreed prior
to the respective fiscal year of Sweden.
ARTICLE II
Use of the Proceeds of the Swedish Credit
Botswana shall use or cause the proceeds of the Swedish Credit to be used
in accordance with the Agreement and the Joint Financing Agreement to assist,
jointly with the credit provided for under the IDA Credit Agreement, in financing
the Project.
ARTICLE III
The Special Account
The amount to be made available in accordance with Article I shall be paid
by Sweden, as required to meet requests by Botswana for withdrawals, to the
credit of an account in Swedish kronor opened on the books of the Sveriges
Riksbank, Stockholm, acting as agent for Sweden. The account shall be
denominated "Republic of Botswana, Special Account No. 2" (hereinafter called
the Special Account).
ARTICLE IV
Withdrawal from the Special Account
1.   Botswana shall be entitled, subject to the provisions of the Agreement and
the Joint Financing Agreement, to withdraw from the Special Account such
proportion of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed by Sweden and the Association, either separately or
simultaneously, as agreed in accordance with the terms of the Joint Financing
Agreement.
2.   The Closing Date for withdrawals shall be June 30, 1977, or such other
date as may be agreed upon between the Parties.
ARTICLE V
Service of the Swedish Credit
1.   Botswana shall pay to Sweden a service charge at the rate of three-fourths
of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Swedish
Credit withdrawn from the Special Account and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
The service charge shall be payable semi-annually on June 30 and December 31
in each year. The first payment shall, however, not be made before
December 31, 1973. The service charge shall be computed on the basis of a
360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
2.   Botswana shall repay to Sweden the principal of the Swedish Credit
withdrawn from the Special Account in semi-annual installments payable on
June 30   and   December 31      commencing   June 30, 1982   and  ending
December 31, 2021, each installment to and including the installment payable on
December 31, 1991 to be one-half per cent (1/2%) of such principal amount and
each installment therafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount. Botswana shall have the right to repay in advance of maturity all or any
part of the principal amount of one or more maturities of the Swedish Credit
specified by Botswana.
3.   The principal of and service charge on the Swedish Credit shall be paid by
Botswana in Swedish kronor to the Sveriges Riksbank in favor of Sweden.
4.    The principal of and service charge on the Swedish Credit shall be paid
without deduction for, and free from, any taxes and charges and free from all
restrictions imposed under the laws of Botswana or laws in effect in its territories.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
1.   Botswana shall furnish to Sweden evidence of the authority of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of Botswana, take any action or execute any
document under the Agreement.
2.    Any notice or request under the Agreement and any agreement between
the Parties contemplated by the Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when delivered through
diplomatic channels.
3.   The Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA) shall represent
Sweden in (i) the implementation of the Agreement, and (ii) amendments to the
Agreement which do not significantly affect the objectives and scope of the
Agreement.


﻿6
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
1.   The Agreement shall become effective after it has been signed by duly
authorized representatives of the Parties and concurrently with the IDA Credit
Agreement becoming effective.
2.    The Agreement and all obligations of the Parties hereunder, except those
set forth in Article V and in the Annex, shall terminate on a date 25 years after
the date of the Agreement or the date upon which the Parties shall have fulfilled
all obligations, including those set forth in Article V, arising from the Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of
Botswana, acting through their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused the Agreement to be signed.
Done in the District of Columbia, United States of America, on the
30th day of June, 1972, in two original copies in English.
For the
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
By /s / Leif Leifland
For the
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
By /s/ Amos M. Dambe


﻿7
ANNEX
The following provisions shall govern the rights and obligations under the
Agreement, of which they are considered an integral part with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth therein.
Paragraph 1: Cancellation and Suspension
1.1  Botswana may by notice to Sweden cancel any amount of the Swedish Credit
which Botswana shall not have withdrawn, or with respect to which Sweden shall
not be bound through a special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to the Joint Financing Agreement, prior to the giving of such notice.
1.2  If any of the following events shall have happened and be continuing, Sweden
may by notice to Botswana suspend, in whole or in part, the right of Botswana
to make withdrawals from the Special Account:
(a)   A default shall have occurred in the payment of principal or service
charge under the Agreement.
(b)   Botswana shall have failed to meet any other obligation under the
Agreement or the Joint Financing Agreement and shall not have rectified such
failure after notice by Sweden.
(c)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that Botswana will be able to perform its obligations under the
Agreement.
(d)  The outstanding principal of the Credit provided for in the IDA Credit
Agreement shall have been declared, or shall become, due and payable in advance
of the agreed maturity thereof.
(e)   Botswana shall have cancelled any part of the Credit provided for in
the IDA Credit Agreement without having cancelled a corresponding proportion
of the Swedish Credit.
1.3  The right of Botswana to make withdrawals from the Special Account shall
continue to be suspended in whole or in part, as the case may be, until the
event or events which gave rise to such suspension shall have ceased to exist or
until Sweden shall have notified Botswana that the right to make withdrawals has
been restored, whichever is the earlier; provided, however, that in the case of v
such notice of restoration the right to make withdrawals shall be restored only


﻿8
to the extent and subject to the conditions specified in such notice, and no such
notice shall affect or impair any rights, power or remedy of Sweden in respect
of any other or subsequent event described in this Paragraph.
1.4  If (a) the right of Botswana to make withdrawals from the Special Account
shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Swedish Credit for
a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by the date specified in Article IV,
Section 2, of the Agreement as the closing date an amount of the Swedish Credit
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Special Account, Sweden may by notice to
Botswana terminate the right of Botswana to make withdrawals with respect to
such amount. Upon the giving of such notice such amount of the Swedish Credit
shall be cancelled.
1.5  No cancellation or suspension by Sweden shall apply to amounts with respect
to which Sweden shall be bound through a special commitment entered into by
the Association pursuant to the Joint Financing Agreement.
1.6  Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension all the provisions of the
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect except as in this Paragraph
specifically provided.
Paragraph 2: Remedies of Sweden
If any event specified in sub-paragraph 1.2 (a) or (e) of Paragraph 1 shall
occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days, or if any event specified
in sub-paragraph 1.2 (b) or (c) of Paragraph 1 shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by Sweden to
Botswana, or if the event specified in sub-paragraph 1.2 (d) of Paragraph 1 shall
occur, then at any subsequent time Sweden, at its option, may declare the principal
of the Swedish Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately, and
upon any such declaration such principal shall become due and payable
immediately, anything in the Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Paragraph 3: Failure to Exercise Rights
No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise any right, power or remedy
accruing to either Party under the Agreement upon any default shall impair any
such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an
acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such Party in respect of any
default or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right, power or
remedy of such Party in respect of any other or subsequent default.


﻿9
Paragraph 4: Arbitration
(a)   Any controversy between the Parties to the Agreement and any claim
by either Party against the other arising under the Agreement which cannot be
settled in a satisfactory manner through diplomatic channels, within six months,
will at the request of either Party be submitted to arbitration by an Arbitral
Tribunal as hereinafter provided.
(b)   The Parties to such arbitration shall be Sweden and Botswana.
(c)   The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as
follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed by Sweden; a second arbitrator shall
be appointed by Botswana; and the third arbitrator (hereinafter called the presiding
arbitrator) shall be appointed by agreement of the Parties or, if they shall not
agree, by the President of the International Court of Justice or failing appointment
by him, by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. If either of the Parties
shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the presiding
arbitrator. In case any arbitrator appointed in accordance with this Paragraph shall
resign, die or become unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall be appointed in
the same manner as herein prescribed for the appointment of the original arbitrator
and such successor shall have all the powers and duties of such original arbitrator.
(d)   Arbitration proceedings may be instituted under this Paragraph upon
notice by the Party instituting such proceeding to the other Party. Such notice
shall contain a statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or claim to
be submitted to arbitration, the nature of the relief sought, and the name of the
arbitrator appointed by the Party instituting such proceeding. Within thirty days
after the giving of such notice, the adverse Party shall notify the Party instituting
the proceeding of the name of the arbitrator appointed by such adverse Party.
(e)   If, within sixty days after the giving of such notice instituting the
arbitration proceeding, the Parties shall not have agreed upon a presiding arbitrator,
either Party may request the appointment of a presiding arbitrator as provided
in sub-paragraph (c) of this Paragraph.
(f)   The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall
be mutually agreed by the Parties and failing such agreement shall be fixed by
the presiding arbitrator. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where
and when it shall sit.
(g)   Subject to the provisions of this Paragraph and except as the Parties
shall otherwise agree, the Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to


﻿10
its competence and shall determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral
Tribunal shall be by a majority vote.
(h)   The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to the Parties a fair hearing and
shall render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An
award signed by a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award
of such Tribunal. A signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each
Party. Any such award rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Paragraph
shall be final and binding upon the Parties to the Agreement. Each Party shall
abide by and comply with any such award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in
accordance with the provisions of this Paragraph.
(i)   The pi -visions for arbitration set forth in this Paragraph shall be in
lieu of any other procedure for the determination of controversies between the
Parties to the Agreement and any claims by either Party against the other Party
arising thereunder.
(j)   Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding
under this Paragraph or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award
rendered pursuant to this Paragraph shall be made through diplomatic channels.


