CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 325 BT
Joint Financing Agreement
(Livestock Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
AND
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 30, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 325 BT
Joint Financing Agreement
(Livestock Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
AND
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 30, 1972


﻿JOINT FINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1972, between REPUBLIC OF
BOTSWANA (hereinafter called Botswana), the KINGDOM of SWEDEN
(hereinafter  called  Sweden)   and   INTERNATIONAL       DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) By a development credit agreement with Botswana of even
date herewith, Sweden has agreed to make available to Botswana a credit in an
aggregate principal amount of eight million Swedish kroner (SKr 8,000,000)
equivalent to about one million six hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($1,650,000)
for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the Project described in Schedule
I to this Agreement;
(B)   By an agreement with Botswana of even date herewith, the Association
has agreed to make available to Botswana a credit in an aggregate principal amount
in various currencies equivalent to one million six hundred and fifty thousand
dollars ($1,650,000) for the same purpose; and
(C)   The parties hereto have agreed on the allocation, withdrawal and use
of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit and the execution of
the Project to be financed thereby, as well as on other matters, as hereinafter
provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the IDA Credit Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  The term "Swedish Credit Agreement" means the agreement between
Sweden and Botswana referred to in Recital (A) to this Agreement, as from time
to time amended.
(b)  The term   "IDA  Credit Agreement" means the credit agreement
between Botswana and the Association referred to in Recital (B) to tnis Agreement,
as from time to time amended.


﻿4
(c)   The term  "Swedish Credit" means the credit provided for in the
Swedish Credit Agreement.
(d)   The term "IDA Credit" means the credit provided for in the IDA
Credit Agreement.
(e)   The terms "Swedish Credit Account" and "IDA Credit Account" mean
the respective accounts established tinder the Swedish Credit Agreement and the
IDA Credit Agreement.
(f)   The term "Project" means the Project described in Schedule I to this
Agreement.
(g)   The term   "beneficiary" means any individual, cooperative, or
association to which Botswana proposes to make or has made a sub-loan.
(h)   The term "NDB" means the National Development Bank of Botswana
or any successor thereto.
(i)   The term "sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
Botswana to a beneficiary for an Investment Project in accordance with this
Agreement.
(j)   The term "Investment Project" means a specific investment project,
as approved or to be approved by Botswana pursuant to this Agreement, to be
carried out by a beneficiary and to be financed in part by means of a sub-loan.
ARTICLE II
Allocation and Withdrawals of Proceeds of
the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit
Section 2.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and cancellation set forth
in the Swedish Credit Agreement and the IDA Credit Agreement and subject to
the provisions of Section 2.02 of the IDA Credit Agreement, the amount of the
Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit may be withdrawn from the Swedish Credit
Account and the IDA Credit Account, respectively, in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement and with the allocation of the proceeds of the Swedish
Credit and the IDA Credit set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such
allocation shall be modified from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such
Schedule or by further agreement between Botswana, Sweden and the Association.


﻿5
Section 2.02. Withdrawals from the Swedish Credit Account and the IDA
Credit Account shall be apportioned by the Association between the Swedish C-edit
and the IDA Credit, as nearly as practicable in the circumstances and taking into
account the limitations provided for in Article 1, Section 2, of the Swedish Credit
Agreement, in the ratio of 1 to 1, or such other ratio as shall be agreed between
Sweden and the Association.
Section 2.03. (a) Botswana may withdraw any amount of the Swedish Credit
or the IDA Credit by delivering to the Association a written application in such
form and containing such statements and agreements as the Asssociation shall
reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal, with the necessary documentation,
as hereinafter provided shall, except as Botswana and the Association shall otherwise
agree, be made promptly in relation to expenditures for the Project.
(b)   Botswana shall furnish to the Association such documents and other
evidence in support of the application as the Association shall reasonably request,
whether before or after the Association has approved any withdrawal requested
in the application. I
(c)   Each application and the accompanying documents and other evidence
must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Association that Botswana
is entitled to withdraw from the Swedish Credit Account or the IDA Credit Account
the amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for the purposes
specified in this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) When the Association has approved an application by
Botswana for withdrawal, the Association shall:
(i)        pay the amount, if any, which Botswana is entitled to
withdraw from the IDA Credit Account to or on the order
of Botswana in accordance with the provisions of the IDA
Credit Agreement;
(ii)       promptly notify the Sveriges Riksbank, acting as agent for
Sweden, in the manner and to the extent set forth in this
Agreement, that it has received an application for
withdrawal from the Swedish Credit Account and the IDA
Credit Account in the aggregate amount specified in such
notice, that it has approved payment of the portion, if
any, to be withdrawn from the IDA Credit Account in
the amount set forth in such notice and that the portion,


﻿6
if any, to be withdrawn from the Swedish Credit Account
in the amount set forth in such notice is eligible for
payment by the Sveriges Riksbank to the payee indicated
therein.
(b)   Upon receipt of such notice of the Association, the Sveriges Riksbank
shall, subject to the rights of suspension and cancellation of the Swedish Credit
set forth in the Swedish Credit Agreement, pay the amount so to be withdrawn
from the Swedish Credit Account in the currency and to the payee stated in the
notice and immediately advise Botswana of each such payment.
Section 2.05. If at any time the amount of the Swedish Credit or of the
IDA Credit should be fully withdrawn or cancelled, applications by Botswana for
further withdrawals shall be deemed to be requests for withdrawal of the full
amount applied for from the IDA Credit Account or the Swedish Credit Account
only and the provisions of this Article II shall continue to apply inutatis miutandis
until the full amount credited or to be credited to such Account shall have been
withdrawn or cancelled.
Section 2.06. Upon Botswana's request and upon such terms as shall be agreed
between Botswana and the Association, the Association may enter into special
commitments to pay amounts to Botswana or others in respect of the cost of
goods or services required for the Project. Any such special commitment by the
Association shall, once it has been notified to Sweden and the Sveriges Riksbank
constitute an obligation on the part of Sweden to pay, notwithstanding any
subsequent suspension or cancellation of the Swedish Credit and in conformity
with the foregoing Sections 2.04 and 2.05, such portion of the total amount to
be disbursed, in fulfillment of such special commitment, as agreed pursuant to
Section 2.02 of this Agreement.
Section 2.07. If for purposes of this Agreement any proceeds of the Swedish
Credit are to be withdrawn in a currency other than Swedish kroner, the Speriges
Riksbank shall remit the requested foreign currency amount and shall debit the
Swedish Credit Account with the Swedish kroner equivalent of such amount
calculated on the basis of the current market selling rate or, if no such rate applies,
the par values established by the International Monetary Fund, or, if no such values
have been established, such rate as shall be reasonably determined by the Sveriges
Riksbank.


﻿7
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project; Use of
Proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit
Section 3.01. Botswana shall carry out Parts C and D of the Project, and
shall cause Parts A and B of the Project to be carried out, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, agricultural, engineering
and financial practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
staff, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to carry out Parts A and C of the Project, Botswana
shall establish a Livestock Project Management Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture,
having the organization and responsibilities as set forth in accordance with Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
(b)   Botswana shall appoint a Project Manager, with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Association and on terms and conditions satisfactory
to tb- Association, to be the head of the Livestock Project Management Unit and
shall appoint a Field Manager for such Unit after consultation with the Association.
-            (c)   In order to coordinate the implementation of the Project, Botswana
shall, by December 31, 1972, establish a Livestock Project Coordinating
Committee consisting of representatives from the Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry
of Commerce, Industry and Water Affairs, Ministry of Finance and Development
Planning, Ministry of Local Government and Lands, NDB, BLDC, Botswana Meat
Commission and from such other entities as shall be designated by Botswana.
(d)   In carrying out Part B of the Project, Botswana shall cause BLDC
to appoint a General Manager with qualificiations and experience acceptable to
the Association and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) In carrying out Part B of the Project, Botswana shall relend
part of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and of the IDA Credit to BLDC inder
a loan agreement to be entered into between Botswana and BLDC on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   Botswana shall exercise its rights under the BLDC Loan Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of Botswana, Sweden and the Association
and to accomplish the purposes of the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit, and
except as Botswana and the Association shall otherwise agree, Botswana shall not


﻿8
take or concur i any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving any provisions of the BLDC Loan Agreement.
(c)   Botswana shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all action
which shall be necessary on their part to enable BLDC to perform all of its
obligations under the BLDC Loan Agreement and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which might interfere with such performance.
Section 3.04. (a) In carrying out Part A of the Project, Botswana shall relend
part of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit as sub-loans to
beneficiaries on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and in
accordance with the Operating Policies and Procedures set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between Botswana, Sweden and the Association.
(b)   For purposes of sub-section (a) hereof, Botswana shall appoint NDB
as its agent on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. Botswana shall cause NDB:
(a)   to establish and maintain a separate Project Account to be used
exclusively for Part A of the Project; and
(b)   to record in such Project Account all receipts and payments for or
in connection with Part A of the Project, in accordance with sound accounting
principles consistently applied, including the following:
(i)        amounts received from and payments made to Botswana;
(ii)       amounts disbursed to and received from   beneficiaries
under sub-loans; and
(iii)      payments made for services under Part A of the Project.
Section 3.06. Botswana shall cause the goods and services (other than
Consultants' services) required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Swedish Credit and of the IDA Credit to be procured on competitive
basis in conformity with the procurement procedures of the Government of
Botswana.
Section 3.07. (a) Botswana shall cause to insure, or to make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the


﻿9
proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit against marine, transit and
other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Botswana shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) Botswana shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract
documents and construction schedules for Parts A, B and C of the Project, and
any material modification thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Botswana: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish
Credit and the IDA Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall enable accredited representatives of Sweden and the Association to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and
the IDA Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to Sweden and the Association all such information as Sweden and the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.09. Botswana shall make available, or cause to be made available,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to Sweden and the Association all land and
interests in respect of land as and when required:
(i)         to beneficiaries operating the breeding ranches and sheep
farms included in Part A of the Project;
(ii)        to BLDC for the development of the fattening ranches
included in Part B of the Project; and
(iii)       for the development of the fattening ranches included in
Part C of the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) Botswana shall ensure that a competent manager will be
employed for each breeding ranch under Part A of the Project and that all cattle
brought to such breeding ranch will be managed as a single herd.


﻿10
(b)   Botswana shall take all necessary steps to prevent overstocking in the
ranches and farms included in the Project and shall use its best effort to prevent
overstocking in the commonage lands in the villages adjacent to such ranches and
farms.
Section 3.11. Botswana shall, by June 30, 1973, make arrangements
satisfactory to the Association to ensure that there shall be made available at rates
not exceeding normal commercial rates:
(i)         short-term loans to finance the purchase by beneficiaries
of feeder steers to stock the breeding ranches included
in Part A of the Project;
(ii)        cash advances to farmers placing cattle on the fattening
ranches included in Parts B and C of the Project; and
(iii)      short-term loans to finance the purchase of cattle to be
placed on the fattening ranches included in Parts B and
C of the Project.
Section 3.12. (a) In carrying out Item 2 (a) of Part D of the Project Botswana
shall employ consultants acceptable to Sweden and the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to Sweden and the Association and shall ensure that
each of the technical studies included in Items 2 and 3 of Part ) of the Project
shall be commenced within the period of 12 months from the date when the IDA
Credit Agreement shall have become effective.
(b)   In carrying out Part D of the Project other than Item 2 (a) thereof
Botswana shall make available suitable qualified and experienced personnel upon
terms of reference satisfactory to Sweden and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants of Botswana
Section 4.01. Botswana shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of Botswana responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.


﻿11
Section 4.02. (a) Botswana shall cause BLDC to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of BLDC in respect of Part B of the Project.
(b)   Botswana shall cause BLDC to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than five months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts, the financial statements and the audit thereof
as the Association shall fr,m  time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation and Information
Section 5.01. Botswana, Sweden and the Association shall cooperate fully
to ensure that the purposes of the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit will be
accomplished. To that end, Botswana, Sweden and the Association shall from time
to time, at the request of any party exchange views through their representatives
with regard to the performance of their respective obligations under the Swedish
Credit Agreement, the IDA Credit Agreement and this Agreement as well as the
administration, operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or other agencies of Botswana responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof and other matters relating to the purposes of the Swedish
Credit and the IDA Credit.
Section 5.02. The parties hereto shall promptly inform each other of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Swedish Credit and the IDA Credit, the maintenance of
the service thereof or the performance by any party of its obligations under the
Swedish Credit Agreement, the IDA Credit Agreement and this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be


﻿12
deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall have been delivered by
hand or by mail, telegram, cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address specified below or at
such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving
such notice or making such request:
For Botswana:
Ministry of Finance and
Development Planning
Private Bag No. 8
Gaborone, Botswana
Cable address:
Finance
Gaborone
For Sweden:
(a)  insofar as Sveriges Riksbank acts as agent for Sweden pursuant to
Article II of this Agreement:
Sveriges Riksbank
Box 2119
Stockholm 2
Sweden
Cable address:
Riksbanken
Stockholm
(b)   for all other purposes:
Swedish International Development Authority
10525 Stockholm I
Sweden
Cable address:
Sida
Stockholm


﻿13
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington
Section 6.02. Botswana shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority of the person or persons who will sign the applications provided
for under Article 11 of this Agreement or who will, on behalf of the Association,
take any other action or execute any other documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by Botswana under this Agreement, and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original. All such counterparts shall collectively be but one
instrument.
Section 6.04. (a) Except as shall be otherwise agreed by the parties hereto,
this Agreement shall become effective on the earliest date upon which the Swedish
Credit Agreement and the IDA Credit Agreement shall both be in effect.
(b) If the IDA Credit Agreement terminates for failure to become effective
in accordance with its terms, this Agreement shall forthwith terminate and the
Association shall promptly notify the other parties of such termination.
Section 6.05. This Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereto
thereunder shall terminate on the date upon which the IDA Credit Agreement
shall have terminated.
Section 6.06. Upon termination of the Swedish Credit Agreement or the
IDA Credit Agreement only, Sweden or the Association, as the case may be, shall
promptly notify the other parties hereto and, upon such notification, this
Agreement shall continue to remain in force and effect only for the purpose of
implementation of the Swedish Credit Agreement or the IDA Credit Agreement
and of orderly settlement of matters of mutual interest to the parties hereunder,
subject to such modifications of this Agreement as shall be agreed among the parties


﻿14
thereto or as shall be reasonably requested by Sweden or the Association for such
purposes.
Section 6.07. Unless Sweden otherwise notifies Botswana and the Association,
the Association shall represent Sweden in all matters relating to the implementation
of, including amendments to, this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names, and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
By /s / Amos M. Dambe
Authorized Representative
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
By /s / Leif Leifland
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project is part of Botswana's program for livestock development and
consists of the following parts:
A.    The development of about 30 breeding ranches in the Western State Lands
and about 24 Kai akul sheep farms in Southwest Botswana.
B.    The development by the Botswana Livestock Development Company of about
9 fattening ranches in Eastern Botswana and the Makalamabedi fattening
ranch in the Northern State Lands.
C.   The development by Botswana of about 5 fattening ranches in the Western
State Lands. The establishment and operation of three mobile borehole
installation and maintenance units and the development of the following
stock routes:
1.   Ghanzi to Lobatse;
2.   Maun to Francistown;
3.    Letlakeng to Gaborone;
4.    Seleka to Mahalapye; and
5.   Rakops to Palapye.
D.         1.    the demaracation of village commonage lands adjacent to ranches
and farms included in Parts A and C hereof on State Lands
and surveys of Investment Projects;
2.    the completion of:
(a)   a study on the rehabilitation of commonage lands of
villages associated with the breeding ranches referred to
in Part A hereof and a study on cattle marketing;
(b)   a study on the effects of fencing and ranching on the
migration of wildlife; and


﻿16
3.    the completion of a study on the botanical effect of long-term
grazing in the Project area, village commonage lands and
undeveloped range lands in Western Kalahari, including, inter
alia, the collection of meteorological and botanical data and the
measurement of liveweight changes in cattle.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1977.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Allocation of the Proceeds of
the Swedish Credit and of the IDA Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and of the IDA Credit, the allocation of amounts
of such proceeds to each category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so
to be financed in each category:
Allocation                 % of
(expressed in U.S.         Expenditures
Category                 dollar equivalent)       to be Financed
IDA         Swedish
Credit       Credit
I.   (a)   Equip-            305,000       305,000      100% of total
ment, material,                             expenditures
supplies, breed-
ing stock and
borehole drill-
ing for sheep
farms under
Part A of the
Project
(b)   Equip-            305,000      305,000      100% of total
ment, material,                             expenditures
supplies, breed-
ing stock and
borehole drill-
ing for breeding
ranches under
Part A of the
Project
II.   Equipment, ma-         400,000       400,000      100% of total
terial, supplies                                  expenditures
and borehole drill-
ing for Part B of
the Project


﻿18
Allocation                 % of
(expressed in US.          Expenditures
Category                 dollar equivalent)        to be Financed
IDA         Swedish
Credit       Credit
III.  Equipment, ma-          90,000        90,000      100% of total
terial, supplies                                  expenditures
and borehole drill-
for fattening
ranches under
Part C
IV.   Equipment, ma-           80,000       80,000      100% of total
terial and                                        expenditures
supplies for
mobile borehole
units and devel-
opment of stock
routes
V.   Technical ser-           100,000      100,000     60% of total
vices under Part                                  expenditures
D of the Project
VI.  Management and          210,000       210,000     50% of total
Administration                                    expenditures
for Livestock
Project Manage-
ment Unit and
BLDC
VII. Unallocated              160,000      160,000
TOTAL            1,650,000    1,650,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of


﻿19
aiy country other than Botswana, provided, however, that if the currency of
Botswana is also that of another country in the territories of which goods are
produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures in
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures";
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
Botswana, or for goods produced in, or servicus supplied from, the territories of
Botswana; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of Botswana or laws in
effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the fourth column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Swedish Credit
or of the IDA Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the proceeds of the Swedish
Credit and of the IDA Credit set forth in the second and third columns of the
table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amounts of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and of the IDA Credit then
allocated to such Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by
the Association by increasing correspondingly the unallocated amounts of the
proceeds of the Swedish Credit and of the IDA Credit; and
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the fourth column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by Sweden and the Association at
the request of Botswana, to such Category from the unallocated amounts of the
proceeds of the Swedish Credit and of the IDA Credit, subject, however, to the
requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Association in respect of any
other expenditures.


﻿20
5.   Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the fourth column of the table
set out in paragraph I above, if the estimate of expenditures under Category I
shall increase and no proceeds of the Swedish Credit and of the IDA Credit are
available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice to
Botswana, adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Organization and Responsibilties of
the Livestock Project Management Unit
I.    Organization
(a)   The Livestock Project Management Unit shall be a separate unit headed
by a Project Manager who shall be directly responsible to the Permanent Secretary
of the Ministry of Agriculture.
(b)   The Project Manager shall be assisted by a Field Manager based in
Ghanzi, at least four field technicians and necessary supporting staff.
II.   Responsibilities
(a)   The Livestock Project Management Unit shall:
(i)         develop  the breeding ranches and fattening ranches
included in Parts A and C of the Project;
(ii)        operate the fattening ranches included in Part C of the
Project for the benefit of cattlemen in tribal communities;
(iii)       prepare detailed Investment Projects for the development
of Karakul sheep farms and recommend these for approval;
(iv)        recommend to the State Land Board beneficiaries to be
granted breeding ranches developed in the Western State
Lands;
(v)         provide beneficiaries with extension and advisory services
and to supervise proper operation of the breeding and
fattening ranches included in Parts A and C of the Project;
and
(vi)        prepare subsequent livestock development programs.
(b)   The Project Manager shall:
(i)         ensure the carrying out of the responsibilities of the
Livestock Project Management Unit;


﻿22
(ii)        define the duties and responsibilities of all Livestock
Project Management Unit staff and recommend for the
appointment of such staff;
(iii)       provide such training, direction, supervision and technical
assistance as is necessary for proper operation of each
Investment Project;
(iv)        prepare and approve the technical feasibility and financial
viability of all Investment Projects;
(v)         make recommendations on sub-loan approvals;
(vi)        ensure that adequate records of the Livestock Project
Management Unit and the development and operations of
ranches and farms included in Parts A and C of the Project
are kept;
(vii)       ensure the preparation of quarterly and annual progress
and expenditure reports under Parts A and C of the
Project; and
(viii)      advise on the terms of reference for studies included in
Part D of the Project.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 4
Operating Policies and Procedures
The following operating policies and procedures shall apply to the carrying
out of Part A of the Project:
I.    Sub-loan Submission and Investment Projects
(a)   Development of Sheep Farms
(i)         Sub-loan applications shall be filed with the Livestock
Project Management Unit and shall be reviewed by NDB
with regard to creditworthiness.
(ii)        Livestock Project Management Unit shall prepare detailed
Investment Projects for creditworthy applicants.
(iii)       Only Investment Projects recommended by the Livestock
Project Management Unit shall be submitted for sub-loan
approval.
(b)   Development of Breeding Ranches
(i)        The development of breeding ranches shall be carried out
by the Livestock Project Management Unit.
(ii)        Sub-loan applications shall be filed with the Livestock
Project Management Unit and shall be reviewed by NDB
with regard to creditworthiness.
(iii)       Livestock Project Management Unit shall prepare detailed
Investment Projects for creditworthy applicants.
(iv)        Sub-loan applications shall be reviewed by the Livestock
Project Management Unit as to:
(1)   ownership, organizational and financial structures of
the applicant, including the charters, articles of
association, or such other similar legal instruments
for forming an association of the applicant;


﻿24
(2)   managerial competence of the applicant; and
(3)   technical capacity of the applicant.
(v)         Only individuals, or cooperatives or associations organized
by such individuals, engaging in livestock activities in the
villages adjacent to the breeding ranches to be developed
will be eligible for sub-loans.
II.   Sub-loan Approvals
(a)   Any sub-loan, the amount of which exceeds the equivalent of
US$50,000 or any sub-loan, the amount of which together with the outstanding
amount of any other sub-loan made to the same beneficiary exceeds the equivalent
of US$50,000, shall not be approved by Botswana unless the Association shall
have given its prior approval.
(b)   Any sub-loan for the development of sheep farms shall not exceed
the estimated cost of the Investment Project approved by the Livestock Project
Management Unit.
(c)   The amount of a sub-loan for breeding ranches shall be the actual
costs incurred by Botswana for the development of such ranches. Sub-loan
applications together with the recommendations of the Livestock Project
Management Unit and NDB shall be submitted to the Permanent Secretary of the
Ministry of Agriculture for final approval.
III.  Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
Botswana shall submit to Sweden and the Association for approval a standard
form of sub-loan agreement to be used for Investment Projects. The sub-loan
agreements shall include, among other things, the following matters:
(a)   an interest rate of 8% per annum on the amount withdrawn and
outstanding for all sub-loans.
(b)   repayment terms that shall reflect the payment ability of the
beneficiary and the cash flow position of an Investment Project and,
in general, shall be as follows:
(i)        in the case of breeding ranches, a repayment term of up
to 18 years including a grace period of up to 4 years and
with interest capitalized for the first two years; and


﻿25
(ii)        in the case of sheep farms, a repayment term of up to
14 years including a grace period of up to 6 years and
with interest capitalized for the first year.
(c)   that the repayment of the principal shall be made on an annuity basis;
(d)   that the payments under the sub-loans shall be in the currency of
the Borrower and that the beneficiary shall not bear any foreign
exchange risk;
(e)   that the proceeds of the sub-loans shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Projects;
(f)   that a beneficiary shall be required initially to move as a nucleus of
a breeding herd of about 220 cattle from the village commonage lands
to the breeding ranch to be financed by the sub-loan; and
(g)   that  authorized  representatives of Botswana, Sweden      and   the
Association shall have the right to inspect the Investment Projects,
the facilities financed by the sub-loans, the operations thereof and any
relevant records and documents.
V.    Collateral
The amount of a sub-loan shall be secured by hypothecation on the land
made available by Botswana for the carrying out of the Investment Project, and
by such other securities as provided for in the Agricultural Charges Act, 1967
of Botswana.


