CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 325 BT
Development Credit
Agreement
(Livestock Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 30, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 325 BT
Development Credit
Agreement
(Livestock Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 30, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1972, between the REPUBLIC OF
BOTSWANA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule I to the Joint Financing Agreement;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called the Swedish
Credit Agreement), the Kingdom of Sweden (hereinafter called Sweden) has agreed
to make available to the Borrower for the Project a credit in an aggregate principal
amount of eight million Swedish kronor (SKr 8,000,000) equivalent to about one
million six hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($1,650,000) upon the terms and
conditions therein set forth;
(C)   By the Joint Financing Agreement of even date herewith the Borrower,
Sweden and the Association have agreed on the allocation, withdrawal and use
of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the Credit and the execution of the
Project to be financed thereby, as well as other matters; and
(D)   The Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon terms and conditions hereinafter set
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Paragraph 9 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:


﻿4
"The term 'Project' means the project or projects or program or
programs for which the Credit is granted, as described in the Joint Financing
Agreement and as the description thereof shall be amended from time to
time by agreement between Sweden, the Association and the Borrower."
(b)  The second sentence of Section 3.02 is amended to read as follows:
"A service charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
per annum shall be payable on the portion to be paid out of the Credit
Account of the principal amount of any special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Joint Financing
Agreement and outstanding from time to time if, under such special
commitment, the Association shall have agreed to pay such principal amount
notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation of the Credit."
(c)   Article V is deleted.
(d)   Section 6.01 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 6.01. Cancellation by the Borrower. The Borrower may by
notice to the Association cancel any amount of the Credit which the
Borrower shall not have withdrawn prior to the giving of such notice, except
that the Borrower may not so cancel any amount of the Credit in respect
of which the Association shall have entered into a special commitment
pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Joint Financing Agreement."
(e)   Section 6.04 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 6.04. Amounts Subject to Special Commitment Not Affected
by Cancellation or Suspension by the Association. No cancellation or
suspension by the Association shall apply to amounts subject to any special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 2.06 of
the Joint Financing Agreement."
(f)   Section 6.06 is amended by inserting the words ", the Joint Financing
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement".
(g)   Section 8.01 is amended by inserting the words "and the Joint
Financing Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in
the first sentence of Section 8.01 and by inserting the words "or the Joint Financing
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in the second
sentence of Section 8.01.


﻿5
(h)   Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words "or under the Joint
Financing Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Joint Financing Agreement" means the agreement, referred to in
Recital C to this Agreement, between the Borrower, Sweden and the Association,
as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement of the parties hereto;
(b)   "Swedish Credit" means the credit provided for in the Swedish Credit
Agreement;
(c)   "BLDC" means the Botswana Livestock Development Company, a
subsidiary of Botswana Meat Commission; and
(d)   "BLDC Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BLDC pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of the Joint
Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one million six hundred and fifty
thousand dollars ($1,650,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the joint Financing
Agreement, as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1977 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿6
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 15
and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 1982 and ending
March 15, 2022, each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 15, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Joint Financing Agreement
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obligations set forth
in the Joint Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration and operations, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such


﻿7
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, oi any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, or the performance by either of them       of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.0,. The Development Credit Agreement and the Joint Financing
Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution,
delivery or registration thereof, imposed tinder the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such


﻿8
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   A default shall have occurred in the performance of any covenant or
agreement on the part of the Borrower under the Joint Financing Agreement or
a default shall have occurred in the performance of any covenant or agreement
under the BLDC Loan Agreement on the part of the parties thereto;
(b)   The outstanding principal of the Credit provided for in the Swedish
Credit Agreement, or any part thereof, shall have been declared, or shall become,
due and payable in advance of the agreed maturity thereof in accordance with
the terms of said Agreement;
(c)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit
provided for in the Swedish Credit Agreement shall have been suspended, or the
Borrower shall have been unable to withdraw such proceeds, in whole or in part;
and
(d)   Any material change shall have been made in the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of BLDC without the cons nt of the Association.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in Section 6.02 (a) or (d) of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)   the event specified in Section 6.02 (b) of this Agreement shall occur;
and
(c)   the event specified in Section 6.02 (c) of this Agreement shall occur
and the Borrower shall fail to obtain funds from other sources in substitution
therefor, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, within a period
of one hundred and twenty days.


﻿9
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   that the execution and delivery of the Swedish Credit Agreement and
the Joint Financing Agreement on behalf of the parties thereto, respectively, other
than the Association, have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action, and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of each such
Agreement or the right to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the
effectiveness of the other of such Agreements or of this Development Credit
Agreement or the right to make withdrawals thereunder, shall have been fulfilled;
(b)   that BLDC has been duly incorporated in accordance with the laws
of the Borrower under the Memorandum and Articles of Association satisfactory
to the Association;
(c)   that the BLDC Loan Agreement has been executed, delivered,
-       authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(d)   that the Livestock Project Management Unit has been established and
the Project Manager thereof has been appointed in accordance with Section 3.02 (b)
of the Joint Financing Agreement; and
(e)   that a General Manager of BLDC has been appointed in accordance
with Section 3.02 (d) of the Joint Financing Agreement.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   the Joint Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of the Borrower in accordance with its terms;
(b)   the Swedish Credit Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and
delivered on behalf of the Borrower and constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of the Borrower in accordance with its terms; and


﻿10
(c)  The BLDC Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified, and
executed and delivered on behalf of the parties thereto and constitutes valid and
binding obligations of the parties thereto in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date of December 31, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.02 (a) of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister for the time being responsible for Finance and
Development Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and
Development Planning
Private Bag No. 8
Gaborone, Botswana
Cable address:
Finance
Gaborone
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿11
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
By /s / Amos M. Dambe
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


