Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10660-BR   Type: (PCR)                       Report No  10660
THIAS, H   / X31742 / T9013/ OEDDI.
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
TECHNICIAN TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2366-BR)
MAY 12, 1992
Human Resources Division
Country Department I and Technical Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY
CEDATE      Centro de Desenvolvimento e Apoio Tecnico a Educagao
(Center for Development and Technical Assistance to Education)
CEFET       Centro Federal de Educacao Te_nol6gica
(Federal Center for Technological Education)
CENAFOR     Centro Nacional de Formagao de Pessoal para a Educacao Professional
(National Center for Training of Personnel for Vocational Training)
COAGRI      Coordena,co Nacional do Ensino Agropecuario
(National Coordinator for Agricultural Education)
COSIFE      Coordenadoria do Sistema Federal de Ensino
(Coordinating Agency for Federal Technical Education)
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
INEP        Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais
(National Institute for Educational Studies and Research)
MEC         Ministerio da Educacao
(Ministry of Education)
SENAC       Servico Nacional de Apr0ndizagem Comercial
(National Service for Commercial Training)
SENAI       Servico Nacional de Aprendizagem Industrial
(National Service for Industrial Training)
SEPS        Secretaria de Educacao do Primeiro e Segundo Grau
(Secretariat of Primary and Secondary Education)
SENET       Secretaria Nacional de Educacao Tecnologica
(National Secretariat for Technical Educaticn)
SESG        Secretaria de Ensino do Segundo Grau
(Secretariat of Secondary Education)
UTRAMIG     Universidade do Trabalho de Minas Gerais
(University of Labor of Minas Gerais)



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OMCI" US ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
-.-e of Dit.ctorCmnutal
Opefatiflh tY!akMUu
May 12, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TME PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Brazil Technician
Training Project (Loan 2366-BR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Brazil Technician Training Project (Loan 2366-BR)" prepared
by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
TECHNICIAN TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2366-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface    .    .    .                .     .   .    .    .   ... ........  .
Evaluation Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
A. Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
B. Project Background . . . . . .      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       . . 1
C. Project Objectives and Description . . . . . .               . .   .  .  .  .  .    .  . . 2
D. Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . .     . ...... . 3
E. Project Implementation . . . . .            .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .    .  . . 3
F. Major Results of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
G. Project Sustainability . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . 7
H. Bank Performuance . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .....                                    7
I. Borrower Performance . . . . .    .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
J. Project Relationships   . . . .   . . . . .  . .  . . . . . . . .  . .  . . . . 9
K. Consultant Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
L. Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  .   .  .  . .  13
A. Related Bank Loans . .. . . . . . .                                        . . . . .  13
B. Project Timetable   ..    .. .. ... ...*.*. *... ... .    14
C. Loan Disbursements          .. . .. **...        *. ..  *.. .. . ..         .. *.*.    15
D. Project Implementation ..... ....*.*... *... ... ..   * * .    16
E. Project Costs and Financing  . .               . . .       . .   . . .   . . . . .  18
F. Project Results   . . * . . * . ..  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .1 . . .
G. Status of Loan Covenants . . . .* . .   . . .         . * .   . . . . . . . . . . .  25
H. Use of Bank Resources   . . . . . . . .               . . .                   . . . .  27
ANNEXES
Annex 1 Participants in Completion Mission   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Annex 2 Key Performance Indicators   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3C
Annex 3 New Structure  of  the  Ministry  of  Education  (MEC)  . . .  31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfo.mance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
TECHNICIAN TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2366-BR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report. (PCR) for the Technician Training
Project in Brazil, for which Loan 2366-BR in the amount of US $20.0 million was
approved on December 8, 1983. The loan became effective on April 19th, 1984.
The amount of the loan actually disbursed was US$13.54 million and an amount of
US$6.46 million was canceled. The original closing date was June 30, 1988. It
Tfas postponed twice by one year and the final closing date was June 30, 1990.
The last disbursement under the loan took place on December 1, 1990.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Human Resources Divisions of Country
Department I and the Technical Department in the Latin America and the
Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and
the Borrower (Part II), following a completion mission to Brazil in February
1991. The report is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan
Agreement, the record of the Board discussion of the project, all materials in
the Bank files pertinent to this report, and the findings of the completion
mission.



- iil -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
TECHNICIAN TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2366-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.     This project was the first IBRD-assisted investment in training at the
technician level in Brazil.  It was appraised in February and June 1983, and
approved by the Board in December 1983. At appraisal, total costs were estimated
at US$45.41 million, US$20.00 million of which were to be financed by the IBRD
Loan. The planned implementation period was 4 years. However, even after 6 years
and 2 months, when the loan was closed (on June 30, 1990) several state-level
programs and considerable equipment procurement was not completed. As a result,
about 32Z of the original loan amount was finally canceled.
2.    The operation under review is one which encountered many difficulties and
which  could  not  be  fully  completed  in  spite  of  two  extensions.    This
notwithstanding, in several respects the project has been successful. The project
was instrumental in moving the federal technical education subsystem in Brazil
from a state of chaos and decline to a condition characterized by high quality
technician training institutions (which are now generally considered the best
schools in Brazil below university level), strengthened planning and coordination,
and high level of enthusiasm among managers and staff, particularly compared with
other segments of the Brazilian education system.
Prolect Obiectives and Content
3.    In spite of the relatively modest loan amount, the project had ambitious
objectives.   It was to define a long-term development policy for technician
training for agriculture and industry; adapt the supply of technicians, in terms
of quality as well as quantity, to regional and national requirements; and make
sure the needed technician skills were in fact provided to the agricultural and
industrial sectors. This was to be achieved through national programs involving
policy and institutional development combined with a number of investment sub-
projects to upgrade individual technical schools.
ImRletaentation
4.    Implementation was inevitably affected by the ups and downs of Brazil's
transition to democracy in the 1980s. The project was at a standstill during 1985
and 1989 due to lack of counterpart financing, associated with the change in
government in 1985 and a freeze on federal spending, "operaq&o desmonte," in 1989.
A complex organizational structure and frequent changes in second-level personnel,
as well as serious procurement problems analyzed in this report, also contributed
to a failure to disburse (for the intended purpose of equipment procurement under
ICB) the last 32Z of the Loan amount. State administrators turned out to lack the



- iv -
capacity to benefit fully from the opportunities for state schoola to participate
in t s project. Federal Ministry of Education authorities responsible for the
project have generally strongly supported it, and the continued presence of a
highly competer.t and hard-working project implementation unit has been of
paramount importance for project schievements. Bank supervision was helpful but
regrettably scant in terms of time allocated, particularly as regards agricttltural
training.   The time spent on procurement supervision also limited tle time
available for supervision of important policy and institutional aspects.
Proiect Results
5.    Project results suffered from the problems described above which caused a
few federal-school sub-projects not to be fully completed, ceveral state-school
sub-projects to have limited impact, and national programs to be substantially
delayed.  Nevertheless, the  verall impaot of the project has been positive.
Clear institutional policies were established, linkages with employers have been
improved, training curricula strengthened and standardized, labor market and
graduate tracer studies as well as school maintenance have been systematized, and
a major staff training program has been successfully carried out, far exceeding
appraisal targets. The federal technical education subsystem is now well-poised
to assist in meeting the challenges facing Brazilian agriculture and industry in
an increasingly competitive international environment.
Proiect Sustainability
6.    The project bad some important institutional effects, including the May 1990
creation in the Ministry of Education of a separate National Secretariat for
Technological Education (SENET) to which the project contributed indirectly but
decisively, and the definition of the purpose and objectives of the Secretariat
(Annex 3). These concrete measures provide reason to expect that the project's
broad achievements will be sustained, and may result in further improvement of the
training system for middle- and higher-level technical skills, which the country
so patontly needs for further economic and social progress.
Lessons Learned
7.    The principal lessons learned with implications for other projects as a
result of project implementation and the preparation of the PCR are summarized
below:
(a)   The sector project format, with delegation of sub-project
appraisal, should be used with caution when one of the specific
policy changes being sought is consolidation of entities. The
existence of resources available for sub-project investments
almost inevitably creates pressure for widespread distribution
of those resources, which can inhibit policy efforts in the
direction of consolidation.
(b)  A  standard  set  of  bidding  documents  for  international
competitive bidding (ICB) should be agreed with the Government
for generalized use in the human resources projects in Brazil.
Had such standard documents existed at the beginning of



-v-
implementation of this project, much time and staff effort on
both sides could have been devoted to policy issues and
institutional development instead of procurement discussions;
the Loan might have been completely disbursed and project
objectives more fully met.
(c)   Projects  rsquiring  federal  counterpart  funding must  have
adequate mechanisms to ensure the timely transfer of federal
financial resources to implementing agencies and to the state
level.
(d)   An externally financed project involving multiple levels and
.ntities of government (federal, state and independent schools)
requires a very strong and coordinated implementation unit in
full control ot all project functions and activities. In this
project, the unit was very effective but did not have t.
control.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
TECHNICIAN TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2366-BR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Prolr_ct Identity
Project Name:     Technician Training Project
Loan Number:      2366-BR
RVP Unit:   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country Department I
Country:    Federative Republic of Brazil
13ect or:   Education
Subsector: Technical and Vocational Education
B.     Proisct Background
1.    Sector Development Objectives.  At time of appraisal of the project, the
Brazilian education and training system was placing emphasis on the training of
adequate resources needed for economic development. The formal education system
provided manpower trained at the secondary and ?ost-secondary levels (sub-
professionals, technicians, and professionals). Autonomous national industrial
and commercial training agencies (SENAI and SENAC, respectively) provided
vocational  training.    Federal,  state,  private,  municipal  and  university
agricultural and industrial schools trained the highest level skilled technicians.
2.    In the early 1980s, development of the agricultural and industrial sectors
were the top investment priorities of the country. These sectors were to be the
main contributors to the continued economic development of the country. To allow
fast technologice1 development in the two sectors it was thought that
appropriately trained technicians would have to be available.  In 1981, about
11,000 agricultural and 9,600 industrial technicians graduated annually from the
formal system.   In agriculture, despite a general oversupply of technicians
trained at various levels, skills were missing in many areas.  In industry, a
foreseeable undersupply of graduates for the 1980-1990 decade was compounded by
uneven quality.
3.    Thus in late 1981, the government requested financial assistance for
nation-wide improvement and strengthening of the technician training system. Three
technician training sub-sector review missions visited the country in 1981 and
1q82, and sub-sector memoranda for agricultural and industrial technician
education and training were issued in 1982. On the basis of these two memoranda,
a project was prepared by the government which formed the basis for Bank
appraisal. Three main policy objectives were identified: (a) the diversification
of existing training institutions to better respond to regional manpower
requirements; (b) the consolidation of the training system at the state level to



-2-
improve efficiency; and (c) the establishment or strengthening of mechanisms
linking the training of graduates to productive sector demand.
4.    Policy Context.  Along with the definition of the above sector objectives
which were designed to coincide with macro policies to promote growth with equity,
the government prepared a training strategy to achieve these objectives.   The
strategy to be implemetited by the Ministry of Education (ZEC) ard state agencies
focused on improving the planning, coordination and management of the system,
strengthening and standardization of priority programs and elimination of others,
upgrading of teacher qualifications, and adaption of the technician profile to the
needs of employers.
5.    Linkages Between Project. Sector and Macro Policy Obiectives.  The project
was largely successful in linking projeat, sector and macro policy objectives.
The overall impact of the project has been positive. Clear sector policies have
been established end linkages with employers have been improved. The federal
technical education subsystem is now well-poised to assist in meeting the very
difficult challenges facing Brazilian agriculture and industry. The design of the
project supported the attainment of the Government's policy objectives.
C.    Proiect Obiectives and DescriRtions
6.  Project Objectives.  The project was designed to support the government's
1984-87 program to improve the quality and efficiency of the technician training
system in Brazil, and to addr..as the major issues in the sector by: (a) defining
a long-term development policy for technician training at national and regional
levels; (b) adapting the quality and the quantity of technician training to
regional and national requirements; and (c) providing the agricultural and
industrial sectors with the specialized technician skills required tor
development.  The Govern ant's overall program incorporated a two-fold effort to
achieve these objectives. First, it was to develop at national and state levels
mechanisms for administration and planning which would coordinate the kinds of
training provided in the schools with the evolution of production processes in the
industrial and agricultural sectors. Second, existing schools were to undertake
curriculum and trsining reforms, complemented by improvement of the physical plant
and equipment and development of the curriculum software needed to support these
reforms.
7.    Proiect Components.  There were two overall project components.  The first,
consisting of institutional developmr-c, included upgrading of the training of
school administrators, teachers, ari.4 planners; development of improved and
standardized curricula; strengthering of technical schools' relationship with
industrial and agricultural employers; and studies to evaluate training methods
and improve follow-up of graduates. The second component comprised specific sub-
projects for equipping and improving physical facilities of existing industrial
and agricultural technical schools. Appraisal and approval of sub-projects was
delegated to the Coordinating Committee (para. 9), subject to agreed criteria and
limits. A total of 70 sub-projects was envisaged under the project, of which 50
were for federal and 20 for state schools.



-3-
D.    frplect Design and Organization.
8.    The project was well prepared. The project concept had been developed, with
sube.tantial input from Bank staff, by the Ministry of Education (MEC). Its timing
and scope were appropriate in view of the need to redefine and revitalize
technical education and training after the policy of obligatory vocational
education in the early 70s which was conceptually inappropriate and had never
actually been implemented but which. had created confusioa and caused a dispersion
of efforts. The project was innoveative and appropri&ite in scope, and the Borrower
played a major role in its formulation. Th. project did not attempt to expand
technician training but to impr,ve quality and rslevance, and to consolidate
inefficient  agricultural  schoola.   Delegation of sub-project  appraical  to
government was a planning tool to dist:ibute resources conscientiously.
9.    The MEC devised a detailed organiza'.ion structure and prepared a staffing
plan for project implementation. The underlying princirle -was utilization of the
internal structure of the Ministry, complemented by measures iiming at
strengthening weak areas to ensure proper projevt execution.  The project was
managed by a Coordinating Committee, chaired by the Secretary of Primary and
Secondary Education (SEPS). Members of the committee were the directors of the
five  agencies  responsible  for  project  implementation:  (a)  the  national
coordinating agency for agricultural education, COAGRI; (b) the federal
coordinating agency for industrial technical education, COSIFE; (c) the center for
development and technical assistance to education, CEDATE; (d) the national center
for training of personnel for vocational training, CENAFOR; and (e) the national
institutte for educational studies and research, INEP.
E.    Prolect Imolementation
10.   Project implementation was generally efficient to the extent that it was
under the effective control of the project implementation unit. The project
implementation unit was well managed and operated throughout the implementation
period.  During the first two years of the project, institutional development
activities were initiated and all sub-projects were approved and appraised. In
all, 88 sub-projects were approved at the same number of schools, 51 of which were
agricultural (33 federal and 18 state schools) and 37 industrial (20 federal and
17 state schools).   The institutional development programs proceeded with
differing degrees of success. Neither CENAFOR nor INEP fully adhered to agreed
terms of reference for their participation. As v consequence most of the staff
training (which ultimately far exceeded project targets) was actually carried out
under contract with other agencies after CENAFOR was abolished (para. 13). The
studies carried out by INEP v  e of limited usefulness and some of them had to be
carried out under contracts with other agencies (notably the labor market and
graduate tracer system studies).  CEDATE did not perform well as the project's
ptocurenent agency and when the procurement function was absorbed by the project
implemen -ation unit, it did not build up sufficient capacity to carry out all of
the planted procurement under ICB (para. 15).
11. Critical Variations in Proiect ImDlementation. The project was implemented
over 74 months rather than the 48 months estimated at appraisal (see Table 4, Part
III, for planned and actual completion dates of components). This delay of more
than 50% was due to difficulties faced during the implementation period that were



-4-
to a large extent associated with Brazil's transition to democracy in the 1980'8.
Three major factors responsible for the delay were: (a) a oerious shortage of
counterpart funds, especial'.y during 1985, due to the change in national
government; dt.ring 1988, when the constitutiznal assembly approved no budget at
all ruring the year; and during 1989, in connection with "operagao desmonte"; (b)
frequent changes in second-level personnel, as a consequence of changes ir federal
and state-level political appointments; and (c) serious procurement problems
(para. 15) which also contributed to a failure to disburse (for the intended
purpose of equipment procurement under ICB) the last 32% of the loan amount.
State administrators turned out to lack the capacity to draw full benefits from
state schools' participation in the project (para. 24, Part I).
12.   Two factors caused additional costs and delays related to civil works.
During the initial implementation period, an acceleration of inflation within the
country resulted in civil works costs in 1986 (even in US dollar equivalent) about
28% higher' than appraisal ectimates.  Thus, the prc ect suffered a shortfall in
both counterpart appropriations and loan fund allocations for this purpose.
Another difficulty was that when project implementation began, it was determined
that several of the state technical schools selected to receive instructional
equipment under the project would need more extensive renovation of existing shops
and laboratories thatn anticipated to enable the equipment to be installed and
utilized properly.   Thus, additional funds were  -equired for this aspect of
project implementation, again increasing expenditurer Por civil works component
far beyond appraisal estimates. Tho government absorbed this cost increase.
13.   Several organizational changes occurred during project implementation.  In
January 1987, the Secretariat of Primary and Secondary education was divided into
two secretariats - one for each of the two respective levels.   Thus,  the
Secretariat of Secondarv Education (SESG) was assigned primary responsibility for
developing and implementing policies and directives for promoting and developing
secondary education, including technical education. At the same time, four of the
implementing agencies (COSIFE, COAGRI and CEDATE) were dissolved. The staff of
COSIFE and COAGRI were absorbed into new coordinating units for industrial
education and agricultural education in SESG.   CENAFOR's responsibility for
teacher/administrator training was assumed by SESG, which then contracted out
remaining training programs to technical schools and universities.   CEDATE's
procurement function was absorbed by the project implementation unit, which was
strengthened for the purpose by hiring one of CEDATE's procurement officers.
14.   When the new national government took office in March 1990, a national
Secretariat for Technical Education (SENET) was created, consistent with the
project's institutional objectives. SENET absorbed SESG's coordinating units for
industrial and agricultural technician education and was strengthened by the
appointment of directors for policy and operations (Annex 3).
15.   Procurement.   Procurement, especially through ICB, was a major problem
thrsughout the implementation period. At loan closing, out of the US$7.73 million
expected to be used for equipment procurement under ICB, only about US$2.4
SPN report dated 06/29/87.



million, or 312, had actually been utilized for this purpose. This was partly due
to a constant shortage and frequent turnover of staff within CEDATE, the group
responsible for procurement, which delayed work, particularly for industrial
schools, in the aspects of equipment listing and specifications as well as actual
bidding and evaluation of tenders.   More importantly,  repeated changes in
Government procurement regulations and a lack of officially agreed procurement
documents led to recurring discussions of principles of procurement not amenable
to solution at the working level, and ultimately to a sharply reduced volume of
procurement under ICB. These problems could have been avoided if a standard set
of agreed bidding documents for the sector ihad existed, such as has now been
achieved for other sectors.
16.   Project Cost.   The    -il estimated project cost at appraisal was about
US$45.41 million in June iR. ;+ prices. The final cost was about US$61.08 million
as shown in Table 5, Part III.
17.   Disbursements.  Due to the implementation delays described above, the rate
of loan distarsements was considerably lower than planned. This was a consequence
of: (a) insufficient allocation of counterpart funds in view of prevalent domestic
high inflation -ates; (b) government decrees forbidding the acquisition of
equipment (because of austerity measures); and (c) low disbursement percentages
for locally procured equipment for industrial technical schools; and (d) extended
delays in procurement under ICB. Total iisbursements amounted to about US$14.53
million (Table 3, Part III). Disbursements against commitments were made until
December 01, 1990. An outstanding balance of US$6.46 million was canceled.
18.   Proiect Risks.  The appraisal mission identified three major risks: (a) the
financial capability of the Government; (b) the available pool of trained human
resources at all administrative levels; and (c) the willingness of project states
to endorse all project objectives.  All turned out to be very real.   National
funds provided in support of the project were cousiderably less than required for
maintaining the planned pace of implementation (para. 10) . Frequent changes in
second-level personnel and shortage of staff seriolsly affected implementation of
the project. Most of the participating states were not able to meet the project's
institutional development objectives.
19.   Loan Allocations.    The original and revised  allocations  and actual
disbursements for Loan 2366-BR are shown in Table 7, Part III. The allocations
were revised in October 1987 and in May 1990 to reflect changes in financing for
imported equipment for both federal schools and state schools.
F.    Malor Results of the Prolect
20.   Impact of Proiect.  The project had fairly ambitious objectives in spite of
the modest loan amount. A detailed discussion of the impact of the various project
components follows:
(a)   Creation of National Advisory Committee for Technical Training.
This committee was set up with minimum delay in 1984, but has not met
regularly and has had limited impact. The new SENET is reactivating
the committee; it is expected to have a more important role in the
future.



- 6 -
(b)   Strengthenina of federal institutions for plannins of technician
education.  Staffing was done promptly and completely.  In May 1990,
MEC was reorganized and a separate National Secretariat for Technical
Education (SENET) was created, and COSIFE and COAGRI were abso -bed by
SENET  (para.  13).    The  creation  of  SENET  is  an  important
institutional development which will assist in consolidating and
sustaining the impact of this project. Technical Assistance for the
planning of technician education was implemented completely. Most
was carried out via lump sum contracts with implementing
institutions, so staff months actually used cannot be quantified.
The technical assistance carried out was of high quality and
generally achieved its objectives although the desired broadening of
staff competence was not completely achieved. The study tours were
not carried out due to a ban on foreign travel during much of the
period imposed by the federal government as an austerity measure.
(c)   Creation of state level advisory committees.  These were created but
are largely inactive; in the absence of national advisory committees,
the states have had little incentive to keep state committees
functioning.
(d)  Creation of technician training 4lanning units in State Secretariats
of Education. These units have generally been created but have had
less impact than expected, due to limited allocation by states of
staff and financial resources to technical education; however, NEC is
currently planning actions to motivate states to reactivate the
units.
(e)   Creation of school level advisory committees.  In most schools, the
eommittees have not been active enough to. have major and continuing
influence on training programs. SENET intends to review the entire
system of school level advisory committees in 1991.
(f)   Curriculum improvement.  This component was sub-contracted with the
CEFET in the state of Minas Gerais, which prepared (with the help of
consultants) minimum curricula for both industrial and agricultural
schools. Complete new curricula were also prepared for three major
industrial subsectors and are being prepared for the remaining
industrial and agricultural programs. It appears that this component
has had a major positive impact through the involvement of teachers
in large numbers of schools.
(g)   Staff  training.    CENAFOR,  in  spite  of  being  an  institution
specialized in teacher training for vocational subjects, was not
suitably staffed to plan and supervise good practical training in
technical subjects. Instead much of the teacher training provided
was of the traditional academic type. However, through contracting
teacher training services with other institutions, a major program
was successfully carried out, far exceeding appraisal targets; a
total of 5,354 teachers/administrators of federal and state schools
were trained over the course of the project. A detailed summary is
presented in Annex 2.



- 7 -
(h)   Maintenance  System.   Preparation of a maintenance program was
contracted with the CEFET in the state of Parana (CEFET-PR) which
developed a manual for maintenance; school staff are now being
trained in the application of this system in all federal schools.
(i)   Regional  Studies.    UTRAMIG  in the  state  of Minas  Gerais was
contracted to develop methodology for both quantitative and
*ualitative labor market studies; this methodology was approved and
school staff are still being trained to carry out continuing studies
and at regional level at each federal school.
(j)   Studies.  Some studies were completed by INEP but were so academic as
to have litrle practical application, and have been or are being
repeated under contract with other institutions (para. 10).
(k)   Graduate tracer system.  Initially INEP was contracted for this task
but failed to produce a usable tracer instrument; the instruments for
tracer studies were modified several times and those proposed in the
last instance were more appropriate for a sociological study than for
use by schools to obtain feedback on curriculum and graduate
performance. Later, the CEFET-PR was contracted to develop a new
instrument which is now being introduced at all federal schools.
(1)   Sub-proiects.  A total of 88 schools were assisted vs. 70 planned at
appraisal. There have been differences in impact between programs
carried out in the 53 federal schools compared to those in the 35
state schools. The federal schools, which at the beginning of the
project were ineffective due to lack of equipment and inadequately
trained staff, have developed, through the project, into high quality
institutions which are generally acknowledged as the best schools now
in existence in Brazil below university level. The state schools,
due to lack of planning capacity in state secretariats of education,
have benefitted less, and available resources were spread too thinly
over too large a number of schools to have much impact on state
school quality. The individual investments, however, were generally
appropriate and of high quality.
G.    Proiect Sustainability
21.   The significant institutional effects of the project, including the creation
in the Ministry of Education of a separate National Secretariat for Technological
Education (Annex 3) provide reason to expect that the project's achievements will
be sustainable and will serve as a foundation for further improvement of the
supply of technician level skills which the country so patently needs for further
economic and social progress.
H.    Bank Performance
22.   Maior Strengths and Weaknesses.  The Bank performed generally well in the
preparatory sector work and identification through appraisal stages. Through the
field work required to prepare the sub-sector memoranda, the Bank developed an
in-depth knowledge of issues in the agricultural and industrial education and



-8-
training sub-sectors, which enabled it to assist in developing, together with the
Borrower, an operation of generally high quality.  In two important respects,
however, the appraisal team was too optimistic. First, delegating appraisal of
state sub-projects to the Borrower appeared to some extent to lead to inefficient
use of resources. Second, the appraisal team assumed better collaboration by the
various implementing agencies (CENAFOR, etc.) than in fact resulted. Bank
supervision was important in improving project outcomes, but on balance the time
spent on procurement supervision resulted in too little time available for
important policy and institutional aspects. (Tables 10 and 11 show the use of Bank
staff resources.) The PCR mission learned of one instance in which it appears
that the Bank was unusually slow in processing an amendment to the Loan Agreement,
thus causing a stoppage in project school construction and a consequent
implementation delay. 2 Overall, the project turned out to be administratively,
legally, and financially more complex than originally expected, and a more
intensive supervision effort by the Bank would have been highly desirable.
23.   Lessons learned.   The principal lessons  learned as a result of the
experiences during project implementation and the preparation of the PCR are
summarized below:
(a)   The sector project format, with delegation of sub-project appraisal,
should be used with caution when one of the specific policy changes
being sought  is consolidation of entities.    The existence of
resources available for sub-project investments almost inevitably
creates pressure for widespread distribution of those resources,
which can inhibit policy efforts in the direction of consolidation.
(b)   A standard set of bidding documents for international competitive
bidding (ICB) should be agreed with the Government for generalized
use in the human resources projects in Brazil.  Had such standard
documents existed at the beginning of implementation of this project,
much time and staff effort on both sides could have been devoted to
policy issues and institutional development instead of procurement
discussions; the Loan might have been completely disbursed and
project objectives more fully met.
(c)   Projects requiring federal counterpart funding must have adequate
mecharisms to ensure the timely transfer of federal financial
resources to implementing agencies and to the state level.
(d)   An externally financed project involving multiple levels and entities
of government (federal, state and independent schools) requires a
very strong and coordinated implementation unit in full control of
all project functions and activities. In this project, the unit was
very effective but did not have full control.
2SPN report dated 11/87.



-9-
I.    Borrower Performance
24.   Maior Strengths and Weaknesses.  The Borrower played a major role in the
formulation of planning and implementation procedures and had responsibility for
appraising and allocating funds to sub-projects in accordance with criteria agreed
with the Bank. It carried out these responsibilities well, except in the case of
state schools, where resources were spread too thinly over too many schools (para.
20/1). Other problems were related mainly to the necessary inclusion in the
project of federal, state and independently operating authorities such as schools;
for instance, the procedures for transfer of project funds to schools were
cumbersome and caused delays.   A major weakness was the lack of effective
collaboration/control  by  the  project  of  federal  agencies  involved  in
implementation, notably CEDATE, CENAFOR, and INEP. Under these circumstances, the
project implementation unit had a very difficult task, and much of the credit for
the project's success must go to this consistently well-managed unit and the
support provided to it by several Secretaries of Primary/Secondary Education in
MEC and most recently, by SENET.3
25.   Lessons Learned.  The major lesson learned by the project implementation
group was that mentioned in paragraph 23/d above (viz to coordinate actions at the
different governmental levels).   In this project, the project unit was very
effective but did not have adequate control.
J.    Proiect Relationships
26.   Impact of Relationship on Prolect Implementation.  One of the contributing
factors to the success in implementation of the project was the result of the good
and amiable working relationships between Borrower officials and Bank staff.
K.    Con3ultant Services.
27.   Role. Performance Level and Implications of Involvement.  The technical
assistance component (estimated at 260.5 staff/months) was implemented completely;
however, it was done under lump sum contracts with the implementing institutions
(mainly universities) so that staff/months actually used can not be quantified.
The technical assistance was generally carried out with good quality individuals
and generally achieved its objectives.
L.    Proiect Documentation and Data.
28.   Adeguacy of Staff Appraisal Report and Maior Working Papers.  The
Appraisal Report, Loan Agreement, and working papers were adequate and
were supported by thoroughly prepared sub-sector memoranda. The
appraisal report provided a useful framework for both Bank and Borrower
for implementation in view of the complex nature of the project; it was
complemented by excellent implementation manuals prepared by the Project
Implementation Unit.
3 SPN & Aide Memoire of August 1985.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
TECHNICIAN TRAINING rROJECT
(LOAN 2366-BR)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
29. Analysis of Project Implementation. During the period of validity of the
Loan Agreement, a large number of difficulties were encountered in project
implementation. Beyond the obvious influence of budget constraints, tha
extremely complex structure of the project is worth highlighting. It involved
educational institutions at the level of the State Secretariats of Education,
agencies of the Federal Ministry of Education (MED, COAGRI and, currently,
SENET), and numerous individual schools with financial and administrative
autonomy such as the Federal Technical Schools.
30. In addition, there were other outside agencies participating in the
Project, but effective instruments did not exist for coordinating, monitoring,
and evaluating the actions carri-ad out by these agencies. Finally, the
dissolution of several agencies involved in the program (such as CENAPOR,
COAGRI, and CEDATE) increased the difficulties of project management, since
those agencies had served an important role in administrative decisions through
the participation of their directors in the Coordinating Committee for the
Project.
31. The low degree of utilization of loan funds was caused bys
-insufficient allocation of national counterpart resources in line with
the exchange rate changes made necessary by high rates of inflation;
-decrees prohibiting procurement of equipment;
-very low disbursement percentages for categories of disbursement with
great weight in the implementation of the programmed actions, as for
instance, 151 for locally procured equipmen* for industrial schools and
30Z for agricultural schools.
-delay in procurement under international competitive bidding for those
loan categories with disbursement percentages of up to 100 percent;
-delay in the re-negotiation of the loan agreement which provided a
solution to the need for continuity in project activities; and
-changes in the administration of the Ministry of Education and,
consequently, in the project due to the administrative difficulties.
32. Conclusion. In spite of the great difficulties mentioned, the Technician
Training Project has largely achieved its objectives, both with respect to



- 12 -
improvements in physical facilities, procurement of equipment and books, and
with respect to national programs such as planning, staff training, curriculum
development and others which have served to strengthen the education/learning
process. The re-negotiation of the Loan Agreement, extending the
implementation period and reallocating proceeds, made possible more effective
implementation of remaining actions and the achievement of proposed objectives.
33. The Project can also be described as the catalyst of certain changes which
have strongly benefitted technical education in the country, emerging from the
relevant initiatives financed by the Loan, such as:
-improved training of staff involved in the education/learning process
and in the administration of technical education. The project financed
courses to train, update, and upgrade teachers;
-preparation of studies of minimum curriculum requirements for technical
and vocational training (subjects, content, course durations, the
coordination of technical education content with general education,
principally in basic sciences) in order to guarantee a minimum quality
standard for technician training at the national level;
-conceptualization of a methodology for estimating quantitative and
qualitative demand for mid-level technicians. The former is intended to
support planning of the regional supply of technicians and the latter the
preparation of curricula corresponding to the profiles of technicians
required by the local and regional productive sectors;
-conceptualization of a system for tracer studies of graduates, with the
objective of obtaining feedback useful for education planning and
curriculum design;
-implementation of an equipment maintenance system with maintenance teams
in the schools. These teams coordinate needed repairs, supervise
preventive maintenance, and plan for the replacement and procurement of
new equipment.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
TECHNICIAN TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2366-BR)
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.    Related Bank Loans
Table 1: IBRD LOANS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
Loan Number            Year of      Purpose of
Project Title          Approval    Project               Statue             Comments
Loan   0755-BR         03/71        Agric  &  Ind.       Completed          PPAR 01/80
(US$8.4 m.)                         Expansion   of
Technical &                         technical
Agricultural                        education
Education Project                   (Agricultural
and industrial)
Loan   1452-BR         06/77        Strengthening        Completed          PCR 05/89
(US$32.0   m.)                      of   vocational
Vocational                          training &
Training proj.                      labor   market
studies.
Loan   2810-BR         07/87        Strengthening        Uncommitted        PCR 01/92
(US$74.5   m.)                      of   vocational      balance of
Skills Formation                    training   and       US$59
Project                             studies              million
canceled at
request of
Govt. (10/90)



- 14 _
B.     Project Timetable
Table 2: PLANNED, REVISED, AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
Planned                     Actual
Item                                 Date                         Date
Identification                       05/81                        07/81
Pre-Appraisal                        02/83                        02/83
Appraisal                            06/83                        06/83
Loau Negotiations                    08/83                        11/83
Board Presentation                    1i'83                       12/83
Loan Signature                       01/84                        12/83
Loan Effectiveness                   04/84                        04/84
Project Completion                   12/87                        06/90
Loan Closing                         06/88                        06/90*
* After two extensions.
34.   Comments on Timetable.  Political and economic conditions in the country in
1985, 1988 and 1)89 affected the project and resulted in a major implementation
delay. The main reasons were the change of government in 1985, a lack of budget
decisions in connection with the discussions of the new constitution in 1988, and
the initiation of a freeze on federal transfers ("opera,io desmonten) in 1989.



- 15 -
C.    Loan Dlsbursements
Table  3: ESTIMATED  AND  ACTUAL  CUMULATIVE   DISBURSEMENTS
(US$million)
FY                   1984    1985    1986    1987    1988   1989       1990     1991
Appraisal Est.       2.00    7.00   12.30   16.00   20.00        -        -        -
Actual                  -    2.33    5.33    6.30    8.12   9.44    10.17    13.54
Actual             33.30   43.30   39.40   40.60         -       -        -        -
(z of Est.)
35.   Comments on Timeline of Disbursements. Disbursements lagged throughout the
implementation period and an amount of US$6.46 mill4.on was undisbursed. This was
virtually entirely due to delays in, and eventually a failure to carry out,
equipment procurement under ICB.



- 16 -
D.    Proiect Implementation
Table 4: PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION DATES OF COMPONENTS
Date          Date
COMPONENT                               Planned       Completed
NATIOMAL PROGRAMS AND ACTIONS:
Creation of National Advisory           06/30/84      01/09/84
Committee
Strengthening of COAGRI/COSIFE          01/06/84      01/06/84
(13 additional professional
staff)
Technical Assistance                    12/87         06/90
Study Tours                             12/87         Not Implemented
Creation of State level                 12/87         Appointed but inactive
Advisory Committees
Creation of Technician                  12/87         Created in all 14
Training Planning Units                               participating States
in  State Secretaries of                              between 1984 and 1985
Creation of School level                12/87         Already existing in
Advisory committees                                   all Federal Schools,
but inactive at some.
Established at about
1/3 of State schools
Curriculum Improvement                  12/87         Under implementation
in 06/90
Staff Training:
(Instructors, school
administrators & directors)
1,500 in Agriculture                    12/87         1,610 in Agriculture
2,100 in Industrial                     12/87         3,744 in Industrial
Maintenance system                      12/84         Implemented
through 06/90
Regional studies                        12/87         System developed.
of requirements                                       It will be in full
for Technicians                                       use in 1992.



- 17 -
Table 4(a): PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION DATES OF COMPONENTS
Date                     Date
Component                        Planned                  Completed
Studies
1. Assessment of                 12/85                    06/88
Evaluation Practices
2. Assessment of                 12/86                    06/88
school/production system
3. Graduate tracing
system:
(Forms to Bank)                  07/84                    07/87
Actual implementation of         85-87                    91-92
system
Sub - Proiects
Civil works. eauipment
and instructional
material8s.
No. of Schools                      70                        88
Date completed:                  12/87                     12/89
About 33 Federal Agric.          07/87                     12/89
About 18 State Agric.            07/87                     12/87
About 20 Federal Ind.            07/87                     12/89
About 17 State Ind.              07/87                     12/87



- 18 -
E. Proiect Costs and Financing
Table 5: PROJECT COSTS
(US$million)
Estimated   Costs              Actual Costs
Local Foreign    Total       Local  Foreign   Total
Costs   Costs    Costs       Costs    Costs   Colits
National ProArams:       1.72    0.33      2.05       3.04        0    3.04
Training                 1.08    0.10      1.18     2.75_/            2.75a/
Technical Assistance     0.28    0.20      0.48
Studies                  0.36    0.03      0.39       0.29              0.29
Sub-Proiects            27.60    8.18    35.78       50.60     9.39   59.99
Industrial              12.35    4.17     16.52      31.44     7.76   39.20
Federal Schools    9.93    3.24     13.17      30.23     7.54   37.77
State Schools      2.42    0.93      3.35       1.21     0.22    1.43
Aaricultural            15.25    4.01     19.26      19.16      1.63   20.79
Federal Schools   12.40    3.27     15.67      18.24     1.54   19.78
State schools      2.85    0.74      3.59       0.92     0.09    1.01
Administration           0.94    0.05      0.99       2.48        0    2.48
Base Cost               30.26    8.56    38.82
Contingencies            4.50    2.04      6.54
Physical           1.41    0.43      1.84
Price Increase     3.09    1.61      4.70
TOTAL PROJECT COST      34.76   10.60    45.36       56.12     9.39   65.51
Front End Fee on Bank Loan           0.05                         0.05
TOTAL COST (Including Front End Fee)      45.41                        6i.56
-------------------------------------------------------------
a/ Training and technical assistance expenditures combined.
36.    Comments on Proiect Costs: Actual total project costs in US dollars
equivalent were 44.5% higher than estimated at appraisal due mainly to increases
in volume and unit costs for civil works and locally procured training equipment
for federal industrial schools. The cost increases were entirely absorbed by the
Government. The actual costs for training and technical assistance cannot be
separated because these activit..es have been undertaken largely under joint TA and
training contracts with several vuppliers.



- 19 -
Table 6: PROJECT FINAlCING
(US$million)
Source of Funds             Planned      (X)           Final      (2)
IBRD Loan                     20.00    (44)             13.54      22
Local Funds                   25.41     (56)            47.54      78
Total Project Costs           45.41    (100)            61.08     100



- 20 -
Table 7 : ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
Original      Revised        Revised         Final
Category                     Allocation   Allocatior    Allocation   Allocation
(10/87)       (11/90)       (02/91)
(1) Civil Works
Federal TTS.                  3,900,000    5,850,000      6,160,000    6,614,109
(2) Equipment
Federal Ind.TTS
(i)   imported                4,100,000    4,100,000      4,100,000    2,360,985
(ii)   local                  1,400,000       826,000     1,980,000    1,104,350
(3) Equipment
State Ind.TTS
(i)   imported                1,000,000    1,000,000      2,070,000           488
(ii)   local                    340,000       214,000       810,000       228,003
(4)  Eauiiment
Federal Agric.TTS
(i)   imported                2,100,000    2,100,000               -             -
(ii)   local                  2,700,000    1,622,000      1,170,000    1,439,732
(5) Eauipment
State Agric.TTS
Mi)   imported                  530,000       530,000        10,000         8,984
(ii)   local                    680,000       398,000        68,000        67,655
(6)  Consultant Serv.           770,000       660,000     1,040,000       898,313
(7)  Studies                    180,000       290,000       312,125       110,203
(8)  Proiect Admin.             440,000       550,000       730,000       655,745
(9)  Initial Deposit          1,500,000    1,500,000      1,500,000           729
(10)  Fee                        49,875        49,875        49,875        49,875
(11)  Unallocated               310,125       310,125              -             -
TOTAL                        20,000,000   20,000,000    20,000,000   13,539,171
UNDISBURSED                                               US$    6.460,829
4TS = Technician Training School.



- 21 -
F.    Prolect Results
Table 8. DIRECT BENEFITS OF PROJECT
(As of December 31, 1990)
National Programs.
1. Creation of National Advisory Committee for Technical Training
ExDected at ADpraisal: (a) Committee would define policy objectives in the
technician training sector; (b) assess efficacy of applied strategies; (c) modify
actions and programs in light of evolution of agricultural and industrial economic
sectors; and (d) provide feedback on priority policies and investment programs.
Actual Benefits: The Committee was set up with minimum delay in 1984, but has
not been meeting regularly and therefore has had limited impact. The new SENET
is reactivating the committee; it is expected to have an important role in the
future in line with project objectives.
2. Strengthenin2 of Federal Institutions for Planming
ExDected at A&Praisalt (a) Additional staffing for COAGRI and COSIFE. (13
professional staff); (b) Technical assistance, (260.5 s/m); and (c) Study tours
(106 s/w).
Actual Benefits: Staffing was done promptly and completely.  In May 1990, MEC
was reorganized and a separate National Secretariat for Technical Education
(SENET) was created; and COSIFE and COAGRI were absorbed by SENET. The creation
of SENET is an important institutional development which will assist in
cor olidating and sustaining the achievements of the project. Technical assistance
was implemented completely. However, this was done under lump sum contracts with
the implementing institutions, so that staff/months actually used cannot be
quantified. The technical assistance was generally carried out with high quality
and generally achieved its objectives, although the desired broadening of the
staff competence was not achieved. The study tours were not carried out due to
austerity measures prohibiting travel abroad of public servants.
3. Creation of state level advisory committees
Expected at Appraisal:  The committees would provide a set of formalized
procedures and practices for systematically maintaining the relevance of
industrial and agricultural programs.
Actual Bene-fits: The committees were created but are inactive. in the absence
of national advisory committees, states had little incentive to keep state
committees functioning.



- 22 -
4.    Crestion of technician training vlannina units in state secretaries of
edueatio
Exoected at A2nraisal:  The units were expected to plan and coordinate
technician training in state schools.
Actual Benefits: Technician training planning units were established but had
less impact than expected due to limited allocation by states of staff and
financial resources to technical education. MEC, however, intends to motivate
states to maintain and improve the functioning of the units.
5. Creation. of school level advisory committees
Expepted  at  Appraisal:  These  committees  would  bring   industrial
representatives (both technical and management personnel highly experienced in the
relevar.c industrial field) to provide advice on procedures and practices for
msi.aining the relevance of instruction.
Actual Benefits: In most schools, the committees have not been active enough
to have major and continuing influence at training programs. SENET intends to
reactivate the entire system of school level advisory committees in 1991.
6. Curriculum improvement
Expected at Avoraisal: (a) establishment of minimum curricula, course syllabi
and performance standards; (b) improvement of coordination of subject matter
content of general subjects, especially the basic sciences with technical
laboratory-shop-field instruction; (c) revision of course content and syllabi to
address more appropriately local, state and regional needs; (d) provision of more
practical training, especially in agricultural and industrial production
processes; (e) greater emphasis on farm management, marketing, agribusiness, soil
and water management, agricultural mechanics and machinery, and basic extension
methodology in agricultural training programs, and (f) strengthening and expansion
of the supervised practical activities for agricultural students during vacation
periods.
Actual Benefits: This component was sub-contracted with a CEFET, which
prepared (with the help of consultants) minimum curricula for both industrial
and agricultural schools. Complete new curricula were prepared for three major
industrial sectors and are being prepared for the remaining industrial and
agricultural programs. This component has had a major positive impact through
the involvement of teachers in a large number of schools.
7. Staff training
Expected at Awpraisal: To train 1500 agricultural school teachers and
administrators and 2100 industrial school teachers and administrators as follows:
(a) in-service and upgrading pedagogical and technical short-course training; (b)
short-term intensive internships in agriculture or industrial enterprises; (c)
study tours abroad for key personnel; (d) upgradin& courses for agricultural and
technical teachers who are not university graduates; (e) educational planning and
management training for federal, state and local school administrators and



- 23 -
planning personnel; and (f) training in equipment use and maintenance provided by
major suppliers of equipment.
Actual Benefits: A major staff training program has been successfully carried
out far exceeding appraisal targets; a total of 5,354 teachers/administrators of
federal and state schools (1,610 agricultural and 3,744 industrial) were trained
between 1985 and 1990. A detailed summary is presented in Annex 2.
8. Maintenance svstem
Expected at Appraisal: To develop and carry out an appropriate maintenance
program in each participating school.
Actual Benefits: Preparation of the program for the maintenance system was
contracted with CEFET-Parana which has developed a maintenance manual.  School
staff is now being trained for the application of this system in all federal
schools.
9. Regional studies
Expected at ApRraisal: The studies were expected to determine: (a)
quantitative needs for technicians by region; and (b) trends in qualitative
requirements for technician training, including need _or more specialization.
Actual Benefits: UTRAMIG was contracted to develop a methodology for both
quantitative and qualitative studies. This methodology has been approved and
school staff is being trained to carry out continuing studies at the regional
level at each federal school.
10. Studies
1.   Assessment of evaluation practices.
2.    Assessment of school production systems.
Expected at ApDraisal: These studies were expected to contribute
substantially to curriculum improvement and better training methodology at all.
technical schools.
Actual Benefits: Studies were completed by INEP but were so academic as to
have little practical application. SENET intends to repeat these studies.
11. Graduate tracer system
Exgected at Appraisal: Standardization and generalization of the graduate
tracer system in order to provide a mear.s of continuing curriculum evaluation and
development through a feedback of information on job placement and performance.
Actual Benefits: Initially INEP was contracted for this task but failed to
produce a usable tracing instrument.   Later, the CEFET in Minas Gerais was
contracted to develop a new instrument. This has been completed and tested, and



- 24 -
a standardized graduate tracer system is now being introduced. at all federal
schools.
12. Sub-Droiects
Civil works, and procurement of equipment and instructional materials.
E2Dected at Appraisal: upgrading of selected schools, without expanding
enrollment, to meet modern standards for technical training.
Actual Benefits: Different impact in federal and state schools.  Federal
schools, which at the beginning of the project were ineffective due to lack of
investments and trained staff, have developed into high quality institutions which
are generally acknowledged as the best schools now in existence in Brazil below
university level. The state schools, due to lack of planning capacity in State
Secretariats of Education, have benefitted less. Available resources were spread
too thinly over a large number of schools at the state level, although individual
investments have generally been of high quality.



- 25 -
G.    Status of Loan Covenants
Table 9 : COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
Section/Covenant of Loan Agreement - Dec. 14,                 Status of
1983                                                          Compliance
2.02
(b)The Borrower shall cause to be opened a                    Condition met
Special Account in the Account Bank
.01 (b)
The Borrower shall appraise sub-projects through              Conditions met
COAGRI, COSIFE, and CENAFOR, and maintain the
Coordinating Committee until the Closing Date,
and through it review each of the sub-projects,
in accordance with criteria and procedures set
forth in the Manual.
3.02
Contracting of management and educational                     Cornition met
consultants with qualifications, experience and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank
3.04
Any proposed change in project's organizational               Condition met
structure and staffing to be reviewed and
commented by Bank
3.05
National technical advisory committee technician              Committee was set
training with TORe acceptable to Bank, to be                  up with minimum
established by June 30, 1984                                  delay in 1984, but
has not met
regularly.
3.06
Bank to review and comment on tracer forms to be              Condition met
prepared by INEP



- 26 -
Table 9:  COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS  (cont.)
3.07
TORs for studies to be satisfactory to Bank                   Condition met
(i)         evaluation/tracer system (INEP)
(ii)        Assessment of school-production
system (INEP)
(iii) regional manpower needs (COAGRI/COSIFE)
3.08
Borrower to institute a maintenance program in                Maintenance program
each participating school, review each such                   exists at each
program annually, and furnish to Bank a plan for              school.  A
adequate maintenance of federal schools by Dec.               comprehensive
31, 1984                                                      system and manual
have been prepared
under contract by
CEFET-PR. School
staff are being
trained for
application of the
system.
3.12
The Borrower shall review annually with the Bank              Condition met
the programs for staff training prepared by
CENAFOR
4.02 (c), 4.03 (a)
All proiect accounts and the Special Account to               Condition met
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank
4.03 (b)
Monthly statements of the special                             Condition met
Account to be furnished to Bank



- 27 -
Ii.   Use of Bank Resources
Table 10: STAFF INPUTS BY STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE
Stage of                                   Actual
Project Cycle                              Staffweeks
Through Pre-Appraisal                      26.5
Appraisal through
Board Approval                          55.7
Supervision                                95*75
TOTAL   177.9
37.   Comments on Staff Inputs.   Staff inputs through Board Approval were
appropriate both in staff weeks and mission composition to assure a well prepared
and appraised project.   Supervision inputs totalled 12.0 staffweeks per year
during implementation.  Supervision missions required six to eight staffweeks
annually over the initial four years of the project, but fell off to two to four
weeks during later years of implementation.
5TRS data until 06/06/91.



- 28 -
Table 11: MISSION DATA BY STAGES OF PROJECT
Month/   No. of    Area    Staff Weeks    Performance
Mission           Year      Persons    a/       in field        b/  c/
Preparation6      -----              ---------
Appraisal 1       02/83        4     A,AE,2TE    n/a
Appraisal 2       06/83        4     A,AE,2TE    n/a
G P M F
Superv. 1         03/84       2     AE,TE        3.43         1 2  1  1
Follow-up         05/84        1    A            1.71        -  -  -  -
Superv. 2         10/84        1    TE           1.00         1 2  1  1
Financial SPN     07/85        1     FS          1.00        -  -  -  -
Superv. 3         08/85       4    A,AE,E,TE   5.71          2  2  2  2
Assistance sup.  02/86         2     A,AE                     -  -  -  -
Superv. 4         05/86        1    TE           0.50        2  2  3  2
Superv. 5         05/86        2    AE,TE        7.71        2  2  2  2
Superv. 6         05/87       2     AE,TE        4.57        2  2  2  2
Superv. 7         11/87        2     AE,TE       3.43         ?  ?  ?  ?
Superv. 8         06/88        1     TE          1.71        2  2  2  2
O  D  C  M  F
Superv. 9         07/89        1     TE          1.71        2  2  2  2  2
Follow-up SPN     12/89        1    TE           2.00         -  -  -  -  -
Superv. 10        05/90        1     TE          2.29        2  2  2  1 2
_____              -----
TOTAL, s/v                    22                36.77
PCR               02/91        2     IS,TE       3.00
TOTAL, s/w                     2                 3.00
a/   A      -     Architect,  AE   Agricultural Educator,  E  -  Economist
F     -     Financial Management Specialist,
IS    -     Implementation Specialist, TE - Technical Educator
b/    G     -     General Status,  P - Procurement,
M     -     Management,  F  -  Financial
c/    0     -     Overall Status,  D  -  Project  Development  Objectives,
C     -     Compliance with  legal  Covenants,  M  -  Project
Management Performance, F - Availability of Funds.
1     -     Problem-free or Minor Problems
2     -     Moderate Problems
6Preparation handled through sub-sector review work



- 29 _
Annex 1
Participants in Completion Mission
World Bank
Bo Dahlborg, Senior Technical Training Specialist
Jorge E. Quintero, Project Implementation Specialist, Consultant
MEC / SENET
Dr. Jo0o Manuel de Sousa Peil. Secretary, National
Secretariat for Technical Education, MEC.
Prof. Julcelina Friaga Teixeira. Director, DTPDE, NEC.
Ms. Eny Ferreira Ardenghi, Tecnica DTPDE, NEC.
Dr. Josg de Oliveira Campos, Director Federal Agricultural
Technician Training school. Urutai, Go., MEC.
Prof. S6rgio Cabega Braz, Director, Federal Industrial
Technician Training School. Belem, Pa., MEC



- 30 -
Annex 2
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Loan 2366-BR
TECHNICIAN TRAINING PROJECT
ITEM                           UNIT        Appraisal Target  Final Achievements
at Completion     to Dec. 31, 1990
STAFF TRAINING
Federal Agrotechnical Schools Persons         1,500 (Agric.)        1,610a/
State Agrotechnical Schools   Persons
Federal Industrial Schools    Persons        2,100 (Ind.)           3,744k/
State Industrial Schools       Persons
Curriculum Review              No. subjects        20                20
Graduate Tracer System         Z completed        100                100
Advisory Committees            Z completed        100                100
Special Studies                No. completed        3                 2
SUB-PROJECTS
Construction
Federal Agrotechnical Schools Z completed         100                79
State Agrotechnical Schools   Z completed         100                78
Federal Industrial Schools    Z completed         100                98
State Industrial Schools       Z completed        100                68
Equipment
Federal Agrotechnical Schools % completed         100                79
State Agrotechnical Schools   Z completed         100                63
Federal Industrial Schools    % completed         100                71
State Industrial Schools       Z completed        100                29
a/ Includes 989 trained at Federal agrotechnical and 621 trained at state
agrotechnical schools.
b/ Includes 2,600 trained at Federal industrial and 1,144 trained at state
industrial schools.



- 31 -
Annex 3
P. 1 of 2
BRAZIL
TECHNICIAN TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 2366-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEW STRUCTURE OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Diario Oficial - Brasilia May 11, 1991



SECRETARIA NACIONAL DE EDUCACAO TECNOLOGICA
SECRE TARIOI
| CNEFIA DE GABINETE |                                     |                                      | ASSESSORAMENTO
.CPAI?TAM!WFO .E .OUliCAS                                                                           |OEPTO. TfC PEDJ!Gc:P
.-~A  -n.'CIiEPROFiICSSI...- E DE OEENLIIN0DO
PROFNAL                                                                               I ENSINO
550RAIIEll  1 _  .   .  |   ASSESSORAMENTO
r  OIVISAO QE  I                        SAO DE                    DIVISAO   DESENVOLVI-
AOMIN IST tR A5;                    SE RECURSOS HU-
PL' AEJAM ENT                                1C         ,              MAt
|SERVICO OE        |SERVIG DE APOIOO                                            * -                  S ERVICO DE APOO        w
~~~33~~~~jOOf  ~~~~~~~~O t O~~~



