Document of
The World Bank
fOR OFMCIAL USE ONLY
-                             REc    i6 R         E
OP THE
PnESIW! OF TEE
INERVATIORA BAR FOR P CO1HSTnnyir CUO AlID DEYBLOPHEN
TO mml
UFECUTIV DIRECTOR
ON A
IN AN A     EQ1L   TO US$20.0 CLLION
TO THE
ED  I xE REPUBLC or BRAI
FORA
TECHNCIAN TRAINTh WPJ
November 17, 1983
dtl dkich dsi  Its e  ra my le Ibwi_ b dwse vnwot we_B_sumbd



CURREY EQUIVAIVS                                      0
Calendar 1982                            November 10, 1983
Currency Unit  Crmzeiro (Cr$)
USSl Cr$179.80                           US$1  Cr$822.00
Cr$j - US$0.0056                         Cr$l - US$.001200
GOVERIMN OF BRAZIL FISCAL lEAR
January 1 - December 31
The exchaMe rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report
for project cost and financing estiintes (US$l-Cr$1,050.0)
corresponds to the estimated average cruzeiro selling rate for
1984.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
CEDAIE    Centro de Desenvolvimento de Apoio    Center for Development and
Tecuico a Educacao                    Technical Assistance to
Education
CENAFOR   Fundacao Centro Nacional de           National Center for
Aperfeicoamento e Formacao            Training of Personnel
Profissional                          for Vocational Training
COAGRI   Coordenacao Nacional do Ensino         National Coordination of
Agropecuario                          Agricultural Education
COES      Coordenadoria de Ensino Regular       Coordination of Secondary
de 2o Grau                            Education
COSIEE   Coordenadoria de Ensino Regular        Federal Coordination
de Ensino                             of Industrial Technical
Education
INEP      Instituto Nacional de Estudos         National Institute for
e PeuiLizas Educacionais              Educational Research and
Studies
Mec       MIn-sterio da Educacao e              Ministry of Education
Cultura                               and Culture
SADESE    Sub-Secretaria de Apoio do            Sub-Secretariat for the
Desenvolvimento dos Sistemas          Development-of Education
de Ensino                             Systems
SE        Secretaria da Educacao                State Secretariat of
Education
SENAI     Servicio Nacional de Aprendizagem     National Service for
Industrial                            Industrial Apprenticeship
SEPS      Secretaria de Ensino de Primeirc      Secretariat of Primary and
a Segundo Graus                       Secondary Education
IThis dcmnt has a rstried dislmtion and may be usd by rcipintsony in te perorance or
tLeir ofiri duis Its Wntents maY not oterwie be dbosed without World Bank authorization.



BRAZIL
TECHNICIAN TRAINING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:        US$20.0 million, including a capitalized
front-end fee of US$50 thousand.
Terms:         Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Benificiaries: The Ministry of Education and Culture and participating
states would be the major beneficiary of the loan proceeds,
to be used in obtaining equipment for schools, curriculum
software, and for training of staff.
Project
Description:   The loan would help finance the Government's 1984-87
investment program for the technician training sector. The
program objectives are to define a long-term development
policy for technician training in Brazil, to adapt the
quality and quantity of technician training to national and
local needs, and to provide needed specialized skills to the
agricultural and industrial sectors. The project supports
national programs to improve the coordination and
implementation of curricular reforms and education planning,
and specific sub-projects (about 70) for federal and state
technician schools.
Risks:         Risks to project success include the possibility of
reduction to the planned investment program as a result of
continued financial difficulties in Brazil. To min4imie
this risk conservative estimates for availability of
investment funds were used. There is also a risk that
participating state schools revise the priorities set by the
Ministry of Education and Culture. The requirement that
participating states p-ovide an overall program for
development of state managed schools help to reduce this
risk.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:/                         US$ miion-
local           Foreign         Total
National Program               1.72            0.33   ,         2.05
Training                    1.08            0.10  '          1.18
Technical Assistance        0.28            0.20             0.48
Studies                     0.36            0.03             0.39
Sub-Projects                  27.60            8.18            35.78
Industrial schools                           X
Federal                    9.93            8.24            13.17
State                      2.42            0.93             3.35
Agricultural schools
Federal                   12.40            3.27            15.67
State                      2.85            0.74             3.59
Administration                 0.94             0.05            0.99
Total Baseline Costs          30.26             8.56           38.82
Physical Contingencies      1.41            0.43             1.84
Price Contingencies         3.09             1.61            4.70
Total Project Cost:           34.76            10.60           45.36
Front-end Fee on Loan           -              0.05             0.05
Total Financing Required      34.76            10.65           45.41
1/ Net of taxes and duties. Projects costs mere calculated using
the Ministry of Education and Culture estinate of available
funds (in cruzeiros) for 1984, and applying an estimated
average exchange rate for the program budget (US$1 -
Cr$1,050).



- iii _
Financing Plan:           U-S                 Hlion
Ilocal         Foreign         Total          Z
Government              25.41           -               25.41         56
IBD                      9.35          10.65            20.00         44
Total                   34.76          10.65            45.41        100
.
Estiuated Disbursements:              -     S$ Million
Bank FY       84       85     86     87     88
Annual:       2.0 1I   5.0    5.3    3.7    4.0
Cumualative:  2.0      7.0   12.3  16.0  20.0
Rate of Return: n.a.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4647-BR of November 17, 1983.
1/ Including initial deposit into Special Account.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$20.0 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A TECHNICIAN TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$20.0
million including a capitalized front-end fee of US$0.05 million to help
finance a Technician Training Project. The loan would have a term of 15
years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at the Bank's standard
variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY*
2.        An economic report entitled 'Economic Memorandum on Brazil'
(Report No. 4674-BR, dated August 22, 1983) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on August 22, 1983. The following paragrapbs summarize
some of the principal findings of that report.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Figueiredo, took
office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. While the process of
political redemocratization has been its prime concern, much of the
Government's attention has necessarily been devoted to grappling with
inflation and a difficult balance-of-payments situation. Major economic
priorities of the Government include the growth of agriculture, reduced
dependence on imported petroleum, expansion of manufactured exports, and
increasing domestic savings, while at the same time improving the situation
of Brazil's economically most disadvantaged population. Success on these
fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-payments
problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living standards and
better income distribution.  In mid-November of 1982, Brazil held its first
major elections since the mid-1960s. Opposition candidates captured the
governorships of several key states, including Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro,
and Minas Gerais. A presidential election is scheduled for November 1984.
Recent Economic Performance
4.        Prior to the sharp worsening of its terms of trade in 1973,
occasioned by the quadrupling of the price of imported oil, Brazil had
enjoyed a period of rapid economic growth in the context of declining
domestic inflation and a significant liberalization of both foreign and
domestic trade. After 1973 successive Brazilian governments attempted to
cope with the constraints placed on the economy by the worsened
terms-of-trade, while maintaining a high rate of growth of output and
* Part I and II of this report are the same as that for the ELETROBRAS II
Power Distribution Project President's Report, issued the same date.



employment. Although aggregate demand management was somewhat erratic, the
general policy tendency through 1980 was characterized by large credit and
tax incentives to industry and agriculture, particularly for export expan-
sion and import substitution; growing direct state economic activity;
intermittent controls on prices and interest rates; rising import barriers;
heavy foreign borrowing; and an intensifying effort to reduce the growth in
energy consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported
petroleum.
5.        Although reduced from the 11% annual growth of the 1967-73
period, GDP grew at a still remarkable 7% average annual rate from 1974
through 1980. As the merchandise trade deficit ballooned to US$4.7 billion
in 1974, efforts were made to redress the external imbalance. Over the
entire 1974-80 period, nominal exports rose 153% as compared to an 82%
increase of imports. Non-oil imports rose only 32%. However, the rapid
accumulation of external debt, which rose more than 3-1/2 times, the
compression of real imports, and the intensification of inflationary
pressures increased the economy's vulnerability to the further sharp
increase in petroleum prices and the rise in interest rates which occurred
in 1979 and 1980. Thus, over those two years, the current account deficit
more than doubled to reach US$12.4 billion, and international reserves fell
by US$5 billion. Domestic inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        In response to the deteriorating balance-of-payments and rising
domestic inflation, the primary immediate objective shifted from growth to
stabilization. Monetary correction and exchange rate adjustment, which had
lagged behind inflation in 1980, were brought back into line with
inflation. Interest rate controls were removed from commercial bank
lending, and the rate of credit expansion was severely limited. The
intention was both to dampen aggregate demand and to encourage external
capital inflows. Although still highly subsidized, the interest rates
charged on official loans were also increased. The previously eliminated
tax incentive to exports was temporarily restored, and the financial
transactions tax applied to foreign exchange operations for imports was
raised from 15% to 25%.
7.        As a consequence of these measures, GDP declined by 2% in 1981,
with the industrial sector in and around Sao Paulo being particularly hard
hit by high interest rates and declines in capital goods and consumer
durables purchases. But the trade balance improved from a negative US$2.8
billion in bath 1979 and 1980 to a positive US$1.2 billion, and the current
account deficit was reduced, despite a US$3 billion increase (to US$9.2
billion) in net interest payments abroad. Contributing to the trade
surplus was a 33% increase in manufactured exports and the further
contraction of petroleum imports. International reserves rose US$687
million, to the equivalent of 4 months of goods imports (compared to 3.6
months coverage at the end of 1930). Domestic inflation fell to 95%. The
policy measures introduced and the ensuing balance-of-payments improvement
served to sustain the confidence of the international banks, and no
problems were experienced in raising the US$10 billion in required net
borrowing during 1981.



-3-
8.        The slowdown of international trade caught up with Brazil in
1982, with declining commodity prices and severe difficulties in several of
the theretofore fastest growing markets for its manufactures. As a result,
nominal exports declined by 13% in 1982 relative to 1981. Imports were
also down, resulting in a US$767 million trade surplus, which, however, was
significantly below earlier expectations. At the same time, the
international financial community reduced its lending to Brazil following
first the war in the South Atlantic and, later, the Mexican liquidity
crisis, and Brazil was forced to increase its short-term borrowing and draw
down its reserves in the last quarter of 1982. The current account deficit
for 1982 totaled US$14.5 billion, the highest in the country's history,
mostly reflecting record high interest payments. These interest payments
(US$8.5 billion) plus amortization of existing medium- and long-term (MELT)
loans (US$8.7 billion) exceeded net disbursements of new M&LT loans
(US$15.2 billion), constituting a negative net ML&T resource transfer.
9.        The 1981-83 stabilization effort in Brazil has placed heavy
reliance on monetary policy. The money supply in real terms fell, and the
Government has relied on the sale of indexed bonds to finance its large
fiscal deficits. Restrictive monetary and credit policies, alongside the
large public sector deficit and the channeling of available financial
resources into certain priority areas, have resulted in very high real
interest rates in the relatively free portions of Brazil's segmented
financial market. Real interest rates of 40-50X have become common. As a
result private investment has fallen dramatically, contributing in a major
way to the continuing recession, now in its third year. Reflecting the
depressed domestic economic conditions, manufacturing employment in the
State of Sao Paulo has fell by over 20% between November 1980 and October
1983. For 1982, GPP dropped by about 1%, while inflation continued at just
below 100%. GDP for 1983 is expected to decline by 5-6%, bringing the
cumulative decline in per capita income since 1980 to over ;5%.
10.       In late 1982 the rundown of Brazil's international reserves, the
reluctance of international commercial banks to roll over existing loans
and to extend further credits, and deteriorating international market
conditions led Brazil to seek assistance from the International Monetary
Fund in support of its adjustment program. Adverse external circumstances
have considerably complicated Brazil's economic situation and have rendered
short-term adjustment both more compelling and more arduous. In February
1983, to support the Government's austerity program, the IMF pledged
financial assistance on the order of US$5.4 billion (including both
compensatory financing and an Extended Fund Facility) over 1983-85.
Coupled with this financing package were commitments by the international
commercial banks for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the rollover of
US$4.6 billion of medium- and long-term loans falling due in 1983, US$9.4
billion in short-term commercial credits, and restoration to US$7.5 billion
of deposits held by foreign banks in overseas branches of Brazilian banks.
1983 and Prospects for the Future
11.       The country faces a difficult period of adjustment in 1983-84.  A
major objective for 1983 has been to generate an unprecedented trade



- 4 -
surplus of US$6 billion, thereby reducing its current account
balance-of-payments deficit and its exterral borrowing requirements. In
order to increase the chances of attaining the ambitious US$6 billion trade
surplus target, the cruzeiro was devalued by 30% in February 1983. The
cruzeiro will continue to be devalued in line with domestic inflation
through 1984, implying some additional real depreciation as external prices
rise. Simultaneously, the Government has temporarily imposed stricter,
emergency oriented, import restrictions. Despite a slow start and
continuing adverse international market conditions, it now appears that the
trade surplus target will be exceeded by US$300-500 million. While much of
the surplus is attributed to reductions in imports, export performance in
the pasr few months has improved considerably. October 1983's exports
exceeded those of October 1982 by 13%, pushing up the cumulative growth in
relation to the first ten months of 1982 to 8%. The current account
deficit will be reduced from US$14.5 billion in 1982 to about US$8 billion
in 1983, or some 3% of GDP in this year.
12.       Less success has been achieved in attaining the 1983 internal
stabilization targets. In the beginning of 1983 measures were announced to
(a) reduce the consolidated federal public deficit through both expenditure
cuts and revenue increases, (b) restrain monetary and credit expansion, (c)
decrease credit and commodity subsidies, and (d) reduce overall wage
indexation to less than 100% of cost-of-living increases. According to
Government estimates of the consolidated federal deficit, the program
announced in early 1983 and embodied in the internal credit and financing
ceilings in Brazil's agreement with the INF, if fully complied with, would
have brought about the reduction of the deficit as a percentage of GDP from
6% in 1982 to a surplus of 1% in 1983.1/ By May 1983 it had become
apparent that this ambitious target, involving a 7% change in the deficit
as a percentage of GDP, was not being met. Consequently, the IMF suspended
the second disbursement of the EFF of US$411 million scheduled for May and
initiated negotiations with the Government to revise the stabilization
program and the ceilings in the agreement.
13.       In June the Government announced a new package of stabilization
measures. The stabilization program during the first half of 1983 had been
complicated by a reacceleration of the inflation, in part attributed to the
February devaluation, and a growing climate of economic uncertainty.
Renewed efforts have been directed at reducing the consolidated public
1/   The IMF computes the public sector's borrowing requirements, which are
much higher than the operating deficit. The discrepancy derives from
definitional or conceptual differences rather than from statistical
ones. The Brazilian Government's estimates of tVe consolidated public
sec:or deficit relate to current expenditures and do not incorporate
the accrued monetary correction of the federal internal debt as a
current expenditure. The INF, on the other hand, prefers to treat the
monetary correction of the debt as a current expenditure and to
express the public sector's financing requirements in nominal
values. Thus, the respective concepts can be translated into each
other, once the rate of inflation is given.



sector deficit. A rapid phase-out of agricultural credit subsidies was
announced. Prices of goods and services produced or marketed by the public
sector, such as petroleum derivatives and wheat, were substantially
increased, reducing implicit consumer subsidies and the accompanying public
enterprise deficits. The control agency for the federal public enterprises
has been strengthened, and a new public enterprise budget has been
implemented, involving a further 20% cut in the investments of such firms.
Wage policy has also been modified to provide less than full cost-of-living
indexing to wages and salaries. After considerable political bargaining,
the niew wage policy was approved by the Congress in mid-November.
14.       The new letter of intent to the IM4F was signed by the Government
in mid-September, and the IMF Board of Directors approved the revised
agreement on November 22, 1983. A major target in the new agreement is the
reduction of the public sector deficit from 6% of GDP in 1982 to 2.7% by
the end of 1983, with complete elimination scheduled for 1984. The
monetary base is to be held to a 90% increase in 1983; in contrast,
inflation is expected to be over 200% for 1983, as measured through
December. External payments arrears of more than US$2 billion are to be
eliminated by the end of 1983.
15.       To achieve the reduction in the public sector deficit, the
Government is committed to the phase-out of agricultural credit subsidies
and continuation of pricing policies to eliminate existing subsidies on oil
derivatives, wheat and major public sector products. Price controls on
some 300 privately produced industrial goods and services wiln be rescinded
gradually as inflation falls. The finances of the central government will
also be improved by additional revenue-generating measures; those of the
state enterprises will be strengthened by control of wage costs and by
cutbacks in investment outlays, as well as by better pricing policies. An
improved system for controlling expenditures and borrowing has been
introduced.
16.       A new external financing package from the commercial banks and
official lending agencies for the remainder of 1983 and 1984, amounting to
US$11 billion in new funds and some debt rescheduling, is currently being
finalized as an integral part of the renegotiated agreement between the
irazilian Government and the IMF. In addition to rescheduling principal
payments, the international commercial banks will be providing US$6.5
billion in additional new loans.  Official bilateral institutions are
expected to lend Brazil about US$2.5 billion as part of the pacKage, with
another US$2 billion resulting from the rescheduling of bilateral loans
through the Paris Club.
17.       Brazil's balance of payments would benefit from a continuing fall
in the LIBOR and in world petroleum prices.  Because about three-fourths of
the country's debt bears either variable interest rates or is short-term,
each 1% drop in LIBOR would mean a savings of about US$650 million. For
each dollar reduction in the price of a barrel of oil, the imported oil
bill, which accounted for about 50% of total imports for 1982, would fall
by US$300 million at current consumption levels.



- 6 -
18.       Savings on imported oil could be even greater, as domestic oil
production increases and energy conservation continues. Since 1973 Brazil
has made major efforts to reduce petroleum imports. Investments In oil
exploration have been accelerated, with additional steps taken to develop
the nation's hydroelectric potential and to substitute alcohol for
gasoline. Efforts are also being made to induce energy conservation,
particularly through pricing policies. As a result of these and other
policies, domestic gasoline consumption was reduced by more than 10%
between 1979 and 1982, and domestic petroleum production increased by about
50X over the same period. Petroleum and petroleum derivative imports,
which totaled US$10 billion in 1982, were reduced to an annual level of
US$7-8 billion in the first half of 1983.
19.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must
continue to experience a period of careful demand management. Maintenance
of international competitiveness through the exchange rate, and realistic
prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient resource
allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import
substitution. Public investments will contirrie to be constrained by
reduced resource availabilities over the next several years, but
agricultural and industrial production and exports, as well as the
development of domestic energy sources, are receiving priority attention.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
20.       Any projection of Brazil's balance of payments depends heavily on
assumptions regarding the rate of export growth, interest rates and
petroleum prices. Assuming that the recovery of the world economy now
underway is sustained, Brazil could look forward to gradual recovery
beginning in 1984, and reaching about 52 per annum by 1987. Such a
scenario would be compatible with a falling current account deficit through
1988. However, it does require the continued availability of net capital
inflows over the period.
21.       M&LT borrowing for 1983 and beyond will be substantial -- over
US$20 billion gross and about US$11 billion net in 1983 alone. As Brazil's
exports increase, however, the country's borrowing requirements will fall
over time, and the net M&LT debt service ratio is expected to de-rine from
75% in 1982 to approximately 64% in 1987.
22.       These objectives will not be easily achieved, however, and
instances of short-term cash flow problems cannot be ruled out. However,
the Brazilian economy remains dynamic, diversified, and relatively
resilient, and policy-makers have repeatedly demonstrated their ability to
adjust to changing circumstances. With the Government's commitrent to the
austerity program, and with IMF support, Brazil should be able to make the
adjustments needed to cope with adverse international circumstances and to
reorient the economy toward a more efficient development path for the
remainder of the decade. Thus, Brazil remains creditwortby for new
borrowing on conventional terms in the magnitudes described above.



-7-
Poverty Alleviation Programs
23.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has made substantial efforts to relieve
poverty. The educational system bas been rapidly expanded, giving rise to
increased enrollment rates and reduced illiteracy. Social security
health programs have been strengtbened and extended to rural areas, and
upgrading and expanding previous bealth services for the poor have received
much Goverment attention. Increased Government efforts bave also been
directed to low-cost housing programs for the poor and the improved
provision of water and sewerage services. In part as a reflection of these
and other programs, there are indications, based upon preliminary estimates
from the 1980 demographic census, of substantial living standard and
welfare improvements during the 1970s. Considerable absolute real income
gains were realized by all income decile groups. Non-income gains, as
reflected by improved access to public services, declining infant
mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession by bouseholds,
also attest to significant poverty reduction during the decade.21 Given
the impact of the stabilization program on output and employment, however,
much of this gain may be lost in the present crisis. Particularly affected
are the urban poor.
PRT II - BANK OFERATIONS IN BRAZIL
24.       By September 30, 1983 the Bank had made 122 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$8,187.2 million (net of cancellations), of which 66 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, but increased to US$472
million in FY82, and US$764 million in FY83. The undisbursed amount as of
September 30, 1983 was US$3,676.7 million. Annex II contains a sumary
statement of Bank loans.
25.       Over the FY77-82 period, Bark lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$800 million per year. However, in FY83, seven
loans totaling US$1,457.5 million were approved. They included US$8.9
million for a project to help finance the preparation of metropolitan
development programs for Fortaleza and Salvador in Northeast Brazil,
US$304.5 million for an iron ore mining project in the Serra dos Carajas,
US$154.0 million for a third feeder roads project, US$220.0 million for a
second development banking project, US$302.3 million for a water and
sewerage sector project, US$67.8 million for a second rural development
prcject in the State of Bahia, and US$400.0 million for a third
agro-industries credit project. For FY84, loans for US$52.7 million for a
market towns improvement project in the State of Parana, USS352 million for
2/   For a more detailed account of these developments, see -Perspectives
on Poverty and Income Inequality in Brazil: An Analysis of the Changes
During the 1970's (Staff Working Paper No. 601, dated July 1983) and
'Brazil - Human Resources Special Report  (Report No. 2604-BR, dated
July 13, i979).



- 8 -
an export development project and USS303 million for an agricultural credit
and export development project in the context of the Bank's Sperial Action
Program, and US$65.2 million for the third phase of the Northwest region
development program have so far been approved. Loans for rural
electrification, power distribution and supplemental financing for on-goLng
agricultural and rural development projects wll be considered shortly by
the Executive Directors.
26.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$68 billion at the
end of 1982. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 9Z while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 41.
27.       As of September 30, 1983, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$983.08 million, of which US$622.36 mllion had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$360.72  dillion, US$286.30 million
represent loans and US$74.42 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of September 30, 1982 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
28.       Brazil is now undergoing a difficult adjustment period, in large
part due to external eventsr. At the same time, it faces the challenge of
developing a longer-term development strategy compatible with lower average
economic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satIsfying the country's vast unmet social needs. These present and
prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary changes in
the Bank lending strategy for Brazil.
299.      In the short-run, the Bank will try to help ease Brazil's current
external financing constraint through accelerated resource transfers
coupled with support for the major policy changes required by the austerity
program and necessary for longer-term growth and lower inflation. In
support of these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action
Program, are also being reflected in our operations. These include working
capital financing under the third agro-industries project, financing of a
higher share of project costs during the initial implementation years for
the second rural development in the State of Bahia, and greater use and
streamlining of the operation of Project Spec_al Accounts into which Bank
funds are deposited in advance in order to reduce the need for the
Government to prefinance Bank's share of project costs, and which allow
disbursements of Bank funds to be made at the exchange rate prevailing on
the date of expenditure.
30.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth. One focus of the lending
program is on structural transformation and efficient resource use.
Expanding export capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign
exchange constraint on development while promoting efficiency through
exposure to international competition. Several loans to BNDES to
strengthen industrial development along these lines have already been
made. Sector loans to industry and agriculture, envisaging a restructuring
of incentive and trade policies in support of Government initiatives, have



been approved by the Executive Directors. Given agriculture's large
potential contribution to export growth and import substitution,
adjustments in this sector will be crucial to Brazil s transition from
stabilization to growth.
31.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation. Lending for
the electric power sector, which encouraged the development and use of
hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development
project, have addressed the need to reduce petroleum imports. Further
lending will be based on appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide
incentives to producers and encourage conservation by consumers While
reducing government subsidies to the energy sector.
32.       A third lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary
education, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural
extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and
integrated rural development were designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas, especially those in the nortbeast and the northwest. The
proposed project would serve to improve the productivity of agricultural
and industrial technicians by improving training methods and strengthening
links between the educational system and the productive sectors. Loans for
water supply and sewerage projects in the state of Minas Gerais, in greater
Sao Paulo, in the Northeast and in the South, loans for urban transport in
several major cities, a loan for sites and services and low-cost housing.
and a loan for urban development in medi-un-sized cities are assisting the
improvement of the living conditions of the urban population, particularly
of the urban poor.
33.       Institution-building and improving the operations of the public
sector remain important components of the Bank strategy for Brazil. The
Bank also serves as a catalyst in stimulating the inflow of resources.
Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international
financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil's development
prospects. In some sectors, especially in electric power and industry,
Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain additional resources in greater
amounts from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions
than may otherwise have been provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982,
ten co-financing operations for about US$560 million have been arranged and
signed with private financial institutions. Co-financing opportunities are
rather limited in Brazil for the time being, as the volume and terms of
commercial bank financing available to Brazil are determined within the
framework of the debt rescheduling package. Co-financing could become more
important in future years, however, and the new co-financing instrumunts
developed by the Bank could play a role in encouraging commercial banks to
provide Brazil with additional lending on appropriate terms.



- 10 -
PART III - THE TECHNICIAN TRAIDNING SUBSECTOR
34.       The technician training sub-sector consists of a three-year
secondary school program of technical courses in agriculture and a
four-year program in industry. Under existing Brazilian legislation,
primary and secondary school education are the responsibility of state
government, notwithstanding significant transfers of funds from the Federal
to state education budgets. However, a network of federal technician
training schools has be.±n established, under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC). Within HEC, the National
Coordination of Agricultural Education (COAGRI) was established in 1973,
and it maintains 33 federal agricultural technician schools.  Similarly,
the National Coordination of Industrial Technical Education (COSIFE) was
established in 1981, and maintains 10 federal industrial technician
schools. In 1982, COAGRI schools produced about 30% of total agricultural
technicians and COSIFE schools produced about 51X of industrial
technicians . Additional technician training schools exist at state and
municipal levels, under the responsibility of state secretariats for
education (SEs). This includes about 174 agricultural technician schools,
and about 10 industrial technician schools. State level schools produced
about 69% of total 1982 agricultural technicians, and about 12% of total
industrial technicians. The remainder of technicians from both agriculture
and industry are graduated from private at d university affiliated schools,
or from programs provided by the National Industrial Apprenticeship Service
(SENAI) or the National Executive Commission for Cocoa Development
(CEPLAC). In total, 12,430 agricultural technicians and 9,600 industrial
technicians graduated in 1982.
35.       Despite the relatively dense network of schools, particularly for
agricultural technicians, there are significant deficiencies in the quality
and consistency of training across regional and administrative levels. The
main problems in this respect are: instructor qualifications, curricula and
course relevance to local conditions, and adequacy of equipment and
training facilities. University graduates in agriculture occupy about 70%
of in-tructor positions in agricultural technician schools. However,
university graduates in Brazil are generally from urban areas, and for the
most part, have little on-farm experience. As a result, technician
instructors have relatively little understanding of far.-level problems
faced by agricultural producers. The remaining 30% of agricultural
instructors are not pedagogically qualified. For industrial technician
instructors, the greatest weakness is also a lack of experience with
industrial production processes. Training of technicians is further
limited by inadequate equipment and facilities, particularly for teaching
process control and equipment maintenance. Because of limited resources,
budgets for capital expenditures allow for only 25% or less of annual needs
for equipment and facilities. The direct consequence of this limited
investment has been a-decline in quality of practical training in
production processes and equipment maintenance. In addition, there is a
significant lack of software such as audio-visual aids, which further
limits the effectiveness of training. Finally, curricula deficiencies
contribute to weak training profiles of technicians. Because instructors



- 11 -
tend to be theory oriented, classroom training overemphasizes technical
subjects. In agricultural schools, insufficient attention is given to farm
management and marketing, communication skills and rural sociology,
agricultural mechanization, and water resource management.
36.       The effectiveness of technician training is also hiudered by
inadequate planning at national and regional levels, and poor coordination
of policy implementation. Systematic data on graduate placement and
prospective employment opportunities and the performance of employed
graduates is not available. There is no formal system now in place to plan
national or regional training programs, and little or no joint efforts are
undertaken by federal and state authorities, partly as a result of the
separate administrative structures for federal and state schools (para.
34).
37.       The impact of the weaknesses in the technician training
sub-sector are finally felt in the productive sectors, through the job
performance of school graduates, and preferences by employers to hire more
highly trained university graduates to fill technician level positions.
Tracer studies for graduates of federal agricultural schools have been
carried out in 1979 and bighlight some of the consequences of deficiencies
in training. The main employer of graduates is the public sector (about
23%), followed by private sector (about 22%), working in non-agricultural
occupations (about 12Z), studying at university (about 11Z), self-employed
(about 7%) and unemployed (about 12%). In the public sector, graduates are
employed by the National Company for Agricultural and Livestock Research
(EMBRAPA), and their state affiliates. They often work in rural areas,
carrying out research projects managed by EMBRAPA, and collect field data,
as well as provide direct assistance to farmers through EMBRATER.
38.       The tracer studies showed, however, that graduates of schools
where training and curricula were considered to be relevant to employers'
requirements were successful in obtaining employment.  Schools in the
States of Sergipe, Rio Grande do Sul, and in the Federal District, where
the quality of training is high, successfully competed with university
graduates, and in some cases were assured of employment prior to
graduation. Because of the density of agricultural technician schools, and
inconsistent quality of training, estimates show that output of
agricultural technical schools will exceed the potential demand of the main
employers for this decade, indicating a need to consolidate the system.
These projections showed that if the annual level of output of graduates
expected in 1983 continues through the end of the century, there would be a
significant oversupply of agricultural technicians by the year 2000. These
projections are indicative only of a trend, rather than of absolute
requirements, because of limitations to the study. Therefore, additional
work on this issue will be required to determine the extent and means to
induce this consolidation. For example, a number of state agricultural
schools serve a shadow- function in that they are the only secondary
school facilities available in some rural areas; low tuitions, and lack of
other educational alternatives attract students with little or no intent of
continuing in agriculture; many graduates of these shadow schools seek
university entrance or non-agricultural employment after graduation. A



- 12 -
more comprehensive review of the distribution of normal secondary and
agricultural technician schools is therefore required, and state
secretariats of education need to plan better the use of schools in rural
areas (para. 56).
39.       In the case of industrial technicians, similar estimates showed a
likely deficit of technicians to the end of the decade, based on
conservative assumptions for industrial growth. These estimates show an
average annual deficit of about 11,000 industrial technicians until 1990,
and about 47,000 from 1991-2000. Again, these estimates are indicative of
a trend, not of absolute requirements. And, as for agricultural
technicians, the relevancy of training to employers' needs is a major
determinant of the level of demand for individual school graduates.
40.       In sum, Brazil has developed an impressive base for a strong
technician training system. Some key weaknesses which remain in the system
need to be addressed in order to remedy the negative consequences
including: (a) undesirable duplication of training prograns in some
regions; (b) inadequate and inconsistent curricula and course requirements;
Cc) significant differences in the level of competency of school graduates;
and, (d) lack of relevance of training p. ograms to the emerging needs of
the agricultural and industrial sectors.
Government Policy Objectives and Strategy
41.       In 1982, with the Bank's participation, the Government undertook
a review of issues in the technician training sub-sector, which resulted in
publication of the first policy documents for the sub-sector. Three main
policy objectives bave been identified:
(a) the diversification of training institutions to better
respond to regional manpower requirements;
(b) the consolidation of the system at state level to improve
the efficiency of the system; and,
(c)  the establishment or strengthening of mechanisms linking the
training of graduates to productive sector demand.
42.       These policy objectives address the key issues which limit the
effectiveness of technician training. Along with the definition of these
objectives, the Government has prepared a strategy of actions to achieve
these objectives. The strategy, to be implemented by MEC and State
agencies, focuses on improving the coordination of the system,
strengthening of existing school programs while eliminating others,
upgrading teacher qualifications, providing limited additional investment
capacity, and better defining the technician profile for employers. Many
of the specific actions to be implemented are oriented towards providing
the necessary management structure to allow for better planning at
national, regional, and local levels. As such, these mechanisms (further
detailed in paras. 48 to 50) do not require significant financial
investments other than some technical assistance services. The need for



- 13 -
additional tnvestment capacity for schools in order to upgrade training and
curricula will require a moderate amount of investment through 1987,
estimated at about US$45 million. While additional funds could be used for
investment, planning for the sub-sector has been based on reduced access to
funds by MEC as a result of the economic and financial situation prevailing
in Brazil, and to use available resources to maximize the quality of the
existing asset base. These assumptions are consistent with Bank objectives
in the sector. The Govern,ent has indicated that expansion of the
technician training sub-sector could begin only after 1987 and would be
dependent on the results of the measures introduced in 1984-87 period as
well as further evaluation of employment projects for technicians.
Bank Experience in the Sub-Sector
43.       The Bank's first loan for education in Brazil assisted the
Government in its initial effort to improve training opportunities at upper
secondary level through loan 755-BR, for US$8.4 million. The project
provided direct assistance to eight agricultural and two industrial
technical schools. A project performance audit report (No. 2802, dated
January 9, 1980) has been issued. The report concluded that,
notwithstanding difficulties in implementation as a result of delays in
training specialized teachers and changes in Goverment policy, graduates
found employment quite readily. Field visits to project schools after
project implementation was completed confirmed that educational and
training standards remained high. As a result of previous Bank experience,
new modes of '_  .ng have been developed, which provide for greater
responsibility of NEC and related institutions to evaluate specific
sub-projects. This is needed given the size of Brazil and the scope of its
educational requirements. This project incorporates these mechanisms.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       This project was prepared by the Ministry of Education and
Culture, with some assistance from the Bank. The project was appraised in
March, 1983, and negotiations were held from November 14, to 16, 1983. The
Brazilian delegation was led by Mrs. Betty Antunes. A staff appraisal
report entitled -Brazil - Sub-sector Project for Technician Training- (no.
4647-BR dated November 17,1983) is being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex
III.
Project Objectives
45.       The proposed project supports the Government's 1984-87 program
to improve the quality and efficiency of the technician training system
in Brazil, and directly addresses the major issues in the sector. The
three main objectives are:
(a) to define a long-term development policy for technician
training at national and regional levels;



- 14 -
(b) to better adapt the quality and quantity of training to
national requirements and local needs; and,
(c) to provide the agricultural and industrial sectors with
needed specialized skills.
The Governments overall program incorporates a two-fold thrust to achieve
these objectives. First, it would develop, at national and state levels,
mechanisms for administration and planning which will coordinate the kinds
of training provided in the schools with the evolution of production
processes in the industrial and agricultural sectors. Second, existing
schools for agricultural and industrial technician training would undertake
curriculum and training reforms, complemented by improving the physical
plant and equipment and curriculum software needed to support these
reforms.
Project Components
46.       There are two overall project components. The first, consisting
of national programs, would undertake efforts to upgrade the training of
school administrators, teachers, and planners, to develop  improved
curricula, to strengthen the technical school relationship with industrial
and agricultural employers, and to carry out studies to evaluate training
methods and follow-up of graduates. The second component comprises the
specific sub-projects for equipping and improving physical assets of
existing industrial and agricultural technical schools. A total of 70
sub-projects are envisaged under the project, of which 50 would be for
Federal and 20 for state schools.
National Programs
47.       National programs will require a series of well-coordinated
actions, oriented towards: (a) strengthening policy mechanisms; (b)
adapting training methods and curricula to evolving industry and
agriculture sectoral needs; and, (c) carrying out studies to provide
feedback for curriculum and educational standard reviews. Therefore, the
component would emphasize activities to develop the mechanisms for better
administration and planning in the sub-sector, and undertaking broad
efforts to improve the quality of teaching in the schools.
48.       Strengthening policy mechanisms: Policy mechanisms would be
strengthened by broadening the scope of policy making committees to include
representatives from the industrial and agricultural sectors. The already
existing interministerial committee on agricultural training (which
includes representatives from the Ministries of Planning, Labor,
Agriculture, and Education) would be broadened to include representatives
of other related ministries (such as industry) and of nejor private
national associates. This National Technical Advisory Committee on
Technician Training would constitute a diverse body to forge a permanent
link between the productive sectors and the technician training system. In
an advisory capacity, the committee would assist the NEC in: (a) defining
policy objectives and strategies for the sub-sector; (b) assessing the



- 15 -
effectiveness of government efforts; and (c) recommending modifications to
programs. No Bank finance would be required for the Committee.
49.       The two major federal planning units within the MEC, COAGRI and
COSIFE, would also be strengthened. Specifically, COAGRI currently has a
small task force responsible for the preparation of the investment program
for federal agricultural technician schools. This core team will also be
responsible for the appraisal of specific sub-project proposals submitted
by agricultural schools (para. 54). In light of this increase in
responsibility and the need for COAGRI to provide consistency of approach
for agricultural training, the project would finance additional staff for
planning and sub-project evaluation and about 167 man months of consultant
services in general education, practical training, and some curriculum-
specific areas. COSIFE, which would play the same role as COAGRI for
industrial technician training, would also be supported by the project.
Additional staff for planning, curriculum development, administration, and
program evaluation would be hired. About 98 man months of consultant
services would also be provided to COSIFE for specialized program
development. In addition, the project would finance study tours
(mostly foreign) to evaluate the effectiveness of alternative training
systems. The Bank would finance the costs of study tours, additional
personnel contracted for purposes of the project by COAGRI and COSIFE, and
consultant services.
50.       Because state level schools are independent of the federal
management structure, the project would support actions to strengthen the
planning of technical training at state level as well. First, state
advisory committees would be established and meet about twice a year to
review developments in the schools, advise state secretariats for education
of perceived needs in agriculture and industry for the state, and assist in
recruitment of teachers and ongoing internships for teachers requiring
extra training. Second, technician training planning units would be
established within the state secretariats for education to coordinate
techncian training in state schools. Members of the state committees would
be eligible to participate in meetings of the National Technical Advisory
Committee on Technician Training.
51.       Curricula and Training Reform: A major effort is being undertaken
at the national level to Improve the curriculum and quality of training
available in the technical schools. Schools that participate in the
project would agree to the curricular reforms, which are to be based on
acceptable standards currently in use for most federal schools. The
standards place a greater emphasis on technical theory and practice, as
well as mathematics and science. The industrial school curriculum would
total about 4,000 hours, and about 3,700 hours for the agricultural
curriculum. The minimum curricula, course syllabi, and performance
standards would be developed by COAGRI and COSI'E. The respective advisory
committees would provide recommendations for the curricula, as weln as the
need for modifications from time to time. Use of consultants, expected to
include successful technical teachers, would be financed by the Bank.



- 16 -
52.       In order to improve the competency of admlnistrators, planning
personne , and teachers a series of training modules would be offered,
including in-service and technical short-course training seminars,
intensive internships in agricultural and industrial enterprises, and study
tours abroad. Agricultural and industrial technical teachers wto are not
university graduates would attend upgrading courses of up to two years in
length. The National Center for Training of Personnel for Vocational
Training (CENAFOR) would coordinate course planning and implementation.
Courses would be conducted by CENAFOR, COAGRI and COSIFE, as well as other
institutions. CENAFOR has prepared a program establishing the priority of
the various training modules, the expected participants, and course
organization satisfactory to the Bank. It is expected that over the
implementation period about 60Z of all technical school teachers would
participate in the training modules. The Bank would finance the costs of
the training program. There would be an annual review of the CENAFOR work
program by the Bank (Section 3.12 of the Loan Agreement).
53.       Studies on Long-term Development Policy: Two major lines of study
would be supported by the project to define a long-term policy for the
sub-sector. First, regional manpower studies would be carried out, to
determine the needs and trends in requirements of specialized skl'ls at the
technician level. Included in this study would be an assessment of the
feasibility of introducing alternative training methods for certain
specialties, and an examination of the systems used by MEC to evaluate the
impact of technical education on the economy and recormpendations for
improvement. Second, a graduate tracer system wouid be established, the
purpose of which would be to provide a continuous mechanism for curriculum
and course evaluation, to evaluate teacher performance, and the suitablity
of training equipment and instructional material. The studies would be
c-arried out by the National Institute for Educational Research (INEF), in
collaboration with COAGRI, COSIFE, state advisory committees, and school
directors. The results of the studies would be used in planning the
development of the technician training subsector after 1987. The loan
would finance all costs related to the studies.
Industrial and Agricultural Technician Training School Sub-projects
54.       Schools participating in the program would prepare proposals for
replacing or supplementing equipment and curr-culum software to be used in
training technicians. For agricultural schools, sub-projects would include
farm machinery and tools, laboratory and shop equipment, farm buildings,
and in selected cases, some staff housing and school dormitories.
Equipment and building needs would be determined on the basis of a
prototype school model, designed to sustain school farm production and to
meet requirements of the new curriculum. Appraisal of individual
sub-projects would be the responsibility of COAGRI, which would also
provide assistance in preparation of sub-project proposals to individual
schools. Schools offering the full three-year technician training program
would be eligible.



- 17 -
55.       Industrial technician schools would prepare proposals for
upgrading equipment and curriculum software to be used in training courses,
especially in the areas of industrial electronics, communications
electronics, and instrumentation and process control. Equipment
maintenance programs would be an integral part of school proposals, and a
maintenance program for the 20 federal industrial schools would be
submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1984 (Section 3.08 of the Loan
Agreement). Appraisal of individual sub-projects would be the
responsibility of COSIFE, which would also provide assistance in
preparation of sub-project proposals to individual schools. Schools
offering the full four-year technician training program would be eligible.
56.       Prior to accepting sub-projects for state managed schools, the SE
for the state would provide an overall development plan for the technical
schools in the state, with proposals for consolidation of the agricultural
schools where necessary. Further, the state would agree to the overall
curriculum standards developed by MEC, with adjustments made for the local
conditions and needs of industry and agriculture in the state. Individual
sub-project proposals would be approved on the basis of their relevance to
the policy objectives for the sub-sector, the feasibility of the actions
proposed in financial and managerial terms, and the efficiency of use of
program funds. A manual on sub-project evaluation has been discussed and
agreed with MEC. The manual contains a set of comparative indicators on
the use of equipment and facilities, teacher/student ratios, classroom
contact hours, curriculum content, and unit costs. These indicators vould
serve as a reference for COSIFE and COAGRI in evaluating sub-project
proposals.
57.       About 90% of project finance will go to sub-projects for
agricultural and industrial technician schools. It is estimated that
agricultural schools require replacement or upgrading of about 50% of
existing equipment, and industrial schools about 65%, on average.
Agricultural sub-projects would likely be concentrated in the North,
Northeast, and Center-west, and industrial sub-projects in the South and
Southeast of the country. Total project finance would not be sufficient to
meet all the demand from existing agricultural and industrial technician
schools but would be adequate for a significant improvement of technician
training. Also, an objective of the program is to increase the efficiency
of the sub-sector by maximizing the use of existing assets and promoting
some competition among schools, within overall resource distribution
parameters. (see para. 64). During project appraisal, the Bank tested and
found satisfactory the procedures used by COSIFE and COAGRI for appraising
sub-projects.
Project Cost and Financing
58.       The total investment costs for the technician training
sub-sector project for the period 1983-87 are estimated at about US$45.36
million, of which about US$10.65 million is foreign exchange and US$34.76
million local costs. Project cost estimates were based on the NEC's 1984
approved budget, and conversion to US$dollars was made on the basis of an
expected average exchange rate for 1984 (US$1-Cr$1,050). Physical



- 18 -
contingencies, amounting to 5% of base costs have been included. Price
contingencies were calculated in US dollar terms, at 6% for costs of
furniture and technical assistance, and 7Z for equipment from 1985 on. No
price contingencies were included for 1984 because the Government has
declared its intention to devalue the cruzeiro at a rate equlvalent to
domestic inflation, without adjusting for international inflation. A
breakdown of the estimated cost is shown in the Loan and Project Summary on
page ii. The proposed Bank loan of US$20.0 million, including about USS50
thousand for the capitalized front-end fee, would finance about 44% of
estimated project costs, excluding taxes.   This would include the total
foreign exchange component of costs plus the equivalent of about US$9.35
million of local costs. The higher cost sharing, proposed in accord with
the Bank's Special Action Program, and the financing of a share of local
costs will ease the implementation of this human resources development
project which the Government considers of sufficiently high priority to
proceed with in spite of the reduction in public expenditures included in
the ongoing austerity program. Retroactive financing of up to US$2.0
million equivalent would be permi-tted to help cover eligible expenditures
after March 1, 1983. The balance of project finance would come from the
federal government, through the MEC investment budget.
Procurement and Consulting Services
59.       Civil works contracts for construction of farm facilities,
extension or replacement of existing laboratories and other specialized
facilities, and staff housing and dormitories are estimated to total about
US$8.60 million including contingencies. Contract size would average about
US$400,000. Because of the size and wide dispersion of the works, local
competitive bidding procedures. satisfactory to the Bank, would be used,
although foreign bidders would not be excluded. Small repair contracts,
not exceeding US$25,C00 would be carried out under force account. Goods,
totalling about US$7.73 million, US$15.23 million, and US$2.5 million,
would be procured under ICB, (with a 15% margin of preference for domestic
manufacturers), LCB, or limited shopping, respectively. The Bank would
review contracts for equipment of more than US$300,000 prior to bidding.
Other contracts would be reviewed in the field during supervision.
Consultancy services, totalling some 265 man months, would be procured in
accordance with Bank guidelines, both locally and internationally. Local
consultants are estimated to cost about US$2,500 per man-month, and foreign
consultants about US$11,100 per man month, including international travel.
Disbursements
60.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed on all
components at an average rate of 50% net of taxes on expenditures incurred
until December 31, 1985, and an average rate of 35% net of taxes
thereafter. Disbursement for contracts of less-than US$300,000 equivalent
would be against statements of expenditure, certified by NEC. Supporting
documentation would be reviewed in the field. Disbursements for contracts
greater than US$300,000 would be made against fully documented withdrawal
applications. The Government would request the Bank to make advance
payment of up to US$1.5 million into a Special Account opened in the



- 19 -
Central Bank (Section 2.02(b) of the Loan Agreement). Conversion from US
dollars to cruzeiros would be made at the exchange rate prevailing on the
date of expenditure. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by June
30, 1988.
Accounts and Audits
61.       Participating agencies would maintain separate accounts of
project expenditures, audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory
to the Bank in accordance with appropriate auditing principles. Copies of
the audit report on Lhe various participating agencies would be provided to
the Bank within four months of the end of the fiscal year (Section 4.02 of
the Loan Agreement). The Special Account would be audited by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement).
Project Organization and Implementation
62.       Overall management and coordination for the project would be
provided by a coordinating committee, chaired by the Secretary of the
Secretariat for Primary and Secondary Education (SEPS) of the MEC. Members
of the five agencies involved in project implementation (COAGRI, C0SIFE,
CEDATE, CENAFOR, and INEP) would also form part of the Committee. The
Coordinating Committee would be responsible for supervising project
execution, approving annual operating plans of agencies involved in
implementation of the program and review and ratify sub-project proposals.
Detailed responsibilities and functions of the five agencies responsible
for project implementation are as follows:
(a) COAGRI would be responsible for assisting the federal and
state agricultural technician schools in the preparation of
sub-project proposals for their appraisal, and for monitoring
the implementation of the agricultural training component of
the project;
(b) COSIFE would assume the same functions as COAGRI but for the
federal and state industrial schools participating in the
project;
(c) CEDATE would prepare bidding documents and review standards
for acquisition of physical facilities and equipment;
(d) CENAFOR would be responsible for the coordination of
training activities of the project, including the assistance
to institutions for the preparation of the training programs,
and appraisal of the training proposals; and
(e) INEP would coordinate and administer the studies component of
the project.
63.       Eight sub-projects have so far been appraised, satisfactory to
the Bank. After sub-project appraisal by the technical agencies, the
Coordinating Committee would review the appraisal report and ratify or



- 20 -
recommend modifications to the sub-project proposal. Any sub-project
costing over US$850 thousand for the agricultural schools (or bank finance
of US$375,000) or over US$1.0 million for industrial schools (or Bank
finance of US$440,000) would be submitted to the Bank for prior approval
(Section 3.01(c) of the Loan Agreement). Final authorization for the
release of funds to schools for sub-projects would be through the Secretary
of SEPS. Each of the five institutions responsible for implementation
would monitor sub-project implementation, and the Bank would receive
overall reports from the Coordinating Committee on a quarterly basis
(Section 3.10b(ii) of the Loan Agreement).
64.       The allocation of investment funds funds among the agricultural
and industrial technician schools, and federal and state level, is expected
to be as follows:
(a) 74.9Z to federal agricultural and industrial schools;
(b) 17.5% to state agricultural and industrial schools;
(c) 3.0% to training of administrative, planning, and
instructional staff; and,
Cd) 4.6% to project administration and special studies.
Although these guidelines for the distribution of funds are flexible, their
purpose is to allow for reasonable access to project funds for both federal
and non-federal institutions.
Project Evaluation
65.       The main instrument for evaluating the impact of the project
would be the graduate tracer systems. The tracer system would provide
information on the type of employment, salary level, and function of school
graduates, and would allow for comparison with graduates from the same
seools prior to the project. Such a summative assessment would be
periodically reviewed and updated after project completion. A project
completion report would be submitted to the Bank within six months of
completion of the project.
Project Benefits
66.       The proposed project would benefit directly the participating
schools and expected graduates (almost 10,000 per annum), state
Secretariats of Education, and the Ministry of Education. Overall, the
project would benefit the technician training system in Brazil.
67.       Improved quality of training at school level would improve the
quality of technician skills, and provide broader employment opportunities
to graduates. Better job performance for industrial technicians would also
serve to strengthen the competitiveness of Brazilian industry. The
improvement in training of agricultural technicians would enable them to
provide better technical assistance and to apply better farm management



- 21 -
skills to production. At state level, the reassessment of the technician
training system, would result in a consolidation of the technician school
networks, in lower overall unit costs and greater efficiency in training.
Additionally, state training standards would be upgraded to be compatible
with federal schools. At federal level, the proposed project would promote
greater efficiency and balanced Investment in the sector, as well as
provide a mechanism for ongoing review and upgrading of training.
Risks
68.      There are two forseeable risks to the success of the project.
First, there may be further reductions to the investment program for the
sector as a result of continued financial difficulty in Brazil. The risk
has been minimized by using conservative projections as to availability of
funds. No real increases to the NEC technical training investment budget
are assumed. Also, there is a risk that state schools participating in the
project, which administration is separate from the MEC, would revise
priorities and apply inappropriate procedures in project implementation.
The requirement tnat participating states provide an overall program for
development of state managed technician schools, and the greater
coordination of the system to be achieved through the interaction of state
and federal advisory committees would minimize this risk.
PART V - LEGAL 1NSTRU1NIS A2ND AUTHORIlT
69.       The draft loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank and the report of the Comittee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Article of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
PART VI RECOMMENDATIONS
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loans.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attacbments
November 17, 1983
Washington, D. C.



BEST COPY AVA LE                                                                                                         
-~~~~~~~~ cm
Cg5"° t-           t6tl-3    t2         _S              2es2                   2.5=.b now-
=X5: ~ ~ ~~~33.                    .10.'°    22Z0.0                                    v
ar  s.~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                 e  t  Z7 >*
mCai°f Cf                                  77 e    a5.0°s
335.0                                                   47.;a.
eg=era                                                    ,5 *                   e.0~~~,5.
,j,In w. Cam       ~         )      &4X
65 D . 2.X:                                        23.0_
MM "M con5_ 2s-           svc       .a-*                 3                      ;.,°
35.6 9-
must"                   S.4       43
111~ ~ ~ 50- 6L                                                2-1L
7,%                          ts,,        z.S$                                         T.I J  *°
44.3                                                          1.2 eu  4 ,
,o7aLLflOE  ~ ~~CO         43.6       543        3.5
AgX             ~~~53.3      3A2                                               1.4
TitE>                       :r s  *-6                                                     -
'I-  1                          so 0  v            S
(,15 AID AWVE           .I                    .1                                    3.4Z!6
Oatn1 RAL C             3.1       2          3.9                                           .
TOM                                         30.s ~55        3.5.
I    7-7       35.0      30.5               .
UOO               10.3        1.9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10.
''M I2A*° C' VOW                      °                  tO
SRO"                        7LLL.0~~~~~~~~~12.
AW tW!=M,,W- WM Caro'  0111.30-                                             2.3
-71tA 1001)      j~vS          6.                                   34.1                   104-
Cl969,                                O 3.0         L.9            34.9                      2,°°
csf. D                       1t9-'     20                          2t4.
CZo ._       C    '                 9
IMN=    =Ufl PM                         73.0      6.
oIr                                        85.0       3j4W                                 n.
rvM ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~2.                                    1170.0 l.
Cm=  .AZ t-J  'U   L''s 6,
, shn WOM CZFOVI                      .2.0
A0KX5S1.0~~~~ ~RA U,S?1~~~906                        276.2
123iL~~~~~~~~~~~&    97.4
U-P                                   -      32.0  820.'                                 ZO



BEST COPY AUAILABLE
-23-                                        AN__I
Page 2 of 5
BRAZIL                -DCrAt- xicxzon         SIT
BRAZIL                             REFERENCE GROU1S CMEM (    AE VGD a ES) 1.
WsT                      C'KST XCENr E5rn&aE) /b
6,ob    b1970b   =      &lb       ME        D             :E      x fE
LAE AI; CL    CA31            EUROPE
ADJUsE    RO       T  OS
PU:   grh                        95.          4.0        93.01L          105.0                     102.2
ALE                     70..T      84.0       93.0/           i06.3                     107.2
FMLE                   93.0        84.0       93.07j           103.6                     97.8
SECODARY: OTUAL                   11.0       26.0        3Z.01g.b         40.U                     56.5
PLU£                   110.0      26.0        29. 0l.b         3a.6                     63.4
FEALE                   0.0       77.0        35.01.           41.2                     i8.9
VOCATTONAL (C OF SECVfAY)          LB-b        16.7        59.2Vk           34.0                     22.4
PUPI-EArnR itAXO
PALMT                            33.0        25.0        26.0             30.7                     24.7
SE tNSARI                         13.0       13.0        14.0/h           16.7                     22.1
ADT LZERAC  FAZE (C)                61.0       6".z        7b.0             79.5                      69.7
PASSE CARSflUSAJD PoP                7.6       1b.6        50.L             45.6                     52.9
RADIO                   MrECE   P   65.4      106.4       169.3            228                      165.5
TV                   VWVSTOU'7  POP  16.5       4.3       IZZ.7            106.3                    tZ6.Z
B.5PAPU CAISZ GE5EUL
INTEREST) CIRO3AUOS
PM IIWUA  POPULAX CIIO             39.1       35.6        44.6/h           64.1                      96.7
CtIRRA ADUAL ATTmASCECAPrA          4.4        - 20         1.9/h            2.9                      2.9
TOTL  tOR FORE Ct7S)             23326.0    3061L.0    3525.0_                          
FERE CPERCDT)                     L7.2       20.1        28.5             24.8                     34.5
ARIaLIOM     (PERT)               51.9       *5.6        29.9             31.3                     40.7
IsDSW (PERam,                     14.6       18.3        26.4             23.9                     23.4
FArICIAPm   AE (PER£1T)
TOTUL                             32.1       31.7        29.3             31.3                     42.0
II1I,E                            52.7       50.3        50.9             49.6                      55.2
pEAL                              11.2       12g         14.1             14.8                      29.1
IC         DEPEWOES  RATIO           1.4        1.4         1_5              1.4                      0.9
PERcENt OF PaNAAZE ICO
RECEIVED S7
UMS  Z eF l        EDS ._                      .. __ __ _
dtlQS 20l6 OF lOsENwLs           60.0        63.3        62_0/c__
LOgSPC ZU1 Or iASE0LDs            3.8         3.2         2.0..
L0W16r 4OX OF  _ OSEOIS           W.$         9.0         9.47..
tsuAz AuwzE POvExrr incDm
LEE  CuSS PER CWA)
URRAS                              ..          ..          ..5Z89.8
RURAL                              ,.          ..       150.0k           134.5
ESTAED   ELATIWE  OVER   ICKE
LEE CUSS PR CAPITA)
UR.                                                     465 0/d          519 8
RIURAL                             .                    332 d7;r         372.1                    409.0
ESTMAXED POP. hELOW AssoLUE
rOvearr INXE LEVEL (C)
URBA                               ..          ..          .                 ..
RURL                               ..          ..
M0r AVAXLA8LZ
ls O r E S
Ia  lb. grouP avrage for ech Indicator are popoUtinn-wilited arLtbeetic    _. Coverag of eutries Mug the
ndicsacor dep_ada en availability of data aud ianot uniform.
lb Usaea otbermise usted. 7fata for 196- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970- between 1969 asd
19711 and data for -Host Recet Estiaa   betoseo L979 and 1981.
Ic  1975; Id 1977; /1 1976; If 1976; A    ge-nIg 3973 prianry and aedary edacatios cover age groups 7-14 and 157
Instea of 7-10  d 11-iTin earlier y.ar  therefore ost recant estiasa ace 7t comparab2a vith earlie  dat;
/h 1976.
Nay 1983



a  -333      3     " "VW  S-33                                                        334 D* ' 3 3=..                .3                 _ 333  'S    _ 
-WT-141 _M T-1-5 p- .9-3  ~~33433  32                                          *~14.3'4 3.3343   33  33 na-3323-P -mm..431
_3333.43   3. 3- (322 333 1--- 3333.1.4244. '31-w- ]- i."3                                    q .3-     3P3                         3  3_ _  _. *
__S3 -3  - 3323)  33   -3443..4   3E3     33 331333  933343             T    T     4  53s 3233  *34_-  333133 333*i ]         9       33 4. 3-_J- _.4
33-3 243 3.55 33.345. 31 T353 --431  *4~.s .qt T. p3=1 33331   .43                                                                           -  .- 1-43-33
_3 _1 3333    "3.3  3314333  3.3  3S313 333-33   333 3                                     - 3345  3.  33y_  _133-         _333  5*3323) 433  .44133-31
-  3.434"3        (31    432 *33) 3334    433       3  3      3 331-                      -  4W-   -    -.3Ty_                              '   3    31   37 J- - *  3-W
-~~~~~*33  _335.33  43-(- 323431 33 333343                                                                               3333 _34 13 3142 -13303W_l_ _-  z1431 33X
on- t P -2     41  3-        _        3       3                       Oa1 _    465 4                    -3                         --
-*~ - 7-3--  T"3-                 w-id 's -0  .;1sz_-b   143331 .           w       n      *. *       '-      n3
T  aw. -  ~~ ---T"  ;m     .~- - T-"   -1 r_~ -7-W                                 -P  4*1 W%t Bz                   -IT     t- -"= a
5  32_ C        34                                                     q                              -lq- (i _? _*3  2  ; w   *h- *3 3   a   - t _a   32  2..w 4u  -"n
Pv,-"u 3333                                                                                    35.
33  98g-~ "3 1- "3                     3       -             _                              333  33 _343 '132  -           "3 13.3..4  33345 33-S4 n23  4
3- -T--IA- -5                                                     a*1 W   -- _.    P-  _3                --W                  -
3333  3333i33333t 3033   -  _a  -I  -)U  "3                                                   --4 -3   3-4' 1333  3 (3-3.  -a) --   W-M 33  13 -.s   _33
_1323PM so PM  _ 3- -33333    11   _ft     *33             .it3                                                " _5. 4.4 33-332M   333     3t-_ 41U 3T '3--1
~33233 3=3    3- "3     -_     -_ _-   ~3-       - W- --                          ..  4..     e . '   --  -PI    P  -331.3-       4. 33-334-.
4 3 3 4 3 3  4 - M * M e 5 " d   .    1 -   'K P % M   - - ft   O n a - U -                   343a  -   "3S 2   T 1   " -3    _-   C Z   -   - - P   3-   - M   5
on "_1613molMns"     t-. *1-   t- M   -   --a   -M"   TNT    PM   0643  1l                        _.  *3 .3 2 33d t- _-   ( 3    -   3- 4   o 3  33i -           4
13443 12323  -4.433  M3232 S. 33.33 t32 _   -"4             p.t3 2                                       .2 a  p- wAp rn9  "3} t43  3..343           J. f    .Z3
3    a.33.pin.  3    3.          -_ _t T3-   -              -                          3 ._   -1            01 -p-    "3  3.3        5_t '-v    -
an"3"         435A  3    P-33    - 3  1    - _     " ]  _                                    - 1    P-aw 33 43  3   _3 3 _
435    1s 3333333 *3.' 4  *_2233 3=3 33j(3433~4'jTi4--"3 Mt                                                   31 - _3 O                 "3 A W J.  _ M
-ot  -M-t t_ J.9-                   d -  "f V-           1         M                                               .*t ml q-  _TG              4 u 
lano  3tt  43 0"3 610  131 7 _ 34o423-3               3.31   AM 1 3          -     343-  24333- 33            -% "-  31-1 
p                '_-P-"-S - 1 -wT--  X-   -p-   t--T-n%                                                           P-I  AA  P- 5V    S1 T- -
"a    I-3.               33 313-3" _ 3- 33-  ' 1      11t   33 3=35.-A          C                _333 -          : ---T 23   l.r43=   P" 1 - "_ .       lw    4w
3.143-. **333  33-3. *332 ""v fu                                              424Iou  3333- 424P 44-3-2 .V 31 333333343 "33M 33 5."  1-23 4.3.
--z=             -_ -9  -s-_-n -Lq      Wm t_; 1.                                    -q  0--dnZ *.DZ           . _ _ v -3 .-  J-_d    _qY _A
Ia-    *~ _t _ -w-                s-O         -@f                                                              .14. tv-   _y d- TX   '_ _ s 
ft3333331 3          4         rn *S3 3-3t - (313         m3     *_33                                       J.43 3 3-S- ( 2     o 33 ) 3314 a2 5._:  _l-   M 3_ 3
l@s@ * ~~   _  _~  ZW   r-~  sTT-  >-EDIW oxw                                                                                           *      lli
1141 v-  3.45 __.34  132433    -la 3315     .24 3-      _333233. 333
33 4~  332 -  333.3 - 4.35 4   333233 .3.3 34325.3343 1-23                         " _ 33334      P34 4.- 33p3 =  _3 3w   4- 4333         3 _ P- - tla-
VW 0 "a _0__'-S  _ --n    MJ                               p P;      M                    _3"  -wft         "   -   Zq_ *MP   -   s
-35 3   3  5 13  253         323  3         4 M-                                  5P-P-3 -          3  3 3 P                           3
- -_13_ 31 * -  53           la    2            3            1n.-                                                                                                    4
3323233v-%nvw                     tt 31r- 33253 33 3T....-                                                  . 5U s.  -
_-                   3_ - _t7- - 3 -& mg -_31-                                                           T-  _-   3 3   *             10 _3   2 Ct _1-  T    W
j3 333333334 4.3 3233334S1-  (- 3333-335Y -33-;-4433 35-.2       3                       _ _-t-l *-3 4
3=3-32 33433.3= 3    -  J- 3---_=            .  333  1 j-. 31                           3         24= 33 4U  3a- (- (            1- -       _      - _3_3-1   *3"34
33"34.333-33-a5. 243 TV9 - Tmf-n--"         - 333-333     33323133                     -3133224 - 33-44  3333  34  it 3334d -rmn
nn_   44113                       3        1   3_t--M  343-33   434-                - 23   34_          3-
"3 t3.3334  _313433 3.3313-13-3224 3-133 3-_I 3.33-3-        231- 1   _3351 7                                                                      1333231224
-       .~3.  2..3  -,(31343  333-  432 2.33) .3533335                                    436333  33.333  'I 3433  13   - _*"3 - 44.3 333  433133
~~~~~~~~~p ~       ~            ~            324i                                                  333 334 ".  33j43Z S  1  _334   '133333434.
~~~~~~~~~~~*    _33341  *33333  3333 133  _t 3-33324           *          _                      04_e- 1fr33   l°t-_0    --    3322
(333- "3 "3_33 3143) 33139  323233- (4 CO-) 32t4 _1333331 1- - _3O33                                                    -3
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    -t -T                                                      l t             8j Z-ft
91 P.S.33323  .33.3.                                                           1-063 "33304 1304                 32222 
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~n   a-                                                                v~-0~* 7-         - >_
~33 3-31 323=32 33 323=443    .-PU L13331   a-   J                                             3                _3 3- 13  -  P-5W24323     -_  31_
-   .. a-Ma-  T";:  --S     -              A       _         I;-                      0   . -" 00) > l                        I.d    _-&-M  -S _q -3  *
9133      .  3-3= _M  "t                          W   D 3   _11--W                                                            3 *- - 1   3'_ *    4 
t 4           4- T.U                    -mm3.3.                                      -   3             1      _103 3          - 3,.32     4       ,   
3.-33-on3v-  A-.333 Zm- (44.13334 ." 33   4.3334333333333                                                                     3.....3t-3  33     3443
__-4 _~t  * _   n m Arvw    W2                  -3- =3 3tt_ A-4 s                              P 1        .   3  33 -3         -  3333    32 -v         3.434
323 3-7 3-33 3-_ A-VW 33   3 33_.  £13-                                       -av3             33s3 -* -
_ _ w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z-a _. -q° -- A*_ l- -q S. m --
4._  3-~3  3333333343333334. *33-33333* *33333.3 3.332324                            33    3-34 0-  4333-313    anl- * 113              _ _"   _ 
*3-__3= 33333333 3- 3-43 3.33334 -32334243-3 3-I---P 33-T-    -   91_343- 3 _3----a -__ ---4
-         atz p3= £.    333. _333-3  33.-33* _                          _ 4 3W _3  t3   _l23 1 _d _ 3-3                                  4P-     33 --I
-n Y _ P-~~~~~~~~~~~A *  ° __ - w
43313333-44235433333.3 434333  -j332333 33  33                           5.3.323 -P5.- 3- cm -nW   3       - 33  P. 333334  335  33
_32. *__ o-(  2 _A  A- -3      3      .W     I   1W 5. -n..-                      3e3t 3333-R                                43      "  333s3
'3. 3P23- 3                 3  43-3I      33  -          3  34-
-M-  °o       3             a-  q-. -a   - Wt- w _              _.a                    "fiztb       'am]x '016 1  Arc ;@ _ - C. -   9] _ >'            *     l
_TOO "_ At-  "_t2g   _ ad-  p-c                                                                                   %      AS -Wm  cm onDtm
znwa            _- Tnr_  _- -ltO            -     t 1-1    z
--A   .      2 3_Iv_ a-         "3 (332  31323                    !3344- -3333          43"   -       1.            3                      P-
'     =t_W-1- 0-> A_ >--% -S W A  V". 
Po qn-ft -rmr3-1 3344  34 3.33 o                                                                                                  3 3           ._  * -
13  . t. 3          2     3 3I                    -         .4         Aes D" 1333    P-3 "33
ms* AV-      --                  -  -_s   n         s    -                _          vw n"  PI.                                  _   --T
P1              3.S.  4      --                                                       3    _ -    '3-3 3-        33      4             An_--4.Y -   -
a~~~~~~~~~~!f-                                                                    _M P r- _ _*_ r1 
_23323.3 ~33 323-3- 333.131331 x 5.43323  _ 3333-33 _13433.331 -                                                          333s-33-
3339--  M33    .m 6333323    3.3   43.-33-23 Z. 3333335 43313
_ _ _ _Ba * - 3343_p x _q-_ 333 _4 3333 33332O43 ~>  - q34                                               =33
333-P- 132_ _ "3 333   <"3 33_1OV33413-   t 3343  *3333_W 143 34
2- qZ t _2 __ Z_ _a
3343 _"'3' *C332343- 3323=432433.1.343=3-33.3 33          4ml33                                    *1- 33339 3.4  . 3-W 2- 3__
Aq ~   ~      ~       ~       S:l tWj      C    K    :vim
332.3  33  P33344 333333333   5. 33-4  -33P  3333434                                      13334333-3Al333.53 T333  33-3.33   (4334333  33T - 43343rW
33313-344 3343 3.2233144 .4        --P33  342332'" -.-A2323 3333 w                  33214--a -wpm.              133324      -on 3343 324) 3313593 4333
OP   33- -    A3-33133   *3333143..  4 13-4 .%I"   3-    W"d3           .X        Z 3   U-    ZC--3-3-                M- - P(3                            3-W
1 33333    3.                                         .    H 3                                                                          13 3
333- 3.33,243.3313333-1343523333   33-3433                                   (334  3433   233333343      34-.343=f                      2 33A33
"333133  "33224   3353    33333        3243333333                              .34 3333243  33333.3232343  -(33 3133313
333334-3  3,331224- 23  £13319333233334



BEST COPY AVAIIL.AL                                                                 -25 -                                                          -No
EmIlc tIDICA2OE
FbppLAtlon    :  1-N.5 xiHi.n (1981)
sP Per Capita: LS:2.Z20 E1981)
Indicator                               Ant                        Anevuge Awne lnceU   CZ)                  Share, of CDP at brket  ries  '1
(MlUino WSS Current)               Cat cnsnt   1970 Prlae)                         (at Current Pries)
1l982 1              1965-70    1970-75    1915-60    1981-l6           1970       1975     1992 bh
Diatloosi Accounts
Gross Dornatic Product la                       23w.000                7.7        10.6       6.9         1.0          100.0      100.0      1w.o
Agritc1ture                                    35.333                1.9        5.7        4.7        2.8            10.2       10.9       14.3
Indutry                                        78.391                9.Z       11.6        7.6       -2.0            35.8       37.2       31.P
S.rvlces                                      133.106                8.0       10.7        6.8        2.1            54.0       51.9       53.9
C(onS  Ptioc                                    215.960                7.7        9.8        5.7        0.5            77.s       76.6       74.7
GroC   lunestment                                60.755                9.4        14.6        5.2        0.1           22.7       21.3       21.0
ixporta of Goods nd USF                          22.180                8.2       I1.Z        7.3        4.3             6.7        7.5        7.7
laports of Goods and  FS                         Z4.613               14.5       17.2        2.6       -3.9             7.2       11.4        8.5
Gross  ome,stic Savings                           58.317               7.9       12.9        6.1        1.8            2Z.2       23.4       20.2
_MOUst         -        AVera  Aal Increas  (C)               Coapositio  of Morceandla. Trae (O)
(Qlion lSS Curent)              (at Constat 1970 Pric)                      (at Corre.t Price)
19_                 1970-75        19-30       1981-86               1970         197S      IYIt
:=ereba hdie Trade
.rcliandla  Exports                              20,164              11.1            7.7            2.8                 100.0       100.0      100.0
Pninury cl                                     8.915               8.3            1.1            0.8                  76.7        62.7       56.1
Ranufactres, d/                               10.964              28.2           IB.2            5.6                  22.5        34.8       43.9
erchandise Inporta                             19.397              I.8           -3.3             1.2                100.0       100.0      100.0
Foed (cereals)                                 1.001              -4.7           17.5            8.8                   4.5         3.0        9.6
Feroleus                                      10.126              - 7.6           6.3          -11.0                  11.2        25.4       1 .3
machlnery mad Equipmnt .1                       3.272              15.2          -7.5            2.0                  36.:        32.2       25.3
Other                                          4.999              28.4           -1.9            4.3                  48.1        39.4       50.8
197S         1976          1977           1978         1979          19U 1931                       962
Price and Ter. of Trade
GDP Deflator (1910 - 100)               305.1         444.3         632.7         892.5        1.399.4      2.724.6        5,696.8       11.108.
Exchange ltwe tr5SS)                      8.1          10.6          14.1          18.126.9                    5Z.7           93.1          1.0
Export Prlce TIne  (1970 - 100)         176.0         192.0         226.0         228.0         266.0         290.0          252.0          220.0
Zxort Pric  Index (1970 - 100)          242.0         235.0         286.0         317.0         339.0         431.0          474.0          522.0
Term of Tade Index (1970 - 100)          72.0          75.0          79.0          72.0          64.0          67.0           53.0           42.0
A  Z of GO-
Cae CuranCru          Priae )
1910          1975             1919          I6fOj L      I911 ml i9R IL
Public Finance (Cnt=rl Covernt)
Current Reen                                                               16.6            19.8           20.8            20.1          18.9    21.2
Current Epedure                                                            14.4           15.8            17.6            19.3         20.2    23.6
Surplus C.) or deficit C-)                                                  2.2            4.0             3.2             0.3         -1.4     -4.2
Captal Ependiture                                                           2.6            3.8              3.7            4.1          3.5      3.4
Financing (eCs)                                                             0.4           -0.2             0.5             3.9          4.9      7.6
1965-70         1970-75          1975-79             1981-.6
Otier Indicatre
GNP Greowt Rtse CZ)                                                         7.7             10.7              5.8                0.9
GQ  per Capita Growth Rate CZ)                                             6.6              7.7              3.0                -1.6
Emergy CUU..atIM Groeth Rate (C)                                           7.2              7.3              6.5                 -
I011                                                                       2.9              3.0              3.9                18.3
Marginal S5vixa  atze ft                                                  20.5             25.7              22.7                 0.5
Imort Elsticity  ft                                                        2.2              1.6              0.3                 4.5
.1   At aawhat pre; coponent pre  ne de     r atic products expreuaed at factor coat ad wiU not ad due to exclsion of depreciation and- indirect
taes less subsidies.
bi  Estlatae.
'    iIncludes coffee (bean and soluble). other agricultural products, ad dimurals.
di   Inluds anufactured and  d.7-proamed prodcts.
e'  Includes transportation aeterials.
VI  Tbe 1961-B6 Projections are calculated ualx the lsat squares wihod.
tI   1960-19Y2 Include governuwnt expentutes effected tbronh the enowtary bdce ad mora ufuw goernusut funda. an wll as transfers to the
federal enterprises.
No ember 14. 1963
Source: Coojuntura conom_ca. PCr: 3l-eo Central deo Bazil: fraxil Stsoft"rd Iedel (lbrId tank).



BEST COPY AVAIlABLE
tala0 E U 7303Y   6.inI1  IPS,   663.0    80736            -M                            -.
_930343. U,Z.n  (awl)
zw~~    ,   _..    -                             -t.19      -9z.03    -3.02       -16.80     43.43       12 Z3Z1.M7               3.3         78           U        513      -.
3..o. 3 09..                                         -32210    -2.233      -32.03    -13363    -1.8W         139s      -. 1                        . 1    1_I -1. 332 -3.
36   .k.lb t.   -c         )i                      -.133      -239       -,5        227        -4.M5     -6.621      .143611      -133.1111   -9.313.25 -23         3.2       3.
C.f ~~~.o3 -t 3~~~o..3 pew) ~~~l      (-,.336    (-[.mm0   (-2.10)   1-3.636       ".me3S    (-4.313    (-9.M1        (-t4.09    (-.2)(UJ1    -33.33?) C-11.3123)
36. .-09oo   o.3                               -1.419     -U.376     -^147      -3.M       -2.231    -5.33       -a53           3321      -2.643     -RAM33     -3._    ,3.53
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   - ;                                          --_sn Ilf  SWX n<
t _  iIo 3,                                                2          1          -         71          z        31"        39              -          _          _          _         -
0-  ..   .tlo                                           _.Mll    4.017        4.037      _.,       -30.0      -31.,   -10.71,          -16.8       -r.403       .61      -5.16     -s.051
*l.0.3  141.3  Z~*  it                                     31        939         an0      1lln       1.191      I.320    1.23              in1        bell       SW         63        732
3SE 13..S. (,                                            4.2        5r.22      5.6       3.3e        5.2?       2.4? 9.a                 36.4      339)        7A3        3.5       6*3z
(6.)n   (3.140)    C9.312   (11.166    (31.1Ct )   (10.111            , C17.33  1317    (37)  g(.4)   C3.6413   11.1161)
_U..33..  ,(t-2.33                                              (-3.333)   (-2.632)   (-5.3C1)   (4.1133 (--.Gl.0  (-7131)           (-?2333)   (.103)   1-6._2   (-3o3?n  (-14.31),
314.011.. l4.o .bo~~~~~~~ C..,)            -393~~i    -3as      - N         -25?      -430        461       -70             44191     .431        436     -.46      -3.4
4336. _0o.2  ...1.                                         213        954 -2 1.523         -Gs         LIN      4.6        3.315.3       6.031     -20         1.4        1.            0
D_ D. os_0.4 C..Z.00..) 4l                                   953    -1.192         23e  4.712          3.233     3.22i        437          6.80        -.09     -21736      -323      -773
bo....o1...1 _6..... _                                     f1'  41    9.544      7.323     13351 _     9.*9      6.S        7''            3.3°        4115      736        7.5       $.A2S
mw~    -  -..19 . jzoo~ !I                                    4          6.3        1.2       30.3        3.6        3.6,       M. .2                     Ms5        .0        3.         .
:ii                          4 t.                                  2.463      3a640      436         1.33      53.361    133.412        7211D
PMaM -9317 5l ?4                                      13.13      17.39       1.393 .3.3           "'.6731    35.260      3i32         310.4ar
03(1.1.l.                                            3.93       4.431      4. 3`1     5.4         im41 533  643        7.243         3.46
I-                                                 (L132      (1.2171    13.3)    (1.4a       [  3,152)   2.119     (33            072
-6360                                              C2.3)    0434)  *3.*30          0.7m 192 400)    (4.34) t            9          13,73)
7010.0.  .                             ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~9.137  1:3.913    36.371    23 .113  29.231   30  31.10 4  353ft 6.037
7014.1. ..U.oa40                         ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~9.29  13.133  33.00  36.115  &15166    3ai6m     MM79         23.713
3.43.36o.. 4.30 (ibt  .1c 1   "Y)                        3.379      *6.20      3.611     10.209     32.43      34.016     mg"           t4.699
Z-tz .    dwb--  m.33632 1~                        3.111      6.160      0.311    35.334       IM          i 13.764.0 15.19        33.7)7
7.3c1 aM P312o1 W.3..                                  3._1111    4.121      3.63      30.133      9.3        43         3.367    *     .91
0693.3.2 ow.., ~~~~~~~~~.d30. ~~43                  405       3I"         66         343       4a7                        we
380                                                   no0        173        I36        235        23         533        23            GU
~~o   131300.o43                         33~~~~~~~~~~~~19  Its  92        I33        Ms        19         a33            GM
7.Io... .~~~~~~~~~0.0.*                2~~~~.991  4.22       4.33       S.24       3.39?      7.62       3.32a         7.363
.. 1_.3_ ....3..06.3..d                             2.393       3M9       3.,119     Sim        2.5        3.192      6.3           3.363
l3w._t. ..   3_ ._   .3   53.0                                      33.?       43.3       3.          3.        3.        5316           73.0
:i,...0.   d   _9                                           2.9        2.6        .0         3.7       4.Q2       4.0       .S-             6.
4336. 1.0..0 o.1. -  - o.331, 363 (2)                     8-7        7.6       61.3        9.9      23.2    2sw 3U.                      1333
011133.1 .....                              ~~~~       ~~~ ~ ~~~~            ~~~~~7.7  7.9  3.0  7.5,  43.  9.3  3.3 
A.-W -t-11?.r  C-tg0             I-                           9.0 r.)              30         30.0       15         9.3        3. 36
-r0101  *r.                                           13.4       13.3   *D.1           33.3       36.0       32.9      36L11           -
7.0        9.2       IL7        9.3        13.2 a      .7        3.             -
W                             ,47                                     4.3        4.1        3.4        2.                                  3.3
323   1...030.1go. ft..036  CZ)                             3.5        2.3        2.2        3.        2.6        3.4         .6            3.1,
63 dbt 3630 . 13        t   _0 3  CZ)                       2.S        3.2        3.7        2.7        2t        2.1        2.2            2.9
36 2.1 o.4   I. 60   0
lbbc s
iv.c-t1-                                                                3     .1c  .     39-
ADO _U  leck *                                                             95
36033  0      0t rc 3-6  ., 0  M   I-
b3,b M600..-, .10c- 1931 .. 1-.k336  I4.30    .0o. 44,
!I 30330.1.                                                                                                                                                                                       3
-Do ,,_d _.361 *'1              - A  -6.2.j
1lr -C b--
3/ _o 3.3 34.n612 4.30 (".d M.
ho...l, 36.30.30. 4. 36.1; 0m.0.00   Me9 Da.3. 1913.62 (3) low.               36.M73. 3903



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
AN nEII
Page 1 of 3
THE SATmS OF BAW, GXIJP OPERAIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SlINARY S 5TAEWt OF LIOIS
(As of September 30, 1983)
Amount less Undis-
LaO= #   Year           Borrower                   }rpe               llations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
Fiftrsix loans fully disbursed                                      2,018.5
923     1973  Fumas Centrais Eletricas -      Power                  125.C        0.0
Itumbiara
1008     1974  Cia. Bidro Eletrica do          Power                   81.0        1.4
Sao Francisco - CHESF
1067     1974  Brazil                          Education               21.2         .6
1075     1975 Brazil                           Roads                  110.0        8.8
1151     1975  Copmnpia Sfderurgica Nacional  Industry                 95.0        4.0
1152     1975  COupabhia Siderurgica Paulista Industry                 60.0       14.7
1153     1975  Brazil                          Agriclture              23.0        0.0
1171     1975 FEPASA - Ferrovia Pallista       Railways                75.0        2.9
1195     1976  Brazil                          Rural Development       12.0        4.8
1207     1976 Brazil                           Feeder Roads            55.0        8.4
1249     1976 Brazil                           Agriculture             40.0        0.0
1317     1976 Brazil                           Agro-Industry         - 83.0       30.2
1343     1977  ELEINDSUL                       Power                   82.0       11.6
1362     1977  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development       42.0        5.5
1406     1977  Petrobras Fertilzamtes          FertiLizer              52.0         .5
1411     1977 Fertilizantes Vale do Rio        Fertilizer              55.0        1.5
Grande S.A. - VALEFERFIL
1452     1977 Brazil                           Education               32.0       17.2
1488     1977  Brazil                          Rural Development       17.0        4.0
1525     1978  Banco Nacional da Babitacao     Sewerage               110.0       59.0
1537     1978  Brazil                          Rural Development       24.0       16.6
1538     1978  ELETR0BRAS                      Power                  130.0       31.4
1557     1978  BraziL                          Roads                  114.0       62.2
1562     1978  COPESUL                         Pltroch.idcs            85.0        2.3
1563     1978  Brazil                          Urban Transport         88.0       13.6
1568     1978 Brazil                           Agric. RiCtersion      100.0       45.4
1589     1978  Brazil                          Rural Development       37.0       22.3
1654     1979  Banco Nacional da  Habitacao    Sites and Services      93.0       38.8
1656     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water and Sewerage    100.0        42.5
1660     1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.           Alumian                 78.8        0.0
1714     1979  Brazil                          Rural Devlont           26.0       19.4
1720     1979  Brazil                          Urban Development       70.0       44.8
1721     1979  COPEL                           Power                  109.0       44.3
1728     1979  Brazil                          Rural Development       40.0       28.0
1729     1979  Brazil                          Irrigation              28.0       11.3
1730     1979  Brazil                          Roads                  110.0       58.7



- 28 -
ANEK II
Page 2 of 3
A. Sw         SrAIEHEN OF LoImS (Continued)
(As of September 30, 1953)
AMount lIss Undis-
loan     Year           Borrower                    Purpos       Cancellations  bursed
(US$ MiflIon.)
1822     1980  Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control      58.0        57.2
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water Supply           130.0        56.8
1824     1980  CEEE                             Power                 114.0        87.8
1839     1980  Brazil                          Urban Transport        159.0       135.5
1850     1980  Banco Nacional da Babitacao      Water Supply          139.0        63.7
1867     1980  Brazil                          Education               32.0        26.8
1877     1980  State of Ninas Gerais           Rural Development       63.0        58.0
1895     1980  ELETRDSUL                        Power                 125.0       105.8
1924     1981  Brazil                          Rural Development       56.0        39.8
1939     1981  ELETRDBRAS                       Pbwer                  54.0        49.3
1965     1981  EBTU                            Urban Transport         90.0        71.2
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da Habltacao      Water Supply          180.0       135.7
1989     1981  Brazil                          Alcohol Development   250.0        199.6
2015     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture            29.0        23.0
2016     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture            60.0        46.6
2060     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture       -    67.0        45.4
2061     1982  Brazil                           Health                 13.0         9.6
2062     1982  Brazil                           Highlays              240.0       183.4
2116     1982  Brazil                           Agricunrure            26.4        22.4
2138     1982 ELETRDBRAS                        Power                  182.7      165.5
2163     1982 Brazil                            Agricultute            26.4        23.3
2170     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development     123.9       111.6
2177     1982  Brazil                           Rural Developmnt       42.7        39.1
2193     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development       8.9         8.0
2196     1982  CVMD                             Iron Ore              304.5       205.4
2224     1982  Brazil                           Feeder Roads          154.0       137.7
2225     1982  ENDES                            Development Banking   220.0       148.8
2249     1983  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply          302.3       273.6
2268     1983  Brazil                           Agro--Industries      400.0       374.0
2269     1983  Brazil                           Rural Developont       67.8        62.7
2343/1   1983  Brazil                           Urban Development      52.7        52.7
Total                                                8,187.2 /2
Of which bas been repaid to the Bank                 1,243.1
Total oow outstanding                                6,944.1
Amount sold                              45.8
Of which has been repaid               45.8            0.0
Total now held by Bank                               6,944.1
Total undisbursed                                               3,676.7
/1 Not yet effective.
/2 No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
Note: The status of the projects listed In Part A is described In a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 2Y -
Km HI
/;Utj. 11. 
B. SW1fr OF Lf UNf l9US (  of Siptber ID. 39933
6srr                                    O bt1Lgr                                    T3e of bdnils                    3mm       Fi4.dq Tty tMI
1Ms                  CoI.n,r do teni I aC. de Etectrid&                           ElEici r4u4I   i                     2.e               - !
Widftauft. S. A. rOLulow e liqal                                 ad Itaper                          .         -        30
3). D,I R. Pmtitm do rmiti. S. A.                            AJttw   PFarts                        0S         -       D,4
19¶Vl               (JULY OarLad do  rall. S. A. - lnustrl e Qerdo       Ibu>r Vdiklo                                 2.65       -       2.65
19S9                Qemu*IMI1M de Cl.nto fwtlad. S. A.                           rtt                                    11                 3.2U
19W                 OhyAln reIu1cw. S. A.                                         Ibir                                 410        -       4.00
ISbb/1972           As Villarw, S A.                                            Steel                                 8.00       1.S3    9.13
194*1969            Pawl e Celuow CatarEaite. S. A.                              Ibp ad pler                           3.78      3.61     7.19
19l/lY7Z1           Mltrafermll. S. A. - lietria e Grcia de Fetmt      in       fL;tilrrs                             8.22       3.03        1.25
191A                Fkram.duinm3a Muta. S. A.                                    Petrodndcls                           5.50      2J8      8J8
Iwo                 PalIlefla. 5. A. mbutria e Qoercia                          3et_bmudems                           5.50      283      8.3
1971                Odrn,. S. A. lnlstrta e    rdo                                 etradls                             4.60      I."     6J4
L971       R     l    e raide - CApuMa de CaLulie do Sou                          Raip                                 6.9D       -       4.90
197/V39715/l9l      Ompitua de Clumeto bdnaul de !Sim                            rmu                                  169.14     6.7D V75J
1973/191!/1977/1981   Crdo1Ja Siraom da Oua - (3M                                Steel                                76.91      1187     8.8
1973       >         >itaI hriket teclqumt Pad - INA?                            QtUWt  ViAditt teve1  t              5.00       -        5.00
19731 3978/ 19      8mlpwm  de DhulevIW do Pb-  _MUal -03. S. A.   Micki el  fzu aid Iirn                             85.OD      8.76    93J4
1974                lnutrt- VUlar. S. A.                                         Eleriom ad   bUdA   Equpust           6.OD       -       6.00
I974               FUim do T31fdo Mauae. S. A.                                   T     lmt.i                          31.0        -      31tD
1975/1979           CwuG  Oghauw  nlustrtri  Ltd.                                Cmbmm 3ladk                           6.18       IJ.     7.3
1Y75                Ckdrmo Ntlez e, S. A.                                        Pett dhadrals                          0.00      -       10.m
1976               Simatatbu dumtta - Ttl do ?Ibnl   s. A.                        bttIin                               6.45       1.00    7.65
119761i,9a          Teran  S. A. -           eTl Wtarnrm do N2nIte                 UL1                                 16.;1      -       16.20
1977                PB S. A. Prabstra  1arlgitn                                  Irm  ad Aladm Cutbipu                2.00        -      Zl.00
1977       I         Urao Rio do IKte S. A.                                      minim                                 ISA1       -   15.0
1978                  etal Sidensia S. A.                                         Irn ard SLel                         7.0       3m0    10.00
1979                VoLw do 1twn  Ibtm  e veimmus. s. A.                          btor V6Ddlm                         60.0        S      65.
1980                lertrg do ibdeu e S. A. - Ibli                               kaIyme e                              2.00       -       280
1980                Iaruk do Pa= S/A -       _epa - Aplnzllu ha. 1eu
e Grco  de Olangii                                        IbJlaaf                               3.50       18O     4.50
1980                VUla, lnutrlt  de 11: S. A. - VIUS                            Kmn ad Ste                          5sm         -        5.m0
198D                fEM - Gm*mt"a Irh tid de fPaUganglem                        Ohilas ad  _etIod rals                158C0     280    37.D
19HD                Dtilaria CLaure S. A.                                         Odaib  ad Aktrudumimla                -        O.Z5      0.25
1980                Sae Amoia ouAmia a Slinreml SYA                               PttiUes                             35.00      6.D0   4180
two                 PboUt Peuraimica                                             Cmcals aid  thE dcdals               43m0       5m      48.00
19S1                twUpmir                                                      tShN  ad Caital NI                     -         1.50     1.50
1981        B         ida   &mileo, de ?orqsamda - aaE f                               id Tbai ftuo=,iqg                5.50      3.00    8.50
1981                Iramfo                                                       Oadcals ad F       e_rodacmls        46.0       4800    50.00
190r                CUEnC t ONE                                                     ,t aCd Qumttttlen Kuwis           40.M       5.00    45.00
1982                Pgr1am1q S. A.                                                Hsy Capital Kt                      30.00      0.5    30.45
1983                an. Mognideme de PVartdp a (38Co                             ibe  Captal ?brk                       -        02       0.20
19[3                kli  Fr4pdgf t                                                Fool ad    f ftamasrg                13.00     -        13.00
19R3                 Q_dn Ibaf do  Ap  (0OMF9                                    Palm Oil                              6.10      -        6.10
1983                mK - ftel dL T u  S.&.                                        R4ip &  wrw Pcuh=t                   47.50     3.50    51.00
1583                Saa,,/S..                                                       aiFmd and  id PmcaAmdRi             3.0       2.50    5.50
19B3                  :                                                          liert ad  ratsurstion KMxTLn         35.00      -        35.00
Ttadl CG_l t0'ts                                                                        8ff.34     87.74  90.0B
1-  uia,Uis . Tedxuti -w. f qaywrts wd S;alm                                            6386       13.32   622.6
Total Irmnt     flu? pild by 7C                                                         286.30     74.42   3S0.72
ltal tkdisunm                                                                           203.79     12.8   21627
oaoLgr 19.1985



BEST COPY AVAIABLE - 30 -
ANNEX III
BRAZIL
TECHNICIAN TRAINING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  10 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  Ministry of Education
with Bank Assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:       July 1981
(e)  Appraisal mission departure:          February 1983
(f)  Negotiations:                         November 1983
(g)  Estimated Loan effectiveness:         February 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
Disbursement at a rate of 50X of eligible expenditure for the
first two years of project implementation, in accord with the Bank
Special Action Program.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The annual work program for the CENAFOR training program would
be reviewed annually by the Bank (para. 52);
(b) Equipment maintenance programs would be an integral part of
school proposals, and a maintenance program for the
20 federal industrial schools would be submitted to the Bank
by December 31, 1984 (para. 55).
(c) A Special Account would be opened In the Central Bank (para.
60), and all project accounts would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank (para.62); and
(d) Sub-projects costing over US$850 thousand for agricultural
schools (or Bank finance of US$375,000) or over US$1.0
million for industrial schools (or Bank finance of US$40,000)
would be submitted to the Bank for prior approval (para. 63).



- -  .           i ~~V EN EZ:U E LA                               &84tH ,t (Rl
r_   '   ''  j          *  f            #}    -J\2. 1URINAMOPGUIANA,
0 C0L O  M  B I A rs                     Boc Vist       -% \           -
.   r r ~ ~ ~ ~       . i               N { ,          { 1- ~~~~~Mocc
-r  --   (    \-c-=----<-         -*'        \~.Manau
, !  <    -   g       -   ~~~~~Velho              ~           '~,-
P E R U   .-   l
\    - \                           .  >     ~ ~~~~~~         ~        ~~~ Cuiab6  
-      {      ~~~~B 0  L I V  I A      .              -       - 
P A C   F I C                               :                          C.Ompo Grande.
CH ILE!nXP      0Y\ ,
in_t BRAIL  }                    A  RG  E NT  1vW  A 
2 AMEI      C    A  n wsse_ elbew                     . .  %            PortoAleg-1
% )    yAriANr/d    ~wr o The OMx                                 _ B'> f
b /    9  ~OC'EAN |  edaWV                     - L* w bm
_~~~~~~          mm  d.&a  =VW                   1\ 
b: -5         S      fme~~ or NWRUGUAY  -



IBRD-15685 R
(FRENCH                                ~                                                    wur11
t. S     ~SAURINAME;eUIANAj
*e (   % 4\                ,    /*
'  Mocapa '
0*-
A           .                . ~~~~~~- i-,     ..
jg .->   \   ~ ~ -                 ; <-.    B   Belem 
. . ponous _; -                                     Siio Luis
k    Mnonus                                                                        1
,Fortaleza
_-                       :--sz' -.-
/Teresina                        .     'NOR:
-                     \                   :                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)                  * Noiol
0 Jooo Pessoo
-Recife
-      MAocei6
eAreocaju               I
a Salvador
Cuiaba                      ~~~~~~~~Federal
Cucba                         BRASiLIA District
/-  k  JS Goiania
'I'
' 4                t Campo Grande            *Belo
-  2                                       Horizonte      Vitdria
20-
--  PARAGUAY                     t         ..,::'                                                                             2-
PARAGUAY         '                 Sao Pauloa             Rio de Janeiro
Cu                             IN           Curitiba"
F     TItT             A 4'                Floranopolis                               BRAZIL
9.     ,,A                           .                                            Nctional capital
PortoAlegre                                            *    State capitols
.-           f'Lr>  S           - - - -KILOMETERS 0  100 200 30 400 500               State boundaries
t  g   \  ---  MILES 6    160   200   300           lnternatlional boundaries
-  A<\URUGUAY  y                                                   -  Rivers
60i  - . Eo    ,,50.                                                 40                                  30'



