Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No 4647b-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR TECHNICIAN TRAINING
November 16, 1983
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may he used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authonzation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
SUB-SECTOR PROJECT FOR TECHNICIAN TRAINING
Table of Contents
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA ..................................................         i
I.  INTRODUCTION ......................................          1
II.   AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND
IMPLICATIONS FOR MIDDLE LEVEL MANPOWER ..3 ........         3
Agricultural Development .........        .........         3
Industrial Development  ..........    ....................  4
Implications for Middle-Level Manpower ............         5
- Agricultural Human Resources Implications .......         5
- Industrial Human Resources Implications .........         5
III.   MAJOR ISSUES IN TECHNICIAN TRAINING ..............          6
Deficiencies in Quality and Content of Training             7
Supply and Demand Imbalance .....      .................    9
Inadequate Management Policies and Procedures              13
Government Plans and Programs .....      ...............   14
Constraints to the Implementation of Government
Plans and Programs ......     .......................    14
IV.   SUB-SECTOR PROJECT FOR TECHNICIAN TRAINING   .......       15
A.  Main Policy Objectives .....       ..................  15
B.  Project Content and Strategy .....     ............    16
Objective No 1: Defining a Long Term Development
Policy for Agricultural and Industrial
Technician Training ...................       16
- Creation of a National Commission on Technician
Training .......................................       17
- Strengthening of the Industrial Technician
Training Planning Unit (COSIFE) ................       17
- Strengthening of the Planning Capacity of the
National Coordination of Agricultural Education
(COAGRI) .       .....................................  18
- Creation of Technician Training Planning Units at
State Level .....................................       18
Objective No. 2: Adapting the Quality and Quantity of
Technician Training to Regional and
National Requirements .................      19
- Creation of Local or State Sector Advisory
Committees for Technician Training        .     .        19
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance ofE
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
- Curriculum  Improvement ..........................                            20
- Improving the Competencies of Instructional,
Administrative  and Planning  Personnel ..........                          21
- Improvement of Equipment and Instructional
Materials ......................................                            22
- Improvement of Physical Facilities for
Agricultural  Instruction .......................                           22
- Expanding and Strengthening of the Graduate
Tracer System ..................................                           23
Objective No 3: Providing the Agricultural and
Industrial Sectors with the Specialized
Technician Skills Required for
Development .........................                       24
V. MANAGEMENT AND  IMPLEMENTATION  ........................                               24
Overview ..........................................                             24
Organization  and  Staffing  ........................                           26
Implementation Procedures .........................                             29
Identification ..                                                           30
Preparation  .........             ..........................              30
Appraisal  ..........            ...........................                33
Approval  ...........            ...........................                33
Supervision  .........             ..........................              33
Project Monitoring  ............................                           33
Project Evaluation  ............................                            34
Criteria  and  Procedures  for Allocating Project  Funds                        34
Eligibility  .........             ..........................               35
General Guidelines for the Allocation
of Project  Funds  .............................                          35
Phased  Implementation  Program  ....                 .............        37
VI.     SUB-SECTOR PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCE  ....                     .........        37
Total Project  Costs  ..............................                            38
Basis  of Cost Estimates ...........................                            39
Contingency Allowances  ...........................                             39
Procurement  ......................................                             40
- Civil Works  ....................................                             40
- Furniture  ......................................                             41
- Equipment  ......................................                             41
- Contract  Review  ................................                            41
Readiness  for  Implementation  .....................                           41
Recurrent  Cost Implications  ......................                            42



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No
Flnancing and Bank Contribution        ..................  42
- Overall Financing Plan .........................        42
-Disbursements .................                          43
- Project Special Account .........................       44
Retroactive Financing ..........................        44
- Auditing ........     ...............................   45
VII.   BENEFITS AND RISKS        ...................   45
Benefits .............................................   45
Risks ................................................   46
VIII.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHIED   . .....................    48
ANNEXES
1. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Flile
2. Eligibility and Pre-Selection Criteria
3. Criteria for Appraisal of Sub-Projects
CHaRTS
5.1 Organizational Structure
5.2 Procedures for Generating anid Processing Project Applications
(State Institutions)
5.3 Procedures for Cenerating and Processing Project Applications
(Federal Institutions)
r
This report is based on the findings of a two-stage appraisal
mission that visited Brazil in February/March 1983 and June 1983,
Mission members included Messrs. Yves Tencalla (senior agricultural
educator, mission leader), Wesley Hobbs (senior technical educator),
Rene Corradine (architect) and Eduardo Marcal Grilo (technical educator,
consultant).



GLOSSARY
CEDATE    Centro de Desenvolvimento de Apoio    Center for Development and
Tecnico a Educacao                     Technical Assistance to
Education
CENAFOR   Fundacao Centro Nacional de             National Center for
Aperfeicoamento e Formacao             Training of Personnel
Profissional                           for Vocational Training
COAGRI    Coordinacao Nacional do Ensino          National Coordination of
Agropecuario                           Agricultural Education
COES      Coordenadoria de Ensino Regular         Coordination of Secondary
de 2o. Grau                            Education
COSIFE    Coordinadoria do Sistema Federal        Federal Coordination
de Ensino                              of Industrial Technical
Education
INEP      Instituto Nacional de Estudos           National Institute for
e Pesquisas Educacionais               Educational Research and
Studies
MEC       Ministerio da Educacao e                Ministry of Education
Cultura                                and Culture
SADESE    Sub-Secretaria de Apoio do              Sub-Secretariat for the
Desenvolvimento dos Sistemas           Development of Education
de Ensino                               Systems
SE        Secretaria de Educacao                  Secretariat of Education
SENAI     Servicio Nacional de Aprendizagem       National Service for
Industrial                             Industrial Apprenticeship
SEPS      Secretaria de Ensino de Primeiro        Secretariat of Primary and
a Segundo Graus                        Secondary Education



- i -
BRAZIL
BASIC DATA
Secondary School Enrollments (1981):
Total (all courses)                2,900,000 1/
Industrial Technician
Federal                    50,400
State                       11,100
Private                      9,000
SENAI                       4,600
Subtotal                 75,100
Agricultural Technician
Federal                     11,700
State                       13,000 1/
Private                      2,800 1/
Others                       3,000 1/
Subtotal                 30,500
Financial Data:
Expenditures of the Ministry of Education for Federal Secondary
Schools (in US$000's):
Capital           Recurrent
Total                               12,526.3            111,271.7
Industrial.Technician Training    10,782.7              90,397.7
Agricultural Technician Training   1,743.6               20,874.0
1/   Estimates



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Sub-Sector.  Brazil is placing emphasis on the training of
adequate human resources, needed for economic development. The present
formal education system provides manpower trained at secondary and
post-secondary levels (sub-professionals, or technicians, and
professionals). Non-formal, or less formalized, systems provide training
to skilled workers. Federal, state, private, municipal and university
agricultural and industrial schools train skilled technicians to improve
the productivity in agriculture and industry.
1.02      The Government is placing the development of the agricultural and
industrial sectors among the top investment priorities of the country.
These sectors will be the main contributors to the economic recovery of the
country. To allow fast technological development in the two sectors,
appropriately trained technicians must be available. About 11,000
agricultural-and 9,600 industrial technicians graduate annually from the
formal system (1981). In agriculture, despite a general oversupply of
technicians trained at various levels, skills are missing in many areas.
In industry, a foreseeable undersupply of graduates within the next decade
is compounded by quality gaps. Thus, in late 1981, the government
expressed interest in bank financial assistance for nation-wide improving
and strengthening of the technician training system. Three technician
training sub-sector review missions visited the country in October/November
1981, January/February 1982, and May/June 1982. Sub-sector memoranda for
agricultural and industrial technician education and training were issued
on June 30, 1982 and October 18, 1982 respectively. On the basis of the
two memoranda, a project was prepared by the Government, which formed the
basis for Bank appraisal (February/March and June, 1983).
1.03      The Project.  The proposed project has two main thrusts in each
sub-sector. For the agricultural training sub-sector, it aims at
consolidating the formal training network and at improving the relevance of
the training courses to the requirements of the agricultural sector. In
the industrial training sub-sector, it aims at improving the quality
aspects of the training given by the formal system and at preparing the
basis for a future balanced expansion of the training network, to respond
to the needs of the labor market. No expansion of the system is foreseen
under the project. More specifically, the proposed project would include
IBRD financing of US$22.0 million to assist the government in: (a)
defining a long-term development policy for agricultural and industrial
technician training, at national and regional levels; (b) adapting the
quality and quantity of technicians in accordance with evolving national
and regional requirements; and (c) providing the agricultural and
industrial sectors with the specialized technician skills required for
development. These objectives would be achieved through a series of
coordinated actions. These actions would also allow the creation or
strengthening of appropriate implementation mechanisms, and the training of
human resources to improve in a permanent way the institutional capacity of
the Ministry of Education and of the participating states.



- 2 -
1.04      The proposed sub-sector project would entail Bank financing of
the Government investment plan for the two sub-sectors, for the period
1984-1987. The costs of the proposed project would include expenditures
for (a) the strengthening of existing institutions (salaries of additional
staff, consultancy services, fellowships, study tours); (b) teacher and
staff training; (c) construction of physical facilities; (d) provision of
equipment and teaching materials; (e) execution of specific studies; and
(f) project administration.
1.05      The proposed project is recommended for Bank financing because:
(a) it is relevant to the priority needs in education of the country, and
is consistent with the present government policy in the two-subsectors;
(b) it is feasible in terms of financial and implementation capacities of
the Ministry of Education; and (c) it is economical in that it would
introduce criteria and mechanisms for a more rational utilization of educa-
tional inputs in the two sub-sectors covered by the proposed project.
These matters are considered in sequence in the following chapters.
1.06      Definition of Sub-Sectors. The agricultural technician education
and training sub-sector prepares qualified manpower indispensable for
carrying out training programs at the lower level (mainly through the
extension services), and for linking farm families to the activities
performed by university trained professionals (agronomists). Thus, they
perform the important function of technology transfer. In fact
agricultural technicians are the field operators (often living in poor
social conditions) performing the essential task of diffusing technical
knowledge into poor agricultural areas. In addition, they also (a) train
the producers in new technologies and teach skills to agricultural workers
and their families; (b) work in applied research by executing field testing
tasks, supervising field workers, and collecting samples and data for the
researcher to analyze; (c) execute administrative tasks related to
supervised credit operations; (d) administer farm subsectors such a
poultry, dairy, beef and crop production; and (e) carry out the basic field
surveys to provide feedback for the planning of agricultural development
programs by professional agriculturalists.
1.07      The industrial technician education and training sub-sector is
that part of the education and training system which prepares middle-level
technicians for the job market. The term "industrial technicians" is
generally defined as that group of trained manpower having a sound base in
applied science and mathematics, and a good balance between technical
knowledge and technical skills in their fields of specialization. On an
employment continuum the technician lies between, and overlaps, both
skilled workers and engineers as shown below.



-3-
Diagram No. 1: EMPLOYMENT CONTINUUM
Level of           Skilled Workers          Technicians          Engineers
Training
Balance of                                               Technical Knowledge
Technical
Knowledge
and Skills
Technical Skills
Consequently, there is a corresponding overlap in training course content
of skilled workers, technicians and engineers. The above diagram shows the
relative strengths and weaknesses in technical knowledge and skills of each
group.
1.08      Bank Past Experience.  The Bank Group has supported the
Government in its initial effort to improve training opportunities of
agricultural and industrial technicians at upper secondary level through
the First Education Project (Loan 755-BR, of US$8.4 million, signed in June
1971, closed in November 1978). The project assisted the strengthening of
eight agricultural and two industrial technical schools. The Project
Performance Audit Report dated January 9, 1980 (No. 2802), revealed some
implementation deficiencies due to shortages of foreign exchange, delays in
training specialized teachers, change in Borrower's policy, and inadequate
field supervision by the Bank. In general, "graduates from project
schools... found employment quite readily or continued for further
studies." Field visits to some project schools, made after project
completion, have shown that the educational and training standards applied
remain high. Thus, the benefits of the project are substantial and lasting
ones.
II. AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND
IMPLICATIONS FOR MIDDLE LEVEL MANPOWER
Agricultural Development
2.01      Agriculture is an important sector of the Brazilian economy,
accounting for: (a) about 12% of GDP, (b) about 47% of export earnings and,
(c) about 36% of the total active labor force and total population. The
country is almost self-sufficient in agricultural production and is the
world's second most important exporter of agricultural commodities.
However, this performance, when disaggregated, shows an unbalanced growth
between the South and Center-West, and the North and Northeast. The former
regions have experienced most of the productivity gains and the expansion
of production areas, whereas the latter regions have stagnated under poor
technology and adverse climatic conditions. New frontier lands are
presently limited to few regions, their fertility seems to be declining,



- 4 -
and rising transport costs make their products less competitive.  The
productivity of some major foods crops has declined. Thus, to increase
overall production and to improve the competitiveness of export crops,
greater attention is to be put on improving the productivity of lands under
cultivation.
2.02      For the near future, the Third National Development Plan
(1980-1985) assigns to the agricultural sector the responsibility of
financing a substantial proportion of non-agricultural imports, and of
reducing the economy's dependence on imported petroleum through the
substitution of domestically produced alternative bio-mass sources of
energy (such as alcohol from sugarcane, manioc and wood). The plan puts
emphasis on: (a) the production of basic food and export products; (b) the
strenghtening of soil research; (c) the promotion of the cooperative
system; (d) the increased use of modern agricultural technolgy 1/; (e)
cattle and chicken raising; and (f) forestry and fishery development. As a
consequence, the Government will have to strengthen agricultural research
to generate new technologies and foster field testing of the results of the
basic research.  In addition, an improved extension system will have to
carry out the dissemination of the newly tested technologies to the direct
beneficiaires, and the operating capability of the producers will have to
be upgraded.
Industrial Development
2.03      The industrialization of the Brazilian economy has been taking
place at a very rapid rate since 1967 until the full effects of the world
recession began to take effect in 1981.  During the period of 1968 through
1973, manufacturing output grew at an unprecedented rate of about 13% and,
despite the effects of the 1973 oil crises, growth from 1973 through 1980
averaged about 7%. Industry's share of total GDP has increased from about
26% in 1967 to about 37% in 1980. As a positive measure of the level of
technological development, the share of manufactured exports in the
country's total exports increased from 1965 through 1980 from 18% to about
57%, and the export of products classified by the Government as of
"relatively sophisticated technology" increased from 1965 through 1979 from
6.7% to 31.1% of total manufactured exports. During this period Brazil
changed from a large importer to an exporter of airplanes, electronics
equipment, machine tools, automobiles, electrical equipment, domestic
appliances, farm tractors, military equipment and others, although it still
imports in each of the above categories. Additionally, Brazil is in the
process of completely changing its vast telecommunications system from a
low technology electromagnetic system to an electronic microwave system.
The world's largest electric power generating plant will soon be completed,
with resulting large expansions in the electrical distribution system and
the end users of electric power.
2.04      These measures of technological development, among a great many
others, are the direct results of policies formulated and initiated largely
by the government. These policies emphasize the development of the tech-
nological infrastructure, regulation of technology imports, development of
technological capability at the factory level, and generation of demand for
local technology. All these have important implications for human
resources.
1/ Such as fertilizers, tractors, and improved seeds.



- 5 -
Implications for Middle-Level Manpower
2.05      Agricultural Human Resources Implications.  To achieve the
objectives of the Agricultural Development Plan, greater investments will
be required in the near future for the development of adequately trained
human resources.  (see para. 2.02).   The analysis of the subsector reveals
that despite an over-supply of so-called agricultural technicians trained
under various types of courses, there is a critical need for middle-level
agricultural technicians trained appropriately in a variety of skills (such
as soil erosion control, farm mechanization, irrigation, pasture
management, dry farming, small agricultural industries).2/ The need for a
wider spectrum of skills does not imply an increased supply of
technicians. A certain percentage of technicians graduating from existing
schools should be trained in the above skills. The consequence of the
present unavailability of technicians with the range of skills required by
the agricultural sector and with proper training to assume efficiently
their responsibilities, are felt at farm, regional and national levels. At
farm level, technologies adapted to local conditions are not efficiently
transferred to the producers resulting in waste in inputs, disruption of
farm production cycle, and economic losses. At regional level, the
implementation of development projects is slow and frontier areas are not
supplied with adequate technologies for development. At national level,
applied research in priority areas and the development of new techniques
are impaired and often deficient.
2.06      The critical need for skilled manpower does not exist at present
at other levels of training. In fact, the agricultural skilled-worker-
level training courses presently operated by the Ministry of Labor are
being expanded and strengthened to reach all the regions of the country.
Bank financial assistance is provided for the expansion and decentraliza-
tion of this training network, as for the farmers' training programs
operated by the state extension services. University trained personnel are
presently in over supply.   There are quality differentials in higher agri-
cultural education, but they can be corrected within an overall review of
this level of education without thorough changes of the training system.
2.07      Industrial Human Resources Implications.  The rate of progress
and the level of technology attained in Brazil's industrial development has
a number of significant manpower training implications. Among the more
critical ones are those of the supply and demand for industrial techni-
cians, industrial engineers and skilled industrial workers, and the inter-
relationships among them. During the 1970s Brazil's industrial and service
sectors began to reach the level of technological development which
requires increasing numbers of formally trained industrial technicians. As
levels of industrial technology increase, the traditional on-the-job
upgrading of skilled workers into technicians becomes increasingly diffi-
cult, costly, and inadequate. Even with conservative growth rate assump-
tions (4.6% for 1981-90), the average annual shortfall of industrial tech-
nicians would be about 10,800 with nearly all occuring in the heavily
industrialized Southeast.
2/   See: Brazil - Agricultural Education and Training Sub-Sector
Memorandum.  June 30, 1982, paragraphs 1.09-1.11.



- 6 -
2.08      Another factor of importance is that the few highly skilled
workers who have the pre-requisite math, science and basic technical
knowledge are critically needed in the job they are doing. Additionally,
the growing demand for skilled and semi-skilled workers is already
exceeding the supply. The downward substitution of engineers in employment
could be applied in Brazil for a limited time, due to the surplus of
supply. This practice would normally lead to lower levels of job
performance (an engineer is not trained to perform middle-level technician
tasks) and to unnecessary higher labor costs.
III. MAJOR ISSUES IN TECHNICIAN TRAINING
3.01      The agricultural and industrial technical training subsectors
face a number of major problems which must be urgently addressed by the
government. The following major issues 3/ are having increasingly adverse
effects on the planned development of the agricultural and industrial
sectors (paras. 2.02 and 2.03):
(a) deficiencies in quality and content of training: (i)
inadequate equipment and facilities, (ii) deficient
curricula and course content, (iii) lack of quality control,
(iv) insufficient instructor qualifications, and (v)
inadequate schools and related economic environment
relations;
(b) supply and demand imbalances: (i) lack of specialized
skills in agricultural technicians, and (ii) insufficient
outputs of industrial technicians; and
(c) inadequate management policies and procedures: (i)
inadequately developed system for national and regional
planning, and (ii) poor system for coordination of program
implementation.
A brief analysis of each of the above issues is followed by a summarized
review of the government's plans and programs, and of the present
constraints to the implementation of these plans and programs.
3/   A detailed discussion of present issues is contained in the Subsector
Memoranda on Agricultural and Industrial Technician Training, dated
June 30, 1982 and October 18, 1982, respectively.



Deficiencies in Quality and Content of Training
3.02      Visits and discussions with a large number of schools, agricul-
tural/industrial factories and federations, and with their management and
staff clearly confirm that the quality of technician training is inade-
quate.   This is a matter of serious concern to both the Government and the
private sector. Poor quality of training results in graduates not being
able to assume, upon employment, responsibilities and functions corres-
ponding to their level of training. Their low performance contributes to
lower quality of agricultural and industrial production, and higher unit
production costs. The competitive ability of exported production is, thus,
decreased. Inadequacies in equipment and facilities, curricula and course
content, quality control, qualification of instructors, and school environ-
ment relations account for the quality deficiencies.
3.03      Inadequate Equipment and Facilities.  There is a serious lack of
software, audio-visual aids, and laboratory-workshop-field training equip-
ment in both the agricultural and industrial schools. This deficiency is
especially acute in basic agricultural and industrial production and
service training equipment. The available capital budget data for equip-
ment replacement in the industrial schools shows a range from an average of
about 25% of annual needs in the state schools to an average somewhat
lower. The immediate consequence of these equipment deficiencies is a
corresponding weakness in essential practical instruction in the production
processes and in the repair and maintenance services industries.
3.04      Deficient Curricula and Course Content.  The curricula and course
content of the agricultural technician training programs are variable and
have a number of significant deficiencies. The instruction in technical
subjects is inadequate in both quantity and quality.  Instruction given is
overly theoretical and lacking in practical applications. This is
partially due to the lack of adequate laboratory, shop and field equipment
(para. 3.03) and instructor competencies. Instruction in the technical
subjects needlessly repeats relevant basic science instruction previously
taught. Thus, the time available for technical instruction is further
reduced. Insufficient attention is given to farm management and marketing,
communication skills, rural sociology, agricultural mechanization and soil
and water management.
3.05      The curricula and course content of the industrial technician
training programs is well balanced in the time allocation to technical
theory (20%), technical laboratory-shop practice (20%), math and science
(17%), general subjects (23%) and industrial internship (20%). In spite of
this desirable balance it has significant deficiencies in the areas of
manufacturing processes and in repair and maintenance services.
Additionally, curriculum content is frequently not kept relevant to the
needs of the industry due to out-of-date equipment and training materials,
and because of inadequate contacts with industry.



- 8 -
3.06      Lack of Quality Control.  At the present there is no system for
the promotion of quality control in either the agricultural or industrial
technician training programs at any level. The Ministry of Education has
set some standards for the curricula, course content and duration in hours
for the various subject matter areas, but these are followed very loosely
by schools (particularly state industrial schools). There are no minimum
standards for graduates' grading, instructor certification, instructional
support services, training equipment and facilities, and relationships with
industries. Consequently, there are tremendous differences (up to about
65%) in the total hours of technical instruction, technical practice, and
internship (estagio) requirements. The lack of minimum standards for the
award of the technician certificate results in the lack of a common minimum
level of competency on which industry can base its hiring practices and
salary scales.
3.07      Insufficient Instructor Qualifications.  In general, agricultural
schools lack adequately qualified instructors (particularly state
schools). The agricultural university graduates who make up about 70% of
the instructors, generally have the following deficiencies: (a) little
practical knowledge of agricultural production due to their general lack of
rural backgrounds; (b) their general unconcern for the problem of small
farmers; and (c) inadequate practical training because of universities
poorly equipped with farm shops and farm training facilities. In-service
training opportunities are scarce and inadequate. Additionally, about 20%
of the teachers are not pedagogically qualified. The consequences of these
deficiencies are the previously stated curriculum deficiencies (para.
3.04), over-emphasis upon instruction in the basic sciences and technical
theory, under-utilization of the school farm as a practical learning
laboratory, and narrow specialization of instructors with a resulting lack
of comprehensive approach to the teaching-learning process.
3.08      The industrial school technical instructors, of whom about 30%
are engineers and 70% technicians, generally have good basic training
qualifications. They are usually pedagogically qualified through pre-
service and in-service training courses and all of them have a minimum of
three years industrial experience. However, a majority of them have
insufficient industrial production experiences (para 3.05) and require
periodic upgrading. This is partially a reflection of inadequately
equipped practical laboratories and shops and, therefore, the perceived
need for such skills. The consequence of this deficiency, when combined
with the lack of equipment, is a decrease in the quality of outputs.
3.09      Inadequate School Environment Relations.  The lack of
formal procedures in school-sectoral environment relations is an additional
constraint to the development of the technician training system. In the
industrial sector, the value of formal industrial advisory committees for
each major training program has not been adequately realized, although in
some schools ad hoc procedures exist. At present, curricula require a
supervised industrial internship averaging 720 hours, instructors work
part-time in industry, and the governing boards of the schools have an
industrial representation. Thus school administration and instructional



- 9 -
personnel have generally viewed their school-industry relations as
adequate. However, they are becoming increasingly aware that the insights
on improvement of instruction that are gained from these activities are
piecemeal in nature and are not focused in any coordinated manner on
specific problems.  Indeed, because of the lack of formal coordination of
effort, instruction problems are frequently not fully identified nor their
parameters adequately explored. Thus schools are missing a valuable
opportunity for keeping course content relevant to the current and changing
needs of industry.
3.10      Professional contacts with the communities surrounding
agricultural schools are very limited. Schools, therefore, are often
isolated. The teaching force, and the entire school system miss an
important source of feedback allowing the evolution of the teaching system
in accordance with the aspirations of the farming and rural communities,
and the changes in technology. The main causes of these reduced contacts
are the general lack of concern among school staff for small scale and
subsistence farming, and the reduced motivation of teachers (compounded by
the absence of incentives fo- their profession). 4/
Supply and Demand Imbalance
3.11      Supply and demand imbalance of technicians is having an
increasingly adverse effect on agricultural and industrial development
(paras. 2.05 and 2.07). New technology generation and improvement of
utilizers' skills in agricultural production, management and marketing, do
not occur at an adequate rate, particularly at farm level. The result is
waste of inputs, increased costs, and lower yields. Increased unit costs
and lower quality appear also in the industrial sector, causing decreased
competitive ability of exported production. Shortages of industrial
technicians encourages an upward attraction 5/ for the more highly skilled
workers to become technicians, with frequent detriment to the skilled
worker aspects of the production process. Furthermore, as nearly all
skilled workers have less than a secondary education, relatively few of
them have the capabilities in applied math, science and technical know-
ledge required by the rapidly increasing levels of technology of industrial
production. Supply demand imbalance has two very significant
characteristics: a lack of specialized skills in agricultural technicians,
and insufficient outputs of industrial technicians.
3.12      The Lack of Specialized Skills in Agricultural Technicians.
There is a lack of field technicians specialized in small scale irrigation,
farm mechanization and machinery management, farm management, marketing,
soil and water management, pasture management, and horticultural and
floricultural production. The deficiencies are caused mainly by: (a)
inadequately defined training policies; (b) financial constraints due to
the rapid growth of agricultural schools; (c) strong job competition fron
4/   Motivation is generally good in federal schools.
5/   2,500 - 3,000 annually.



- 10 -
the surplus outputs of agricultural university graduates; and (d) the lack
of official definition of the agricultural technical profession.
3.13      Until recently, there has been a lack of a clear training policy
at both federal and state levels. There is still an absence of overall
sub-   sectoral development planning, particularly at state level.  In
fact, investments in agricultural training are not determined on the basis
of labor market requirements. The lack of information on employment
opportunities, as well as the lack of follow-up data on graduates of
schools other than the federal ones, is a serious factor limiting proper
planning, particularly at regional level. Schools often have been
established simply as a response to social pressures, resulting in many
unsuitable schools providing very poor instruction.6/ The absence of a
clear training policy as a result of adequate planning has also resulted in
a curriculum which is not responsive to the specialized and changing needs
of a region or an era in time. Curriculum modifications are rarely based
upon a survey of regional training profiles.
3.14      The growth of training institutions often puts a heavy strain on
state finances, generally resulting in limited educational inputs.
Necessary investments for producing graduates with high level and
specialized skills are not made possible. As an example, in the State of
Rio Grande do Sul 69 out of the 82 existing agricultural schools belong to
the state government (the others being privately, municipally or university
owned). The proper equipping and staffing of all these schools would
require financial resources which are beyond the present absorptive
capacity of the state.  It would also imply a shifting of investments from
priority areas (e.g., basic education) which the local government is not
willing to accept. The majority of the state-owned schools defined as
agricultural training institutions are, in fact, used more as general
secondary schools with low quality agricultural courses than as vocational
schools.
3.15      Competition by professionals for technician level jobs is strong.
The analysis of the data concerning the occupations filled by the present
stock of qualified manpower by level of instruction shows that about 11% of
the agricultural occupations at technician level (including biology tech-
nicians) are filled by professionals (full university course), about 6% by
persons not having completed university education, and 53% by technicians,
the remaining 30% by persons having an educational level below full
secondary education. Only 2% of the occupations at professional level
(agronomists) are filled by sub-professionals. Competition is mainly due
to: (a) the over-supply of agronomists, following the rapid expansion of
universities during the last decade; (b) the fact that the agronomist often
accepts a lower salary for a technician-level function in the private
sector; (c) the presence of a strong professional organization trying to
6/   These schools have poor on no agricultural land, a technical teaching
staff of poor quality, poor equipment, and very limited instructional
and reference materials.



- 11 -
expand the occupational domain of the agronomists (every agronomist has to
be member of the regional professional organization to be able to enter the
public labor market); and (d) the fact that some employers prefer to
recruit agronomists for technician-level functions, in the belief that
university trained personnel has not only the technical but also the
attitudinal skills required by the function. For many field jobs this is
not the case.
3.16      The lack of official definition of the agricultural technical
profession also adds to the confusion in the employer's mind about the
responsibilities and functions which can be assumed by the technicians.  As
long as this confusion continues, the labor market will not press the
formal system sufficiently to produce the skills it requires at secondary
level of training. A strong motivation for changes is, therefore, lacking.
3.17      Considering the figures on the present supply and demand of
agricultural technicians, a heavy oversupply is evident. But a simple
comparison between outputs and requirements is not justified. In fact:
(a) only about 70% of the total number of the so-called agricultural
schools train full sub-professionals; and (b) only about 70-80% of these
graduates enter directly the labour market, out of which only about 80-90%
in the agricultural sector.
3.18      Insufficient Outputs of Industrial Technicians.  A recently
completed analysis of manpower data carried out by the Ministries of Labor
and Education 7/, in accordance with acceptable international standards,
gives insights (in order of magnitude) into the supply and demand for
industrial technicians, engineers, and skilled workers. The current
education and manpower training system is improperly dimensioned to meet
the projected manpower demands. The imbalance is reflected in the 1981
annual output of technician training programs (47% of demand) as contrasted
to those of university engineering programs (300% of demand). The norm for
formally trained industrial technicians in developed countries is as much
as 90% of total demand. This imbalance in the outputs of the various types
and levels of education and training is partially a reflection of the bias
of both the Government, and society in general, towards university
education. The Government is restricting the growth of engineering
enrollments and the excess output is expected to disappear during the
1990s.
3.19      The average annual 1981-90 shortfall of 10,800 industrial
technicians for the nation as a whole, as shown by the manpower survey, is
complicated by an even poorer regional distribution of outputs and
imbalances in types of technicians within regions. While the North,
Northeast and Central-West Regions all show a slight surplus (which will
disappear in the late 1980s), the highly industrialized regions of the
Southeast and South show that the supply of technicians is only 31% and
65% of the respective demands. The magnitude of these shortages will be
7/   See the "Industrial Technician Education and Training Subsector
Memorandum", dated October 18, 1982.



- 12 -
amplified by a 290% increase in the shortfall during the 1991-2000 period
if steps are not soon taken to increase the supply of technicians.
However, despite these overall shortages, there is an oversupply of certain
types of technicians (e.g., roads) in some regions.
3.20      Shorter and more cost-effective training schemes than the present
ones are desirable and the National Service for Industrial Apprenticeship
(SENAI) is experimenting with several, some of which are only one year in
length and all are at the post-secondary level. However, recruitment of
qualified students is difficult, the duration of the course is too short
and the training is too narrow.8/ The result is that graduates do not have
the breadth of training required for on-the-job assimiliation of new and
rapidly changing technology.  The rapidly rising level of industrial
technology in Brazil is requiring an increasingly higher level of physical
and emotional maturity, maths and science capability, and technical
knowledge in technical trainees. None of these characteristics can be
adequately developed in one-year training programs (as the SENAI programs)
and especially not at the secondary level.
3.21      Among the more significant causes of the regional imbalances
and shortages in the outputs of qualified industrial technicians are:
(a) heavy social pressures for university level studies, resulting in a
disproportionate amount (about 31.1%) of federal budgets being allocated to
university education (Latin American norm is less than 20%); (b) severe
budgetary constraints, partially as a result of high university alloca-
tions, to the development of additional technician training places at both
federal and state levels; (c) only about 60% continue with the fourth year
of studies required for the technician qualifications (the remaining enter-
ing directly the University); (d) the significantly lower level of
entry-level technician salaries as contrasted to engineering salaries,
especially prior to the last two years,9/ that encourages the better
technician students to change to engineering; and (e) a past decision of
MEC to place only a single federal technical school in each of the states,
regardless of the size of its industrial sector.
8/   In the past, the MEC had organized two-year, post-secondary technical
courses, but they were found to be unpopular with Brazilian students.
This is a direct result of student pressures that all post-secondary
studies should lead to a university degree. All of the post-secondary
institutes created by MEC in the 1950s and 1960s have been changed to
universities or to three-year post-secondary technological institutes
with direct transfer to engineering colleges.
9/   From interviews with the management of 10 industrial federations and a
review of employment salary data, it is clear that the gap between
entry-level salaries of technicians and engineers is rapidly
narrowing. It is expected that this trend will continue until the
demand for engineers catches up with the projected supply in the
mid-1960s.



- 13 -
Inadequate Management Policies and Procedures
3.22      Management of the technician training system is poor,
particularly at state level. As a result of the overall poor management:
(a) an undesirable duplication of industrial training programs exist in
some regions; (b) there is no legal standardization in industry approved
curriculum and course syllabi requirements for the award of the industrial
technician diploma; (c) in the agricultural sector, graduates of agricul-
tural schools do not have a common level of competency; and (d) there are
great variations in the relevance of training programs to the needs of the
specific economic sector, and in the quality of graduates.  Inadequate
planning at national and regional levels, and poor coordination in the
implementation of training programs are the two main facets of the poor
management issue.
3.23      Inadequate National and Regional Planning.  No formal system
exists for national and regional planning of technician training programs.
Such planning as is being done is largely ad-hoc in nature and involves
little or no joint planning efforts by federal, state, local and private
training authorities. The lack of information on employment opportunities,
and on the destiny of school graduates other than the federal ones, is a
serious factor limiting proper planning, particularly at regional level.
In general, some states have shown in the past no political commitment to
develop an appropriate technical education system (e.g.Sao Paulo). More
recently, the MEC has developed constant relations with the States in view
of the proposed project. These contacts at both political and working
levels have shown a renewed interest by the states in the sector, and a
committment to improvements. Furthermore, under MEC's direct assistance,
planning is slowly improving particularly in the agricultural technician
training subsector.
3.24      Poor Coordination of Program Implementation.  The coordination of
technician training between the federal, state, municipal and private
schools is seriously inadequate. At federal level the agricultural train-
ing subsector is managed by a coordinating unit within MEC (the National
Coordination of Agricultural Education, COAGRI). But this unit is effec-
tively coordinating only the schools belonging to the federal system, and
is assisting few states. In the industrial sub-sector a coordinating unit
has only been created recently (Federal Coordination of Industrial
Technical Education, COSIFE) and no assistance is provided yet to state or
other schools. At state level, only few of such coordinating and policy
making units exist, and only a few of them are effective. Schools
belonging to universities (apart from a few agricultural ones) are admin-
istered in accordance with management and planning criteria of each single
university. The few municipal schools have no coordination with either the
state or federal systems.
3.25      The major cause of uncoordinated planning has been the lack of
(a) an appropriate organizational structure (at state level in general, and
at federal level of industrial training), and (b) inadequate personnel,
both in terms of numbers and qualifications.



- 14 -
Government Plans and Programs
3.26      The MEC has prepared two subsectoral policy documents, respec-
tively for the agricultural and industrial technician training subsectors.
Based on an analysis of the main issues of the subsectors, and on the
overall guidelines of the Third National Development Plan, the papers
indicate the main policy objectives to be pursued by the Government. In
addition, they outline strategies to achieve the objectives.
3.27      The three main policy objectives common to the two subsectors
are:
(a) the diversification of training institutions to better
respond to regional manpower requirements;
(b) the consolidation of the system at state level, particularly
for agricultural technician training, to improve efficiency;
and
(c) the establishment, or strengthening, of mechanisms linking
the formal system to the demand side, to improve the
relevance of the training to the demand requirements.
The underlying strategy to achieve the above objectives aims at strengthen-
ing the capacity at federal, state and school levels. A detailed descrip-
tion of objectives and strategies is contained in the two government policy
papers, available in files, and in the two Bank subsectoral memoranda,
already cited. In addition to the two policy papers, the MEC has prepared
a draft decree regulating officially the agricultural technician
profession, among others. The decree, to be submitted shortly to the
President for signature, was prepared in collaboration with the Ministries
of Labour and Agriculture.
Constraints to the Implementation of Government Plans and Programs
3.28      The main constraints to the implementation of Government's plans
and programs are of institutional, personnel, and financial nature. The
complex politico-administrative structure of the country compounds the
issues.
3.29      Institutional constraints stem from the organizational structure
of the training system. Technician training institutions are managed by
five different administrative levels (federal, state, municipal,
university, and private). Although the MEC is the normative body at
national level, the states have great autonomy in educational matters.
Furthermore, the lack of coordinating structure for the system (para. 3.24)
does not favor the involvement of the users of graduates in the training
process. A stronger involvement of MEC in overall coordinating functions,
and assistance to be provided to the states for policy formulation and
program planning, will gradually reduce the constraint.



- 15 -
3.30      Personnel constraints are the reflection of the overall lack of
adequately trained human resources in the education sector. In general,
technical subject matter specialists are available within the formal
system, but well trained and broadly experienced technical educators are
rare. Missing are the appropriate knowledge and experience for curriculum
renovations in view of predetermined training profiles, for analyzing the
labor market and transforming its manpower requirements into training
programs, and for preparing investment plans in accordance with expected
financial availability. Remedial actions will have to focus on a permanent
system of human resources training at all levels of administration,
together with an appropriate monitoring system of the outcomes of the
training programs.
3.31      Financial constraints are serious and pervasive throughout the
system. Budgetary restrictions usually afflict training institutions.
Current expenditures cannot be compressed easily (at least 90% of current
expenditures cover salaries and related statutory benefits), thus capital
investments and renovation of past investments (restoration of physical
facilities and renewal of equipment) are kept to unacceptably low levels.
Low capital investments are typical in state schools. 1U/ Great diversity
exists also in total unit costs per student. A survey of a sample of
agricultural schools has revealed that state schools, again, often have
extremely low unit costs. 11/ An improved planning system, along the
lines indicated under para. 3.29 above, will lead to more efficient and
rational investments.
IV. SUB-SECTOR PROJECT FOR TECHNICIAN TRAINING
A. Main Policy Objectives
4.01      The proposed sub-sector project directly addresses the major
issues in agricultural and industrial technician training sub-sectors. It
would have the following main objectives:
(a) defining a long-term development policy for agricultural and
industrial technician training at national and regional
levels;
(b) adapting the quality and quantity of technicians in
accordance with evolving national and regional requirements;
and
(c) providing the agricultural and industrial sectors with the
specialized technician skills required for development.
10/ In a sample of state industrial schools, expenditures for equipment
replacement in 1981 averaged US$25 per student, against about US$180
per student required to replace equipment every 10 years.
11/ US$345 in one state as compared to US$1,414 for the federal schools.



- 16 -
The above objectives have a two-fold thrust. In the agricultural sector
they aim at consolidating the present training network, and at improving
the relevance of the training courses to the requirements of the sector.
In the industrial sector, they aim at improving the quality of the training
given by the formal system, and at preparing the conditions for a future
balanced expansion of the network.
B. Project Content and Strategy
4.02      The proposed project would entail a Bank financing of the
Government investment plan for the two technician training sub-sectors for
the period 1984-1987. The costs of the proposed project include
expenditures for the strengthening of existing training institutions, and
of the national and selected state systems, through improvements in
management (planning and administration), curricula content, instructional
and administrative staff training, physical facilities and equipment,
graduate placement and follow up, and special studies. The project would
lead to greater efficiency in the system, without requiring financial
resources in addition to the Government's planned investments.
4.03      The achievement of the three main policy objectives requires a
series of well coordinated actions. The means which would be used in
achieving each objective and the series of required actions in attaining
them are described below.
Objective No. 1: Defining a Long-Term Development Policy for
Agricultural and Industrial Technician Training
4.04      The definition of a long-term national policy for the two
sub-sectors (in accordance with the Third Education Development Plan) would
promote:
-    coordination of planning and training activites at the
national, state or regional level;
-    active involvement of the employers in the definition of
training programs;
-    consolidations in the number of inefficient technical
agricultural schools; and
-    improved allocation of resources to the sub-sectors.
The policy definition involves the relevant Ministries of Education,
Agriculture, Labor and Industry, the state Secretariats of Education, and
public and private agricultural and industrial entities. As a result of
the policy definition (a) training profiles at regional level would be
defined, (b) quantitative targets of graduates would be estimated,
(c) staff development for the system would be outlined; (d) functions of
the training institutions would be more clearly determined; and



- 17 -
(e) adequate investment requirements for the development of the subsectors
would be identified. In achieving the policy definition objective the
following key activities would be undertaken:
4.05      Creation of a National Technical Advisory Committee on Technician
Training. The functions of the Committee would be to assist the MEC in:
(a) defining the appropriate strategies for achieving policy objectives in
the technician training sector; (b) assessing the efficacy of the applied
strategies; and (c) modifying actions and programs in light of the evolu-
tion of the agricultural and industrial economic sectors.   In addition,
the Committee would provide the Ministry of Education with the feed-back on
priority policies and investment programs, applied by the public and
private sectors, in the areas of concern of the technician training system,
and on manpower requirement trends.
4.06      An Interministerial Committee on agricultural training already
exists, with representatives of the Ministries of Labor, Agriculture and
Education. This Committee discusses policy issues, advises on present
training programs, and channels some ad hoc funds released by the
participating Ministries to agricultural training institutions. Similar
Committees exist in other sectors of training. Under the project, the
Committee would be enlarged and would be composed of representatives of the
main public organizations (e.g., Ministries of Agriculture, Labor,
Education, Industry and Planning Secretariat of the Presidency), and of
major private national associations (e.g., National Confederation of
Industry, of Agriculture, of Agricultural Workers). Ad-hoc members,
including the chairperson of the State Advisory Committees, would integrate
the Committee depending on needs. Thus the Committee would constitute a
body ensuring the permanent link between the two economic sectors and the
technician training system.
4.07      Strengthening of the Industrial Technician Training Planning Unit
(COSIFE). COSIFE has been recently organized under the Sub-secretariat for
the Development of Instructional Systems (SADESE) of the Ministry of
Education (para. 3.24). In addition to coordinating functions, its major
activities would be to prepare draft investment plans for the subsector,
and translate the results of formal and informal studies on industrial
technician needs into specific training programs. Special emphasis would
be given to: better alignment of regional training efforts to regional
technician needs; and to closely monitor regional industrial development
plans and activities, so as to make appropriate and timely recommendations
on changes in course syllabi and training programs.  The present staff of
COSIFE would be supplemented by eight specialized professionals (in the
areas of planning, evaluation, curriculum development, administration, and
some subject matter specialists), by two middle level technicians, and by
four supporting staff. It would also be supported by such ad-hoc
professional personnel from industry as may be required from time to time.
The unit would receive major assistance, at the regional level, from local
training institutions and their industrial advisory board from the National
Commission of Technician Training. Provision has been made for local (92
m/m) and foreign (6 m/w) consultancy services and for study tours abroad
for key COSIFE and technical school personnel. The proposed project would
finance the costs for: (a) local and foreign consultancies; (b) the study
tours abroad; (c) the salaries of the additional personnel for COSIFE
(eight high level, two middle level technicians, and four supporting
personnel) and (d) administrative expenses. The costs under (c) and (d)
above would be covered for the duration of the project.



- 18 -
4.08      Strengthening of the Planning Capacity of the National Coordina-
tion of Agricultural Education (COAGRI). Presently, COAGRI has a small
task force responsible for the preparation of the investment program in
line with the criteria agreed with the Bank, and for the appraisal of the
first batch of agricultural sub-projects sumitted to MEC. To facilitate
this process, technical support is provided by staff of all the other units
of COAGRI. For future sub-project appraisals the team would be assisted on
an ad hoc basis by selected agricultural school directors, depending on the
nature of the sub-project components, and on the number of applications.
Gradually, this core team would assume the main coordinating function for
overall planning activities. Together with all the COAGRI units, it would
ensure proper implementation and monitoring of COAGRI's activities. Thus,
through the proposed project global planning and implementation functions
of COAGRI would be strenghthened, and participatory actions would be
fostered.
4.09      The core team (the future planning coordinating unit) would
require assistance by specialized local consultants (about 167 m/m) in
areas such as general education, practical training, and some curriculum
specific areas. An additional architect/engineer, in charge of the direct
supervision and monitoring of the constructions financed under the proposed
program, one equipment procurement specialist, and one specialist in
planning agricultural education would supplement the core team. Two
additional support staff would be contracted. In addition, provision
should be made under the project for study tours abroad for key COAGRI and
agricultural schools staff. The project would finance the costs for: (a)
the salary of the additional personnel; (b) local specialized
consultancies; (c) the study tours abroad, and (d) administrative
expenses. The costs under (a) and (d) above would be covered for the
duration of the project.
4.10      Creation of Technician Training Planning Units at State Level
These planning units would be developed, or strengthened when existing,
within the participating State Secretariats of Education (SE) and would be
responsible for the planning and coordination of technician training in
state schools. The functions of the unit would be the same as the ones
performed for federal schools by COSIFE and COAGRI of the MEC, but only for
state-supported schools. This unit would work in collaboration with the
State Council of Education in areas such as definition of new curricula
(which require approval by the Council), of training profiles, and of major
policy objectives. These units would not constitute a structure parallel
to the federal one, but would operate within the frame of broad common
policy objectives. Thus, the proposed program, by promoting the creation of
the state units, through the assistance to be provided by MEC, and by
fostering the collaboration of these units with the State Councils of
Education would ensure (a) an appropriate decentralized development of
technical education, and (b) the endorsement by the highest educational
authority at state level of the policies and actions proposed by the SEs.
4.11      The proposed project would not finance direct costs for setting
up such state technician training planning units because they would mainly
require reassignment of existing staff. The costs of providing assistance
to the states through MEC for these units would be included in the general
administration costs.



- 19 -
Objective No. 2: Adapting the Quality and Quantity of Technician
Training to Regional and National Requirements
4.12      This objective would be attained through:
-    executing regional manpower studies;
-    formalizing procedures for maintaining instructional
relevance to agricultural and industrial needs;
-    adjusting the supply of technicians to regional and national
demands by small increases in the output of industrial
technicians in selected regions, resulting from more
efficient use of existing spaces; and limiting the outputs
of agricultural technicians by consolidation of training
institutions;
-    establishing minimum curricula, course syllabi and perform-
ance standards and revising course content to address
regional and national needs;
-    improving instructional skills of teachers and support
personnel; and
-    supplementing and replacing training equipment, software and
physical structures.
The means to achieve the objective would consist in: (a) creating advisory
committees for technician training; (b) improving the curriculum;
(c) improving the competencies of instructional, administrative and
planning personnel; (d) improving equipment and instructional materials;
(e) building physical facilities for agricultural instruction; and (f)
expanding the graduates tracer system.
4.13      Creation of Local or State Sector Advisory Committees for
Technician Training. This would be composed of representatives of the main
sectoral, public and private institutions and industries employing
graduates of the technician training schools (as is the practice in all
developed countries). The function of these committees would be to provide
a set of formalized procedures and practices for systematically maintaining
the relevance of instruction to industrial and agricultural needs at local
and state levels.  The committees would meet about twice annually to: (a)
provide individual schools and the SEs with information on the main
sectoral policies and actions promoted by the main public and private
agencies (including manpower requirements and job characteristics); (b)
review pre-selected aspects of relevant technical course syllabi; (c)
advise the SEs and the schools in the selection and preparation of
realistic laboratory-shop-field experiences and on-the-job visits of
students and teachers; (d) inform teachers of new or modified technical
production processes being implemented or planned and their implications
for technician training; (e) assist in recruitment of qualified technical
teachers and in organizing "industrial/agricultural internships" for



- 20 -
teachers requiring specialized experience on new technological processes;
and (f) assist in organizing special "up-grading" training programs of
employed technicians in cooperation with local industry/agriculture.
4.14      Because of their large size (average of about 2,500 students in
seven separate programs of training), the industrial schools would have a
seven member advisory committee for each of the programs of training or
clusters of related programs. Thus, the numbers of committees in each
school would range from one to seven. Membership would be restricted to
industrial representatives of both technical and management personnel who
are highly experienced in the industrial field of the relevant program of
training. Further details are provided in the SAR Working Papers.
4.15      The agricultural technical schools would receive support from a
Training Advisory Committee at state level, where the principal employers
and public services would be represented. The director of the department
where the state technician training unit would be attached could act as
executive secretary of the committee.
4.16      Curriculum Improvement.  The required improvements in the curri-
cula for both agricultural and industrial technician training would be
accomplished through: (a) establishing minimum curricula, course syllabi
and performance standards; 12/ (b) improving coordination of subject
matter content of general subjects, especially the basic sciences, with
technical laboratory-shop-field instruction; (c) revising course content
and syllabi to address more appropriately local, state and regional needs;
(d) providing more practical training, especially in the agricultural and
industrial production processes; (e) including greater emphasis on farm
management, marketing, agrobusiness, soil and water management, agricul-
tural mechanics and machinery, and basic extension methodology in agri-
cultural training programs; and (f) strengthening and expanding the super-
vised practical activities for agricultural students during vacation
periods.
4.17      The minimum curricula, course syllabi and performance standards
for all agricultural and industrial technicians training programs would be
developed by the corresponding federal school coordinating bodies (COAGRI
and COSIFE) of the Ministry of Education in collaboration with the Coordi-
nation of Secondary Education (COES) and SEPS. The standards to be adopted
by all participating schools are based upon successful standards currently
(for the most part) existing in most of the federal schools. They would
include, among other things, an industrial curriculum totalling about 4,000
hours and consisting of about 60% technical theory, technical practice and
intership in industry (in equal amounts) and 40% math, science and general
subjects. The agricultural curriculum would total about 3,700 hours and
would consist of about 60% technical theory and technical practice (20% and
40% respectively) and 40% math, science and general subjects. These
standards compare favorably with the standards of the developed countries.
12/ Performance standards include the definition of appropriate staff
qualifications, curricula and course content, training facilities and
equipment, practical activities, instructional materials and
procedures, institutional management, recurrent budgets, etc.



- 21 -
Experienced and successful technical teachers would be recruited as
part-time consultants (largely during school vacation periods) to
collaborate in the development of these standards. The costs of their
assistance would be financed under the loan. The views of industry and
agriculture would also be solicited in formulating these standards.
Periodic updating of curricula and course syllabi, in accordance with the
evolving needs of agriculture and industry, would be on the basis of the
recommendations of the respective advisory committee (paras. 4.13 - 4.15)
and of the feed-back from the graduate tracer system (para. 4.25).
4.18      To provide appropriate feed-back for the curriculum review, and
development of curricular standards,the National Institute for Educational
Research and Studies INEP would carry out two main studies. The first one
would assess the value of the current evaluations carried out in the
technician training system by NEC and the schools. The study would result
in proposals for more effective alternative evaluation systems of the
various on-going programs. The study, to be completed by the end of 1985,
would include training programs carried out by institutions other than the
federal ones, as a basis for analyzing alternative modes of training. The
second study would assess the pedagogical and cost-benefit aspects of the
"educaao-produao`13/ system (school-production) as applied by the
agricultural-(school cooperative) and industrial schools (quality control
of production). This study, to be completed by the end of 1986, would
propose measures for improving or expanding the present initiatives. The
recommendation resulting from two studies would be applied by the NEC
through SEPS. INEP, which is attached to the Ministry of Education, has a
long experience in carrying out or monitoring education research studies.
For the two proposed studies it would work closely with relevant federal
and state education units, and it would also utilize local specialists. The
proposed project would finance the costs for carrying out the two studies.
During negotiations, assurances were provided by the Government that the
terms of reference of the studies would be submitted to the Bank for
approval.
4.19      Improving the Competencies of Instructional, Administrative and
Planning Personnel. Emphasis would be placed upon improving competencies
of technical theory, laboratory skills and practical training of teachers
instructors, and in the performance of administrative and planning
personnel. This would be largely accomplished through strengthening and
expanding in-service and upgrading pedagogical and technical short-course
training, short intensive "internships" in agricultural or industrial
enterprises, and short study-tours abroad for key personnel. Agricultural
and technical teachers who are not university graduates would attend
upgrading courses of up to two years in length. These courses are already
being offered in conjunction with universities.  Educational planning and
management training would be provided for federal, state and local school
administrators and planning personnel. The National Center for Training of
Personnel for Vocational Training, CENAFOR (which has experience in course
planning and coordination), would coordinate all course planning, tbgether
with COAGRI (for agricultural teachers)and COSIFE (for industrial
teachers). Courses would be conducted by COAGRI, COSIFE, CENAFOR
personnel, or by other institutions, depending upon the nature of the
course. During negotiations, the Bank approved a final version of the
draft document assessed during appraisal, describing the priority content
of the various training programs, the expected participants, the
organization of the courses and the estimated total costs. During
13/ Training linked with production, to improve practical knowledge of
students.



- 22 -
negotiations the Government provided assurances that the detailed training
programs would be presented to the Bank for its review and comments.
4.20      Because of rapid changes in production technology, especially in
the industrial sector, arrangements would be made for keeping key teachers
abreast of such changes through short "internships" in selected enter-
prises. Arrangements for these internships would be made by individual
schools with assistance of their industrial advisory committees. Teachers
are not meeting current qualifications standards, and administrative and
planning personnel would receive priority in training. However, about 60%
of all teachers would participate in "in-service" training courses. It is
expected that over the implementation period a total of about 1,500 agri-
cultural and 2,100 industrial teachers, administrators and planning
personnel would have participated in such training. The project would
finance the costs of the training program.
4.21      Improvement of Equipment and Instructional Materials.  To
complement the software inputs described under the preceding paragraphs,
the proposed project woud replace or supplement (a) laboratory and shop
equipment, for basic sciences and for training in the production processes
and the service industries; (b) farm equipment and machinery for the
agricultural schools; (c) library and instructional and audio-visual
materials; and (d) reproduction equipment necessary for the quantity
production of basic instructional materials. It would also permit a small
increase in technician outputs because of more efficient use of existing
spaces, and replacing non-technician (auxiliaries) programs with technician
training programs. The project would finance the replacement or addition of
equipment in all project schools equal to an average of about 65% of that
required for new industrial and about 50% of that required for new
agricultural training programs. The range by individual programs of
training would be from 45% to 80% of the equipment required for new
training programs. These levels of inputs of new equipment and industrial
materials would bring the participating schools up to acceptably modern
standards. These inputs would enable the course syllabi to be upgraded
(para. 4.16) to include greater emphasis upon the acquisition of knowledge
and skills required in the production processes and for the service
industries.
4.22      To assure that industrial instructors are adequately prepared to
use correctly certain of the more sophisticated new equipment, major
suppliers would provide training in equipment use and maintenance for tech-
nical instructors. This training would be particularly urgent for instruc-
tors in industrial electronics, communications electronics, instrumentation
and process control, and for certain items of chemical, mechanical and
metallurgical equipment. To help assure that all instructional and support
equipment is properly maintained, a carefully planned and executed program
of equipment maintenance would be initiated in each participating school.
Detailed guidelines for the planning and implementation of the system are
included in the SAR Working Papers.  During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that an appropriate maintenance program would be
carried out in each participating school, that a coordinated plan for such
a program in federal schools would be submitted to the Bank for its
comments by December 31, 1984, and that proper monitoring of this program
would be carried out by the MEC.
4.23      Improvement of Physical Facilities for Agricultural Instruction.
To improve both the breadth and depth required for graduates to become
full-fledged technicians, the proposed project would finance the costs for
building, equipping and furnishing farm buildings in accordance with agreed



- 23 -
criteria and the needs of project schools.  In selected schools, the
project would include some staff housing and the expansion of the
dormitory. Needs have been determined as follows: (a) based on a reviewed
curriculum, the Bank and the NEC agreed upon basic requirements for a
prototype school; (b) the MEC carried out a survey of existing facilities
in all federal schools and in a sample of state schools; and (c) by
comparing existing facilities with the ones required by a standard school
(prototype), needs for each school would be determined.
4.24      For the prototype school, three alternatives were worked out:
(a) facilities of sufficient capacity to meet pedagogical requirements
only; (b) facilities to allow for a farm production to sustain at least
boarding students and to allow some income to the school, and (c)
facilities to allow substantial commercial operations (full production
farm). 14/ The status of the existing farm facilities, the training
objectives of each school, and the availability of investment funds will
determine the alternative to be applied in each project school.
4.25      Expanding and Strengthening of the Graduate Tracer System.  The
current activities in the follow-up of graduates are ad hoc in nature, and
have no standardized format or procedures. Many schools make no efforts to
get feedback information on graduates. The revised system, which would be
required for all schools participating in the project and also as a
performance standard (para. 4.16), would have the following major
objectives: (a) to provide a means of continuing curriculum and course
syllabi evaluation and development through a feedback of information on job
placement and performance; and (b) to provide insights into teacher
performance, suitability of training equipment and instructional materials,
training methodology and other aspects of the instructional process.
4.26      The tracer system would be developed by the MEC units for indus-
trial (COSIFE) and agricultural technician training (COAGRI), together with
school directors and directors of instruction. The MEC's research unit
(INEP) would cooperate with both units so as to assure a systematized
process of recording and retrieval of information. While the tracer system
for the two sub-sectors would have much in common, there would be certain
differences unique to each of them. Among these would be the fact that
most industrial graduates are employed in actual production of goods, while
most agricultural graduates are employed in the production of services.
Supervision of the system at the school level would be reviewed at the
relevant instructional department level, collated at the school level,
forwarded to the federal level for review, and further collated into state
or regional and national groupings.  Results would be evaluated by INEP and
disseminated at appropriate federal, state and local levels for planning
purposes.  The proposed project would finance the costs for (a) preparing
tracer forms; (b) printing of the forms to be distributed to project
schools; and (c) collating, evaluating and disseminating the information
14/ To generate incomes to meet all the investments and recurrent costs of
the school.



- 24 -
from the data collected.  The forms to be applied by project schools would
be prepared by INEP by July, 1984. During negotiations, assurances were
provided by the government that the forms would be submitted to the Bank
for review prior to their application.
Objective No. 3: Providing the Agricultural and Industrial Sectors
with the Specialized Technician Skills Required
for Development
4.27      The attainment of this objective would permit greater efficiency
in use of the increasingly scarce financial and human resources available
for technician training. It would:
-    require the technician training schools to concentrate only
on the training of fully qualified technicians;
-    assure that the present scarce resources are used in
training only those technicians required for local and
regional development;
-    reduce the outputs of certain types of technicians in excess
of local and regional demands; and
-    allow the training of new types of technicians in accordance
with evolving needs and available financial resources.
4.28      To achieve this objective INEP, in collaboration with COAGRI and
COSIFE, would promote regional manpower studies to determine needs, and
trends in requirements of specialized skills at technician level. INEP
would basically coordinate systematic efforts by states, local schools, and
their advisory committees in the timely identification of demands. These
studies, together with the studies mentioned under para. 4.18, would allow
an assessment of the feasibility of introducing alternative modes of
training for certain specialities. INEP's costs for this activity would be
financed under the project. During negotiations, assurances were provided
by the Government that the terms of references for such studies would be
submitted to the Bank for prior review.
V. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Overview
5.01      Special arrangements, including extensive staff training, have
been made to facilitate prompt and efficient implementation of the sub-
sector project. These arrangements include:
(a) a sub-sector approach in project planning, appraising and
managing;



- 25 -
(b) effective plans for organization and staffing, including
special staff training;
(c) well defined and tested implementation procedures;
(d)  relevant criteria and procedures for allocation of loan
funds; and
(e) a phased implementation program.
5.02      The proposed sub-sector project for the improvement of agricul-
tural and industrial technician training would consist of national programs
and sub-projects for training institutions. It is expected that about 70
technician training institutions (out of which about 50 federal) would be
part of the project. The national programs would cover the whole of the
two sub-sectors, and would include such activities as: training of state
and school staff; review of curricula and basic course syllabi; the
establishment of a graduate tracer system; the development of local
advisory committees; consultancy services; study tours; and some studies.
Sub-projects would pertain to specific technician training schools
(federal, state, and foundations managed). They would include the
provision of equipment and instructional materials; the construction,
furnishing, and building of farm, facilities; and some civil works.
5.03      The Borrower has played a major role in the formulation of
planning and implementation procedures, and would assume the responsibility
of allocating funds to the project in accordance with criteria agreed upon
with the Bank. The MEC would act as the intermediary institution. It
would itself identify, or provide assistance to the states or schools in
identifying and preparing sub-projects. Subsequently the MEC would
appraise and approve the sub-projects. In addition, it would assume the
major role in supervising and monitoring project execution. Individual
state schools would submit the applications to MEC through the State
Secretariats of Education. All federal schools would submit their applica-
tion through COSIFE or COAGRI. Criteria for programs and sub-projects
identification, preparation, and appraisal, as well as for project admin-
istration, have been agreed with the Bank and are contained in separate
manuals (available in files). The final approval would be done by the MEC
Coordinating Committee, chaired by the Secretary of Primary and Secondary
Education.
5.04      The sub-sector lending approach is an effective way for assisting
the government in its effort to improve and strengthen the technician
training system. As a result of this approach, the MEC has defined for the
first time a long term policy for the two sub-sectors, based on the parti-
cipation of the states, and within the Third Education Development Plan.
The mechanisms for identifying, preparing and appraising sub-projects would
become the permanent mechanisms that the MEC would apply for the entire
technician training sub-sector. Furthermore, financing mechanisms for the
sub-sector have been reviewed, with Bank assistance, within a well-defined
investment plan.



- 26 -
5.05      The sub-sector approach would allow the strenghthening of the
capacity at state level by requiring the states to adopt the policies and
procedures introduced with the proposed project. Assistance would also be
provided to (a) the states in formulating policies at state level, and in
setting up technician training units, and (b) the individual training
institutions, in defining their overall needs and in formulating
appropriate actions.
Organization and Staffing
5.06      The HEC has devised a detailed organization structure and
prepared an adequate staffing plan for project implementation. The
underlying principle is the utilization of the present internal structure
of the Ministry, complemented by measures aiming at strengthening the weak
areas to ensure proper execution at the initial stage, and that ensures the
development of a permanent capacity. The proposed structure is, thus, not
imposed, and is not to be considered as a rigid one. In fact it would be
modified during the course of project implementation (upon consultation
with the Bank), to reflect (a) modifications in the division of
responsibility within the various units of the MEC, and (b) to respond to
the increasing decentralization in execution functions. During
negotiations assurances were provided by the Government that changes in the
present organizational structure and staffing plan of the project would be
submitted to the Bank for comment.
Organization
5.07      Chart 5.1 shows the broad organizational structure of the
project. The project would be managed by a Coordinating Committee, chaired
by the Secretary of the Secretariat of Primary and Secondary Education,
SEPS. Members of the Committee would be the directors of the five agencies
in charge of project implementation: (a) the National Coordination of
Agricultural Education, COAGRI; (b) the Federal Coordination of Industrial
Technical Education, COSIFE; (c) the Center for Development and Technical
Assistance to Education, CEDATE; (d) the National Center for Training of
Personnel for Vocational Training, CENAFOR; and (e) the National Institute
for Educational Research and Studies, INEP. All of the above institutions
are attached to the Secretariat of Primary and Secondary Education, SEPS,
except for INEP and CEDATE which respond to the Secretariat General of the
Ministry.
5.08      The Coordinating Committee would: (a) coordinate and supervise
overall project execution; (b) ratify the proposals on project applications
submitted by the agencies responsible for their appraisal (COAGRI, COSIFE,
CENAFOR and INEP); (c) submit project applications to the Secretary of SEPS
for final approval; and (d) approve the annual operating plans of the
agencies involved in the implementation. The committee would utilize staff
of the Sub-Secretariat for the Development of Education Systems of SEPS
(SADESE) for all support activities for the project (e.g., preparation of
reports, disbursement applications, budget proposals, monitoring
forms). This Committee is already functioning and is coordinating project
preparation.



- 27 -
5.09      The Secretary of SEPS and the Coordinating Committee would be
assisted by the Technical Advisory Committee, chaired by the Secretary of
SEPS, mentioned under para. 4.06. The annual action plans of the project,
and the regular reports on project implementation would be submitted to the
Advisory Committee for comments. During negotiations, assurances were
provided by the Government that the Technical Advisory Committee would be
established not later than June 30, 1984.



- 28 -
BRAZIL
SUB-SECTOR PROJECT FOR TECHNICIAN TRAINING
Organization Structure
Secretary
ofSEPS    _
L..__..      Technical
Advisory
-   Committee
Coordinating  __I
Commiffee           at Education
ArcluAlvsr          _Scecit                           FoundationsIdsra
~~CE   X    H    X t~~~~~CEAT
SEPS     = Secretaria t Prismary & Secondary Ed ucation
COAGRI = National Cooraination ot Agricultural Education
COSIFE   = Federal Coordination at Industrial Technical Education
CEDATE = Center for Develapment & Technical Assistance to Education
CENAFOR = National Center for Training of Personnel for Vocational Training
INEP     = Notional Institute for Educational Research & Studies                                  World Bank-25098



- 29 -
5.10      The detailed responsibilities and functions of the five agencies
responsible for project implementation are indicated in the administration
manual available in files. They are summarized below:
(a)  COAGRI would be responsible for assisting the states and
schools in the preparation of applications, for the
appraisal, and for monitoring the implementation of the
agricultural training component of the project;
(b) COSIFE would assume the same functions as COAGRI but for the
industrial training component of the project;
(c) CEDATE would assist the project in all implementation
aspects relating to physical facilities and equipment;
(d) CENAFOR would be responsible for the coordination of all
instructional and administrative personnel training
activities of the project, including the assistance to
institutions for the preparation of the training programs,
and appraisal of the training proposals; and
(e) INEP would coordinate and administer the studies component
of the project.
Staffing
5.11        The Ministry of Education (MEC) is taking steps to ensure that
the five implementation agencies would be properly staffed to manage the
proposed sub-sector project. The staff of COSIFE, presently of 11
professionals and technicians, will be increased by ten specialists in the
areas of education, evaluation, planning, curriculum development, administ-
ration of technical education, accountancy and specific subject matters.
COAGRI, having a total technical staff in agricultural training of about 30
specialists, would appoint one additional planner to complement the task
force in charge of the initial phases of the project. In addition, it
would contract for the duration of the project two specialists in construc-
tions (architect/engineer) and equipment, and two supporting staff (para.
4.08). The other three institutions in charge of project implementation
(CEDATE, CENAFOR, and INEP) would not require additional specialists.
Their overhead expenses in view of the proposed project would be included
by MEC in the yearly budgetary allocations. The annual volume of procure-
ment, and of training programs to be implemented under the project, would
not exceed the respective capacities of CEDATE and CENAFOR, respectively.
A total of about 260 man/months of technical assistance (mainly local) is
also foreseen for some institutions (paras. 4.07 and 4.09).
Implementation Procedures
5.12      The MEC has designed procedures appropriate for the implementa-
tion of the proposed sub-sector project. These procedures have been tested
on eight sub-sector projects and found acceptable to the Bank. The



- 30 -
procedures cover project identification, preparation, appraisal,
administration, monitoring and evaluation. The procedures are in line with
the MEC's policy objectives for the two sub-sectors and ensure a feasible
implementation. Procedures for state and federal sub-projects,
respectively, are shown in Charts 5.2 and 5.3. A detailed description of
procedures is contained in the implementation manuals available in files.
Identification
5.13      National programs have been identified by the MEC.  An overall
plan for training staff at federal, state and school levels has been
prepared. The objectives of the studies have been detailed. New forms for
the generalization of the graduate tracer system to all project
institutions would be submitted to the Bank for approval. A review of the
curriculum for the agricultural technician training institutions has
already been initiated by COAGRI and has been tested in some federal
schools starting in August 1983. Sub-projects concerning schools are being
identified by COAGRI and COSIFE (federal schools), and by the states (state
schools) with MEC's assistance. All sub-projects to be submitted to the
MEC for approval are pre-selected in accordance with eligibility criteria
approved by the Bank.
Preparation
5.14      The MEC, through its five specialized agencies responsible for
project implementation, would prepare applications for the national
programs and for the federal schools. The state Secretariats of Education
and individual institutions would prepare sub-projects pertaining to state
or other non-federal eligible schools. Together with the first submission,
the State Secretariats of Education would also submit a broad policy paper
on the two sub-sectors.   Assistance for preparation would be provided by
the above specialized agencies of MEC, with financial resources of the
project. The preparation activity would result in detail application
request documents.



- 31 -
BRAZIL
SUB-SECTOR PROJECT FOR TECHNICIAN TRAINING
Procedures for Generating & Processing Applications (State Institutions)
Coordinating                      State SE                    /        \Yes                    SE Selects
Comrnittee                       Receives                     Acpso                            Schools &
Sends Guidelines                  Guidelines                                                  Sends Guicdelines
Yes                                                
--Modificahons , 
< / ~~~~~~~~~Application                                Appllcatiornc
No                          +                                             COAGRI           I Yes
COSIFE F
Assist
I No
5 ~~~~~~~Coordinating                               COAGRI /
Application                    Commiftee               *        COSIFE                *g       Me h 
Sent to SEPS                     Receives                      Approise
World ______ _Yes
No                 r             No                 n                   COAGRI COSIFE   | No 4
0.        o        SEPS for                          R<omtEe qeuires           Prepare   <f             Aprail 
M                                                     on                   ADpraisal Report                   Reu
|Yes                                                         LL
SE           ll                  Schools     l
Receives        .               Receive                         - implementation
Approval                        ApDproval
World Bank-25099



- 32 -
BRAZIL
SUB-SECTOR PROJECT FOR TECHNICIAN TRAINING
Procedures for Generating & Processing Applications (Federal Institutions)
Coordinating                 Scol                             0sYes
Committee                         Apl                           eed            ~~
Sends Guidelines                                             stanc
|     COAGRI
No              | COSIFE et al1
Provide
i                                                                                           {    Assistance
COAGRI                   Coordinating                   Shl
COSIFE                   Cormmittee                    Schools___  __  
Appraise                   Receives           Aprpliareo
Application                Application                 Application
L _   <  /                        \           |    ~~~~~~~~~~~~CCSIFE 
INo                       Yese            es           No          COAGRI
te         Appraisal                     Pre~~~~~~~~ppraia
Appraisal                                I
CoordinatingYeNo/rdntn
Committee        Ye         Sereary           No       C oorintng
Transmits                   of SEF'S        <      Committee Requires
rovesM odifications
+                    ~~~~~~~~I Yes
,   |  ox                L___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_____________I
t    Stopped    )
COAiGRI
COSIFE                                       l mplementation
Start
Imnplementotion
World Bank-25100



- 33 -
Appraisal
5.15      COAGRI and COSIFE would appraise sub-projects applications, after
initial screening to determine whether the applications meet the eligi-
bility criteria. CENAFOR would appraise the national training programs.
The other national programs (studies, tracer system, organization of state
committees and curriculum revision) do not require formal appraisal because
they would be prepared by the MEC specialized agencies, or with their
assistance. After completing the appraisal of the sub-projects and
national programs (which may require field visits) the MEC's institutions
would prepare a report for presentation to the chairman of the Coordinating
Committee. The format of the report has been discussed with the Bank and
is acceptable.
Approval
5.16      The Coordinating Committee would review the appraisal report
submitted by the MEC's institutions in charge of sub-projects appraisal.
It would ratify the recommendations of the report or request modifications
of sub-projects. Any sub-project in the industrial sub-sector requiring
more than US$440,000 equivalent of Bank financing (or US$1,000,000 total
cost), and US$375,000 equivalent (or about US$850,000 total cost) in the
agricultural sub-sector (both, excluding training) would be submitted to
the Bank for prior approval. The Bank would also review ex post a random
sample of appraised sub-projects during supervision visits. After
ratification by the Coordinating Committee (or Bank approval for larger
sub-projects), the application would be submitted to the Secretary of SEPS
for final approval. During negotiations assurances were provided by the
Government that any applications exceeding US$440,000 and US$375,000
equivalent of Bank financing for industrial and agricultural schools,
respectively, would be submitted to the Bank for prior approval.
Supervision
5.17      The Chairman of the Coordinating Committee would oversee overall
project implementation. The five institutions involved in project imple-
mentation would supervise the execution of the national programs and sub-
projects in their respective fields of competency. The role of the Bank
would be to monitor overall project execution, particularly the policy
changes and modifications to be introduced under the project, hold an
annual review with MEC and the Advisory Committee of sub-sectoral policies
and implementation procedures, and make random checks (during supervision
missions) of approved applications to ensure that they conform to the
approved criteria. More intense Bank supervision would be required at
least during the first year of implementation, to assist the implementaton
agencies in launching the project.
Project Monitoring
5.18      The director of each of the five institutions involved in project
implementation would delegate a specific staff member to help ensure proper
monitoring of the implementation program for the specific component under
his responsibility. Each institution has prepared proper monitoring



- 34 -
forms which were reviewed by the Bank at the time of negotiations.  The
forms would be based on indicators of key inputs and outputs, to be closely
followed and complemented by participating schools and SEs. These
indicators would be summarized by the monitoring institutions for regular
reports to the Coordinating Committee. The Committee would consolidate the
overall information in quarterly reports to the Secretary of SEPS and to
the Bank. The MEC has already organized a sound monitoring system under
the Fourth Education Project, which could be adapted to the proposed
project.
Project Evaluation
5.19      The assessment of the validity of the curriculum review, and of
the effects of the improved education inputs (e.g. better qualified
teachers, improved equipment) to be introduced under the project, would be
made mainly through the graduate tracer system. This system would be
generalized for all training institutions participating in the project. It
would draw upon, and improve, the system presently applied by MEC in the
federal agricultural and industrial schools. The improved tracer system
would provide information on topics such as type of employment, responsi-
bilities, function, and salary of school graduates, thus allowing compari-
sons with graduates from the same schools prior to project inputs, and with
technicians working in other economic sectors. Data gathered through the
tracer system would allow an overall summative assessment of the project,
few years after project completion. Furthermore, through the diagramming
technique 15/ key activities in the training process have been
identified. These activities would be closely monitored so as to allow
prompt detection of deviations from project objectives, or of delays/
disruptions in the activity itself. This monitoring system would permit a
formative evaluation of the key activities, thus providing supporting
evidence to the overall finding of the tracer system. The MEC presented
the final scheme of this comoonent for Bank approval at negotiations.
Criteria and Procedures for Allocating Project Funds
5.20      Criteria and procedures for allocating project funds have been
established. Three sets of criteria would be followed in implementing the
sector project:  (a) criteria for eligibility of project institutions; (b)
general guidelines on the allocation of project funds by the MEC; and (c)
criteria for the approval of applications by the MEC. These criteria have
been established so as to ensure that the project will meet the policy
objectives promoted by the MEC under the project. In addition, they ensure
a balanced allocation of investment funds between the two sub-sectors and
among project institutions. The criteria, as well as some implementaton
procedures would be amended, if necessary, by mutual agrement between the
MEC and the Bank, following the first year of project implementation. The
project is a dynamic process, thus changes would be introduced to take into
15/ Selected project outputs are broken down into the main basic
activities or actions (inputs) leading to each output. By evaluating
selected key inputs, an assessment (evaluation) of the selected
outputs can be made.



- 35 -
account the modification of investment priorities as a result of the evolu-
tion of the requirements in the two economic sectors covered by the
project.
Eligibility
5.21      Similar, but slightly different criteria would be applied for the
agricultural and industrial sub-sectors (See Annex No. 2). Agricultural
and industrial institutions offering full technician level courses, 16/
and having federal, state, and foundations dependency would be eligible.
Additional criteria which would allow a ranking of elected institutions
would take into account the geographical location, teacher qualifications,
existence and quality of equipment, and use of facilities. For agricul-
tural institutions, a minimum requirement in farm size would be set.
Ranking criteria for industrial institutions would be based on the
relevance of specializations offered and economic activities in the region
of school location, and the quality and quantity of existing equipment and
its relevance to the specialization offered by the institution.
5.22      Eligibility criteria assure that project funds would be applied
in accordance with the overall sub-sectoral policy objectives of the NEC,
and that project institutions are committed to the improvements pursued by
the project. Thus each participating institution would have to indicate
its training objectives and development plan. Sub-projects involving state
institutions would be presented to the NEC by the State Secretariat of
Education, together with a state policy document on technician training.
This document would indicate main policy objectives and plans for the
development of technician training at state level. The MEC would assist
the states in preparing the policy document, and the institutions in
ensuring that their development plan is consistent with state policies.
General Guidelines for the Allocation of Funds
5.23      The MEC's investment plan, and thus project funds, would be
allocated in accordance with guidelines seeking a balanced development of
the two sub-sectors. In addition, the guidelines would ensure that a
balance is maintained between federal and other institutions, so as not to
overinvest in certain types of institutions, depriving others of access to
project resources. Project funds would be distributed approximately, as
follows:
(a) 40.5% to federal agricultural training institutions;
(b) 34.4% to federal industrial training institutions;
(c) 17.5% to state institutions (52% agricultural and 48%
industrial);
16/ "Habilitacao plena", as opposed to "habilitacao parcial" or "basica".



- 36 -
(d) 3.0% to instructional, administrative and planning personnel
training activities;
(e) 3.5%to general project administration, including assistance
to the states by the MEC; and
(f) 1% to special studies.
More than 80% of the total investments will be devoted to sub-projects.
Industrial training sub-projects would be mainly concentrated in the South
and the Southeast of the country. Agricultural sub-projects would be more
evenly spread, but focusing on the North, Northeast and Centerwest. These
guidelines would need to be applied flexibly in the course of project
implementation, to allow for adjustments at both federal and state levels.
During negotiations, assurances were provided by the Government that any
change in the guidelines for the allocation of project funds beyond 10% of
the agreed distribution within each subprogram, would have to be mutually
agreed with the Bank.
5.24      Approval of Sub-Projects.  MEC would approve sub-project
applications on the basis of the following three criteria (see Annex No.
3).
(a) relevance to the policy objectives for the two sub-sectors;
(b) feasibility of the actions proposed; and
(c) efficiency in the use of project resources.
5.25      Relevance means the degree to which the sub-projects meet the
sub-sectoral objectives indicated in the federal and state policy
documents. In addition, the content of the sub-projects would have to be
relevant to the issues identified by each training institution, and address
main bottlenecks in the development plan of the institution. Feasibility
refers to the possibility of implementing the actions proposed (in terms of
availability of qualified human resources, structural, administrative and
managerial composition of the institution, legal infrastructure to
implement new schemes). In addition, institutions and State Secretariats
of Education (for state schools) would have to ensure that they will
provide the financial resources necessary to meet the recurrent costs
likely to be generated by the proposed actions. Efficiency pertains to the
use of project funds. The manual on sub-project appraisal contains a set
of average indicators on the use of equipment and facilities, use factors
for physical facilities, teachers/student ratios, contact hours, broad
curriculum content, and unit costs. These indicators would be used as a
reference by the MEC's agencies involved in project implementation in
appraising project applications, to ascertain that maximum efficiency would
be used by the institutions submitting applications, in applying project
funds.



- 37 -
Phased Implementation Program
5.26       Implementation Phases.  The diversity of strategies required for
attaining the objectives indicated in the sub-sectoral policy papers
prepared by the Ministry of Education, the wide variation in time needed
for implementation, and the large financial implications require that a
two-phase implementation approach be used. Phase I, of a duration of about
four and one half years (1983-87) would include the proposed project. It
would assist the government in addressing the more critical issues of the
agricultural and industrial technician training system (see para. 4.01). A
second phase, to be determined, would consolidate the benefits of the first
phase and expand or upgrade technician training at the state levels, in
accordance with regional manpower demands.
5.27      Implementation Schedule.  The MEC would attempt to appraise all
the federal sub-projects (federal institutions and some state sub-projects)
by the end of CY83. This would amount to about 50 sub-projects, for which
preparation is underway. State sub-projects would be appraised during the
first two years of implementation. Because the overall investment plan
draws on the yearly projected investment funds of federal schools, the
schedule of implementation would include activities in all federal school
in each year of project implementation. Schools to be included in the
proposed project are presently asked to prepare investment proposals
stretching mainly over a four-year period. Final investments at school
level in each implementation year would be adjusted in accordance with the
yearly overall volume of project funds.   Eight sub-projects have been
prepared and appraised so far; thus their implementation could begin before
the end of 1983. National programs such as training of teachers and the
generalization of the graduates tracer system would be implemented in
accordance with the implementation schedule of sub-projects. Training of
federal and state personnel would be executed during the early stages of
implementation, as it is part of the overall assistance to be provided to
the states in policy formulation. Studies would be initiated before the
end of 1984, so that their benefits would be available during the latter
stages of project execution.
VI. SUB-SECTOR PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCE
6.01      Project costs are defined as the total investment program for the
two-subsectors for the period 1984-1987. The proposed loan would finance
part of the program. The volume of investment would be sufficient to
implement policy changes within the two sub-sectors. The main impact would
be on the federal school syster, but important policy and quality changes
would be introduced in the participating states. The proposed investment
program is financially feasible because it is based on expected budgetary
allocations to MEC, for the two sub-sectors, for the next four years. In
addition, it is based on changes in the MEC's operational mechanisms, and
criteria for allocating funds, which would introduce greater efficiency in
the two sub-sectors.



- 38 -
Total Project Costs
6.02      The total investment costs for the technician training sub-sector
project during the implementation period of 1984-1987 are tentatively
estimated at about US$45.36 millions at estimated June 1984 prices17/.
The total costs include investment expenditures (base costs) of about
US$38.82 millions and physical and price contingencies of about US$6.54
million. The total investment plan by component, and type of expenditures,
are shown in the following Tables 6.1 and 6.2.
Table 6.1: Summary of Finance Plan by Component
Cruzeiros Billion a/        US$ Million             % of
Baseline
Program Component          Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total    Cost
National Programs:          1.81      0.35   2.16   1.72        0.33   2.05       5.3
Training                    1.13      0.11   1.24   1.08        0.10   1.18       3.0
Technical Assistance b/   0.30        0.21   0.51   0.28        0.20   0.48       1.3
Studies                     0.38      0.03   0.41   0.36        0.03   0.39      1.0
Sub-Projects               28.98      8.59  37.57  27.60        8.18  35.78    92.1
industrial                 12.97      4.38  17.35  12.35        4.17  16.52    42.5
Federal Schools          10.43      3.40  13.83   9.93        3.24  13.17    33.9
State Schools             2.54      0.98   3.52   2.42        0.93   3.35      8.6
Agricultural               16.01      4.21  20.22  15.25        4.01  19.26    49.6
Federal Schools          13.02      3.43  16.45  12.40        3.27  15.67    40.4
State Schools             2.99      0.78   3.77   2.85        0.74   3.59      9.2
Administration              0.99      0.05   1.04   0.94        0.05   0.99       2.6
Base Cost                  31.78      8.99  40.77  30.26        8.56  38.82   100.0
Contingencies               4.73      2.14   6.87   4.50        2.04   6.54    16.8
Physical                  1.48      0.45   1.93   1.41        0.43   1.84
Price Increases d/        3.25      1.69   4.94   3.09        1.61   4.70
TOTAL PROJECTS COST    36.51    11.13  47.64  34.76    10.60  45.36
Front End Fee on Bank Loan                                         0.05 c/
TOTAL COST (Including Front End Fee)                              45.41
a/ At exchange rate of US$s = Cr$1050 (projected average 1984).
b/ Consist of consultant services and study tours abroad.
c/ Rounded.  Actual US$49,875 based upon a loan of US$20.0 million, including fee.
d/ Price increases for local expenditures do not include 1984 as the projected
increases for that year are included in the calculations of the exchange rate for
1984.
17/ The estimated average exchange rate of Cr$1050 = 1US$ was used because the
government investment plan was provided to the appraisal mission in cruzeiros of
1984.



- 39 -
Table 6.2:  Summary of Finance Plan by Type of Expenditure
Industrial         Agricultural         Total
Technician          Technician         (Rounded)
(US$ Million)       (US$ million)    (US$ Million)
National Programs                                                     1.57
Training                                                              1.18
Studies                                                              0.39
Subprojects                    16.52                19.26            35.78
Civil Works                     1.74                6.86              8.60
Furniture                       0.95                 0.77             1.72
Equipment                      13.83                11.63            25.46
Administration and Technical Assistance                               1.47
Base Cost                                                            38.82
Contingencies                                                         6.54
Total                                                                45.36
Basis of Cost Estimates
6.03      Base cost estimates of the various components are calculated on
the basis of December 31, 1983 prices and are net of import duties. Esti-
mated costs of new construction and remodeling of existing facilities are
based upon an average of contracts, let during late 1982 and early 1983,
for similar types of educational facilities. They include site works and
professional fees. Furniture costs are based upon 10% of new construction
and upon estimated replacement costs of specific items in existing
facilities. Equipment costs, including transport equipment, are based upon
CIF unit costs developed and annually updated by a group of senior
technical and vocational specialists in the Bank. Local transportation and
installation costs are added. Technical assistance costs for external
consultants are based upon an average of US$8,600 per specialist-month,
plus international travel costs averaging US$2,500 per individual. Local
consultancies are based on a cost of US$2,500 per specialist/month. For
study tours abroad the costs are based upon an average of US$3,000 per
staff-month plus US$2,500 travel costs per individual. Project
administration costs are based upon comparable industrial salary scales for
such qualified people plus normal office costs.
Contingency Allowances
6.04      Total contingencies are estimated at about US$6.54 million or
16.8% of the base cost. Physical contingencies would amount to US$1.84 or
5% of the base costs for all categories, and price contingencies would
amount to US$4.70 or about 12.0% of the base cost plus physical contingency
cost. Price contingencies are estimated as follows:



- 40 -
Table 6.3: Estimated Price Contingencies
(in percentage)
Local and Foreign Costs
(Calculated in US$)
C  a  t  e  g  o  r  i   e  s
Civil Works, a/ Furniture,
Calendar        Training, Specialist           Administration
Year               Assistance                 and Studies      Equipment
1984                      7                          6                8
1985-87                   6                          6                7
a! Includes Professional Fees
6.05      The foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$10.60
million equivalent or about 23% of total project costs. The foreign
content of each category of expenditure was calculated at 10% of civil
works, furniture, and training; 30% for equipment, 40% for technical
assistance; and 5% for project administration and studies.
Procurement
6.06      Procurement arrangement are summarized in Table 6.4 below.
Table 6.4: Methods of Procurement by Project Element
Procurement Method
Project Element                ICB        LCB    Other    N.A.        Cost
(US$ Millions)
Civil Works                               6.40   2.20                  8.60
Furniture                                 1.22   0.50                  1.72
Equipment                       7.73    15.23   2.50                  25.46
Training                                                    1.18       1.18
Technical Assistance                                        0.48       0.48
Studies                                                     0.39       0.39
Total                      7.73    22.85   5.20        2.05      37.83
6.07-    Civil Works.  Civil contracts comprising construction of farm
facilities, repairs of existing facilities, and extensions or replacement
of existing laboratories, shops and other specialized facilities, and staff
housing and domitories, are estimated to total about US$8.60 million
equivalent not including contingencies.  The contracts would be generally
small and widely dispersed over the country. With an average cost of only
about US$400,000, the contracts would be much too small to attract foreign
bidders and would, therefore, be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank. Small repair
contracts not exceeding US$25,000 each would be carried out under force
account. All new construction, and extensions to existing facilities would



- 41 -
be located on existing sites belonging to project schools. Civil works
designs would be done by Ministry and/or consultant architects on the basis
of agreed educational and architectural standards.
6.08      Furniture needs in an estimated amount equivalent to about
US$1.72 million, including contingencies, would be procured under
local competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
6.09      Equipment in an amount of about US$25.46 million, not including
contingencies, would be procured mainly under LCB. The MEC has prepared
lists and specifications for equipment needs under the guidance of staff of
the project unit of an on-going education project. Bidding documents which
have been successfully used under previous Bank loans have been adapted for
use under the proposed project and were submitted to the Bank for approval
at negotiations. CEDATE would be responsible for calling all ICBs. LCBs
would be the responsibilty of CEDATE (federal industrial schools), COAGRI
(federal agricultural schools), and Secretariats of Education (state
schools). Local biddings would be organized by the SECs, or single federal
schools. Equipment items would be grouped for bulk procurement to the
extent feasible. Equipment packages in excess of US$300,000 would be
procured through ICB procedures. Packages of between US$25,000 and
US$300,000 not to exceed about US$15.23 million in total, would be procured
through regular government procedures (LCB) which are acceptable to the
Bank. Small items or groups of items estimated to cost no more than
US$25,000, not to exceed a total of US$2.50 million, or items of a
specialized nature for which ICB or LCB would not be practical, would be
procured through local shopping. Under the above procedures it is expected
that about 30% of total value of equipment purchases would be procured
through ICB, 60% through LCB, and about 10% through local shopping.
This variation (Table 6.4) from the typical Bank loan ratio of ICB to LCB
procured goods is due to: a critical analysis of the equipment items to be
procured, with emphasis upon whether they would be procured more
efficiently through LCB or ICB; the necessity of financing from the loan of
100% of the expenditures for directly imported goods because of the
Government's serious foreign exchange shortages; and the low percentage
(averaging 44%) of total costs to be financed from the loan. Software
(books, periodicals, audio-visuals, etc.) would be procured through direct
purchase from local and international sources.
6.10      Contract Review.  Recommended contract awards for civil works,
furniture and equipment, estimated to cost US$300.000 or more, would be
referred to the Bank for prior review. MEC would retain bid evaluations
and contracts for remainder of contracts for random ex post review by Bank
staff during supervision missions. It is expected that these reviews would
cover about 50% of the total value of all contracts. For the purposes of
comparing foreign and local bids, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a
margin of preference equal to the prevailing tariff or 15% of CIF costs of
imported goods whichever is lower.
Readiness for Implementation
6.11      The project is in an advanced state of readiness.  Subsectoral
policy objectives and main actions, as proposed by the MEC, have been
discussed with the prospective participating states. Eight sub-projects
have been appraised so far,out of which six have been reviewed by the



- 42 -
Bank and another ten are under appraisal by ME. All sub-projects to be
submitted by federal schools would be appraised by the end of CY83. Draft
national programs have been prepared for the training of teaching personnel
and for SEPS staff.  Bidding documentation and lists for the purchase of
equipment are being finalized. About US$7 million equivalent has been
Recurrent Cost Implications
6.12      Due to the special nature of the project (sub-sector lending
modality) it is not possible at this stage to assess exactly the total
incremental recurrent costs likely to be generated by the project inputs at
school level.  In fact, the final volume of inputs to be distributed in
each school would be decided in the course of project implementation.
Nevertheless, a tentative estimate for the industrial schools shows that
there would be a maximum increase in recurrent costs by about 12% for those
receiving heavy inputs in equipment. This increase is within their
projected financial capability.  For the federal agricultural schools, the
total renewal of laboratory equipment would increase recurrent expenditures
by about US$4,000-6,000 per year, depending on the number of students.
This increase is also within the financial capacity of these schools. It
is also expected that the incremental recurrent costs, likely to be
generated by the investments in school farm, would be absorbed by the
additional farm income made possible by the project investment.
Financing and Bank Contribution
Overall Financing Plan
6.13      The investment program for the two sub-sectors, equivalent to
total project costs, would be financed through federal and Bank financial
resources. Federal resources are composed of the following MEC budgetary
allocations:
(a)  80% of total investments in agricultural technical educa-
tion;
(b)  100% of total investments in industrial technical education;
(c)  80% of the federal transfers to the states for secondary
education; and
(d)  100% of CENAFOR's investments for training secondary level
technical teachers.
The present MEC's budgetary allocations for 1984 on the above categories
have been projected for the period 1985-1987, assuming an average decrease
in constant terms, as compared to the allocation for 1984, of 6% for 1985,
3% for 1986 and no decrease for 1987. Bank financing is incremental to the
Government's investments.
6.14      The total cost of about US$45.40 million would be financed as
follows:



- 43 -
(a) the proposed Bank loan of US$20.0 million (44% of the total
project cost net of taxes) would meet 100% of foreign
exchange costs and 27% of local costs; and
(b) the federal government would finance the remaining cost of
US$25.40 million (56%).
Disbursements
6.15      Disbursements under the proposed loan would be made over a period
of about four and one-half years. The closing date of the loan would be
June 30, 1988. Disbursements would be made against an average of 50% of
total estimated expenditures during 1984 and 1985, and against an average
of 35% of total estimated expenditures during 1986 to 1988. With the
exception of payments for equipment, technical assistance and study tours
procured outside Brazil, all disbursements would be made through the
Special Account.
6.16      Disbursements for contracts of less than US$300,000 equivalent
obtained as a result of local competitive bidding, and for miscellaneous
small local expenditures for goods and services costing less than US$25,000
each, would be against statement of expenditures. Disbursements for all
other expenditures would be made against fully document withdrawal applica-
tions. Withdrawal applications would be prepared by SEPS/SADESE and
certified by the five NEC agencies involved in project implementation.
Supporting documentation for expenditures disbursed against statement of
expenditures (salaries, administrative expenses, civil works executed under
force account, direct administration or local compctitive bidding, equip-
ment purchased under local competitive bidding, and purchase of goods and
services below US$25,000 equivalent) would not be submitted to the Bank.
They would be retained by SEPS/SADESE and made available for inspection by
the Bank during project supervision missions.
6.17      Disbursements by project categories of expenditures would be made
for the two implementation periods (1984-1985 and 1986-1988) according to
the percentages shown in the following table.
Table 6.5: Disbursement Percentages by Categories of Expenditure
Category                                   1984-1985                  1986-1988
a)  Civil works, furniture,
local specialist services and
fellowships, training, studies,
and project administration                50%                          35%
b)  Equipment for COSIFE
(i) imported equipment, ex-factory
costs for locally manufactured equip-
ment procured under ICB, specialist
services and study tours abroad         100%                          100%
(ii) locally procured equipment          15%                           15%
c)  Equipment for COAGRI
(i) imported equipment, ex-factory
costs for locally manufacutred equip-
ment procured under ICB, specialit
services and study tours abroad          100%                          100%
(ii) locally procured equipment          30%                           30%



- 44 -
6.18      The estimated schedule of disbursements by calendar and IBRD
fiscal year is shown in Table 6.06. The estimated disbursement period is
about 30% shorter than the one of the Second Education Project (Loan
1067-BR), completed in June 1983 and 45% shorter than the regional average
profile. The shorter implementation period for the proposed project is
considered feasible on the basis of: (a) the advanced status of project
preparation (para 6.11); (b) the nature of the sub-sector lending
operation, based on the co-financing of a current investment plan; and (c)
the variable disbursement percentages adopted to assist the government to
cope with its current fiscal difficulties.
Table 6.06: Disbursement Schedule by Semester
(in US$ millions)
Accumulated        Undisbursed
CY      IBRD        Expendi-   Disbursement   Disbursements            Balance
Sem      FY   Sem   tures        Amount    %    Amount    %          Amount   %
1983 II  1984  I        4.0       0.0      0.0       -      -           -    100
1984  I        II       4.0       2.0    10.0      2.0   10.0         18.0  90.0
II  1985  I       6.0       2.0    10.0       4.0   20.0         16.0  80.0
1985  I        II       4.0       3.0    15.0       7.0   35.0        13.0  65.0
II  1986  I       6.6       2.0    10.0       9.0   45.0         11.0  55.0
1986  I        II       3.4       3.3    16.5    12.3   61.5           7.7  38.5
II  1987  I       5.6       1.7      8.5    14.0   70.0           6.0  30.0
1987  I        II       3.6       2.0    10.0    16.0   80.0           4.0  20.0
II  1988  I       5.0       1.2      6.0    17.2   86.0           2.8  14.0
1988  I        II       3.2       2.8    14.0    20.0    100           0.0   0.0
Total             45.4      20.0   100
Project Special Account
6.19      A special account would be established in accordance with
criteria already applied for other Bank projects. The account would be
established in US Dollars at the Central Bank.  It would have an initial
deposit of US$1.5 million, equivalent to 50% of three months of estimated
project expenditures. The Government may request the Bank to make advance
payments in Dollars from the loan account into the Special Account.
Withdrawals from the Special Account would be made against withdrawal
applications forwarded by MEC to the Central Bank.  Conversion from Dollars
into Cruzeiros would occur at the exchange rate that prevailed on the date
expenditures were made. The Central Bank would consolidate withdrawal
applications and send them to IBRD, which would then replenish the Special
Account.
Retroactive Financing
6.20       Through the proposed sub-sector project the Bank financial
contribution would allow the Government to expand its investment program in
the two sectors under mutually agreed upon criteria and procedures. The
Government's program is on-going, and investments have already occurred



- 45 -
both to prepare the new procedures and to appraise sub-projects under the
new criteria.  To encourage this preparation and appraisal process (para.
5.27) retroactive financing   up to US$2,000,000 (10% of the loan), is
recommended for preparation and appraisal costs expenditures incurring
after March 1, 1983. This is the date MEC adopted the new project criteria
and procedures. Retroactive financing would be made against expenditures
such as personnel costs for assistance provided to the states, direct costs
for appraising sub-projects (per diem, travel, materials) and for advanced
contracting in accordance with the criteria agreed upon with the government
during appraisal.
Auditing
6.21      Each of the participating agencies would maintain separate
accounts of its project expenditures. They would te audited annually by
the Central Secretariat of Internal Control of the Secretary of Planning of
the Presidency, according to standard government practices which is
satisfactory to the Bank. Copies of the audit report on the various
participating agencies would be furnished to the Bank within four months of
the end of each Brazilian fiscal year. These audit reports would also
convey the auditors opinion of the Statements of Expenditures, their
accuracy, the appropriateness of supporting documents, eligibility for
financing in accordance with projects legal agreements, and the standard
record keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing. The Special
Account at the Central Bank of Brazil (para. 6.19) would be audited by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank.
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01      The proposed sub-sector project would benefit directly the
expected 10,000 yearly graduates from project technician training
institutions, the project state Secretariats of Education, and the Ministry
of Education (MEC). Indirectly, the project would have a positive impact
on the agricultural and industrial economic sectors and on the entire
technician training system.
7.02      The benefits of project inputs would be felt primarily by school
graduates. Their higher motivation and enhanced learning would result in
broadened employment opportunities.  Their performance, once employed, is
also expected to be more productive thus having a beneficial effect on the
international competitive position of Brazilian industry, and on their own
salaries.  In the agricultural sector, deeper involvement in the school



- 46
farm management, and better organized practical ae.  x,7S 1rcin the same
farm would develop in the future agricultural tech,icie- s p-1-actical
economic skills, enabling them to better ass a- 'Dotlh        e   and profes-
sionals in planning farm activities, and developing ftern2atives.
Those becoming agricultural extension agents,  would            -a c'oser
relationship between national agricultural p1ars             aCnd tneir
application at the producers' 7eveic  In the  S   -creased
knowledge and practical involvement in Droduc t'on-    - . Quality
control would prepare the industrial techninciaLns i'Oc 'L-i  Jn-r 1'evels of
capability in industrial plants.  Apart fromi t he pe^saral be.e-fits for the
technician, such improved capability would    reas-          pity and
competitiveness of the industrial productior of   p                        a.s  .e-e t ,ie )rIe W tech-
nicians would be employed.
7.03    Project states  would benefit mainly because  t             ,he proposed
project, they would have to carefully reassess their _Lechacian training
system.  Thus, (a) with MEC assistance, the state Secet:ariats of Education
would redefine policies for the system9 inc                       obWectives and
main actions; (b) the review would bring about a             da:ion of the
system (needed in some states), resu lirg in l-ower ov.erall costs and better
efficiency; (c) selected state personnel would acquiTe  ncrea3ed capacity
through the training provided under the project- and; ud  the states would
gradually introduce the tran<Irn  sta dardsor Fthe --e6erE._ tra_ning system,
resulting in significantly highe  levels o-= c2 abl l-Lts graduates.
7.04    At federal level, the pr3Dropo    p                       the administ-
ration of the system.  The new procedures and cri-2ria introducee under the
proposed project would: (a) strea7li-}e r       ---i      _ - lhin the Ministry
of Education's units involved; ('o) promcte a bette  balarced investment
program in agricultural and industrial technicians training; (c) enhance a
more rigorous planning process S rlL"n the involve-ent- of business, industry
and the education secretariats Of t-a2 states, (dv  m-eove monitoring of
federal resource transfers to  eel; c                   -  administration; and
(e) stimulate the normative, advilsorYP and <r inoa-4u a   functions of the
Ministry. These benefits, resultlng in ncreased overall efficiency of the
system, are by far greater than therere ph- ysicsa-             ov-ded under the
project, because they will be irnstitutionalizea  n te  taining system.
They would affect many thousands of fu.ure graduaLes and of school, state,
and federal education and training personnel.
Risks
7.05    The proposed project is not free from risks.  At present, three
foreseable risks relate to the financial capability of the government, the
available pool of trained human resources at all administrative levels, and
the willingness of project states to endorse all project objectives.
7.06    The actual investment capacity of the government is low.  Due to
the current financial crisis, public investments have been severely
curtailed. Education, as all social sectors, has been particularly
affected, so that the NEC has been obliged to reduce continuously the level
of its investments earmarked for the two sub-sectors covered by the
proposed project. Thus, the present balance of the project impact between
the federal and state technician training systems is fragile. Any further



- 47 -
substantial reduction of federal funds would be done at the detriment of
investments at state level, (which would not be increased) and the impact
on the entire system would be diminished. The project would not achieve
its full benefits as expected. Thus the need for a follow-up assistance by
the Bank would be imperative. Nevertheless, even with such further
reductions in scope, the proposed project would still be worthy because of
its impact on the federal system is not in direct proportion to project
funds, but by far exceeds direct project inputs (para. 7.04 above). If the
project were reduced to only the federal system, it would still provide
indirect benefits to non-federal institutions, because the assistance the
NEC is actually providing to the states would be improved.
7.07   M4aintaining a constant level of performance ability in school
administration staff is one of the serious challenges to be faced by any
program aiming at improving the education system. Performance levels
within the system are highly volatile in Brazil, due to frequent changes in
personnel at all administrative levels. The reward system and career pros-
pects for technical personnel in the public service are generally poor,
unless politically motivated. Thus, turn-over of staff might offset the
benefits of the training programs envisaged under the proposed project, and
cause delays in attaining project objectives. However, remedial actions to
be applied under the project consist of: (a) offering recurrent refresher
courses for school and public administration personnel to allow prompt
training of new staff; (b) organizing regular meetings among schools
administrators and teaching staff of various institutions and different
states, to ensure continuous cross-fertilization and promoting agreements
on common incentives to be provided to school teaching and administrative
personnel; and (c) the constant dialogue of federal staff with state and
other centralized authorities. This dialogue would lead to a better
understanding of the importance of maintaining qualified manpower in the
sub-sector and, thus, to remedial actions. Bank supervision is also
scheduled at a higher than average rate during the initial phase of project
implementation, thus providing the benefits of Bank expertise.
7.08    Prospective project states have had the opportunity to discuss the
policies and actions proposed in the two policy documents on agricultural
and industrial technician training prepared by the NEC.  The states agreed
with the general proposals contained in the two documents, and would follow
the criteria established by the MEC for submitting loan proposals. But
there is no guarantee that the states would follow all the project
priorities and apply appropriate procedures throughout the project
implementation period. In fact, changes in priorities at state and federal
levels 18/, politically motivated or others, occur and might require a
review of some project objectives and mechanisms. However, the continuous
dialogue between the Bank and the MEC (paras. 5.06 and 5.17), and the
assistance to be provided by MEC to the states for policy formulation
(para. 5.14 and 5.22) would minimize the risk of sudden policy changes. It
is recognized that the project must allow for certain flexibility in the
interpretation of overall objectives, and in the application of procedures
and criteria. Some flexibility is sound and will be required in adapting
project implmentation to the changes which may occur in the socio-economic
environment of the country. These adaptations would be discussed at the
occasion of the annual reviews between Bank and government.
18/ e.g. the low priority given to industrial technician training in the State of Sao
Paulo, after a period of flourishing schools.



- 48 -
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED
8.01      During negotiations the Bank approved the following documents
which were presented by the Government:
(a) the CENAFOR training program (para. 4.19);
(b) the draft monitoring forms (para. 5.18);
(c) the project evaluation final scheme (para. 5.19);
(d)  the bidding documents for equipment procurement (para. 6.09).
8.02      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances on the
following matters:
(a) prior Bank approval of the terms of reference of the studies
(para. 4.18);
(b) Bank review of the detailed instructional and administrative
staff training programs (para. 4.19);
(c) a viable equipment maintenance program, a proper monitoring of
the maintenance program in project schools, the submission to the
Bank of a coordinated plan for proper maintenance in federal
schools not later than December 31, 1984;(para 4.22);
(d) prior Bank review of the tracer system forms (para. 4.26);
(e) prior Bank review of terms of reference for regional manpower
studies (para. 4.28);
(f) prior Bank comments for changes in the organizational structure
of the project (para. 5.06);
(g) the establishment of the Technical Advisory Committee not later
than June 30, 1984, (para. 5.09);
(h) prior Bank approval for sub-projects requiring more than
US$440,000 and US$375,000 of Bank financing, for industrial and
agricultural sub-projects, respectively (para. 5.16) and;
(i) changes in the allocation of project funds beyond 10% of the
agreed distribution within each subprogram, and any change in
criteria and guidelines, would be agreed with the Bank (para.
5.23);
8.03      Retroactive financing up to US$2.0 million is recommended for
preparation and appraisal costs expenditures incurred after March 1, 1983
(para. 6.20).
8.04      Subject to the above conditions the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil of
US$20.0 million equivalent, with a term of 17 years and a grace period of 4
years.



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
BRAZIL
SUB-SECTOR PROJECT FOR TECHNICIAN TRAINING
Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File
1. MEC/SEPS: Politica Nacional Para 0 Ensino Tecnico Industrial. 1983
2. MEC/SEPS/COAGRI: Politica Nacional Para Educacao Agricola. 1983
3. MEC/SEPS: Manual de Administracao e Programacao IV Acordo MEC/BIRD.
1983
4. MEC/SESU: Listagem e Classificacao dos Cursos de Graduacao do Ensino
Superior, Julho de 1980.
5. MEC/CENAFOR: Acompanhamento de Egressos: Perspectivas de Sua
Realizacao pelas Escolas de 20 Grau. Sao Paulo, 1980.
6. MEC/SEPS/SUPLAN-CODEAD: Estabelecimentos Agricolas Subordinados a
COAGRI. Indicadores Quantitativos. Agosto 1980.
7.  COAGRI/DAP:  Escolas de 20 Grau da Area Primaria, 1982.
8. COAGRI/DAP: Relatorios 1977-1978-1979-1980.
9. COAGRI: 0 Que E' E 0 Que Faz
10. DF/SEC/DEPLAN: Aspectos Quantitativos do Ensino de 20 Grau No Brasil.
1979.
11. SENAI: Modelo Brasileno de Formacion Profesional Para la Industria.
12. World Bank: Brazil. Industrial Policies and Manufactured Exports,
Report No. 3766-BR. July 2, 1982.
13. World Bank: Brazil. Human Resources Special Report, Annex III -
Health, Nutrition and Education. Report No. 2604-BR. July 13, 1979.
14. World Bank: Federative Republic of Brazil. Agricultural Education and
Training Sub-Sector Memorandum. June 30, 1982.
15. World Bank: Federative Republic of Brazil. Industrial Technician
Education and Training Sub-Sector Memorandum. October 18, 1982.
16. Institutional Data for Agricultural and Industrial Technical Training
Schools.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
SUB-SECTOR PROJECT FOR TECHNICIAN TRAINING
Eligibility and Pre-Selection Criteria
Training Institutions
Criteria                             Agricultural             Industrial
A.  Type of training                     Full Technician Level           Full Technician Level
B.  Administrative dependency    (i)  Federal                       (i)  Federal
(ii)  State                     (ii)  State
(iii)  Foundations               (iii) Foundations
C.  Correlation with main          (i)  yes                          (i) yes
economic activity of          (ii)  partially                   (ii) partially
the region                   (iii)  no                         (iii) no
D.  Geographical location          (i)  N, NE                       (i)  SE
of institution                (ii)  CW                         (ii)  S
(iii)  S                        (iii)  N, NE
(iv)  SE                        (iv)  CW
E.  Qualifications of              (i)  increasing percen-          (i)  decreasing percen-
institutions' teaching        (ii)  tage of technical          (ii)  tage of technical
staff                        (iii)  qualifications; and    (iii)  qualifications; and
(iv)  decreasing percentage   (iv)  increasing percentage
of pedagogical                  of pedagogical
training                        training



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
Training Institutions
Criteria                             Agricultural             Industrial
F.  Correlations between                                             Adequate      Inadequate
existing facilities and                                         Facilities   Facilities
equipment, and needes
for training given             (i)  -30%                        (i)  +80%       -50%
(ii)  31-50%                    (ii)  51-80%      50-70%
(iii)  51-80%                   (iii)  31-50%    +70%
(iv)  +80%                      (iv)  -30          -__
G.  Correlation between            (i)  +90%                        (i)  + 90%
existing enrollments          (ii)  70-89%                    (ii)  70-89%
and total capacity           (iii)  50-69%                   (iii)  50-69%
(iv)  -50%                      (iv)  -50%
H.  Minimum size of                      10 has
farm land
I.  Percentage of total                                             (i)  +70%
physical facilities                                           (ii)  50-69%
needing repairs                                              (iii)  10-49%
(iv)  -10%
Schools not meeting criteria A, B and H would not be eligible. For all the other
criteria, a grading would be applied to each sub-criterion (designated by (i) to
(iv), ranged in decreasing priority order. The sum of all the grades would allow
the establishment of a priority list of institutions, to be attended in accordance
with the availability of project funds.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
SUB-SECTOR PROJECT ON TECHNICIAN TRAINING
Criteria for Appraisal of Sub-Projects
1.        The Ministry of Education would appraise and approve applications
on the basis of three criteria: relevance, feasibility and efficiency.
Detailed criteria and norms, hereafter summarized, are contained in the
MEC's appraisal manual available in LAC files. Certain parameters (e.g.,
unit costs) might change during implementations, and would be reviewed
annually.
Relevance of Sub-Projects to Federal, State and School Policy Objectives
2.        Sub-project applications would be assessed to determine the
relevance of the actions proposed to the overall objectives of quality and
efficiency improvements pursued by the project (based on the two sub-sector
policy papers of the MEC). In addition, the proposed applications have to
be coherent with: (a) the objectives stated in the state policy document
accompanying the applications, and (b) have to address the main internal
issues as identified by each school submitting applications. The
assessment would cover the following main topics:
(a) General: Whether the actions proposed are consistent with the expected
consolidation of the agricultural technician training system, or with the
moderate expansion of the industrial technician training system in
priority areas (as determined by manpower surveys conducted by the
government). Whether the actions proposed address the main issues at
school level, and whether they are relevant to the main state priorities.
(b)  Staffing.  Whether the application envisages any training program to
qualify or upgrade school administration and teaching staff.  In case of
proposed training programs, whether they are consistent with the main
training objectives defined under the project.
(c) Curriculum. Whether the school is willing to review its
curriculum so as to introduce the reforms as proposed by the
MEC. Special attention would be put on whether the school
proposes changes so as to:  (a) increase the proportion of time
spent in guided practical activities; (b) consolidate the basic
sciences periods; (c) introduce new subjects as proposed by the
MEC; and (d) increase the time spent in supervised internships.
(d) Physical Facilities and Equipment. Whether the proposed new facilities
and equipment-are relevasnt to the modifications to be introduced in the
curriculum, and to the kind of
specializations/training given, or to be given, by the school.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
Feasibility of the Proposed Sub-Projects
3.        Feasibility is expressed as the degree to which the proposed
actions could be implemented in staffing, managerial and financial terms.
(a) Staffing. Whether the institution has at its disposal the
qualified staff required to carry out the proposed actions.
Whether the training programs as proposed do not interfere with
the normal activities of the staff or the institution, and
whether temporary replacements have to be found.  Whether
incentives for better retaining upgraded personnel are envisaged.
(b) Management. Whether the present administrative structure of the
institution, or the state, allows the implementation of the proposed
actions. Whether there are structural changes proposed and, if yes,
whether they are practicable. What eventual legal actions have to be
taken to implement such actions.
(c) Financing. Careful examination would be made as to whether the
institution would have a suficient level of financial resources to meet
the likely increase in recurrent costs generated by the proposed
actions. How the institution is expected to increase its level of
income, or reduce unnecessary costs.
Efficiency of the proposed Sub-project
4.        Under this criterion, the applications would be assessed as to
whether the proposed actions could be implemented at a reasonable cost.
Basic parameters are given in terms of unit costs, use factors and ratios.
(a) Unit costs. Whether unit investment costs are reasonable, as
compared to given parameters (e.g., given costs/m2 of
construction, equipment costs/student, costs/trainee hour).
(b) Use factors. Whether physical facilities and equipment would be
reasonably used, as compared to given use factors (e.g., for use
of classrooms and laboratories, for special equipment). Whether
facilities and equipment would be shared with other training
programs or institutions.
(c) Ratios. Whether staff/student ratios would remain within reasonable
a                   limits (e.g., teacher:  student ratio, administrative personnel:
student ratio). Whether the staff work schedules would be within
acceptable limits (to avoid excessive, or too light, workloads).



