[DOCUMENTS      OAN NUMBER' 2   'BR
Loan Agreement
(Technician Training Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                , 1983


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December /$/, 1983, between FEDERATIVE
REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "MEC" means Ministerio da Educa9ao e Cultura, the
Ministry of Education and Culture of the Borrower, and "SEPS"
means the MEC's Secretariat of Primary and Secondary Education;
(b) "National Program" means a specific program other than
a Sub-project included in the Project to be carried out in res-
pect of Technician Training Schools throughout the Borrower's
territories.
(c) "Sub-project"   means  a  specific  investment   project
included in Parts B (4) or B (5) of the Project to be carried out


﻿-2-
by, and for the development of, an Agricultural or Industrial
Technician Training School at the federal or state level.
(d) "CEDATE" means Centro de Desenvolvimento      de Apoio
Tecnico a Educagao, the Center for Development and Technical
Assistance to Education of MEC.
(e) "CENAFOR" means Fundago Centro Nacional de Aperfeiroa-
mento e Formagao Profissional, the National Center for Training
of Personnel for Vocational Training of MEC.
(f) "COAGRI" means Coordenar'o Nacional do Ensino Agrope-
cuario, the National Agricultural Education Unit of MEC.
(g) "COSIFE" means Coordenadoria do Sistema Federal de
Ensino, the Industrial Technical Education Unit of MEC.
(h) "INEP" means Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas
Educacionais, the National Institute for Educational Research and
Studies of NEC.
(i) "Executing Entities" means CEDATE, CENAFOR, COAGRI,
COSIFE and INEP re-F-red to collectively.
(j) "Coordinating Committee" means a committee within MEC
established on November 14, 1983 by Portaria No. 125, issued by
the Secretary General of MEC, comprised of representatives of
each of the Executing Entities.
(k) "SE" means Secretaria de Educagao, the Secretariat of
Education of each state participating in the Project.
(1) "Manual" means the Borrower's Manual of Administration
and Programing furnished to the Bank together with the letter
from MEC's Secretary General dated August 29, 1983.
(m) "Technician Training School" means a Brazilian institu-
tion offering full technician-level courses (habilitaao plena)
as part of the agricultural or the industrial technician educa-
tion and training sub-sectors, and which is funded through
federal, state or public foundation sources; "Agricultural Tech-
nician Training School" means a Technician Training School as so
defined, which prepares field operators to perform the task of
utilizing or diffusing technical knowledge into agricultural


﻿- 3 -
areas; and "Industrial Technician Training School" means a Tech-
nician Training School, as so defined, which prepares trained
manpower for the job market having a sound base in applied
sciences and mathematics and a good balance between technical
knowledge and skills in a given field of specialization.
(n) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and "Account Bank" means Banco
Central do Brasil.
(o) "cruzeiro" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty mil-
lion dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sche-
dule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall cause to be opened and thereafter
maintained in dollars a Special Account in the Account Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into and
payments out of the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with Schedule 5 to this Agreement exclusively to pay the reason-
able cost of goods and services required to carry out the Project
and to be financed by the Bank under this Agreement in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) above and Schedule 1 hereto.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to forty-nine thousand eight hundred seventy-five
dollars ($49,875).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Bor-
rowings fo' such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
mencing on each date specified in Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B) here-
under shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93% per
annum.
(iii)  "Qualified Borrowings" means (A) outstanding bor-
rowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.


﻿- 5 -
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. The Borrower hereby appoints its Minister of
Education and Culture or the person or persons authorized in
writing by him, for purposes of Section 5.04 of the General Con-
ditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MEC and shall carry out or cause to be carried out the
Sub-projects with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with ippropriate administrative, financial and educational prac-
tices, and 9hall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) through COAGRI and COSIFE, appraise each of the
Sub-projects  in  their  respective  sectors  and
through CENAFOR, appraise the National Programs
under Part B.3 of the Project, all in accordance
with the criteria and procedures set forth in the
Manual; and
(ii) maintain the Coordinating Committee until the
Closing Date, and through it review each of the
Sub-projects submitted to such Coordinating Com-
mittee and, where appropriate, submit to the
Secretary of SEPS for the final approval thereof
all Sub-projects to be financed out of the Loan,
all in accordance with the criteria and procedures
set forth in the Manual.


﻿-6-
(c) Before submitting it to the Secretary of SEPS for
approval, the Borrower shall present to the Bank, for prior
approval by the Bank:
(i) each Sub-project to be carried out by an Indus-
trial Technician Training School and (A) proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
in an amount which exceeds the equivalent of
$440,000 or (B) estimated to cost (civil works
and goods, only) more than the equivalent of
$1,000,000; and
(ii) each Sub-project to be carried out by an Agricul-
tural Technician Training School and (A) proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in
an amount which exceeds the equivalent of $375,000
or (B) estimated to cost (civil works and goods,
only) more than the equivalent of $850,000.
(d) The Borrower shall:
(i) when presenting a Sub-project to the Bank for
approval pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
(c) above, furnish to the Bank (A) an application
substantially in the form and containing the items
of information for such purposes required in the
Manual, and (B) such other information with res-
pect to such Sub-project as the Bank shall reason-
ably request;
(ii) in respect of such Sub-projects not requiring
prior Bank approval pursuant to the provisions of
paragraph (c) above, the Borrower shall retain all
data presented to the Borrower by COAGRI, COSIFE
and CENAFOR for purposes of obtaining the Coor-
dinating Committee's approval pursuant to the pro-
visions of the Manual and sub-paragraph (b) (ii)
above, and shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine such data and provide the Bank with all
such information in respect of such Sub-projects
as the Bank shall repsonably request.
(e) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not change the terms of a Sub-project which has been
approved by the Coordinating Committee or the Bank pursuant to
the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) above.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, and the studies referred to in Section 3.07 (a)
of this Agreement the Borrower shall employ management and educa-
tional consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such
consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and pro-
cedures 3atisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the 'se of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) allocate the funds made available by the Borrower for
purposes of financing the Project in a fashion consistent with
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and in accordance with the criteria
and procedures for such allocation agreed with the Bank as set
forth in the Manual; and
(b) except as otherwise agreed with the Bank, not modify
the criteria and procedures referred to in paragraph (a) above.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) furnish to the Bank
through MEC for review and comment any modifications proposed to
be made in the organizational structure and staffing plan for
Project execution; and
(b) put into effect any modifications to such organiza-
tional structure and staffing plan as are agreed with the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower undertakes, for purposes of Part
A.1 of the Project, to expand by June 30, 1984, the membership of
an existing interministerial committee into a national technical
advisory committee on technician training with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank. Such expanded membership to include as
permanent members, in addition to representatives of the Minis-
tries of Agriculture, Labor and Education, representatives of the
Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Planning Secretariat of
the Presidency and of relevant major private national associa-
tions and, as ad hoc members, at least the chair person of each
state advisory committee to be established pursuant to Part B.1
of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part B.6
of the Project, furnish to the Bank for review and comment the


﻿- 8 -
tracer forms prepared by INEP to be used by Project schools for
data collection.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part
B.2 of the Project complete not later than December 31, 1985 one
study to assess the evaluation methods currently in use by the
technician training system and, not later than December 31, 1986,
another to assess the pedagogical and cost benefit aspects of the
school-production system.
(b) Such studies and the studies described in Part C of the
Project shall be carried out in accordance with terms of refer-
ence satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) take all measures
necessary to ensure that a program of maintenance of instruc-
tional and support equipment is developed and put into effect in
each school participating in the Project; provided, however, that
without any limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Bor-
rower shall furnish to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1984
a coordinated plan for adequate maintenance of federal technician
Training Schools;
(b) carry out, through MEC, an annual review of each such
maintenance program; aT.
(c) provide or cause to be provided, as and when needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) above.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(h) The   Borrower  shall   cause  all  goods  and  services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.


﻿- 9 -
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank through the Coordi-
nating Committee at ragular intervals all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for pur-
poses related to the Project.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall, through CENAFOR, review
with the Bank annually the work programs prepared by CENAFOR for
the carrying out, during the next following year, of Part B.3 of
the Project.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with -:spect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts and records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower res-
ponsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) W,thout limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals a-e requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; and (iii) enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning said separate accounts,
records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall have the Special
Account audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank and, promptly after the audit and not later than four
months after the close of the Account Bank's fiscal year, the
Bank shall be furnished with certified copies of such audit,
together with a certified copy of the auditor's report, including
a description of the audit procedures.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Account Bank to furnish to
the Bank each month certified statements of the Special Account,


﻿- 12 -
and from time to time such other information concerning such
Special Account and the statements of expenditures as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank:
(a) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the
Banco Central do Brasil; and
(b) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Borrower, its political subdivisions or
agencies, by any agency thereof, or otherwise to be performed or
given in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and
to enable the Borrower to perform its obligations pursuant to
this Agreement, together with all necessary powers and rights in
connection therewith, have been performed or given.
Section 5.02. The date March 20, 1984, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
70048 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil


﻿- 13 -
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINIFAZ                          611506
Brasilia, Brazil
With copies to:
Ministerio da Educag2o e Cultura
Esplanada dos Ministerios
70047 - Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:                    Telex:
SG-MEC                         611068 MNEC BR
Brasilia, Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Brasilia,
Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works              3,900,000          50
under Sub-
projects for
Federal Tech-
nician Train-
ing Schools
(2) Equipment,
furniture and
textbooks under
Sub-projects
for Federal
Industrial
Technician
Training
Schools
(1)                     4,100,000
imported                              100% of foreign
expenditures
locally manu-                         100% of ex-
factured and                          factory cost
procured under
Part A of
Schedule 4
to this
Agreement


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(ii) locally manu-        1,400,000         15% of local
factured and                          expenditures
procured
under
Part C
of Sched-
ule 4 to
this Agree-
ment
(3) Equipment,
furniture and
textbooks under
Sub-projects
for State
Industrial
Technician
Training
Schools
(i)                      1,000,000
imported                              100% of foreign
expenditures
locally manu-                         100% of ex-
factured and                          factory cost
procured under
Part A of
Schedule 4
to this
Agreement
(ii) locally manu-          340,000        15% of local
factured and                          expenditures
procured under
Part C of
Schedule 4
to this Agree-
ment


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Equipment,
furniture and
textbooks
under Sub-
projects for
Federal Agri-
cultural Tech-
nician Train-
ing Schools
(i)                      2,100,000
imported                              100% of foreign
expenditures
locally manu-                         100% of ex-
factured and                          factory cost
procured under
Part A of
Schedule 4
to this
Agreement
(ii) locally manu-        2,700,000        30% of local
factured and                          expenditures
procured under
Part C of
Schedule 4
to this
Agreement
(5) Equipment,
furniture and
text books
under Sub-
projects for
State Agri-
cultural
Technician
Training
Schools


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(i)                        530,000
imported                              100% of foreign
expenditures
locally manu-                         100% of ex-
factured and                          factory cost
procured under
Part A of
Schedule 4
to this
Agreement
(ii) locally manu-          680,000        30% of local
factured and                          expenditures
procured under
Part C of
Schedule 4
to this
Agreement
(6) Consultant services         770,000        50
technical assist-
ance, and training
(7) Studies                     180,000        50
(8) Incremental costs          440,000         50
for Project admin-
istration substan-
tially as detailed
in the Annex to
this Schedule
(9) Initial deposit or        1,500,000        Amount or amounts
deposits into                              due under para-
Special Account                           graph I of Sched-
ule 5 to this
Agreement


﻿- 19 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(10) Fee                         49,875        Amount due under
Section 2.05 (a)
of this Agreement
(11) Unallocated                310,125
TOTAL              20,000,000
2.   The percentages of expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan set forth in Categories (1), (6), (7), and
(8), in paragraph 1 of this Schedule shall apply to expenditures
incurred through December 31, 1985 and, in respect of which,
withdrawal applications have been submitted to the Bank on or
before March 31, 1986. Unless the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, such percentages shall be reduced by the Bank,
by notice to the Borrower, to finance, in respect of expenditures
incurred after December 31, 1985 or expenditures incurred before
such date and for which withdrawal applications shall have been
submitted after March 31, 1986, 35% of expenditures under such
Categories.
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on a,2count of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in


﻿- 20 -
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) expenditures made
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000,
may be made on account of expenditures made before that date but
after March 1, 1983.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category or Sub-category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category or Sub-category, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category or to another Sub-category of
the same Category, as the case may be, and which in the opinion
of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
Reallocations from Categories (1), (2) or (4) to Categories (3)
or (5), or vice-versa shall not be made without agreement between
the Borrower and the Bank.
7.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limit-
ing any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 21 -
Annex to
Schedule 1 to Loan Agreement
Disbursement against Incremental Costs
for Project Administration
1.     Salaries of supplemental staff for COSIFE, whose
services are assigned full time to Project-related activities:
(i) eight specialists with at least one in each of the areas of
planning, evaluation, curriculum development, administration, and
certain subject matters; (ii) two middle-level technicians; and
(iii) four support staff. The aforesaid areas and numbers are
subject to change from time to time by agreement between the Bank
and COSIFE's head.
2.   Salaries of supplemental staff for COAGRI: (i) one
architect or engineer; (ii) one equipment procurement specialist;
(iii) one agricultural education planning specialist; and (iv)
two support staff.
3.   Travel expenses, exclusively for purposes of the Pro-
ject, by the aforesaid personnel or other COSIFE or COAGRI staff.
4.   Office equipment, other than furniture, related to the
administration of the Project and not exceeding the equivalent of
$25,000.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's Investment Plan for
Sub-sector Technician Training for the 1984-1987 period and will
define a long-term development policy for agricultural and indus-
trial technician training at national, state and local levels,
adapt the quality and quantity of technicians to national, state
and local requirements and provide the agricultural and indus-
trial sectors with the specialized technician skills required for
development of such sectors. The Project consists of the follow-
ing:
Part A:   Long-Term Development Policy
Execution of National Programs designed to obtain the fol-
lowing:
1.   Establishment of a national technical advisory commit-
tee on technician training to assist MEC in (a) defin-
ing the appropriate strategies for achieving policy
objectives in the technician training sector; (b)
assessing the efficacy of the applied strategies; (c)
modifying actions and programs in light of the evolu-
tion of the agricultural and industrial economic sec-
tors; and (d) obtaining information on priority poli-
cies and investment programs of the public and private
sectors  for   technician  training  and  on  manpower
requirement trends.
2.   Strengthening of COSIFE in the areas of planning, eva-
luation, curriculum development and administration and
the provision of technical assistance, foreign training
and incremental staff and operating expenses for the
purpose.
3.   Strengthening of the project planning and project exe-
cution capacity of COAGRI and the provision of techni-
cal assistance, foreign training and incremental staff
and operating expenses for the purpose.
4.   Establishment of technician training planning units at
the state level to be responsible for the planning and
coordination of technician training in state schools in
collaboration with the state councils of education.


﻿- 23 -
Part B:   Technician Training
Execution of National Programs and Sub-projects designed to
obtain the following:
1.   Establishment of state sector advisory committees for
Technician Training Schools and local sector advisory
committees for Industrial Technician Training Schools
composed of representatives of main sectoral, public
and private institutions and industries employing gra-
duates of the Technician Training Schools with the pur-
pose of: (a) providing individual schools and the SEs
with information on the main sectoral policies and
actions promoted by the main public and private agen-
cies (including manpower requirements and job charac-
teristics); (b) reviewing pre-selected aspects of rele-
vant technical course syllabi; (c) advising the SEs and
the schools in the selection and preparation of realis-
tic laboratory-shop-field experiences and on-the-job
visits of students and teachers; (d) informing teachers
of new or modified technical production processes being
implemented or planned and their implications for tech-
nician training; (e) assisting in recruitment of quali-
fied technical teachers and in organizing industrial
and agricultural internships for teachers requiring
specialized experience on new technological processes;
and (f) assisting in organizing special training
programs of employed technicians in cooperation with
local industry and agriculture.
2.   Improvement in the curriculum for agricultural and
industrial technician training through: (a) establish-
ing minimum curricula, course syllabi and performance
standards; (b) improving coordination of subject matter
content of general subjects, especially the basic
sciences, with technical laboratory-shop-field instruc-
tion; (c) revising course content and syllabi to
address more appropriately local, state and regional
needs; (d) providing more practical training, especial-
ly in the agricultural and industrial production pro-
cesses; (e) including greater emphasis on farm manage-
ment, marketing, agribusiness, soil and water manage-
ment, agricultural mechanics and machinery, and basic


﻿-24-
extension methodology in agricultural training pro-
grams; and (f) strengthening and expanding the super-
vised practical activities for agricultural students
during vacation periods.
3.   Improvement  of  competencies   in  technical  theory,
laboratory skills and practical training of teachers
and instructors, and in the performance of administra-
tive and planning personnel through strengthening and
expanding in-service training and upgrading pedagogical
and technical short-course training, short internships
in agricultural or industrial enterprises and short
study-tours abroad.
4.   Improvement of equipment and instructional materials by
replacing or supplementing: (a) laboratory and shop
equipment for basic sciences and for training in the
production processes and the service industries; (b)
farm equipment and machinery for the agricultural
schools; (c) library and instructional and audio-visual
materials; and (d) reproduction equipment necessary
for the quantity production of basic instructional
materials.
5.   Improvement of physical facilities for agricultural
instruction through the contruction, equipping and fur-
nishing of farm buildings.
6.   Expansion and strengthening of the graduate tracer
system for the purpose of: (a) providing means of con-
tinuing curriculum and course syllabi evaluation and
development through a feedback of information on job
placement and performance; and (b) assisting in the
evaluation  of  teacher  performance, suitability   of
training equipment and instructional materials, train-
ing methodology and other aspects of the instructional
process.
Part C:   Specialized Technician Skills
Execution of National Programs for the preparation of stu-
dies to determine the needs and trends in requirements of spe-
cialized skills at the technician level and to assess the


﻿- 25 -
feasibility of introducing alternative modes of training for
certain specialties.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1987.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning July 15, 1987
through   July 15, 1998                      835,000
On January 15, 1999                                795, 000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 27 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.20
before maturity
More than three years                               0.40
but not more than six
years before maturity
More than six years but                             0.73
not more than eleven
years before maturity
More than eleven years                              0.87
but not more than
thirteen years before
maturity
More than thirteen years                            1.00
before maturity


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraphs
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the
case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and de-
tail and containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice
in order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of
the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 29 -
Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following two groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Brazil if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
such goods contain components manufactured in
Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the
complete goods.
(2) Group B: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall first be com-
pared among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other
import taxes on goods to be imported and any sales and similar
taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the
lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids
shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of
this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding: (i) to the evaluated bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group B bid, for the purpose of
this further comparison only, an amount equal to: (A) the amount
of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of the goods
offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price
of such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such
price; and (ii) to the evaluated bid price of the domestically
supplied goods offered in each Group B bid and amount equal to:
(A) the amount of customs, duties and other import taxes which
would be levied on such goods if they originated from the same
foreign country as the goods involved in a Group B bid which


﻿- 30 -
enjoy the lowest customs, duties and other import taxes; or (B)
15% of the ex-factory price of such goods, if said customs,
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from Group B which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid, shall
be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for: (i) civil works, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $8,600,000, (ii) furniture, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,720,000, and (iii) equipment estimated to
cost, after grouping in accordance with appropriate procurement
standards, the equivalent of $25,000 or more and less than
$300,000, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $15,230,000,
may be procured in accordance with locally-advertised competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.   Contracts for equipment estimated to cost, after grouping in
accordance with appropriate procurement standards, the equivalent
of less than $25,000, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$2,500,000, and contracts for goods of a specialized nature, may
be procured on the basis of prudent shopping after obtaining at
least three price quotations from the intended suppliers.
D,   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bid-
ders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform


﻿- 31 -
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the rea-
sons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿- 32 -
E.   Proc-'rement without Contracting
Civil works consisting of minor repairs not exceeding
$25,000 may be carried out by the use of force account.


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   The Bank n-v, after the Effective Date and at the request
of the Borrower, w.thdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account an amount in dollars
of $1,500,000. In the event the amount of such initial deposit
into the Special Account is less than $1,500,000, the Borrower
may from time to time request the Bank to withdraw from the Loan
Account and make one or more additional initial deposits into the
Special Account, but in no event shall the amount of such initial
deposits exceed in the aggregate $1,500,000. At the request of
the Borrower, the Bank shall further withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as
shall be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts
equal to payments made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) out of the Special Account for expenditures for the Project
eligible for financing under this Agreement, but only to the
extent that the amount of any such deposit, together with any
amount remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate $1,500,000.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine, each such deposit
after the initial deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
the Loan Account under the same categories set forth in paragraph
1 of Schedule I to this Agreement, and in the same respective
amounts, as have been justified by the documentation for the
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 3 of
this Schedule.
2.   Prior to or at the time of each request for a. withdrawal by
the Borrower from the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Account Bank in respect of each payment made by the Bor-
rower, an application for withdrawal from the Special Account
(including withdrawal applications on the basis of statements of
expenditures) showing that the payment was made on account of the
reasonable cost of goods or services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement. The Account Bank shall autho-
rize the Borrower to withdraw from the Special Account an amount
in cruzeiros determined on the basis of the foregoing evidence,
and shall debit the Special Account with the dollar equivalent of
such amount in cruzeiros determined on the basis of the rate of
exchange between the dollar and the cruzeiro in effect at the
time each payment was made.


﻿- 34 -
3.   Prior to or at the time of each request for a deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account, the Account Bank shall furnish to
the Bank in respect of each withdrawal from the Special Account
the application for withdrawal from the Special Account referred
to in paragraph 2 of this Schedule.
4.   If the Bank shall have determined that any payment out of
the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any
amount not eligible for financing by withdrawal from the Special
Account, or (ii) was not justified by the application for with-
drawal furnished pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank and, unless
otherwise determined by the Bank, prior to any further deposit in
the Special Account by the Bank, deposit in the Special Account
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified.
5.   Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph 2 of this Sched-
ule, any request for further deposit in the Special Account may
be denied by the Bank when the Bank shall have determined, after
consultation with the Borrower, that all further withdrawals may
be made directly by the Borrower from the Loan Account pursuant
to Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement, or when the total amount
withdrawn from the Loan Account plus the amount of any outstand-
ing qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Bank and of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall have reached the
equivalent of $17,000,000, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal
from the Loan Account of the remaining amount of the Loan for the
Project shall follow such procedures as shall be agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank and shall be made only to the extent
that the Bank shall be satisfied by the evidence submitted in
support of the applications for such withdrawal that all payments
by the Borrower out of the Special Account were made on account
of the reasonable cost of goods or services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the provisions regarding the initial deposit
set forth in paragraph 1 of this Section, the Bank may at the
request of and by notice to the Borrower, increase the amount of
the initial deposit in order to adjust the level of the Special
Account to the disbursement requirements of the Project. In such


﻿- 35 -
cases the Bank may also adjust the amount referred to in para-
graph 5 of this Schedule and in the corresponding Category of the
table for allocation of proceeds of the Loan in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
7.   If the Bank sha     have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in -he Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for expenditures under the Project elig-
ible for financing under the Loan, the Borrower shall promptly
upon notice from the Bank and unless otherwise agreed by the
Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of  G&y    98 i.
FOR SECRETARY


