Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB4379 
Project Name 
Jamaica Development Policy Loan (DPL) 
Region 
Latin America And Caribbean Region 
Sector 
Economic Policy; Poverty Reduction And Economic Management 
Project ID 
Pe-P101321-Len-Bb 
Borrower(s) 
Jamaica 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance And Public Service 
Date PID Prepared 
December 8, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 3, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
January 29, 2009 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
This proposed DPL will assist the government in improving fiscal and debt sustainability during an on-going and 
severe global financial crisis by supporting policies for macroeconomic stability and helping to improve the 
efficiency and effectiveness of public spending and investment decisions.  Specifically, the proposed loan will 
support policy actions in the following areas: i) promoting fiscal sustainability through controlling overall public 
sector balances, debt generation, and rationalization of Public Bodies, ii) increasing the efficiency of public 
financial management and budgeting processes, and iii) reducing distortions and enhancing the efficiency and 
fairness of the tax system. 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
·
Enhancing fiscal and debt sustainability. 
The loan supports measures to reduce Jamaica’s high level of debt 
and improve fiscal sustainability, which have constrained the country’s growth potential and crowded out 
investment. The loan includes fiscal and institutional reforms to reduce financing vulnerabilities, improve 
public spending effectiveness and improve the country’s ability to cope with the adverse consequences of the 
on-going global economic downturn.
 
·
Increasing the efficiency of public financial management and budgeting processes. 
The public sector 
modernization efforts supported by the loan are expected to improve the efficiency of public expenditures and 
investment, strengthen the control of public finances, and enhance the effectiveness of government budgeting 
practices.  These efforts are particularly important in the current global environment that may lead to 
decreased fiscal revenues as these reforms are expected to improve fiscal discipline and help foster growth in 
the medium term through a better allocation of scarce public resources to higher investment.
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
The DPL is designed to support the implementation of the Government’s medium-term development strategy, and 
draws upon the Bank’s analyses of key issues and desirable policy directions through country analytical work, 
including: the Poverty Assessment, CEM, PER, PEFA, CFAA, and CPAR.  Within this framework, it focuses on 
policies and institutional aspects related to fiscal and debt sustainability that are most amenable to support via a 
single-tranche.  The DPL is also designed to complement the ongoing and planned investment lending program 
under the upcoming CPS by supporting the government’s efforts to provide a stable macroeconomic framework 
and improved public sector effectiveness to stimulate growth and fund priority social and investment programs. 
 
The focus of the DPL is on the strategy and design of policies and legislative reforms to be undertaken during the 
first years of the new Golding Administration. The actions are designed to achieve realistic but important 
improvements in the overall efficiency of government spending and achieve significant and sustainable reduction 
Page  2
in public debt.  Achieving progress in these areas will allow for the government to make greater advancements on 
social and poverty goals.  Emphasis is on consolidating overall public sector balances, controlling Public Body 
spending, improving the efficiency of financial management and budget processes, and increasing revenue 
collection.  
 
4.    
Environment Aspects 
 
The specific policies supported by this DPL operation are not expected to entail likely significant impacts on the 
environment, forests or other natural resources.  However, to the extent the divestitures of Public Bodies have a 
potential environmental impact, the Development Bank of Jamaica is mandated to conduct such studies and take 
action, as it does for social impact analyses.  Environmental impact analysis has been completed for the 
divestiture of the Sugar Company.   In addition, as measures supported by the DPL program are expected to be 
successful with the potential for attracting new investment in the future (including in infrastructure), there will be 
a
need to strengthen Jamaica’s national institutional capacity to identify and address environmental policy and 
regulatory issues. With this in mind, Jamaican Government has embarked on a number of initiatives geared 
toward the proper management, conservation and protection of the natural resources for sustainable development.  
In April 2001, the National Environment and Planning Agency (NEPA) was formed as a means for conducing 
environmental impact assessments under acceptable international standards.  In 2003, A Strategic Environmental 
Assessment (SEA) was drafted for Jamaica as a means to better facilitate the integration of environmental 
sustainability into the development objectives of the country. The implementation of the SEA policy in 2006 was 
the first of its kind in CARICOM. 
 
5.    
Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
 Total 
$100 
million 
 
6.    
Contact points 
 
Seynabou Sakho 
Senior Country Economist 
World Bank 
Latin America and Caribbean Region 
PREM, Economic Policy Sector 
1818 H Street NW 
Room I 4-219, Mailstop 4405 
Washington, D.C.   2044 
Phone: (202) 458 9732 
Fax: (202) 522 2119 
 
and 
 
David Gould 
Lead Economist 
World Bank 
Latin America and Caribbean Region 
PREM, Economic Policy Sector 
1818 H Street NW 
Room I 4-007, Mailstop 4405 
Washington, D.C.   2044 
Phone: (202) 458 9621 
Fax: (202) 522 2119
 
