Report No. 16738
Brazil
Impact Evaluation Report
Feeder Roads in Bahia
Secondary and Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1207-BR)
Second Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1730-BR)
June 13, 1997
Operations Evaluation Department
:lcmzto leWrdBo



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit  =   Brazilian Cruzeiro (CR$)
The Real (R$)
US$1           =    R$1.00 (May 1997)
Weights and Measures
I meter(.m)                      3.28 feet
I kilometer (km)           =     0.62 miles
I hectare (ha)            =      10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
I square kilometer(km2)         I100 ha=247.1 acres=0.386 sq. miles
I cubic meter (m3)         =     1.31 cubic yards = 264.2 US gallons
I ton (t)                 =      1,000 kg = 2,205 pounds
I arroba                   =     15 kg
Isack                            60 kg
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADT                          Annual Daily Traffic
BNDES                        National Economic and Social Development Bank
CAR                          Company for Development and Regional Action in Bahia
CEPLAC                        Executive Commission for the Cocoa Farming Plan
COOLEITE                      Milk Producers Cooperative of Itapetinga
CRIBA                        Municipal Road Consortium of the State of Bahia
DERBA                        State Highway Department of Bahia
DNER                         National Highway Department
EBDA                          Bahia State Company for Agrarian Development
ERR                           Economic Rate of Return
FGV                          Getulio Vargas Foundation
FR                           Feeder Road
FR I                         Secondary and Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1207-BR)
FR II                        Second Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1730-BR)
FR III                       Third Feeder Roads Project (Loan 2224-BR)
GEIPOT                       Brazilian Company of Transport Planning
GERCA                         Executive Group for the Rationalization of Coffee Planting
IBC                           Brazilian Coffee Institute
ICB                          Cocoa Institute of Bahia
IE                           Impact Evaluation
ISPN                         Institute for the Study of Society, Population and Nature
MRH                          Homogeneous Micro-Region
PAR                          Performance Audit Report
PCR                          Project Completion Report
PIDERP                       Integrated Project for the Development of the Paraguacu Region
POLONORDESTE                 Development Program of Integrated Areas of the Northeast
SAR                          Staff Appraisal Report
SEAIN/SEPLAN-PR              Secretariat for Intemational Affairs; Secretariat for Planning, Budget
and Coordination (Brasilia)
STCE                         Transports, Communications and Power Secretariat of the State of
Bahia
SUDENE                       Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast
USAID                        United States Agency for Intemational Development
Fiscal Year
Government:                  January I - December 31
Director General, Operations Evaluation                  Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department               Roger Slade for Elizabeth McAllister
Division Chief                                           Yves Albouy
Task Manager                                             Heman Levy



The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operatons Evaluaton                                                      June 13, 1997
OED EVALUATIVE MEMORAiNDUM
ON IMPACT EVALUATION REPORT
BRAZIL: Feeder Roads in Bahia
Secondary and Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1207-BR)
Second Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1730-BR)
Attached is the Impact Evaluation Report (IER) on the Secondary and Feeder Roads Project
(Loan 1207, approved in FY76) and the Second Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1730-BR, approved in
FY79). This evaluation examines the impact of feeder roads some 10-15 years after completion of the
two projects. It focuses on a sample of 20 roads out 63 roads financed by the two projects in the State of
Bahia and assesses economic, social, and environmental impacts. Field work was done in 1993 and was
complemented in 1996.
The projects financed road improvements in areas where one major commodity (coffee, cocoa,
or dairy), was the predominant economic activity. The study found that the improved roads helped
expand production of these commodities, especially in the early 1980s when the road works had just
been completed. Farmers were able to market their products more easily and possibly even more
importantly, were able to bring in machinery and other modem inputs. Later in the decade, and in the
early 1990s, a sustained and severe drop in the market prices of coffee and cocoa, which reached their
lowest levels in 1993, discouraged production. Dairy also was affected by the drop in prices, but to a
lesser extent, because it was a more established industry and the price drop was less drastic. In recent
years the coffee and the cocoa regions have diversified their economies, making them substantially less
sensitive to changes in market prices of individual commodities. The improved roads appear to have
been an important contributing factor in the regions' diversification strategies. Traffic on three quarters
of the roads increased by at least 3 times over the period under study. Benefit-cost ratios calculated on
the basis of 1996 traffic suggest that the improvement of these roads are likely to have had satisfactory
economic returns.
The road improvements appeared to also have been contributing factors to other changes.
Notably, land tenure progressed significantly in all three regions, despite the fact that few changes
happened nationally at the time. Other indicators showing substantial improvement were the availability
of hospital beds and school attendance by children. The roads works, which basically followed the
alignment of old tracks, did not in themselves cause major environmental effects. However, the
increased production they helped induce in all three regions required land clearing and caused
deforestation. About three quarters of the 20 roads were in fair to good condition in 1996; current
policies to decentralize and devolve authority to the local authorities are likely to make the road
improvements sustainable.
The report's findings and conclusions were discussed during a workshop in, held in Brasilia, in
April 1997, organized by Brazil's Secretariat for Planning, Budgeting and Coordination in collaboration
with OED.



Contents
Preface ....................................5
Executive Summary ....................................7
1. Introduction ...................................                                                                13
Snapshot of the Economies of Brazil and Bahia ...................................                            13
Bank Lending for Feeder Roads ...................................                                             13
Project Design ...................................                                                            15
Project Implementation ...................................                                                   16
Monitoring and Evaluation ...................................                                                 16
2. Study Scope and Methodology ...................................                                                 17
Two-Period Analysis ...................................                                                       17
Design and Implementation of Field Work ...................................                                  17
Sampling Strategy ...................................                                                         17
Traffic Counts ....................................18
Before and After Analysis ...................................                                                18
3. The Impact of Feeder Roads ...................................                                                  19
Regional Characteristics ...................................                                                 19
The Coffee Region ...................................                                             19
The Paraguaqu Sub-region ...................................                                      19
The Cocoa Region ...................................                                              20
The Dairy Region ...................................                                              20
Economic Impact ..............                                                                           ..... 21
Traffic Impact ...................................                                                            23
Social Impact ....................................25
Environmental Impact ...................................                                                      25
Results of Opinion Surveys ...................................                                                26
4. Economic Analysis ...................................                                                           29
Approach at Project Appraisal ...................................                                            29
Approach in the Impact Study ...................                                                              29
Traffic ...................                                                                                   30
Quantification of Benefits ...................                                                                30
This study was prepared under the supervision of Albert Weckerle (Task Manager) by a
team of the Institute for the Study of Society, Population and Nature (ISPN), a Brazilian
NGO. Further data collection and analysis was done by Bahia-based consultant Joao
Alberto Rocha. The final report was prepared by Hernan Levy, with the assistance of
Claudio Volonte and Oliver Rajakaruna. Mines. Cynthia Noronha and Maryvonne
Mauprivez provided administrative assistance. (A detailed list of contributors is in
Annex 6).



Contents (Continued)
Benefit Cost Ratio Results ...................................                                   31
Avoidance of Road Closures: Switching Values ...................................                 33
Distribution of Benefits ...................................                                     34
Regional, Commodity-Based Analysis ...................................                           34
5. Sustainability ...................................                                                  35
Road Conditions ................................                                                 35
Road Maintenance Management .................................36
Agricultural and Other Economic Benefits ................................                        37
6.  Main Findings and Recommendations ...................................                              39
Main Findings ................................                                                    39
Project Design and Stakeholders' Roles ................................                          39
Economic Benefits and Returns ................................                                   39
Social Benefits ................................                                                  40
Environmental Impact ................................                                            40
Institutional Impact ................................                                             40
Sustainability ................................                                                  41
Recommendations ................................                                                  41
TABLES
1.1   Brazil and Bahia - Selected Indicators .13
1.2    Distribution of Feeder Road by Implemneting Agency in Bahia
(FR I and FR II)                                     .16
3.1       Diversification of Economic Activity in FR I and FR II areas, by
Economic Region .22
3.2   Average Daily Traffic (vehicles per day) .23
3.3   Forecast and Actual Traffic (sample of six roads) .24
3.4       Social Impacts in the Area of Influence of Feeder Roads by
Economic Zones .25
3.5       Land Cover Losses, Selected Economic Zones, 1975-1985 (percent) ...26
3.6    Opinion Survey Among Key Respondents on Benefits of Feeder Roads,
by Economic Region (percent) .27
3.7    Opinion Survey Among Key Respondents on Benefits of Feeder
Roads, by Occupational Category of Respondents (percent) .28
4.1  Benefit-Cost Ratios .32
5.1 Road Condition .35
5.2   Road Condition: Bahia and the Feeder Road Projects .36



Contents (Continued)
FIGURES
Figure 1.1 - Timeline: The Feeder Road Projects, Cocoa and Coffee Prices,
the OED Study ...................................................                             15
Figure 3.1 - Traffic Before and After Road Improvements ....................................... 24
BOX 1:   Potato Fanning in the Area of Influence of the
Andarai-MucugO Feeder Road ...................................................                22
BIBLIOGRAPHY  ................................................... 43
ANNEXES
1.  SEAIN/OED  Workshop in Brasilia, April 1997 - Key Documents .................... 47
2.  Comments received from  the Borrower ....................................................1 S
3.  Details of Regional Impacts ....................................................                          61
4.  Details of Economic Analysis .................................................... 71
5.  Basic Data Sheets ....................................................                                    83
6.  List of Key Contributors and Reviewers ....................................................                 87
MAP - Feeder Roads and Economic Regions ....................................................                    45



5
Preface
This is an Impact Evaluation Report for investments made under the Brazil Secondary and
Feeder Roads Project, Loan 1207-BR (FR I), and the Second Feeder Roads Project, Loan 1730-BR
(FR II). Both loans, in the amount of US$55 million and US$110 million, respectively, were fully
disbursed, and both projects were successfully implemented.
This study was first launched in 1993, when most of the field work was undertaken. A
review of the data and analysis revealed that additional information was required to clarify and
complement the existing data. Thus, a follow up, brief field study was conducted in 1996.
Assistance in the preparation of this study was received from many respondents and
contributors in the more than 30 municipalities which the study team visited in 1993: mayors,
aldermen, other local leaders, members of producers' associations and of workers' unions and other
representatives of local communities. The State Highway Department of Bahia (DERBA) played a
key role in that work as well as in subsequent data collection and analyses carried out in 1996. The
Secretariat for International Affairs of Brazil's Secretariat for Planning, Budgeting and
Coordination (SEAIN) coordinated the preparation of this study through all its phases.
Budgetary constraints substantially limited data collection that would have been required for
a detailed quantification of economic as well as of social impacts. The report should be read as an
effort aimed more at identifying and clarifying key issues than at providing authoritatve responses
to complex problems. The analysis is particularly difficult in view of major swings during the
period under analysis in the prices of key commodities (notably, coffee and cacao) which the
improved roads were expected to support.
Following standard procedures, OED invited government comments on an early draft of this
report. Replies received from the Borrower are attached as Annex 2. Subsequently, the current
report was discussed at a Workshop organized by SEAlN, together with OED, that took place in
Brasilia in April 1997. Comments received at the workshop are also annexed to this report.






7
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
0 Futuro Pertenece a Quem Sabe Amar o Seu Pasado
(The Future Belongs to Those Who Know How to Love Their Past)
Inscription in a Monument in downtown Salvador, Bahia's capital
Introduction
1.    This study deals with feeder roads in the State of Bahia. The macroeconomic context is
that of Brazil and Bahia. Brazil's economy experienced large swings in the last three decades, with
high growth rates until the mid- I 970s, deteriorating conditions reaching negative growth rates in
the early 1980s, and growth resuming thereafter. Bahia, one of Brazil Northeastern states, still
relies heavily on agriculture, which represents some 20 percent of the state's gross domestic
product.
2.     In 1976, in support of Brazil's rural development strategy, the Bank shifted its lending for
highways from trunk roads to feeder roads, that is, roads connecting agricultural production areas
with villages and produce markets. This study deals with two such projects in the State of Bahia,
approved in 1976 and 1979. These projects financed the improvement of some 1,500 kilometers of
roads, distributed over 63 road sites.
3.     The feeder roads supported by the two projects were designed to fit with the State's broader
development strategy. The roads were to be built in areas with good agricultural potential but
inadequate infrastructure. Notably, areas with potential for one of these products: coffee, cacao, or
dairy. To ensure success of these programs, the major institutions with an interest in these
commodities, including local producers' associations, were consulted in the preparation of road
investment proposals. Many of the roads turned out to be interlinked or continuous, and, overall,
they tended to form clusters or mini-networks rather than be isolated investments. The market
price of the key commodities whose production the roads were intended to benefit dropped
dramatically a few years after the roads' improvements were completed, and had a significant effect
on the impact of the investments.
4.     A major shortcoming of the two projects was the absence of a monitoring and evaluation
system. This made the evaluation of the impact of the two projects especially difficult, particularly
in light of the substantial changes in economic conditions at different times through the projects
lives.
Study Scope and Methodology
5.     The study grouped the roads financed under the two feeder roads projects into three regions
according to their economic activity: the coffee, the cocoa and the dairy regions. These regions
included 52 municipalities. Out of the 63 roads financed in Bahia, the study selected a sample of
20 roads (38 percent of the universe and formning 15 continuous roads), with a total extension of
410 kilometers.
6.     The initial field work was conducted in 1993 by the Instituto Sociedade, Populasao e
Natureza (ISPN, a Brazilian NGO), under OED's direction. The nine-person ISPN team visited 23
municipalities and conducted 132 structured interviews; in addition, it conducted informal
interviews With 650 residents along the sample roads. The team also collected socioeconomic data,



8
as well as data on traffic and road condition. A review of the data and findings of such work
suggested that additional informnation was required to form a valid judgment, notably due to:
incoherence in traffic data relative to other data; commodity prices, in view of their high volatility
through 1993; and road condition. Thus, complementary field work was undertaken in 1996,
focusing on these aspects. In 1993 as well as in 1996, manual, 12-hour traffic counts, with
classification by vehicle type, were conducted on all sample roads. These one-day counts were
expanded to average annual daily traffic (ADT) based on coefficients used by Bahia's Road
Department (DERBA).
7.     Neither of the two road projects identified control roads that could have helped to identify
the net developmental effect of the road improvements, isolated from the effect of programs or
policies in other areas. Under these circumstances, this study focuses on changes, qualitative as
well as quantitative, "before and after" the road improvements, rather than "with and without' such
improvements.
Impacts
8.     The roads covered in the study serve about half a million people. About two thirds of them
live in urban settings, and the rest live in rural communities. About 20 percent of them are poor:
small farmers, landless farm workers, and urban unemployed or underemployed population.
9.    In view of the differing socioeconomic conditions, the study analyzed the impacts by
region. The Coffee Region extends over a substantial part of the state of Bahia which had
traditionally grown coffee in a small scale. However, following the decimation of coffee trees in
Brazil's largest producer State, Parana, in the mid- 1960s, Bahia saw this as an opportunity to
expand its growing coffee business. The feeder roads were an essential part of this strategy. The
Cocoa Region is situated mainly along Bahia's southeast, especially along the coast. Cocoa was
traditionally one of the most important agricultural products of the state. A key factor hindering
this activity was poor roads: cocoa trees in the state are mostly in a tropical forest region subject to
heavy precipitation, making road construction and maintenance expensive. Cocoa is
environmentally friendly, as it is one of the few crops that coexist peacefully with the original forest
cover. The Dairy Region is located in southern Bahia. Since the beginning of the century, that
areas has been the center of cattle-raising and dairy farming economy. Several major national and
multinational dairy companies were and are active in the region. Before the feeder road program,
the region's larger producers had built cart tracks, which only four-wheel powered vehicles could
access, and only during the dry season.
10.    Economic Impact. The survey found that the roads helped expand production of the target
crops, particularly coffee and cacao, especially in the early 1 980s, when the roads had just been
completed. In particular, farmers were able to market their products more easily and to bring in
machinery and other modem inputs at a time when traditional production techniques were being
upgraded. Later in the decade, and in the beginning of the 1990s, a sustained and severe drop in the
world market price of these two crops, which reached their lowest level in 1993, discouraged
production. The production of dairy was also affected by a drop in prices, but to a much lesser
extent than cocoa and coffee. Also, being a more established production and less labor-intensive
than the other crops, the road improvements caused less changes in the level of economic activity,
and attracted little migration relative to the cocoa and coffee regions. The cocoa and the coffee
regions, taking advantage of the better roads, were able to respond to the collapse in their primary
commodities by diversifying production, and today they produce a large number of different crops;
they also diversified into non-agricultural activities such as lumber extraction and charcoal
production.



9
11.    Social Impact. The study was able to collect information on social impacts, although
quantitative data was difficult to obtain and was limited to a few indicators. One important
indicator was the change in land tenure patters, where the proportion of small landholders increased
significantly in all three regions, despite the fact that very few changes happened at the national
level at that time. For example, the proportion of farms having less than 50 hectares increased in
the coffee region from 74 percent in 1975 to 93 percent in 1985. Other indicators showing
significant improvement after the roads were improved were the availability of hospital beds per
inhabitant and school attendance by school-age children. The extent to which these changes can be
attributed to the roads is unclear, but, as a minimum, it can be said that the changes coincided with
the improvements of the roads.
12.    Traffic Impact. Overall, traffic on the roads increased substantially during the period under
review. While traffic on most of the roads was in the 20-40 vehicles per day in the late 1970s
before the roads were improved, traffic in 1996 had surpassed 100 vehicles per day in 12 of the 20
roads in the sample. However, such levels were below the original forecasts. The roads with the
higher traffic levels were those that became integrated with the state road networks and that were
more important for long-distance travel than for the local area vehicles.
13.    Environmental Impact. Because road improvement works generally followed existing
tracks, the environmental impact of road construction was minor, and happened mainly in the cocoa
region, where conditions of terrain, precipitation, traffic and inadequate maintenance combined to
cause erosion. However, the survey found broader environmental effects from the increased
economic activity generated by the roads: as a result of the need to clear land for expanding
production of coffee, cocoa, and dairy, deforestation was common in all three regions.
Deforestation caused alteration in the ecosystems, erosion of hillsides and siltation of creeks, thus
reducing water availability and affecting local fauna.
14.    Surveys. Study interviews and surveys signaled that the initial beneficiaries were the large
producers, most of them natives from the respective regions. They also confirmed that the
investments had had positive impacts in helping create conditions that led to improvements in
standards of living and improving access to social services. One hundred percent of the
interviewees in the dairy region thought that the improved roads brought positive benefits, the
lowest percentage was in the cocoa region, at 75 percent. These percentages probably reflect the
higher economic stability of the dairy region. By occupational category, the responses stating the
roads' positive benefits ranged from 88-91 percent in the case of businessmen and blue collar
workers to 74-80 percent for professionals and for politicians and civil servants.
Economic Analysis
15.    During appraisal of the projects, the economic analysis was based on an estimate of the
induced agricultural production and consequent value added that would be generated by the
improved roads. Road investments accepted for financing under the feeder roads projects would
need to have a minimum economic rate of return of 10 percent. Lack of agricultural output data,
combined with extreme variations in commodity prices and hyperinflation affecting calculation of
monetary values over a long period of time, made it unfeasible for this study to reproduce the
economic analysis at appraisal and to calculate the economic returns of the investments. Instead,
the study calculated a benefit-cost ratio based on 1996 traffic and on vehicle operating cost savings.
This analysis found that 12 out of 20 roads had a satisfactory benefit-cost ratio. These results
cannot be directly extrapolated to assess the likely economic returns, mainly because traffic levels
in years closer to the completion of the roads were not known. An additional caveat is that a major
benefit of the investments was the reduction, and, in many cases, elimination of road closures due



10
to rain and flooding to which the old roads were frequently subject. Lacking empirical data for the
quantification of such benefits, this study took a conservative approach in their assessment.
Sustainability
16.    The surveys conducted under the study found that some 10-15 years after the
improvements were made, most of the roads were in fair to good condition. About a quarter were
in poor condition. Their condition was, overall, slightly better in 1996 than in 1993. Funding for
highway maintenance generally has suffered during the recent devolution of responsibilities from
the federal to the state governments, where the states did not initially receive adequate funding or
given instruments to raise funds to meet their maintenance responsibilities; states have tended to
concentrate resources on the maintenance of the primary roads rather than the rural and feeder
roads. In light of the current liberalization and growth-oriented policies currently in place in Brazil,
the economic and social impacts appear to be sustainable.
Recommendations
17.    The following recommendations emanate from this study:
(a)    Feeder Road Planning. The experience of this study suggests that the following
considerations are likely to improve the planning and ultimate impact of the
feeder road investment:
(i)    Clusters or mini-networks of roads fitting into a state and regional
development strategy have a higher likelihood of attracting and retaining
traffic than isolated road investments. In designing feeder roads
programs, the concept of road clusters should be contemplated as a
possible requirement for selection of road investments.
(ii)    Social impacts are significant and should complement the traditional
assessment of economic benefits. A strong involvement of beneficiaries
at the grass-root level can help in this process. The involvement of
beneficiaries would facilitate the task of state and local road planning
agencies in the assessment of social benefits. Systematic institutional
mechanisms should be put in place for the involvement of beneficiaries
in road planning.
(b)    Environmental Mitigation Measures. Controlling the adverse environmental
effect of feeder roads should be effected by the adoption of proper engineering
methods and by the preparation of regional environmental assessments and
actions plans that focus on the environmental effects of anticipated economic
developments. Such assessments and plans should be launched at the road
planning stage.
(c)    Sustainability. Role of Beneficiaries. Under current policies calling for further
decentralization and devolution of responsibilities, beneficiaries including the
private sector should be involved in the process of funding and managing road
maintenance of rural roads; international experience is accumulating that such
approach leads to better financing and a more effective road management.



I1
(d)    Monitoring. A simple monitoring system including periodic traffic counting and
a few selected social indicators, the latter in conjunction with established,
regular social sector surveys, should be set up to facilitate evaluation of the rural
roads investments.
(e)    Research on Transport Costs by Non-Motorized Vehicles. The key benefit of
many rural road improvements is the reduction or elimination of road closures to
motorized traffic. This benefit is difficult to quantify due to lack of empirical
data. It is suggested that a Brazilian transport or rural development research
institute carry out investigations on this matter, which would substantially
contribute to improving the quality of economic analysis of rural roads
investments.






13
1.   Introduction
Snapshot of the Economies of Brazil and Bahia
1.1    This study deals with feeder roads in the State of Bahia. The macroeconomic context is
that of Bahia's and Brazil's economies. Brazil's economy experienced large swings over the last
30 years. For about a decade until the mid-70s, it had an average growth rate of some 10 percent
per year. At that time, economic growth began to slow down, and even became negative in the
early 1980s. Subsequently, it has gone through a period of erratic growth patterns, although,
overall, the growth rates have been relatively low, in the order of three to five percent annually.
Income distribution is skewed regionally, with Bahia and the other northeastern states having the
lowest per capita income.
Table 1.1 Brazil and Bahia - Selected Indicators
Basic Economic Data                        Bahia              Brazil
GDP (1995, estimated) (US$ million)                       20,375            426,77
GDP Growth Rate (1986-95 per annum), percent              -0.36               1.82
GDP per Capita (1995, US$)                                 1,644             2,74
Agriculture as a percent of GDP (1994)                      21                13
Industry as a percent of GDP (1994)                        34                 39
Social Data
Population (1995, estimated, million)                     12.86               15
Rate of Population Growth (1990-95), percent               1.8                1.7
Urban Population Below Poverty Line (1995), percent        17.5               9.0
Rural Population below Poverty Line (1995), percent        22.4              23.6
Illiteracy Rate (1995), percent                            32.3               17.8
Population with Sewerage Connection (1995)                 5.1               34.5
Note: Central Bank of Brazil, Ministry of Finance and Brazilian Institute of Statistics. World Bank data.
1.2    While Brazil continued to industrialize during the last two decades, the agricultural
sector also grew, and its share of the nation's gross domestic product increased slightly, reaching
close to 13 percent in 1995. The northeastern states, which are much less industrialized than the
rest of the country, base their economies on agriculture. In Bahia, agriculture represents over 20
percent of its gross domestic product, a proportion 60 percent higher than that of the country as a
whole. The prices of two key commodities in Bahia's economy, cocoa and coffee, fluctuated
significantly during the last two decades, and had a major impact on the program of roads
reviewed in this study (Figure 1.1).
Bank Lending For Feeder Roads
1.3   In the mid-1970s the Bank shifted its lending for Brazil towards strengthening rural
development, particularly in the Northeast, in support of government programs for the less
developed regions of the country. This was done through a series of integrated rural



14
development projects, and through projects focused on specific sectors.I The Bank's lending
for Brazilian highways started in 1964, and the main focus was to help develop a high quality
network of primary highways. In consonance with the shift in the direction of Bank lending
towards rural development, in 1976 the Bank approved its first rural roads project, the Secondary
and Feeder Roads Project (FR 1). This project was followed in 1979 by the Second Feeder Roads
Project (FR II), and in 1982 by the Third Feeder Roads Project (FR III). These projects covered
most of Brazil, but provided special incentives for the poorer states to receive funding from
them.
1.4    The immediate objective of FR I was to construct and improve feeder roads, that is,
roads linking agricultural areas and communities or providing access to isolated areas with good
economic prospects. The project cost was US$237 million, of which US$55 million to be
financed by the World Bank. The remainder was to be funded by state and federal governments.
A minimum economic rate of return (ERR) of 10 percent was required for a subproject to be
eligible for financing under the program. Subproject rates of return were expected to vary
between 10 percent and 40 percent. The project represented a first attempt to establish
collaboration at the central, state and municipal level, and the following institutions were
involved in this process: the National Highways Department (DNER), the National Economic
and Social Development Bank (BNDES), the State Highway Departments (DERs) and
municipal authorities.
1.5    A major shortcoming of FR I was its inability to generate a significant number of road
sub-projects in the Northeast, with the exception of Bahia. This failure was traced to the
complexity of the administrative, economic and engineering pre-requisites. Inadvertently, this
complexity ended up benefiting richer municipalities from more developed states, which had the
resources to formulate and finance road investment proposals in accordance with the appraisal
methodology and funding criteria.
1.6   In this light, the follow-up project, FR H1, aimed specifically to increase the resources for
municipalities in more remote or poorer areas. Through this project, the Bank contributed an
additional $1 10 million for feeder roads. The total cost of this project was $338 million. The
roads reviewed in this study were completed between 1979 and 1983.
1.7    Bahia, in contrast to other northeastern states, had been a main beneficiary of FR 1. The
ability of Bahia to take advantage of the resources being offered under FR I can be linked to the
political prestige of the state's Govemor and to the state's superior institutional capacity, relative
to other Northeastern states. A total of 997 km of feeder roads was built in Bahia under that
project, representing some 19 percent of all feeder roads eventually built in the entire country
under FR I. An additional 581 km, representing 12 percent of total project length country-wide,
were constructed under FR 11 in that state. Altogether, 1,578 km, distributed over 63 road sites,
were built in Bahia under the two projects.
The rural development projects were evaluated by OED. See Dynamics of Rural Development in Northeast Brazil:
New Lessons from Old Projects. OED Report 10813, December 16, 1991.



15
Figure 1.1: Timeline: The Feeder Roads Projects, Cocoa and Coffee Prices, the OED study
600.
FR II Aproved,
A cwcents perg      ..79
- COFFEE cents per I
500.                                 OED Extemive S&rvey,_
OED Conimlrmtary SLivey,
FR IApproved,
tll            1976          s    |99 
400.
3.00
VI
US 200.
[,0 Cf)       0)    Le   0 0              r- 0      M 0 0
_     ,___________________________ 
co         co       rl - -   co         co -  ) 1  ) - -
Project Design
1.8    The feeder roads program in Bahia fit within the state's broader development strategy.
Funds for road construction were allocated to areas considered to have good economic potential
but inadequate economic infrastructure. It was believed that an improved network of feeder
roads would be capable of significantly helping boost agricultural production, especially coffee,
cocoa and dairy products. In the case of coffee, the feeder roads were geared to making Bahia a
viable center of coffee production, at a time when it was being eradicated in Brazil's large
producing areas due to sustained adverse weather conditions. In the case of cocoa, transport of
produce in the rugged terrain and high rainfall conditions of cocoa lands represented a long-
standing problem which the improved feeder road network was expected to resolve. Similarly,
the dairy industry, already concentrated near the frontier with the state of Minas Gerais, badly
needed roads to improve its competitiveness.
1.9    To ensure the economic potential of the feeder road investments, the interests of some of
the major institutions and producers' associations such as the Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC),
the Commission for Cocoa Planting (CEPLAC) and multinational corporations in the dairy
sector were taken into account. They shared the state and federal planning agencies' hopes to
increase the production of these crops in Bahia. Social criteria were not specifically included in
the methodology to identify and evaluate proposed feeder road investments, and neither were
environmental or institutional criteria.



16
1.10  It turned out that many of the roads financed under FR I and FR II are interlinked or
continuous, serving essentially the same geographic area and product. Others, though not
directly interlinked, are complementary parts of the road network serving a wider agricultural
basin. Thus, most of these roads were an integral part of a network, rather than isolated links.
Also, they were concentrated in specific areas, rather than being distributed more or less
uniformly throughout the state. Further, the roads did not purport to attend directly to the needs
of the less-privileged population, but rather to support a regional development strategy based on
fostering agricultural production. The coffee, cocoa and dairy areas were the primary
beneficiaries. Strong swings in the prices of coffee and cocoa had a determining influence on the
nature and duration of the roads' impact.
Project Implementation
1.11   Execution of the FR I and FR II contracts in Bahia was entrusted to the Intermunicipal
Roads Consortium of Bahia (CRIBA) and the Highway Department of Bahia (DERBA). The
CRIBA built some two thirds of all the roads, as shown in Table 1.2.
Table 1.2 Distribution of Feeder Roads By Implementing Agency in Bahia (FR I and FR II)
Responsible Agency               Extension                     Number of
FR I                         997                            39
- CRIBA I                      504                            26
- DERBA                        493                            13
FR II                        581                            30
- CRIBA 11                      581                            30
TOTAL                         1,576                          69
Source: Governo do Estado da Bahia. Secretaria de Transportes, Comunicac6es e Energia-STCE. Coordenacao de
Transportes.
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.12   One major shortcoming of FR I and FR 11 was their lack of a monitoring and evaluation
system. This makes the evaluation of the investments financed under these projects especially
difficult, both regarding the achievement of physical as well as developmental objectives.
Assessment of the latter objective is even more difficult in view of the changing economic
conditions prevailing in Brazil and Bahia during the life of the investments. Lack of monitoring
and evaluation was also found to be a problem in the Bank-financed integrated rural
development programs in Northeastern Brazil.
2 Report cited in the footnote to paragraph 1.3.



17
2.  Study Scope and Methodology
2.1    This chapter discusses briefly the period of analysis, the field research, the sampling
strategy and the traffic counting methodology.
Two-Period Analysis
2.2    This study was originally conducted in 1993 by OED and the Instituto Sociedade,
Popula;ao e Natureza (ISPN, a Brazilian NGO). A review of the findings suggested that three
aspects required additional information to form a valid judgment: (i) traffic data, because data
for several roads did not appear to be coherent with other information collected by the study; (ii)
commodity prices, in view of their high volatility through 1993; and (iii) road condition, where
available information was considered to be insufficient to assess the sustainability of the road
investments. Thus, complementary data collection and field work was undertaken in 1996 in
these areas.
Design and Implementation of Field Work
2.3    This study is based on extensive field work. Its purpose was to generate qualitative and
quantitative data which would permit evaluation of socioeconomic changes induced or assisted
by the feeder roads program, in each specific site and its respective area of influence. A major
obstacle to overcome was paucity or lack of baseline data, in particular on social development.3
2.4    During the 1993 field work, a team of nine persons visited 23 municipalities in Bahia
during a six-week period and conducted structured formal interviews with 132 knowledgeable
respondents who had been associated with the design or implementation of the Bahia feeder
roads program. In addition, the team conducted informal interviews with an additional 650
residents along the sample of roads. Data was gathered on the following aspects:
* socio-economic, environmental and institutional characteristics; data on volume of
production, cultivated area, productivity, commercialization and costs of production
were obtained for cocoa and coffee; information gathered on other crops was only
qualitative; and
*   physical condition and maintenance of roads as well as volume and composition of
traffic in each road site.
Sampling Strategy
2.5    The approach underlying the design of Bahia's feeder road program was a major factor
in program evolution and outcome. Based on that approach, for sampling and analytical
purposes, the study grouped the roads constructed under FR I and II into three separate regions
according to their economic activity: the coffee, cocoa and dairy regions. It also defined a fourth
Region, that of Paraguacu (Map - Feeder Roads and Economic Regions). While this region
belonged to the coffee area, it had distinct socio-economic characteristics requiring special
3 Comments by GEIPOT raised the question why the projects did not provide for the collection of base-line data on social
impact.



18
analysis. The four regions included 52 municipalities, and they comprised seven major clusters
of project road sites. In selecting specific road sites for in-depth field survey, a stratified
sampling approach was utilized within each cluster. Three basic criteria were adopted:
*   a minimum time span had elapsed since road construction for its impact to take
root. Thus, only road clusters completed before 1985 were included in the sample
(this criteria caused elimination of 6 of the original 63 road sites);
*   the sample of sites had to be representative in terms of: type of principal economic
activity, geographic condition, location, balance of FR I and II projects, feasibility
studies' method of calculating ERRs, and political process prevailing at the time of
road selection; and
*   adjoining road sites, linked to each other in a functional manner, and having
homogenous socio-economic characteristics, were redefined as "continuous" roads
or as only one road.
2.6    The 63 road sites were regrouped into 40 continuous roads. From these, a sample of 20
road subprojects, formning 15 continuous roads, was randomly selected for field research. This
sample represented about 38 percent of the universe of eligible road sites with an aggregate
length 10 km.
Traffic Counts
2.7    Both the 1993 and the 1996 traffic counts were carried out utilizing conventional
techniques under the supervision of DERBA's regional units. Each of these units recorded
simple visual observations. All vehicles passing a selected checkpoint on a given road site on
week days between 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. were counted. Prior experience, local knowledge
and comparisons with analogous investigations served to verify these counts; no major
disparities were encountered. Subsequently, these 12-hour counts were expanded to an "average
daily traffic" (ADT) using expansion coefficients to generate estimates of 24 hour traffic,
average weekly traffic and average annual daily traffic. These expansion coefficients were
obtained from studies on similar roads carried out by DERBA.4
Before and After Analysis
2.8    Neither FR I nor FR II identified control roads, that is, roads not expected to be subject
to improvement, that could have served to assess the impact of the road construction, as distinct
from other factors that also may influence socioeconomic activity in the roads' areas. In these
circumstances, this impact study focuses on changes, quantitative as well as qualitative, "before
and after" the road improvements, rather than "with and without" such improvements.
4 The expansions were based on linear extrapolations from the existing counting stations in the area of influence of
each of the roads under study. Seasonal data required to conduct the expansion are from 1979, but they are the most
complete observations available for 24 hours and 365 days and are currently used by DERBA and DNER for traffic
studies in Bahia.



19
3.  The Impact of Feeder Roads
3.1    This chapter presents the main findings obtained from the field study. A detailed
analysis by region appears in Annex 3.
3.2    As noted elsewhere, the regions are labeled on the basis of their main crops. For most of
the roads reviewed in this study, their economic activity at the time of the projects was
monoculture, either coffee or cocoa or dairy products. Over time, several of the areas served by
the roads diversified their agroeconomy, and now grow a number of different crops.
3.3    The 20 roads covered in this analysis comprise in their vicinity about half a million
people, representing about 15 percent of the total population of the coffee, cocoa and dairy
regions combined. About two-thirds of the population covered by this study live in urban
settings and the rest live in rural settings. About 20 percent of this half a million people are
poor: they are small farmers and their families, landless farm workers and the urban unemployed
or underemployed population.
Regional Characteristics
The Coffee Region
3.4    The Coffee Region extends over a substantial part of the state, encompassing the areas
of the Chapada Diamantina and the Serra do Espinhaco. Morro do Chapeu, Santa Ines and
Vit6ria da Conquista are the principal cities in the areas where the feeder roads were built.
3.5    Since the 1940s, coffee production in Brazil had been largely concentrated in the state of
Parand. In 1965, a large proportion of its coffee trees was hit by a severe frost. Simultaneously,
agricultural production in Brazil began to undergo important changes, stimulated by massive
subsidized credit. The decimation of coffee trees by frost in Parana was coupled with the desire
of farmers to put their land to other more modem and profitable uses; as a result, coffee
production in other areas of the country was stimulated. In Bahia, which had traditionally
grown coffee on a small scale, this was seen as an opportunity to expand its coffee-growing
business.
3.6    Most roads in this region followed cattle trails or the original tracks which had been
made for animal-drawn vehicles and they were frequently impassable during the rainy season.
The inability of motor vehicles to ride on those roads hindered commercial traffic as well as
access to social services. Despite the fact that several of the feeder roads were built on irregular
terrain and receive only sporadic maintenance, traffic now flows continuously on a year-round
basis on the majority of these roads.
The Paragua u Sub-region
3.7    The Paraguacu Region is situated in the south-southeast section of the Chapada
Diamantina, in the central part of the state. Long before the feeder roads program, infrastructure
deficiencies had been identified as a major stumbling block to regional progress. In 1977, an



20
integrated project for the development of the Paraguacu Region (PIDERP) was designed as part
of a major regional development program for Brazil's Northeast (also financed by the World
Bank) - the POLONORDESTE. Due to operational difficulties, however, the PIDERP was
terminated in 1981 and its resources were re-allocated to other investments - among them, for
feeder roads.
3.8    The road segments in the Paraguacu region differ significantly from those of the other
regions in size and function. They are longer and serve to integrate larger regions. They
represent important lines of communication within the state and their areas of influence are
economically more diversified. The roads are of better quality and one currently is paved.
The Cocoa Region
3.9    The Cocoa Region is located in Bahia's Southeastern part, especially along its coast.
Itabuna and llheus were, and continue to be, the focal cities of this region.
3.10   Cocoa was traditionally one of the more important agricultural products in the state of
Bahia. Historically the object of many violent struggles, cocoa-producing lands in Bahia were
also the source of riches and of political power. One of the primary difficulties in this activity
was the transport of produce. Cocoa trees are commonly located in the uneven terrain of the
Mata Atlantica, a tropical forest region subject to heavy precipitation. Road building and
maintenance in these conditions is expensive. Consequently, much of the cocoa produced in the
region was traditionally marketed on the backs of mules, in animal-drawn carts or in canoes.
3.11   From an ecological standpoint, cocoa has great advantages. It is environmentally
friendly in the sense that it is one of the few crops which coexists peacefully with the original
forest cover and which thrives on the rugged topographical conditions prevailing in the Mata
Atlantica. All it requires is "shading", which can be provided by a number of tree species or
even by cultivated plants such as bananas. If it wasn't for cocoa production, there is little
question that the Mata Atlantica would already have been decimated to a much greater extent in
Southern Bahia.
3.12   The Cocoa Region constitutes a territory in which construction and maintenance of roads
is difficult. Most feeder roads in this region were established on tractor trails and mule train
tracks. These roads were impassable during much of the year, isolating residents from even the
most basic social and health services. In some areas, jeep or truck traffic was occasionally
feasible but, during the rainy season, tractors would have to pull the vehicles. Construction of
feeder roads, thus, had an enormous impact on both economic and social conditions.
The Dairy Region
3.13   The Dairy Region is located in the southern part of the state, on the border with the State
of Minas Gerais. Itapetinga is its most important city. Since the beginning of the century, the
area has been the center of a strong cattle-raising and dairy farming economy. Several major
national and multinational dairy companies are active in the region.
3.14   The feeder roads in the dairy region generally follow cattle trails or mule train paths.
Before the feeder roads program, the region's larger producers, with the support of the
municipalities, had built cart tracks. These tracks, however, were inaccessible by motorized



21
traffic during the rainy season, and only four-wheel powered vehicles could drive on them during
the dry season.
Economic Impact
3.15   The feeder roads built in Bahia are located in areas having highly differentiated terrain,
climate and economic activity. Despite the variety of settings, they showed great uniformity in
their development pattern as a result of the intense economic changes experienced by the state.
3.16   The feeder roads represented an important initiative within the socio-economic
development efforts of the state. Normally, these roads served areas that had real economic
potential which could be maximized by road construction and improvement. Local
communities and entrepreneurs would have been unlikely to generate the resources necessary for
the road improvements in the absence of the Bank loans.
3.17   The roads did help expand production of the intended crops - particularly of cocoa and
coffee - during the first years of their existence. The inclusion of cocoa-producing regions in FR
I and II brought important benefits for cocoa producers during the early 1980s. They were able
to market their produce with greater ease and to bring in machinery and other modem inputs at a
time when traditional production techniques were being upgraded. This happened at a time
when international prices for cocoa were favorable and, furthermore, producers had access to
credit and other subsidies. Meanwhile, commercial and service activities in urban areas
experienced a period of considerable expansion.
3.18   Subsequent declines in prices and profits of both coffee and cocoa, however, largely
wiped out the gains during the second half of the period under study. Yet, despite setbacks in the
original plans due to the economic crisis, the roads helped bring about the diversification of
crops and economic activities. Table 3.1 provides a list of crops, as well as of non-agricultural
activities, which expanded in each of the three main economic regions, during the period
following the decline of coffee and cocoa.



22
Table 3.1 Diversification of Economic Activity in FR I and FR I Areas, by Economic
Region
Economic           Diversification
Region             by Type of Economic Activity
Agricultural                             Non-Agricultural
Coffee      Irrigated vegetable farming, irrigated fruit  Lumber extraction, charcoal
Region      farming, cattle-raising, pig farrning, chicken  production, masonry rocks,
farming, irrigated coffee, manioc, beans, corn,  diamond extraction
potatoes, tomatoes, avocados, acerola,
maracuja, guarana, orchids, sugar cane, dairy
Cocoa       Cattle-raising, vegetable farming, manioc,  Lumber extraction, charcoal
Region      corn, beans, bananas, rubber trees, papaya,  production
maracuja, watermelon, garlic
Dairy       Sugar cane                                Graphite mining
Region
Source: ISPN Field Research, July 1993.
3.19   Although no quantification of these products was made, the variety of products cited as
having flourished after the decline of coffee and cocoa attests to the relative dynamism of post-
boom economic activity. The presumption is strong that the presence of a feeder road
contributed to economic diversification. In some instances, the difference made by the road (as
exemplified in Box 1) was dramatic.
BOX 1: Potato Farming in the Area of Influence of the
Andarai-Mucuge Feeder Road
Coffee was the main crop to benefit from feeder road construction in the area of influence of the
Mucuge-Andarai segment. However, the fate of coffee production there paralleled that of the rest of
Bahia: by the time this study took place, most of the coffee trees had been eradicated. In its place,
however, several promising crops had been introduced into the local economy; potatoes are one of them.
Some 700 hectares of irrigated potato fields are currently producing 21,000 tons or,
approximately 1,615 truckloads of potatoes a year in the vicinity of the Mucuge-Andarai feeder road.
Productivity is reputed to be high - in the vicinity of 30 tons/ha every 90 days. Most of the produce is
bought up by a major hamburger chain; the remainder is shipped to the State of Parana where potato
chips are industrially processed.
The feeder road is of paramount importance in this whole operation. All produce is hauled on
the Mucuge-Andarai stretch and from there to Vit6ria da Conquista, Recife, Salvador and Sio Paulo.
The normal cost of transport is US$1 8/ton. When a bridge on the feeder road was out of order for a
year, transport costs soared to US$30 a ton.



23
Traffic Impact
3.20   Overall, traffic increased substantially during the period under study. With only two
exceptions, traffic grew consistently more than the GDP (which grew at just below two percent
per year on average over the last 10 years), and for several roads, the average growth rate
exceeded ten percent per year (Table 3.2 and Annex 4). There is no clear pattem of traffic
levels or growth among the different regions, with high and low levels and growth rates
occurring in practically all regions. However, in aggregate, the roads in the cocoa and the dairy
regions appear as having the higher traffic levels at present. In some cases (6 out of the 20
roads) traffic between 1993 to 1996 fell, while in another case traffic has remained about the
same.5 One possible explanation is the continued drop in world prices for coffee and cocoa, that
may have resulted in a sustained economic decline in the areas of those roads. For the roads that
show large traffic increases through the period, a major factor for such growth is the road's
integration as long-haul links in both federal and state networks (e.g., routes C90 and CIO in the
cocoa areas).
Table 3.2 Average Daily Traffic (vehicles per day)
Region                Road         Initial Traffic  Initial      1993         1996
(vpd)       Year        Traffic      Traffic
(vpd)         (vpd)
Coffee-North                 RS11.5             27          (1981)        53          56
Coffee-North                 RS11.6             27          (1981)        86          98
Coffee-South                 RS02. 1 a          ...           ...        160          203
Coffee-South                 RS02.lb            ...           ...        304          99
Coffee-South                 RSO1.2a            ...           ...        145          109
Coffee-South                 RSO1.2b            ...           ...         67          119
Coffee-South                 RSO.1             ...           ...        100          177
Coffee-Paraguacu              BA148             27          (1981)       184           ...
Coffee-Paraguacu              BA142             28          (1979)        71          189
Coffee-Jequia                RS05.8a            14          (1979)        32          27
Coffee-Jequia                RS05.8b            14          (1979)        62           6
Coffee-Jequia                RS06.6             9           (1979)        14          114
Cocoa                          C90              29          (1980)       108          89
Cocoa                          CIO              27          (1981)       101          245
Cocoa                          C44              21          (1981)        41          142
Cocoa                          C23                   ...      ...         14          27
Dairy                         LlOa              29          (1980)        79          150
Dairy                         LlOb              28          (1980)       135          131
Dairy                         L10c              28          (1978)        98          142
Dairy                         LlOd              28          (1979)        57          74
5 To minimize errors in traffic counting, traffic counts in 1996 were done twice in all cases where the results showed
large, unexplainable drops in traffic levels from 1993 to 1996. However. determination of average annual traffic levels
based on one-day counts are subject to potentially large statistical error depending on the extent of weekly and
seasonal traffic variations, and the validly of expansion coefficients for one-day traffic counts.



24
Figure 3.1 Traffic Before and After Road Improvements
--                                                         U ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1979 11
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _, _ _ _ _                        .a  1993
ADT 10_//__i:     XI
(AVJDayl /S-.SS|,i
120-
tals
O   '      /      1993~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19
CDffee -                          /                                        N_ __   Pnorto Ra.d
Soua Coffee-                                             1979-81   Impmemmts
South CUCoffee -
SothuthCco
~fh Jequie    NOcoe    Coo-
3.21    While traffic on most roads increased, substantially in some cases, traffic projections
turned out to be consistently over-optimistic. In a sample of six roads for which baseline data as
well as projections were available, projections exceeded actual values in five of the six roads.
(Table 3.3).
Table 3.3 Forecast and Actual Traffic (Sample of Six Roads)
Region    Road    Average Traffic Projected for Year 10   1993 Traffic               Ratio
(vpd)                        (vpd)        Actual/Projected
Traffic
Cocoa    CIO                           90                           101               1.12
Cocoa    C44                           89                           41                0.46
Cocoa    C23                           27                            14               0.52
Dairy     LlOa                        392                           79                0.20
Dairy      LlOb                       144                           135               0.94
Dairy     LIOd                        138                           57                0.41
3.22    The study found that the feeder roads program stimulated local producers to improve
other feeder roads. Thus, traffic is likely to have increased on these other roads too.



25
Social Impact
3.23   Objective and quantified data on social change are hard to obtain for subregions.
Nevertheless, some data on changes in land tenure, health, education and urbanization in each of
the three main regions are available (Table 3.4). They show a significant improvement in land
tenure in all regions: the proportion of small landholders increased significantly in all of them,
despite the fact that very few changes were occurring at the same time at the national level.
Similarly, the number of inhabitants per hospital bed fell, even during the period of economic
decline, particularly in the coffee and dairy regions. In view of the lack of data for previous
years, educational enrollment indicators are limited to the more recent period. But it is perhaps
even more significant that the proportion of children attending school actually grew significantly
in two of the three regions during the post-boom period; that is, the positive impacts persisted
beyond the period of prosperity. Finally, the proportion of the population living in urban areas
increased significantly in all regions, a fact which can be interpreted, grosso modo, as reflecting
a trend towards modernization. The extent to which these changes can be attributed to improved
feeder roads is unclear. It can be said, though, that the social changes described coincided with
the improvements in feeder roads.
Table 3.4: Social Impacts in the Area of Influence of Feeder Roads by Economic Zones
Economic           Land Tenure               Health           Education        Urbanization
Zones
% of estab.having 50 ha.    No. of Inhab.     % of School-age   % of Pop. in
or less                    Ihospital bed      Childreni in       Urban Areas
Attendance
1975    1980      1985     1985      1989     1985     1991      1980     1991
Coffee       73.6    75.3      93.4    740.2    629.5    85.5       86.7      43.8     54.4
Region
Cocoa        57.8    79.0      81.4    550.2    542.2    77.3       87.8      46.2     59.0
Region
Dairy       48.8    65.9       69.4     636.6    573.3    82.6      90.9     47.5      61.3
Region
Bahia       84.0    85.2       86.6     -         -        -        -        42.3      59.1
Brazil       83.1    82.0      82.6     -         -        -        -         67.6     75.5
Source: IBGE. Censos Demograficos and Censos Agropecuarios, various years.
Environmental Impact
3.24   The field survey revealed environmental degradation in the three economic regions
studied. Deforestation was common to all three, due to the need to clear land for expanding
coffee, cocoa and dairy production. Traditional slash and burn techniques were used in
practically all regions. In some parts, valuable tree species were indiscriminately distroyed.
Deforestation provoked alterations in the ecosystems, erosion on hillsides and siltation of creeks,
thus reducing water availability and affecting local fauna.



26
3.25   The only statistical information available on this topic referred to overall changes in use
of total land area: this indicator broadly reflected the incorporation of land area for agricultural
purposes, much of which involves deforestation (Table 3.5). The data indicate considerable
changes in land cover during the period in which the feeder roads were built, particularly in the
coffee and cocoa regions. Nevertheless, the rate of change in land cover, in the regions affected
by feeder roads, was generally comparable to that observed in the rest of Bahia, and in Brazil as
a whole. In the dairy region, the proportion of land area in agricultural activity actually
decreased after the feeder roads were built, due to the effects of the economic crisis.
Table 3.5 Land Cover Losses, Selected Economic Zones, 1975-1985 (percent)
Economic Zones                1975                   1980                 1985
Coffee Region                  21.4                  32.0                  34.7
Cocoa Region                   36.3                  39.1                  45.7
Dairy Region                  24.3                   27.9                 23.5
Bahia                         28.4                   36.1                 38.2
Brazil                        27.4                   36.3                 40.2
Souirce: IBGE, Censos Agropecuarios, 1975, 1980 and 1985.
3.26   It would be misleading to attribute most forms of environmental degradation observed
during the field survey to road-building. The only incidence of environmental degradation
directly traceable to the feeder roads projects was the erosion caused by poor road construction
and ineffective maintenance. This form of environmental degradation was encountered
particularly in the Cocoa Region, where conditions of terrain, precipitation, heavy traffic and
inadequate maintenance combined to cause erosion. All other forms - including deforestation,
siltation, and the extended use of chemicals - were related to the expansion and intensification of
economic activity which was propitiated by the road.
Results of Opinion Surveys
3.27   The initial beneficiaries of the roads were the large producers. Most of them were
natives from the respective regions, but at least in the coffee region, entrepreneurs from other
parts of Brazil came in important numbers as well. The roads did help expand production in
some regions and generated a greater flow of wealth. This increased the number ofjobs and
attracted migrants. Living conditions improved appreciably. Social infrastructure, particularly
in the cocoa and coffee regions, was significantly upgraded. The roads were a critical ingredient
in the physical improvement of health, education and other social amenities and improved access
to these facilities. Overall, the feeder roads, particularly during the prosperity cycle, ended up
benefiting the entire local population (including the incoming migrants) whose access to basic
social amenities increased significantly.
3.28   The great majority of respondents interviewed during the course of this study agreed that
the feeder roads had provided positive benefits to their region. Eighty three percent of all
respondents expressed a positive evaluation when questioned about the impacts of the feeder
roads in the region (Table 3.6). It is noteworthy that the users who saw no real benefits, or who
had mixed feelings about the road, tended to be concentrated in the cocoa region; this was the
area which had the greatest difficulty in re-adapting to the post-boom phase. Moreover, an



27
analysis by duration of residence, revealed a high proportion of recent arrivals among those who
did not perceive important benefits in the road. Evidently, lack of knowledge of "before the
road" conditions influenced the outlook of these respondents; that is, they failed to appreciate the
significance of the changes brought on by feeder roads.
Table 3.6 Opinion Survey Among Key Respondents on Benefits of Feeder Roads, by
Economic Region (percent)
Economic Region         Opinions as to the Role of Feeder Roads        Total
Road brought     Road brought No   Mixed Views  (N= 100 percent)
Positive Benefits   Real Benefits  or no Answer
Coffee Region         84.60              3.8           11.50            78
Cocoa Region          75.00              7.5           17.50            40
Dairy Region          100.00            0.0             0.00            14
Total                 83.30              4.5           12.10            132
Source: ISPN Field Research, 1993.
3.29   Blue collar workers (a category which includes a number of professional drivers),
businessmen and agricultural producers tended to have a more positive outlook on the roads
(Table 3. 7). Politicians and civil servants, while still showing a large proportion with a favorable
opinion of the roads (80 percent), was the category with the lower proportion who saw benefits
in the feeder roads.



28
Table 3.7 Opinion Survey Among Key Respondents on Benefits of Feeder roads, by
Occupational Category of Respondents (percent)
Respondents by Occupational         Opinions as to the Role of Feeder Roads    Total
Categonr                                                          N = (100%)
Road         Road         Mixed
brought    brought No   Views or No
Positive       Real        Answer
Benefits     Benefits
1. Agricultural Producers                    85            2            13           51
2. Professionals                             74            3            23           30
3. Politicians and Civil Servants            80           20             0            11
4. Businessmen                               88            4             8           28
5. Blue Collar Workers                       91            8             0            12
Total                                      83            5             12          132
Source: ISPN Field Research. 1993.



29
4. Economic Analysis
Approach at Project Appraisal
4.1    The feasibility studies on which the appraisal was based estimated the investments'
economic rate of return based on three different criteria for assessing the benefits of the proposed
road improvements:
(a)    Benefits stemming from the reduction in vehicle operating costs. This approach
was applied mainly to areas with a fairly established production, but which
suffered from very high transport costs. This was mainly the case of the roads
located in the cocoa region;
(b)    Benefits measuring the valued added of the induced agricultural production
expected to result from the improvement of a cluster of roads. This approach
was applied to a group of roads mainly in the milk-producing region analyzed as
a package, by quantification of aggregate benefits and aggregate investments
costs; and,
(c)    Benefits measuring the valued added of induced agricultural production, in the
roads' direct areas of influence. This approach was applied mainly to roads in
the coffee region, where the improved road condition were expected to generate
a very substantial increase in coffee production.
Approach in the Impact Study
4.2    The original intention of the impact study was to assess the investments' returns by
replicating the methodology used at appraisal. This required calculating the value added from
induced agricultural production over the life of the roads. However, the characteristics of two
economic variables made such calculation highly unreliable:
(a)    Agricultural output. Three factors combine to make the measurement of value
added in agricultural production attributable to the feeder roads unfeasible.
First, lacking monitoring data on a yearly basis, it is virtually impossible to
quantify the production of the key commodities in a road's area of influence at
different times since road construction was completed. At the same time, using
indirect methods to assess output would not be reliable, given major changes in
world prices of cocoa and coffee at key periods in the life of the road projects
and extreme variations from year to year in weather conditions affecting
production of these commodities. Second, as shown in Table 3.1, production
has diversified in many of these roads, further hindering the quantification of
output. Third, it is not known the extent to which other investments beyond
road construction influenced production level and mix. It is not possible to
attribute increased agricultural valued added to the road improvements unless
the value of the complementary investments is known.



30
(b)    Inflation. During the period since the first roads opened in the late 1 970s until
today, there were many years with hyperinflation; for example, inflation in 1994
exceeded 2,000 percent. In this situation, even a small margin of error in the
measurement of inflation would materially affect the computations of the
economic analysis.
4.3    In view of these conditions, this study (i) did not attempt to determine economic rates of
return, and (ii) followed the classical approach of assessing benefits from transport investments
by quantifying the reduction in transport costs to road users, rather than following the value-
added approach. While actual traffic data is not available for the opening years of each road, or
for years immediately thereafter, traffic data is available for a year prior to improving the roads,
as well as for 1993 and 1996. It is therefore possible to compare the condition prevailing for
road users in the mid- 1990s (with the investment) with that prior to the road improvements
(without the investment). The study determines the benefit-cost ratio for each project by
relating the benefit for a single year, 1996, with the annualized cost of the road investments. In
this analysis, the 1993 traffic counts are used to verify and adjust the 1996 counts. The benefit-
cost ratio thus obtained provides an indication of the return on the investments.
4.4    The analysis of benefits from reduction in transport costs, distinguishes three different
categories of benefits: (i) savings in vehicle operating costs to the normal traffic, that is, the
traffic that would have existed in the absence of the road improvements; (ii) savings in vehicle
operating costs to the traffic generated by the improved road; and (iii) decrease in transport costs
stemming from the reduction, or elimination in some cases, of road closures that were frequent
before the roads were improved.
4.5    The analysis excludes quantification of social benefits, such as the improved access to
education and health services, because no adequate basis exists for their quantification. Equally,
the analysis does not evaluate the distribution of benefits among the different beneficiaries.
However, a relative indication of benefit distribution can be derived from the degree of labor
utilization in the various regions, as discussed later in this chapter (para 4.16).
Traffic
4.6    The evolution of traffic in the project roads is discussed in Chapter 3. For purposes of
the economic analysis, to assess savings in vehicle operating costs, it is also necessary to know
the composition of the traffic. This appears to vary from road to road.
4.7    In about half of the roads, vehicles with small freight capacity, pick-up and light trucks,
predominate over passenger vehicles (Annex 4). Practically on all roads the percentage of heavy
trucks is negligible. This traffic composition is consistent with the quality of the roads and the
carriage of freight in small vehicles indicates that road transport costs are high. However,
transport costs under current conditions are likely to be substantially lower than transport costs in
the 1 970s, when most of the roads were not accessible to motorized vehicles for long periods
during the year.
Quantification of Benefits
4.8    The savings in vehicle operating costs between the unimproved and the improved roads
have been quantified on the basis of data provided in the Project Completion Report (1986) for



31
the Secondary and Feeder Roads Project. Such data indicate the savings in operating costs for
different types of vehicles, under different terrain conditions, and for different types of surface
improvement (e.g., improvements from earth to gravel, gravel to asphalt). Due to the lack of
empirical data, this analysis does not quantify benefits from time savings and therefore
underestimate the economic benefits; in the roads that carry a relatively high level of freight, the
underestimation may be significant.
4.9    To distinguish benefits to normal traffic from that of generated traffic, the analysis
requires to determine traffic levels that would have occurred had the roads not been improved.
To do this, and based on historical data in Brazil, it has been assumed that traffic on the original
roads would have continued to grow at an average 3.0 percent per year. The difference between
the traffic levels so obtained, and the actual traffic levels counted in 1993 and in 1996 is
considered generated traffic.
4.10   Benefits from the avoidance of road closures, which were a common occurrence with the
old roads and were practically eliminated with the improved roads, should normally be
calculated considering the alternative transport costs when the road closes, such as carrying the
freight by mule. Since empirical data for Brazil was not available, this study assumed that the
savings in transport costs with the improved road, relative to the old road when closed, are 50
percent higher than compared to vehicles traveling on the old road (when the old road is open).
This assumption yields benefits from avoiding road closures, on a unit traffic basis, that are
lower than those obtained from empirical data in a recent rural road study in another country.6
The economic value of road closures and its effect on the economic rate of return was tested
through a switching-value analysis. In addition to increasing transport costs for freight, road
closures have a severe effect on people, as they make access to social services practically
impossible. As noted above, such social benefits have not been quantified.
Benefit-Cost Ratio Results
4.11   The resulting benefit-cost ratios are shown in Table 4.1 below. These ratios are based on
the benefit quantification explained above and on the roads investment and maintenance costs.
A discount rate of 10 percent has been used in the analysis, since this was the cut-off rate for
accepting roads under the two feeder roads reviewed in this study. Detailed tables and
description of the economic evaluation is shown in Annex 4.
6 See Morocco - Impact Evaluation Report. Socioeconomic Influence of Rural Roads (Report No. 15808).
Operations Evaluation Department, World Bank. June 28, 1996.



32
Table 4.1: Benefit-Cost Ratios
Best Estimate          Sensitivity Analysis                  Switching Value
Value Avoid Road Cosure
VOC Savings        Construction & Operating To Enable B-C Ratio = I
Costs
Region            Road        at percent   20 % Higher 20% Lower 20% Higher  20% Lower Unit Cost per Unit Cost per
Discount Rate                                                  Vehicle per  Vehicle per
Day (USS)   Day per km
(UST)
Coffee (north)         RS.11.5        .72          .84          .59          .60         .90       13.23         .43
Coffee (north)         RS 11.6        1.16         1.30         1.02         .97        1.45       4.71          .21
Coffee (south)         RS.02.1a       1.51         1.61         1.40         1.26       1.88       1.59          .09
Coffee (south)         RS.02.Ib       1.62         1.72         1.52         1.35       2.03       2.37          .08
Coffee(south)          RS.01.2a       1.41         1.55         1.28         1.18       1.77       3.11          .14
Coffee (south)         RS.01.2b       1.23         1.38         1.09         1.03       1.54       2.19          .21
Coffee(south)          RS.01.1        .70          .76          .64          .58         .88       6.11          .25
Coffee (Paraguacu)     BA 148         1.60         1.71         1.49         1.33       2.00       4.63          .08
Coffee (Paraguacu)     BA 142         .86          .94          .78          .72        1.08       17.64         .38
Coffee (Jequie)        RS.05.8a       .28          .33          .23          .24         .35       13.26         .93
Coffee (Jequie)        RS.05.8b       .17          .19          .14          .14        .21        12.81         .82
Coffee (Jequie)        RS.06.6        .13          .16          .11          .11        .17       23.35          2.07
Cocoa(north)             C90          .92          1.01         .83          .77        1.15       5.45          .42
Cocoa(north)             CIO          1.68         1.81         1.55         1.40       2.10       1.34          .09
Cocoa(south)             C44          1.06         1.17         .95          .88        1.32       3.82          .23
Cocoa(south)            C23 *         .21          .25          .18          .18         .27       37.43         2.65
Dairy (south)           LlOa          1.41         1.57         1.25         1.17       1.76       1.88          .16
Dairy (south)           LlOb          1.75         1.92         1.58         1.46       2.19       .52           .11
Dairy (south)           LlOc          1.47         1.63         1.31         1.22       1.84       2.06          .14
Dairy (south)           LIOd          1.08         1.26         .91          .90        1.35       4.77          .31
No. > 1                               12           13           10            9         14          -             -
4.12    Overall, the results show that (based on adjusted 1996 traffic), 12 roads, or 60 percent of
the 20 roads in the sample, have a satisfactory benefit-cost ratio. Regionally, all roads in the
dairy region would have been satisfactory investments, while it would be 2 out of 4 roads in the
cocoa region, and 6 out 12 in the coffee region. In the sensitivity analysis, the results show that
the benefit-cost ratio is more sensitive to changes in construction (and maintenance) costs than to
savings in vehicle operating costs. Under a 20 percent variation in the former, the number of
satisfactory road investments would range from 9 to 14.
4.13    The benefit-cost ratios cannot be directly extrapolated to assess the likely economic rate
of return of the investments. The main caveat stems from lack of information about traffic levels
in the early years after completion of the investments, a time when benefits have the bigger
influence on the rate of return. Normally, in most road projects traffic grows steadily over time,
causing the benefit-cost ratio to increase in later years. However, the situation of the feeder
roads in Bahia may not have followed the conventional patterns. First, because out of the 15
roads in the cocoa and coffee regions for which there is traffic data for 1993 and 1996, traffic fell
between these two years, suggesting a decline in economic activity in the roads' areas of
influence. Second, because both cocoa and coffee prices were much higher in the early years of
the roads project than in 1993 and in 1996, such higher prices would have provided producers
with substantially higher net income and inducement to increase production: output and,
correspondingly, traffic, may have been higher in those years (Tables 4.2, 4.3 and Figures 4.1,
4.2, 4.3). Thus, it is possible than in many of the roads situated in the coffee and in the cocoa
regions, the benefit-cost ratio could have been higher in the early years than in 1996.



33
Avoidance of Road Closures: Switching Values
4.14   Roads that were inaccessible to motorized vehicles most of the year, today are passable
practically year-round. Assessing the benefits from avoiding road closures is difficult due to
lack of empirical data. It is possible that the real economic benefits from providing year-round
traffic are substantially higher than estimated in this analysis.
4.15   In view of the potentially large margin of error in the calculation of benefits from
avoiding road closures, a switching value analysis was conducted to determine the value of road
closures at which the benefit-cost ratio (at 10 percent discount rate for 1996 traffic) is equal to
one. As shown in Table 4.1, the 12 roads with benefit cost ratios greater than one require costs
per vehicle kilometer ranging from US$8 cents to US$31 cents. This value is for an average
traffic mix including passenger cars as well as small and medium size trucks. For a small truck,
the higher value is equivalent to about US$10 cents per ton-km. In contrast, the alternative for
people to carry produce themselves when the road is closed is estimated to require two person-
days per ton-kilometer, or US$2.00 per ton-kilometer (assuming a subsistence cost of one dollar
per person).7 A recent study guided by England's Transport Research Laboratory found the cost
of the ton-km in unpaved roads in Africa and Asia to range from about $1 per ton-km for animal-
drawn vehicles to $5 per ton-km by headloading carriage.8
Distribution of Benefits
4.16   The roads' original objectives focused on economic development and improving access
for the local population. On the economic front, most of the road improvements were geared to
improve transport conditions for large-scale producers, rather than help the small farmer. On the
social front, it is likely that the labor-intensive production of coffee and cocoa benefited a larger
number of people compared to production of dairy that is largely industrialized.
4.17   At the same time, Brazil' road transport services are competitive, as they are fairly free
of entry and rate regulations. This suggests that for the roads improved under the projects,
transport services are likely to get better, both in quantity and in quality, and that savings in
vehicle operating cost are likely to be passed on to the users of such services.
Regional, Commodity-Based Analysis
4.18   A brief examination of the regional economies helps convey a broader perspective than
the single year analysis used in the benefit cost calculation. This is discussed in Annex 3.
4.19   The commodity-based analysis illustrates the economic impact of the changes in prices
and outputs. In the case of coffee, this analysis shows that due to the combined effect of lower
prices and outputs, the farmers' net income from coffee production fell by 38 percent in the
period 1979-1992; in the case of cocoa, net income fell by 83 percent during the period 1985-
1992. This situation contrasts with the expectations at the time of project appraisal, which
foresaw increases in output and stability in prices. At the same time, the regional economies
diversified, more so the coffee regions than the other regions. Thus, an analysis for specific
7 Based on data from the World Bank projects in South Asia.
8 Simon Ellis, Ph. D Thesis (1996), Cranfield University, United Kingdom.



34
years and based solely on the original commodities would seriously misrepresent the regions'
longer term economic conditions.



35
5.    Sustainability
5.1    Sustainability of the benefits will depend essentially on Bahia's capacity to maintain the
roads in good condition and on the roads' ability to attract traffic. This chapter discusses these
two aspects of sustainability.
Road Conditions
5.2    This study surveyed the condition of the roads in 1993, some 10-15 years after
completion of the road improvements, and again in 1996. The most recent survey found that
most roads were either in fair or in good condition. A quarter was in poor condition. Taken
together, the rating for the 20 roads was slightly better in 1996 than in 1993.
Table 5.1 Road Conditions9
1993           1993          1996         1996
Region          Road   Number Scale         Rating    Number Scale    Rating
Coffee-North         RSI 1.5        6.0           Good            4.8         Fair
Coffee-North         RSI 1.6        6.1           Good            5.3         Fair
Coffee-South        RS02.1 a        5.2            Fair           6.0         Good
Coffee-South        RS02.1b         4.8            Fair           5.8         Good
Coffee-South        RSOI.2a         5.4            Fair           6.8         Good
Coffee-South        RS01.2b         6.3           Good            6.5         Good
Coffee-South         RSOI.1         5.7            Fair           6.0         Good
Coffee-Paraguacu     BA148          5.8            Fair           ...         ... I0
Coffee-Paraguacu     BA142          5.4           Good            8.8       Excellent
Coffee-Jequia       RS05.8a         4.0            Poor           3.5         Poor
Coffee-Jequia       RS05.8b         4.4            Poor           4.0         Poor
Coffee-Jequia        RS06.6         5.1            Fair           6.3        Good
Cocoa                 C90           5.5            Fair           6.0         Good
Cocoa                 CIO           4.1            Poor           4.0         Poor
Cocoa                 C44           3.5            Poor           5.5         Fair
Cocoa                 C23           3.0            Poor           3.0         Poor
Dairy                 LlOa          5.9            Fair           5.0         Fair
Dairy                 LlOb          6.3           Good            5.5         Fair
Dairy                 LlOc          6.1           Good            5.0         Fair
Dairy                 LlOd          6.1           Good            4.3         Poor
Average Rating                      5.23                         5.37
9 The survey rated surface condition and visibility, giving a weight of 0.9 to the former and 0.1 to the latter.
1O Improvement works were underway at the time of the survey.



36
5.3    Of the five roads rated as poor in 1996, three had traffic below 30 vehicles per day and
their inferior condition could be assumed to be an important deterrent to traffic. On these roads,
vehicles drive at low speed, between 20 and 30 km per hour. On the other 15 roads, the average
speeds corresponded to the intended design, between 40-60 km per hour. None of the roads had
serious drainage problems, suggesting that road closures due to flooding would be rare. The
large majority of the roads had no signs indicating maximum speeds, distances to cities or other
important driver information.
5.4    As shown in Table 5.2 below, the current condition of 18 gravel-surface roads surveyed
(one of the 20 roads has been paved and one was not surveyed), is, overall, lower than that of the
state of Bahia's network of gravel roads. While the comparison may not be statistically
significant due to the small sample ( 18 roads represent about one quarter of the roads financed
under the two feeder roads reviewed in this study) it would imply that the maintenance priority
of the roads financed under the Bank projects is lower than accorded the average road in Bahia.
Table 5.2 Road Conditions: Bahia and the Feeder Road Projects
Road Conditions    Sample in Impact Study 18 roads       State of Bahia Network
(percent in each category)       (percent in each category)
Good                            39                                43
Fair                            33                                38
Poor                            28                                19
Road Maintenance Management
5.5    During the 1990s, Brazil has devolved a large part of infrastructure operations to the
states. Under this policy, the planning, financing and maintenance of roads rests with the state
road authority, DERBA, in the state of Bahia, irrespective of their administrative classification or
the entity that initially built them. At present, gravel roads maintained by DERBA are
administratively classified as follows: 71 percent are state roads; 24 percent are local roads
(county or municipal), and the remaining 5 percent are federal roads (in part being transferred to
the state).
5.6    Of the 19 gravel-surface roads, 18 are under the responsibility of DERBA. These roads
are maintained by DERBA equipment and/or personnel. The remaining road is maintained under
a municipal contract. Regarding maintenance programming, all 19 roads are subject to some
level of maintenance, although the large majority are maintained only during the rainy season.
Lack of funds prevent more systematic road maintenance and often forces the municipalities to
carry out their own maintenance operations.
5.7    The above situation differs from the original intention that maintenance of the feeder
roads would eventually be formally transferred to the municipalities, including an appropriate
budget. Further, since the state government did not have enough resources, during periods of
high prices for coffee and cocoa producers, the respective producers' associations financed the
upkeep of the roads serving their products.



37
5.8    Presently, the regularity and quality of maintenance is often dependent on the ability of
the local population or local businesses to exert political pressure for the allocation of funds.
The long-term perspective for improving the management and financing of Bahia's road system
hinges on completing the devolution program, including providing the states and local
governments with legal rights to collect road user charges, and to incorporate users and other
direct stakeholders in the management of such funds.
Agricultural and other Economic Benefits
5.9    If the roads are kept in a reasonable good condition, sustainability of benefits will
depend on the roads' transport demand. Some of the roads have been integrated with the state's
road network and serve long distance traffic; in these roads, the transit function generally largely
exceeds the traffic derived from the economic activity in the roads' immediate area of influence.
Unless other parallel roads are built or improved, which would offer a lower cost alternative to
long-distance traffic, the sustainability of benefits of these project roads would be ensured. This
is the case, for example, of two routes in the cocoa region (routes C 10 and C90), and two routes
in the coffee region (routes BA142 and BA 148), which, in addition are important for the
promotion of tourism.
5.10   For those roads whose main function is to serve the economic activity in their immediate
vicinity, their long-term benefits will depend essentially on the potential for sustaining or
expanding such activities. The significant growth in traffic levels in practically all roads from
their initial traffic prior to road construction until today, despite a decline in commodity prices,
suggests that their economies have diversified and have a long-term potential. Partial recovery
in the prices of coffee and coffee from their low 1993 levels reinforce this view.
5.1 1   The roads whose sustainability is most in doubt are those beset by the following
problems: poor surface condition, continuation of monoculture, and competition by better,
sometimes newly constructed, parallel roads. In the latter case, such better roads have taken
away traffic from the project roads, even traffic generated in the roads' direct zone of influence,
that seek to minimize the driving on low quality roads. Some project roads are affected by two
(or even three) of these problems, for example, four roads in the coffee areas (three in Jequia
and one in the North).
5.12   On the whole, the roads subject to the above problems and with unlikely or uncertain
sustainability are essentially those that show a low benefit-cost ratio. Thus, the economic
efficiency of the investment is a fairly good indicator of the roads' long term sustainability.






39
6. Main Findings and Recommendations
Main Findings
Project Design and Stakeholders' Roles
6.1    FRI and FR II represented an innovative approach to plan and finance improvements to
low-traffic rural roads. The approach focused on helping to boost agricultural production and to
raise living standards in isolated areas by providing them with access to markets and to social
services. Within this framework, the investment criteria was based on economic returns.
6.2    Bahia was the first Northeastern state to avail itself of this program's resources. It could
do so through an informal public-private partnership, that is, the combined efforts of federal,
state and local governments together with the associations of agricultural producers.
6.3    The implementation of feeder roads in that state was part of a regional development
strategy of agricultural growth poles. It focused on the promotion of agricultural production in
regions of high-growth potential, notably for coffee, cocoa and dairy products, and poor
transport infrastructure.
6.4   In the selection of subprojects and in assessing their economic merit, state authorities
used the concept of road clusters defined within the context of the state development strategy.
This approach had the likely effect of increasing the combined benefits of the roads, relative to
individual investments foreseen in the projects' original methodology.
6.5    The role of the federal and state government was essential in helping Bahia improve its
rural roads, since, in view of the local conditions of climate and terrain, the construction of all-
weather roads had traditionally been too expensive an investment for either the local
communities or private concerns.
6.6    The rapidly expanding production of coffee and cocoa, and to a lesser extent of milk in
the late 1970s and early 1980s, is a good indicator of the soundness of the strategy followed by
Bahia regarding development of feeder roads. While this expansion is best explained by
favorable product prices and accessibility of credit and subsidies, without the roads it would
hardly have been possible.
Economic Benefits and Returns
6.7    On the economic front, the main problem of the Bahia feeder road investments derives
not from its initial strategy, but from the inability to anticipate future events. Sustained
economic growth had been expected, but it was achieved only during the first few years after the
roads were built. The decline in agricultural output and its impact on the economic and social
benefits of the feeder roads program were unpredictable at the time of project formulation.
Although Brazil began feeling the results of the world crisis in the early 1 980s, few expected it
to last as long, or to have the depth of consequences, which it eventually brought.
6.8    The economic returns calculated in the original feasibility studies proved to be
exceedingly optimistic, at least when compared with the analyses based on this study's survey
data in 1993 and 1996. Lack of monitoring and evaluation data throughout the life of the roads
preclude passing a well-founded judgment on likely results had an analysis been carried out



40
based on conditions in the mid-1980s,11 when production levels and economic prosperity in
many of the road clusters reached peak levels.
6.9    The rate of economic and social decline in the roads' areas influence after the initiation
of the crisis varied considerably between the sub-regions. The dynamism of local initiative,
access to capital, effective agricultural potential, existence of alternative resources and other
intangibles appear as key factors in explaining such variations. In particular, some of the coffee
areas seem to have weathered the crisis better than the dairy or cocoa regions.
6.10   The initial beneficiaries of the feeder roads often tended to be larger-scale producers as
many of the roads constructed actually begin or end on large plantations. Whether when and to
what extent these benefits actually trickled down to poorer social strata depended more on
prevailing forms of economic organization and social structure than on feeder road strategy. In
some areas of the coffee region, there is evidence that small producers did benefit; elsewhere, the
situation is less clear.
Social Benefits
6.11   The increased production of the main commodities, when it occurred, and the
diversification of the outputs associated in part with feeder roads, helped trigger social change.
Given the labor-intensive character of both cocoa and coffee, job-creation was high, migration
was attracted in relatively large numbers (at a time when migration opportunities dwindled in the
rest of the country) and living conditions improved. The milk-producing regions did not
experience significant changes, to a large extent because milk production is not labor-intensive.
6.12   Social infrastructure, particularly in the cocoa and coffee regions, was significantly
upgraded. The roads were a critical factor in the local authorities' programs to improve the
population's access to health, education and other social services and amenities. Roads also had
an impact on sociability and fostered rural-rural as well as rural-urban interaction. The roads
materially increased the availability of consumer goods in the rural areas.
Environmental Impact
6.13   The increased economic activity triggered by the construction of feeder roads
contributed to a rise in environmental degradation. The rate of environmental degradation grew
since the beginning of the economic crisis, as deforestation, whether for the planting of other
crops, for timber extraction or for the production of charcoal, expanded sharply. The existence
of the feeder roads made all of these activities more viable. Deforestation was particularly
disastrous in the cocoa region. Poor road design and/or inadequate use by heavy vehicles
sometimes led to flooding, erosion and other environmental damage in the immediate vicinity of
roads.
Institutional Impact
6.14   The study shows inconclusive results regarding how the feeder roads program affected
the workings of different federal, state and local agencies. It appears that the institutional impact
is generally related to investments' economic and social benefits and specifically associated to
local prosperity. Improvements in the provision of education, health, electricity or modem
amenities seems to have been directly related to the economic conditions in the community and
" In the view oftGEIPOT, an "inteffnediate evaluation should have been planned for five years after the investments."



41
their capacity to finance such services. Similarly, economic stagnation seems to reduce the
institutional ability to provide services at the local level.
Sustainability
6.15    The sustainability of the roads themselves appears to have been broadly satisfactory, as
the majority of the project roads remain in fair condition or better. With few exceptions, the
roads with the lower traffic are the less well maintained, which seems a rational use of the
limited budget available for road maintenance. However, the maintenance situation is far from
optimal, and more resources as well as further decentralization of responsibility may be required.
Involvement of local jurisdictions and populations in route selection, road design and
participation in construction may be a way of enhancing "maintenance ownership."'12
Sustainability of the economic benefits will depend on the extent that subregions diversify their
economic base in the face of declining market prices for their primary products; many of the
subregions have introduced new crops and are developing tourism and other sources of income.
Recommendations 13
6.16   The findings of this study are based on conditions specific to Bahia, and its
socioeconomic conditions, and are not necessarily replicable elsewhere. These findings,
nonetheless, suggest the tentative recommendations listed below which, depending on the
specific local, regional or national environment to which they are applied, can be useful for
designing and evaluating feeder roads.
6.17    Feeder Road Planning. The experience of this study suggests that the following
considerations are likely to improve the planning and ultimate impact of the feeder road
investment:
(a)     Clusters or mini-networks of roads fitting into a state and regional development
strategy have a higher likelihood of attracting and retaining traffic than isolated
road investments. In designing feeder roads programs, the concept of road
clusters should be contemplated as a possible requirement for selection of road
investments.
(b)     Social impacts are significant14 and should complement the traditional
assessment of economic benefits. A strong involvement of beneficiaries at the
grass-root level can help in this process. The involvement of beneficiaries
would facilitate the task of state and local road planning agencies in the
assessment of social benefits. Systematic institutional mechanisms should be
put in place for the involvement of beneficiaries in road planning.
12 The Bahia state govemment commented in 1994 as follows: "Under the tax policy now in force there has been an
impoverishment of Brazilian municipal govemments, especially in the Northeast.  Bahia has 415 municipalities;
approximately 95 percent have no means of maintaining their road network. Such work may be done by the state
govemment. Only with that reform and a return to financial autonomy would these municipalities be in a position to
maintain their road networks.... in the last 3 (three) years more than 40,000 km of municipal roads ... [had to be]
maintained."
13 The findings and recommendations of this study were reviewed at a workshop organized by SEAIN and held in
Brasilia in April 1997 (Annex 1).
The importance of social impact led the Bahia state govemment "to recommend that greater attention be paid to the
social dimensions, without prejudice to the economic dimension".



42
6.18   Environmental Impact: Mitigation Measures. Feeder road investments can lead to
environmental degradation (i) in the roads' immediate vicinity (primarily through erosion), by
road construction and maintenance and activities and, (ii) more importantly, in their general
areas of influence, by the increased economic activity they generate. Controlling the roads'
adverse environmental effects should be done in two ways: erosion in the roadbed vicinity
should be limited through appropriate engineering methods; environmental damage in the roads'
general area of influence should be controlled through regional environmental assessments and
action plans. Such assessments and plans should be launched at the road planning stage.
6.19   Sustainability: Role of Beneficiaries. Under current policies calling for further
decentralization and devolution of government activities, such as road maintenance, it appears
essential that local governments be provided with appropriate funding by the central government,
or alternatively, with the authority to collect user charges from roads' users. At the same time,
the experience in Brazil and in other countries suggests that with appropriate incentives the
private sector could play an active role in the operations, management and finance of rural road
maintenance.
6.20   Monitoring. Lack of continuous monitoring data makes evaluation of the rural roads
impact on their area of influence, difficult. As a minimum, a low-cost system of traffic counts
should be conducted ideally on yearly basis. To the extent possible, agricultural, education and
health surveys regularly conducted by the respective state authorities could be customized to
include specifically a sample of feeder roads areas.
6.21   Research on the Value of Avoiding Road Closures. Avoiding road closures is likely
to be a major, if not the main, benefit of many rural road improvements. However, empirical
data to assess such benefits are practically nonexistent, making the quantification of this benefit
unreliable. Research on this matter would be desirable to improve the quality of economic
analysis. Such research should include the alternative cost (use of non-motorized transport or the
opportunity costs of suspending transport altogether) incurred by producers, shippers and people
when the road they normally use is closed. Research should preferably be carried out by a center
interested in rural development or in transport.



43
BIBLIOGRAPHY
BAHIA. Piano de rodovias alimentadoras da regiao cafeteira; relat6rio final. Salvador, Tenpo
Ltda., ago., 1976. Varios Volumes.
BAHIA. Piano de rodovias vicinais das regioes cacaueira e leiteira; sintese do projeto.
Salvador, CRIBA, jun., 1980. Varios Volumes.
BAHIA. SEPLANTEC. Centro de Planejamento da Bahia-CEPLAB. A penetraio do cafe ua
Bahia. Salvador, 1979.
BAHIA. Piano de rodovias alimentadoras da regiao leiteira; relat6rio final. Salvador, ECLA,
set., 1976. 2 vol.
BNDES. Segundo programa de estradas vicinais (Loan 1730-BR); relat6rio de encerramento de
programna. Rio de Janeiro, BNDES, s.d.
CARNEMARK, Curt S. Rural roads and the World Bank. (Paper presented at the First Meeting
of the OECD Joint Working Group on Rural Roads in Developing Countries, United Kingdom,
March 10-1 1, 1975.)
CEPLAC. Anuirio estatistico do cacau, 1983. Brasilia, 1984.
CEPLAC. Difusao Agropecuiria. Ilheus, CEPEC, 2(l),jan./abr., 1990.
CEPLAC. Relatorio sintetico, 1984. Brasilia, CEPLAC, 1985.
CEPLAC. Secretaria Geral. A CEPLAC e o imposto de exportacAo do cacau. Brasilia,
CEPLAC, 1989 (S6rie Documentos, 4).
CEPLAC. A CEPLAC e o futuro das regioes cacaueiras do Brasil: contribuicio ao debate.
Brasilia, CEPLAC, 1987.
CERRI, Claudio. "Mem6rias do cacau." Revista Globo Rural, Sao Paulo, 8(92):54-63.
COMPANHIA DE DESENVOLVIMENTO E AQAO REGIONAL-CAR. Rebat6rio finda de
avaliacao do Projeto de Desenvolvimento Rural Integrado da Bacia do Paragua;u: periodo de
1978 a 1986. Salvador, Dec., 1986. Xerox.
FGV. Retrospectiva agropecuaria nos anos 90. Rio de Janeiro.
FUNDACAO CENTRO DE PROJETOS E ESTUDOS. Ilh6us-Itabuna: estrat6gia de
desenvolvimento. Salvador, Fundacao CPE, 1992.
FUNDACAO CENTRO DE PROJETOS E ESTUDOS. A modernizalAo do agribusiness cacao.
Salvador, Funda9ao CPE, [1991].



44
FUNDA(;AO CENTRO DE PROJETOS E ESTUDOS. Panorama geoeconomico da regiao sul
da Bahia. Salvador, Fundaqao CPE, 1992.
GRAMACHO, 1. da C. P., MAGNO, A. E. S., MANDARINO, E. P. e MATOS, A. Cultivo e
beneficiamento do cacau na Bahia. Ilheus, CEPLAC, 1992.
IBGE. Anuarios Estatisticos, Rio de Janeiro, (various years).
IBGE. Censos Demograficos, Rio de Janeiro, (various years).
IBGE. Censos Agropecuarios, Rio de Janeiro, (various years).
Inter-American Development Bank/Operations Evaluation Office - Ex post Evaluation: Rural
Roads Improvement and Maintenance Program, Jamaica. Washington, November, 1992.
MARTINE, George & HAROLDO, Torres. The social impact of feeder road projects in the
Northeast. Brasilia, ISPN/IBRD, December, 1992, 38 p. (mimeo).
MENEZES, Jose Alexandre de Souza & Alvares-Afonso, Frederico Monteiro. 0 excesso de
producao de cacau e a questAo da competitividade brasileira. Brasilia, CEPLAC, 1989, (Serie
Documentos 3).
MINISTERIO DOS TRANSPORTES/SECRETARIA DE PLANEJAMENTO DA PRESIDENCIA
DA  REPUBLICA  (SEPLAN-PR)/BANCO  INTERNACiONAL  DE  RECONSTRU(AO  E
DESENVOLVIMENTO-BIRD. 1 Manual de rodovias vicinais; BIRD/BNDEJDNER. Rio de
Janeiro, BNDE, 1976.
MINISTERIO DOS TRANSPORTES/MNISTERIO DA INDOSTRIA E DO COMERCIO/BIRD.
2^ Manual de Rodovias Vicinais; BIRD/BNDE/DNER. Rio de Janeiro, BNDE, 1979.
NASCIMENTO, Sebastiao. "Crise antecipa fim da epoca aurea do cacau; responsavel por 95% da
produvao nacional, a regiao da Bahia e o retrato da decadencia da cultura". Sao Paulo, Folha de
Sao Paulo, 03.08.93. (Caderno 5, p. 1.)
World Bank - Staff Appraisal Report, Brazil: Secondary and Feeder Roads Project (Loan
1207-BR). Washington, January 21, 1976.
World Bank - Staff Appraisal Report: Brazil: Second Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1730-BR),
Brazil. Washington, June 6, 1979.
World Bank - Project Performance Audit Report, Brazil: Secondary and Feeder Roads
Project (Loan 1207-BR). Washington, December 23, 1986.
World Bank - Project Completion Report; Brazil: Second Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1730-
BR). Washington, November 6, 1989.
World Bank - Project Performance Audit Report, Brazil: Second Feeder Roads Project (Loan
1730-BR). Washington, February 15, 1991.



45
Map: Feeder Roads and Economic RegoRs
SOALE I: la. Om
2  &CUPF!ERE ION
3   COCgAREOh
H  N618um0pp.,n,,,                                 to.
50L 1 :1UKDMOP .zm
*@   Inm  N          _o rn o-
.     _      _            . 4J(t3~
NzoAWuqF ousf
'gn1smunwn| lUC






47
Annex I
SEAIN/OED WORKSHOP IN APRIL 1997
A workshop to discuss the findings of the study organized by SEAIN and OED was
carried out in Brasilia during April 22-23, 1997. This Annex contains a brief summary report
prepared by a working group and the presentation by a representative of the State of Bahia.
A. WORKING GROUP REPORT
The Working Group considered the following points:
I.    The methodology for economic evaluation of rural road projects should be based
on the reduction of vehicle operating costs, considering both normal and
generated traffic.
2.    Social and other indirect benefits could also be taken into account within a
socioeconomic framework of analysis.
3.    Traffic data, through periodic monitoring, is an essential element in the
evaluation of rural roads, since traffic is the most direct indicator of
socioeconomic activities stemming from regional development.
4.    Roads' technical design characteristics should be reviewed to ensure that they are
flexible to meet the specific conditions of the regions where they are located.
During Plenary discussions, the following points were also mentioned:
5.    Environmental impact and mitigating measures should be considered early in the
planning and design of rural roads.
6.    A cluster approach to rural road investments, in the context of local regional
development plans. is recommended to improve the probability of financing
satisfactory projects.
7.    Beneficiaries, including those in the private sector, should be made part of the
planning, implementation and maintenance of rural roads.
8.    The avoidance of road closures resulting from improving rural roads appears as
an important benefit, the quantification of which would warrant research.



48
Annex I
B. PRESENTATION BY ING. MARIA DAS GRACAS, STATE OF BAHIA
FEEDER ROADS: THE EXPERIENCE OF THE STATE OF BAHIA
The State of Bahia assigns a high value to feeder roads as it considers that such roads are
an important factor of economic growth. In this context, in addition to isolated activities related
to individual road sections connecting productive areas with the main road network, the State of
Bahia in the recent past carried out programs (of feeder roads) specifically targeted to areas with
agricultural potential. The most important of these programs focused on:
-     The coffee and dairy regions;
-     The dairy and cocoa regions;
-     The Jaguaquara region;
-     The Paraguaqu region;
-     The Ribeira do Pombal region.
In the context of the IBRD/BNDS/DNER programs, the coffee and dairy (FR-I) and the
cocoa and dairy (FR-Il) regions were covered.
These regions have a population of about 3.0 million people, representing about 25
percent of the State's population. Population-wise, the regions account for the following
percentages: coffee region, 38 percent; cocoa region: 48 percent; dairy region: 14 percent.
These projects were implemented between 1979 and 1985; they consisted of 69 roads
with a total length of about 1576 km.
In preparation for these projects, work included identification of the main production
center, analysis of the road network. and potential location of distribution centers. The analysis
considered the economic development poles of the productive areas, and led to the identification
of the roads to be proposed for new construction or for improvement.
The economic methodology for these studies followed, in general terms, the convention
of quantifying costs and benefits. Benefits considered included both the value added and the
transport costs, in accordance with BBD'sI manual for feeder roads.
An important aspect of the studies was the adoption of appropriate technical
specifications, in the understanding that for a feeder road to be economically feasible, it must
have limited construction and maintenance costs, taking into account the traffic expected to flow
on it. On the other hand, roads built with low construction costs, when located in rainy areas, are
likely to have high maintenance costs. Since feeder roads normally do not have a satisfactory
maintenance structure, it is likely that such roads will deteriorate over time.
INot explained in the original report.



49
Annex I
Results
A realistic evaluation shows that, on average, the results of the feeder roads programs
were satisfactory. Among the positive points, it is worth noting: (i) consolidation of the
economy in the areas covered by the programs; (ii) establishment of municipalities, in areas
where prior to the road improvements they were just subdivisions of other municipalities; (iii)
some roads in the coffee and dairy regions had a substantial traffic growth that justified their
inclusion in the PRE and main arteries; and (iv) substantial improvements in access to education,
health, energy, water and rural extension services. On the negative side, the main issue are the
road sections of short economic life, whether due to poor quality construction or to inadequate
maintenance. A great challenge for road administrators is setting up adequate institutional
arrangements for the management of the feeder road network. Due to their nature, technical and
operating characteristics, length and type and level of traffic, local roads - most commonly
called feeder roads - typically are municipal roads.
Over the last decades, only very few municipalities had the technical and financial
resources to design, construct, maintain and operate these roads. Therefore, roads that should
have been under the municipal governments had to receive support from the State. In order to
advise the State, the Intermunicipal Road Consortium was created, a mixed-economy enterprise
comprising the State, the municipality as well as private enterprises. The consortium currently is
under liquidation, with its functions being transferred to DERBA.
The tax reform currently in force provides a better allocation of resources among the
federal, state and municipal governments. In the meantime, the vast majority of the
municipalities lack the technical and operational capacity to build and maintain the roads, and to
prepare financing plans. In this context, it is likely that the management of feeder roads will be
reviewed in the near future, with a view to improving coordination between the state and the
municipal authorities.
Technical Specifications
In revisiting the feeder roads programs, in addition to the political-institutional
dimension, it is imperative to review the technical specifications and norms, taking into account
that its main role is that of providing access, not mobility. It is evident that a dirt or gravel road
cannot provide the same level of service as a trunk or arterial highway. Similarly, a wooden
bridge cannot bear the weight of heavy vehicles. For these reasons, the technical specifications
of feeder roads should be revised. It is essential that such roads remain passable 365 days per
year, without interruption that hinder the flow of production. Similarly, the terms of reference for
the preparation of feasibility studies for such roads should also be revised. In particular, the
economic indicators should be perhaps more modest than those that apply to larger investments
in the transport sector. At the same time, the teams preparing such studies should be given more
flexibility in the choice of models they use for economic analysis, including the possible use of
social indicators when properly justified. To achieve such objectives, the State of Bahia should
take into account its own experience, as well as the experience of other states and of other
countries. In addition, the availability of storage facilities should be considered in such studies as
transport and storage are complementary.



50
Annex I
Final Considerations
The State of Bahia has a positive experience regarding feeder roads through the Road
Consortium. The programs involved regions with large differences in climate and orography,
and carrying out close to 12,000 km of feeder roads.
In this light, we would like to make the following suggestions:
1. It is important to establish, within the state organization, agencies that can advise
municipalities to meet the planning and building requirements of financial sources;
2. More studies and research should be conducted regarding technical alternative
designs for low-cost feeder roads;
3. Given the importance of roads within integrated development programs, the cost of
the roads should be included as part of those programs;
4. It is imperative to set up better mechanisms for the maintenance of feeder roads, for
example, through mechanized brigades.



51
Annex 2
COMMENTS RECEIVED FROM THE BORROWER
PRESIDENCY OF THE REPUBLIC
SECRETARIAT FOR PLANNING, BUDGET, AND COORDINATION
SECRETARIAT FOR INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
FAX No. 3711/94                                         BRASILIA, Oct. 10, 1994
TO:   Mr. YVES ALBOUY
Chief of Infranstructure and Energy Division
Operations Evaluations Department - OEDD 3 - World bank
FAX No. 202-522-3125
FROM: Roberto Bastos Carreiro
Coordinator of Performance Evaluation
SEAIN/SEPLAN-PR
FAX No. (061) 225-4022
No. OF PAGES:               II            OBS: fn case of bad transmissions
(including cover)    please call (061) 225-7185
Re:   Brazil - Feeder Roads in Bahia - Impact Evaluation Report
Dear Sir:
Responding to the fax of Oct. 24, 1994, attached please find a copy of the comments on
the above-mentioned report made by the Government of the State of Bahia and by the Ministry
of Transportation, through the National Highway Department (DNER) and the Brazilian
Transport Planning Company (GEIPOT).
Despite the delay in forwarding these, due to a change in the chief of this coordination
office, I would appreciate your understanding in receiving these comments, which I hope are still
timely.
I take this opportunity to express my esteem and consideration.
Sincerely,
[signature]
ROBERTO BASTOS CARREIRO



52
Annex 2
IMPACT EVALUATION REPORT OF FEEDER ROADS IN BAHIA
(SEAIN OFFICIAL DOCUMENT No. 40:/94)
Comments by the National Highway Department (DNER)
1.    The following comments are based on an analysis of the Report prepared by the Institute
for Society, Population and Nature (ISPN) and put in final form by the Operations
Evaluation Department of the World Bank in English, without taking into consideration
any other local information or opinions about the benefits of the feeder roads.
2.    It would be useful for SEAIN to provide a centralized translation into Portuguese of this
type of report before distributing it. It is assumed that this translation would be easier
for the SEAIN in view of the number of its technical staff with international experience,
and the suggestion is aimed at avoiding duplication of effort and/or interpretations.
3 .    The conclusions of the report cast many doubts on the success of this Program, for the
following reasons:
Because of the criteria adopted in the original analyses, the results fell short of the forecasts, as
follows.
-     Internal Rate of Return     Forecast      Actual
Coffee Region              48%           4% to 7%
Cocoa Region               20%           -2% to -5%
Dairy Region               23%           6% to 12%
(p. vii of the Executive Summary)
-     Traffic
Tables 3.2 (p. 9) and 5.3 (p. 28) indicate that the volumes of traffic observed are generally less
than the projections for Year 10, and in some cases are less than in the baseline year. It is
assumed that the traffic would be the definitive sign of success, as it represents socioeconomic
development.
a) The standard of living worsened (paragraph 4.64 of the Report) beginning in the 1 980s, and
emigration ensued. on the environment apparently were not very favorable (paragraph 26, p.
b) The impacts vii of the Executive Summary).
c) Maintenance of the roads is inadequate (paragraph 3.15).
d) Despite all this, the Report ends up supporting projects of this kind since feeder roads have a
great potential to support economic and social conditions in poor rural areas (paragraph 37 of
the Executive Summary). For example, mention is
e) made of electricity, but by including this service as a benefit of a feeder road, one would also
have to discount the cost of the towers and transmission lines.
f) The report recommends including parameters for measuring the social impact in feasibility
studies, ex-post evaluations, and impact evaluations, considering that "the original analyses
place much emphasis on economic results, and little emphasis on social outcomes."
(Paragraph 38 of the Executive Summary).



53
Annex 2
4.    light of the foregoing, it would be useful for the group in charge of the study in question
[i] to try to include in more quantified form the social benefits of the 20 roads analyzed, [ii] to
make specific suggestions on the methodology based on one of the three objectives of the study
(paragraph 3 of the Executive Summary, which says: "to provide methodological insights for
similar evaluations of the impact of feeder roads."
S.    In particular, it is suggested that the ISPN/World Bank include in the Final Report:
a)  More specific information on the social impacts and specific methodological
suggestions. This information would contribute to developing a new evaluation
methodology.
b)  Standardization of Tables 5.1 and 5.2 on pp. 25 and 26 so as to include information
on coffee and cocoa for 1979 (baseline year), 1985 (year development peaked), and
1992. (In the draft document analyzed, Table 5.1 offers data on coffee in 1979 and
1992, while the data on cocoa are for 1985 and 1992). A similar table should be
included on dairy production.
c)  Some additional explanations are also in order:
-  For example, in the case of coffee, based on figure 3 on p. 11 (a), it appears
that the production of coffee in the state of Bahia increased from some
60,000 tons in 1979 to 118,000 tons in 1990 (97 percent increase), though
according to Table 5.1, in the region benefited by the feeder roads
production fell from 58,700 arrobas in 1979 to 42,000 arrobas in 1992 (28
percent decrease). Could it be that the feeder roads do not even allow the
regions that are relatively better off with respect to the rest of the state to
maintain their status?
-  In the case of cocoa, on June 6 of this year the price indicated in the "Gazeta
Mercantil" for cocoa contracts for September deliveries at the New York
Exchange was US$1,390 per ton, considerably more than the figure cited in
paragraph 4.26 of the Report (US$800 in July 1993). Could it be that cocoa
prices have recovered in the last 12 months?
d)    At the very least, available data on the production of other crops in the
municipalities analyzed (even without the historical series), in an effort to give
an idea as to whether there are many important products that have already
replaced coffee and cocoa, which have been in crisis. For example, in some
parts of the state major strides were made with soybean cultivatio
6.    The production of milk and coffee (two of the three predominant products in the regions
under study) is quite common in several different parts of Brazil. Therefore, in view of the
importance of this matter, which involves millions of U.S. dollars in investments, it is suggested



54
Annex 2
that the analysis be performed in another region of Brazil that benefits from feeder road
programs.
7.     In a new analysis, it would be interesting to try to consider, in greater depth, what other
complementary measures are essential for programs of this sort (special agricultural loans,
agrarian reform, irrigation projects, etc.) to improve the success of this type of project.



55
Annex 2
GEIPOT
BRAZILIAN TRANSPORT PLANNING COMPANY
[LINE WITH ADDRESS/PHONE/TELEX/FAX, NOT ALL LEGIBLE]
NOTE
Re: Considerations on the "Impact Evaluation Report on Feeder Roads in Bahia - May 1994"
The Report under study sets out to achieve the following objectives:
* to analyze the economic, social, and environmental impact of the Feeder Roads
Program;
* to identify the implications in regard to these aspects, with a view to formulating a
policy for financing feeder roads; and,
* to propose methods of evaluating impacts related to these factors.
Considerations:
I.    The document does not indicate, up front, the methods that were used to evaluate the
impacts, so its analysis is totally undermined in that it does not present any
methodological procedure, indeed it does not even state the parameters used in the
document's analysis.
2.    The analysis presented was superficial; as a result it merely communicates facts such as:
"jobs multiplied"; ...
"there were improvements in education";
"commercial activity intensified"; ...
"facilitating access to social services," etc. This information lacks quantitative data that
could facilitate ex-ante and ex-post analysis.
3.    The text of the Report says that the work teams traveled 17,000 km to collect data. One
wonders: Why weren't those data processed and the results presented?
4.     The text also says that this impact evaluation, done 10 years after the roads were built, is
weakened by the economic crisis affecting the country; in order to obtain good results,
an intermediate evaluation should have been planned five years after the investments
were made.
5.    The Report suggests that "the analyses of future projects should include, either ex-ante
or ex-post, research on the full gamut of social outcomes." One wonders: During the



56
Annex 2
planning of the work to assess the impacts produced in the region by the roads as part of
the Program, were there no plans for collecting all the information on the social aspects?
It should also be noted that in 1975 the GEIPOT was beginning the Feeder Roads
Research project that resulted from the agreement signed by the Planning Secretariat,
Office of the Presidency, and the Ministry of Transportation (MT).
In 1977, the Company published "Rodovias Vicinais - Criterios de Planejamento"
("Feeder Roads: Planning Criteria"); that same year work began in the area of "Research
on the Impacts of Feeder Roads," whose final results were published in 1982 (complete
collection, in the annex).
Since implementation of the feeder roads of the Program was begun in 1979, according
to the Report, and as both programs were financed by the World Bank, one wonders:
Why was a joint effort not made?
6.   To undertake an impact evaluation on feeder roads, plans must be made to collect a
series of items of information (some listed below) which, in an ex-ante and ex-post
analysis, yield comparative data through which innumerable important conclusions can
be drawn regarding the impact of building a road in a given region:
7.     - population of the road's area of influence;
- access to education (No. of students);
= population per physician, dentist, hospital bed;
* technological level of agriculture;
* population's income;
- number of jobs generated;
- access to public services, banks, leisure, etc.
Conclusion:
As we understand that the Report is preliminary, and given that it appears that field data
were collected that make possible quantification of the impact of these roads, we suggest the
document be reworked with an explanation of the methodology used in the analysis, so that it
may serve as a basis for a process of evaluating feeder roads and also for formulating a policy for
their financing.
DEPRO



57
Annex 2
GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OF BAHIA SECRETARIAT FOR ENERGY,
TRANSPORTATION, AND COMMUNICATION, TRANSPORTATION
COORDINATION
FEEDER ROADS IN BAHIA
INTRODUCTION
These comments are on the document "Impact Evaluation Report - Brazil - Feeder Roads
in Bahia," prepared by the World Bank.
This document refers to Programs FR I and FR 11, which were executed by the
Government of the State of Bahia, and encompassing the COFFEE, DAIRY, COCOA, and
PARAGUAQU regions.
The State of Bahia is pleased to have participated in all the Programs, as it is the only
state of the Northeast that participated in FR 1, and especially because it is the subject of this
first evaluation by the World Bank of the program Feeder Roads in Brazil.
It is important to highlight the validity of this type of work, even with all the
shortcomings inherent in any pioneer effort; no doubt it will come to constitute an important
opportunity for new and improved evaluations of investments in feeder roads.
The consultants in charge of preparing this ex-post evaluation visited the offices of the
Government of the State of Bahia responsible for the preparation and execution of the studies
and works, having received from them, in a timely fashion, all the information requested.
SPECIFIC COMMENTS ON THE DOCUMENT PRESENTED
Since the evaluation report was presented in English, which is a significant obstacle to
clearly understanding it in its entirety, a detailed translation was made of the introductory
chapters and the main observations and recommendations (chapter 7). These comments are
based primarily on these two parts. The other parts of the evaluation report were simply read
and used to round out understanding of any points that were not clear in the translation.
Following are the comments and/or clarifications deemed necessary.
I.    The total amount invested in Bahia under FR I and II was US$74 million, with
US$51.5 million in external financing and US$22.5 million in counterpart
financing from the State.
2.    All the roads included in the programs were given a ballasted surface, contrary
to what is indicated in item 12 of the introduction.



58
Annex 2
I .    bThe entire network was absorbed by the DERBA for maintenance purposes.
Nonetheless, due to difficulties in obtaining resources for roads, a problem found
in all states of Brazil and the federal government, the DERBA was not in a
position to perform all desirable maintenance services over these years. Some
sections, of priority interest to private persons and municipalities, were
maintained by a partnership between DERBA and said persons.
2.     For reasons having to do with methodological criteria adopted by the ISPN, the
evaluation of the impacts in the coffee region did not take into consideration the
benefit resulting from increased production of other crops, preferring instead to
adopt the same system used in the ex-ante feasibility study, which led to very
low figures for internal rate of return. As is reflected in the report itself, had this
had taken into account the diversification of crops, the results of the evaluation
certainly would have been quite different.
3.    The comment made in para. 31 of the introduction is not correct, as can be
verified in table 3.2 of this study. The information refers to just one section,
without considering the other results obtained and the comments made under
paras. 3.9 and 3.10 of the same evaluation report.
4.    In relation to paras. 33 and 34 of the introduction, it should be noted that:
-     The studies were done abiding strictly by the provisions of the manuals
for the FR I and FR II programs;
-     The data used in these studies were obtained from field research, official
information from plans and goals of Federal Government agencies (IBC
and CEPLAC), and State government agencies (Group for the
Eradication of Foot-and-Mouth Disease - GERFAB), and from dairy
industries and cooperatives in the rezion.
-     All the stages of the study were monitored and audited rigorously by the
technical staff of the BNDES, the World Bank, and DNER, who also
participated in selecting the sections of roads to be financed.
-     Therefore, the comments on the lack of reliability of the materials and
lack of critical perspective on the data in the Feasibility Study are
unjustified.
FINAL CONSIDERATIONS
This report satisfactorily met its objectives, which are:
-     to analyze the socioeconomic impacts of the FR I and FR II loans;
-     to present the implications of these analyses in the formulation and
implementation of lending policies; and,
-     to make a methodological contribution for similar evaluations of the impact of
feeder roads.



59
Annex 2
The analysis in the report finds that feeder roads perform a very important social
function, which leads the state government to recommend that greater attention be paid to the
social dimensions, without prejudice to the economic dimension.
Another issue that should be highlighted has to do with maintenance of the feeder roads.
Under the tax policy now in force there has been an impoverishment of Brazilian municipal
governments, especially in the Northeast. Bahia has 415 municipalities; approximately 95%
have no means of maintaining their road network. Such work may be done by the state
government. Only with tax reform and a return to financial autonomy will these municipalities
be in a position to maintain their road networks.
The lack of financing for feeder roads in recent years left a major gap in this sector,
given that, as was noted above, most of the municipalities are not in good financial shape, which
to some extent overburdens the states as they provide services to the municipalities. In the
specific case of Bahia, in the last 3 (three) years more than 40,000 km of municipal roads were
maintained. In this context, the State of Bahia regards as auspicious the decision of financial
agencies to analyze once again the question of feeder roads, examining their most important
aspects from the social, economic, and financial points of view, in view of the chronic shortage
of resources for this sector, which is an important means of supporting the development of rural
areas. Their importance is brought into relief if one analyzes the results obtained in Bahia,
where some existing districts were boosted by the progress attained through the construction of
feeder roads.



60
ANNEX 2
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
(Translated from Portuguese original)
MiNISTRY OF PLANNING AND BUDGET
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS SECRETARIAT
Brasilia, June 9, 1997
FAX # 1549/97
TO:           Hernan Levy, Task Manager
Infrastructure and Energy Division
OED / World Bank
FROM:         Roberto Bastos Carreiro
Coordinator, Performance Evaluation
Dear Mr. Levy:
Following consultation with the agencies involved in the Feeder Roads Projects, we submit
our agreement with the contents of the Impact Evaluation Report prepared by OED, taking into
account its conclusions and recommendations, which may be of great value in the development of
new directives for the approval and execution of future sector projects in Brazil.
Sincerely yours,
(signed)



61
Annex 3
DETAILS OF REGIONAL IMPACTS
THE COFFEE REGION
Economic Impact
1.    Many factors and incentives, construction of feeder roads among them, contributed during
the first half of the 1980s to a significant expansion of coffee-producing areas in the region. The
roads facilitated the inflow of inputs and manpower as well as the outflow of produce during the
days when coffee was a viable business. Meanwhile, commercial activity was greatly intensified in
the urban areas. These changes generated a demand for labor, which in turn caused important
demographic growth.
2.     However, the adverse conditions bearing on the coffee sector from 1986 caused the virtual
abandonment of many coffee fields and bankruptcy. Only a few large companies attempted to
increase coffee productivity through irrigation and other modem inputs or to even keep up their
trees utilizing cheap labor. The coffee crisis consequently brought a reduction in municipal
income, in employment and, generally, in the local economy.
3.    In some areas, coffee was rapidly substituted by more diversified commercial agriculture,
cattle-raising and by subsistence agriculture. Several new and lucrative crops, including vegetables
and fruit, are being grown on land which only fifteen years earlier had been cleared to plant coffee.
After the introduction of coffee, the land set aside to such traditional crops as beans, manioc, corn
and sugar cane also expanded. Even large coffee plantations installed in the region are diversifying
into various other types of cash crops.
4.     The characteristics of soil, topography and climate in the coffee region favor the cultivation
of specialized or technically-demanding crops. Small farmers are successfully turning to vegetable
and fruit farming, whereas larger producers are increasingly switching to cattle and dairy farmning.
The extraction of minerals has also been profitably initiated in a part of this region. Parts of the
coffee region have adapted rapidly to post-boom conditions. The existence of feeder roads has
been a contributor to this relatively successful conversion.
Social Impact
5.    Inasmuch as they supported the coffee boom, feeder roads contributed to the creation of
jobs and income during its first years. At the time, population increased rapidly; later, growth
occurred only in the region's urban areas. Despite the economic decline, most people perceived a
clear improvement in their quality of life after road construction.
6.     The construction of feeder roads brought improvements in access to education, health and
electricity in the various communities, especially in the coffee region. Educational services were
expanded, new schools were built and both teachers and students commuted more easily to and
from the municipal seats. Medical and dental clinics were established and rural people now have
access to them. Small-scale producers, during the boom, had easier access to extension services.



62
Annex 3
Electricity is now available in most towns and in the road's immediate vicinity; water supply has
also improved.
7.    Whether or not these benefits persisted in a given sub-region, or would have occurred even
without the feeder roads projects, depend a great deal on its capacity to adapt when the (coffee)
boom ended. Rural population decreased in all sub-regions; migration to the cities and rapid urban
growth is commonplace. Some of the social benefits produced by the roads were, at least
temporarily, negated by the decline of the coffee; employment decreased and out-migration was
common. In others, new sources of economic dynamism stabilized population; the reduction in the
demand for manpower was offset by the diversity of the region's economic base. In some cases the
diversification did not help, for instance, the switch from coffee to cattle ranching was, predictably,
disastrous in terms of employment generation.
8.     This situation obviously generates an ambiguous image of the final results of road
construction. It is difficult to separate economic cycles from social impacts. The roads,
nevertheless, had social consequences which go beyond the recent economic crisis. Improvements
in access to educational and health facilities, as well as in access to other social amenities,
transcend the effects of the crisis.
Environmental Impact
9.     The original vegetation in much of the Chapada Diamantina was significantly altered as a
result of the introduction of coffee cultivation. The feeder roads were a factor in the substitution of
the original vegetation with coffee trees and, later, with pasture. Traditional slash and burn
techniques were used to clear the area. With the downfall of coffee prices, timber is being extracted
and sold in the state capital (Salvador), or it is being transformed into charcoal. This has become an
important source of income for people who have lost their livelihood. Several valuable tree species
have been indiscriminately destroyed.
10.    Deforestation provoked alterations in the ecosystem, erosion on hillsides and siltation of
creeks, thus reducing water availability and affecting the local fauna. Chemical inputs were
improperly applied and many workers, particularly women, were harmed while manipulating them.
11.   It would be inappropriate, however, to attribute negative environmental consequences
predominantly to road-building alone. Most forms of environmental degradation derived from the
increase in economic activity which the road stimulated. Many of these effects might have been
reduced by a combination of environmental awareness and careful planning. However,
environmental awareness was still very incipient at the time the roads were built. It is probable that
the long-term effects would have been less devastating had the prosperity generated by coffee
persisted.



63
Annex 3
THE COCOA REGION
Economic Impact
12.    The areas of influence of feeder roads in the cocoa region went through the clearly-
demarcated prosperity and decline cycle, essentially reflecting the market demand and prices for
cocoa. Cocoa crops were transported by mule or canoe prior to road construction. The roads thus
produced a radical change in the journey to market, which previously could take up to a few days,
to a few hours. Moreover, they helped promote the first incursions of modernization in a
conservative social and economic structure.
13.    Traditional cocoa producers found it difficult to adapt to the current circumstances. The
characteristics of the soil and terrain, the traditional reticence towards diversification and the
conditions of the social structure all made change difficult. After the cocoa crisis, timber extraction
constituted one of the most dynamic economic activities in the region; the roads made it possible to
extract timber on a commercial scale. Cattle-raising is also being adopted sporadically. Production
of bananas, manioc and other crops is increasing.
14.    Part of the difficulty in generating complementary sources of sustainable agricultural
activity in the Cocoa Region stems from its physical habitat. Cocoa is generally cultivated in
rugged terrain, unsuitable to other forms of agriculture. Part is due also to the socio-cultural
framework of cocoa monoculture, in which the "easy riches" traditionally generated by this crop
have long deterred other types of agricultural initiatives.
15.    Altogether, improved roads were insufficient to resolve the region's grave structural and
circumstantial problems. However, without the roads, the situation would likely have been much
worse.
Social Impact
16.    Construction of feeder roads in the cocoa region had social consequences similar to those
in the Coffee Region. Actually, given the higher population density and the greater isolation of the
Cocoa Region, due to the nature of the terrain, the positive impact was even more meaningful here.
Traditionally, cocoa plantations paid low daily wages and generally ignored existing legislation
protecting workers. The adoption of more modem organizational practices visible in some regions
are, at least in part, attributable to the change in mentality of both workers and employers.
Increased communication with the outside world is an important source of such change; the
construction of (mostly) all-weather roads in previously isolated regions was an important
contributory factor in this process.
17.    Nevertheless, the crisis had an even greater impact here due to the incapacity of cocoa
producers to generate adequate alternatives. Cocoa production is, like that of coffee, labor-
intensive. Hence, a sustained, large-scale crisis brings widespread difficulties. Employment has



64
Annex 3
declined significantly; meanwhile, cocoa producers complain that legal wages are impracticable.
Available jobs tend to be poorly remunerated. There has been heavy migration to the periphery of
the municipal seats. The increase in ranching activities is contributing to the large-scale rural
exodus. The period 1991-93 witnessed particularly intense migratory movements, according to
local respondents. Cocoa prices recovered somewhat after hitting a low peak in 1993.
18.    Educational facilities and quality improved with the arrival of school teachers who,
without the road, might not have accepted work in this isolated area. Children also can travel to
school much more easily. The same impact is evident in the domain of health; patients can now be
transported rapidly to hospitals in nearby towns and cities. Electricity now is provided to the
hamlets and villages of the region.
Environmental Impact
19.    Traditionally, deforestation was not a major problem in the prosperous cocoa-producing
regions since the cocoa trees blend into the surrounding forest. However, timber extraction is now
being carried out in earnest and with devastating effects for the remaining coastal rainforest (Mata
Atlantica). There appears to be little effort at rationalizing this extraction or at preventing
wholesale damage. The rainforest is also being invaded by would-be small farmers, and larger
landowners are allegedly burning the forest to discourage this.
20.    The flow of heavy vehicles has caused erosion of the roadbed. This is basically due to
traffic of cattle and timber trucks, as well as cocoa transport during harvest season. The roads in
the region show signs of erosion in various segments.
THE DAIRY REGION
Economic Impact
21.    The dairy products which originate in the feeder roads areas are transported to Salvador,
Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, via Vit6ria da Conquista. Evidently, the type and magnitude of
production involved cannot be handled by mule trains orjeeps. Refrigerated trucks, specialized
equipment and heavy machinery are all part of this scenario.
22.    The feeder roads were thus an essential condition for the transformation of this region into
a nationally-significant and prosperous economic zone. Nevertheless, this nucleus of activities
never did grow in accordance with expectations. Although the problems of the local dairy industry
did not reach the same proportions as those experienced in coffee and cocoa, the crisis seriously
endangered the fulfillment of the region's economic potential. The bottom line probably is that,
without better prices for dairy products, no amount of indirect incentives can fully take up the slack.
23.    Other types of economic activity are attempting to expand. Graphite-extraction is one of
these ventures. The production of basic foodstuffs, however, has decreased in the region. Small



65
Annex 3
farmers do not seem to be motivated to produce for the local markets, claiming that the local
population prefers food produced and packaged outside the region. Some farmers are turning to the
production of sugar cane for distillation of cacha9a (sugar cane alcohol).
Social Impact
24.    Historically, cattle raising and commercial-scale dairy farming do not require large
numbers of workers. Hence, investments in this region generated less jobs than did those in coffee
and cocoa. Migrants never arrived in large numbers to the region, even during the period when
expectations of future economic dynamism were high. By the same token, out-migration has not
been massive, although demographic data in the 1980s do show a reduction in rural population and
an increase of urban population.
25.    Job opportunities in the region are scarce. The new graphite factory does not provide
much direct or indirect employment. Employers and potential employees complain about the labor
legislation which deters them from hiring cheap labor or from entering into long-termn share-
cropping contracts involving permanent crops.
26.    The main social advance witnessed in the period since construction of the feeder roads
appears to be improvement in transport and health services. Local authorities set up public health
clinics. Meanwhile, bus lines between local communities were installed. This also facilitated the
transport of school teachers and the improvement of educational quality in the region.
27.    Overall, the expansion of dairy production associated with feeder roads in the dairy region
does not seem to have fulfilled expectations of significant economic and social improvements. One
reason for this -in addition to the obvious and possibly overwhelming effects of the economic
crisis- might be that dairy products do not generate taxes for the municipalities in which production
is generated, but rather where it is consumed. Consequently, milk production is not directly
associated with increased public spending in the region.
Environmental Impact
28.    Land-extensive cattle-raising and dairy production usually involve deforestation for
purposes of seeding pasture. In the present instance, this had already happened before the feeder
roads were built. Graphite mining is a potential threat to the environment which has arisen since
the roads were built.
THE PARAGUA4U REGION
Economic Impact
29.    Prior to FR I and 11, local communities were much dependent on mining activities.
Diamond extraction was a major source ofjobs and revenue. The construction of feeder roads
brought coffee trees, and the development of this activity replicates that of the coffee region.



66
Annex 3
30.    Other crops such as sugar cane, beans and garlic, as well as subsistence agriculture also
benefited from improvements of the original precarious roads. Agricultural production became
more diversified. Modem entrepreneurs now have a strong role in the region. Moreover, more
modem production techniques and machinery are being used. Overall, agricultural employment,
both in the primary sector (irrigated production) and in the secondary sector (commerce) has been
on the increase. Potatoes are one main crop and one in which productivity is high. They are
commercialized in Vitoria da Conquista, and most of the production is bought by firms from the
modem sector.
31.    Diamond extraction is still an important source of employment and revenue. However,
since the rocks are commercialized and polished elsewhere, little profit remains in the community.
It is difficult to perceive what concrete impact the road had on this activity.
Social Impact
32.    The two roads studied in the Paragua,u region facilitated both in- and out-migration. A
number of small farmers installed themselves in the region during recent years and are practicing
more modem forms of commercial agriculture. Nevertheless, local residents mention massive out-
migration; indeed, urban areas are growing some four times faster than the rural areas.
Unemployment is high in those sections of the municipalities which were most affected by the
coffee boom and decline, particularly where a suitable substitute for coffee has not been found.
Regional, Commodity-Based Economic Analysis
33.    The Coffee Region. The economic conditions in Bahia's coffee region deteriorated
substantially from the 1980s to the 1990s. Production, productivity and market prices all
declined, by some 30 percent, except for a temporary recovery in prices in 1986. For several
years after completion of the roads, production costs exceeded market prices. This situation
contrasted with the expectations at the time of project appraisal, which foresaw increases in
output and stability in prices. On the other hand, the economy in those regions diversified, and
an analysis purely based on coffee production, as had been done at appraisal, would seriously
misrepresent the actual economic development that took place.



67
Annex 3
Figure: 1: Coffee Production in Brazil and Bahia, 1980-1996
4,500                                           Coffee[tons, ooosI Brail          180
4,000 --~~~~~~~~~~~~~0Cffetns 0s]Bh
:  4,000   _                   A             +CoffwE3M, 000 }       BahiaScale  _  60
3,500                                       X                                      140
~C3,000                                                                            120
a2,500                                                                              100
* '2,000                                                                             80
*01,500                                                                              60
1,000                                                                             -40
500                                                                               20
o                                                                             0 '  '    O (  - C  ) 0 - (  '  2  n C
co    c   o  co  OD    OC  co  0o   0o  0o   a)  0)   0)  a)   0)  a)   a)
Ind   n    fitrst7 fe                                 ( a)         1992 at) t
34.    The table below shows the drop in net income to producing coffee.
Table 1 Income from Coffee - Coffee Region Site (Values in 1992 US$)
Indicators                                           1979 (a)          1992 (b~)
Cultivated Area (ha)                                 5,870               6,000
Productivity (sacks/ha)                              10.0                7.0
Production (arrobas)                                 58,700              42,0002
Surplus (sacks)                                      58,700              42,000
Average Price (US$/sack)                             92.4                58.8
Unitary Cost (US$/sack)                              81.8                50.0
Income Generated (US$)                               622,220             387,000
Source: (a) Plano de rodovias alimentadoras da regiao cafeteira. Op. cit. (b) ISPN, Field Research, July 1993.
35.    The Cocoa Region. The main event was the devastating collapse in cocoa prices, which
fell more than 50 percent in current US dollars (and even more in constant dollars) between the
early 1980s when the roads were built and the time of this study. In parallel, the cocoa margin-
the difference between unit cocoa prices and cocoa production costs-shrunk by some 90 percent
(Table 2). In one road site area analyzed in this study, productivity remained unchanged and
production increased by some 53 percent between the date of road completion and the date of the
impact evaluation. However, cocoa production overall in Bahia was lower in 1993 and 1996
than during the 1980s and early 1990s. The cocoa area showed fewer signs of significant
agricultural diversification than the coffee region. In any case, as explained above,
diversification was not amenable to quantification.
2 The evolution of coffee production from 1979 to 1990/92 was different for the IE site studied (Table 5.1)
and Bahia as a whole (Figure 3).  The IE did not analyze the reasons for and implications of the
difference.



68
Annex 3
Fig. 2 Cocoa Production in Brazil and Bahia, 1980 - 1996
500                                                            __._-_400
4r---- Cocoaltons,OOOsJ B-iia350
450                                                                       3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50
!. 250                                                            20 Cocoa[tons,000s1Bahia 3
420015
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0
3 50
3 00
*                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50;
5    0    -    %   C                       0                                                     5- ('   C [   U)   C 0
o _    na        n( 
C       cX   c a:          L o   CD Co   CO cO   a)   CD   cn   cD   CD   am  co
co      co co ax        co co co ca              0C    D   CD   aD D) a) M        D C 
FTBGE (i980-92) Brazilian Statistics Yearbooks. FlBGE Municipal Daiiy Production, FIBGE Monthly Milk Survey (1995-96); FAO Production Year
book: Note: 1996 figures are projected based on first five month's output.
Table 2. Income from Cocoa - Cocoa Region Site (Values in 1992 US$)3
Indicators                                                     1985 (a)          1992 (b)
Cultivated Area (ha)                                           807                1,200
Productivity (arrobas/ha)                                      39.0              40.0
Production (arrobas)                                           31,473            48,000
Surplus (arrobas)                                              31,473            48,000
Average Price (US$/arroba)                                     38.9               10.5
Unitary Cost (US$/arroba)                                      10.7              7.4
Income Generated (US$)                                         887,539            148,800
Source: (a) Plano de rodovias alimentadoras da regiao cafeteira; and IBGE - Anuirio Estatistico. (b) ISPN, Field
Research, July 1993.
36.      Dairy Region. Economic conditions in this region followed the pattern of the cocoa and
coffee regions. Production of milk during the 1980s and early 1990s was some 20-60 percent
higher than the 1993 and 1996 levels.
Tables 5.1 and 5.2 were not standardized to show identical baseline years because the coffee and cocoa
analyses refer to different scenarios. The coffee road was constructed in 1979, and the cocoa road in
1985/86.



69
Annex 3
Fj  3: Milk Production in Brazil and Bahia, 1980-1996
16,000                                                                                                                900
14,000               M ilk [liters, 000s] Brazil                                                      BahiaScate      800
-,12,000  -        4-M ilk [liters, 0s Bahia                                                                            700
PA                                                                     A                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~600
o 10,000
o rH e q uL                                                  eD s a) 500
S.8,00040
6,00030
4,000                                                                                                                200
2,000                                                                                                                1oo
O      -    C'14   CO)   L-     O    CD   t-      ~      O -    CD         '.JC1   Cm    '     U*    i  CD
oo    co2          CC    CD   0c    CC)   02   0o    00    0         0      a)    a)    0)    0)    0
0)    0     0)    0)    0)    0>)   0)    0)    C)    0)    C)    O)    0         0) 0r  )    a)    a)
FIBGE (lS0-92) Brazilian Statistics Yearbooks. FIBGE Municipal Dairv Production, FIBGE Monthly Milk Survey (l995-96); FAO Prod-iction Year
book, Note: 1996 figures are projected based on first five month's output.



I



71
Annex 4
DETAILS OF THE ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
OVERVIEW
I.     A typical evaluation to assess the economic rate of return entails three basic steps:
I.     The initial cost of the investment ($C) is determined which represents the actual
cost at the start of a project/investment and its life span, in years (n).
II.    A stream of annual benefits/savings for the project's life is assessed along with
maintenance costs and, if applicable, a salvage value.
111.   a.      Internal (Economic) Rate Qf Return: is the rate at which the discounted
present value of the stream of benefits/savings sums to the initial
cost/investment, i.e., $C = Zni {Bk [1 + ilk } ; k = I,n.
b.     Benefit-Cost Ratio: Instead of estimating the rate at which these two
streams are equated (costs and benefits), a pre-determined discount rate is used
to assess whether the project's benefits exceed the costs, i.e., whether the project
is profitable.
In this study, III.b rather than III.a was followed, as explained in Chapter 4 of this report.
ANALYSIS
2.     Assessment of Costs: he cost of each road includes construction and maintenance costs
(assessed as 3% of construction costs, annually). In the analysis, the road construction cost is
converted to an annualized cost, using a 10% discount rate.
3.     Assessment of Benefits: Rural road improvements benefit the agricultural areas, and may
help trigger: (i) increases in produce output, (ii) development of new areas for cultivation, (iii) a
change in composition from low value cereals to perishable but high value agricultural produce
(iv) higher value added of products, (v) use of more efficient inputs, and (vi) lower vehicle
operating costs (VOCs). It is conjectured that increase in all or any of those activities including
other rural and social impacts, must be reflected through traffic patterns with benefits linked
directly to lower VOCs. In part, this benefit stems from the improved road that remains open
throughout the year whereas the old road might have been impassable previously, due to bad
weather. There are several measures of such benefits:
a. lower VOCs to normal traffic, "without" the improvements
b. lower VOCs to generated traffic due to reasons cited above
c. lower VOCs due to avoidance of road closure



72
Annex 4
A detailed analysis of these is given below.
Figure 1: Computation of Vehicle Operating Costs based on Average Daily Traffic
Benefits/ Costs $]         Transport Cost when roads are closed.
VOCm   .... .............. .........
Tw/0              Tw
[initial A DT adjusted to 96  [adjusted mean of
observed ADT of '93 &'96]
4.     The figure indicates two types of benefits that will be generated due to an improvement
or a construction of a road:
IV.   Average Daily Traffic (ADT) will rise, with a contribution to/and facilitating
economic activity of the road's influence area, whether it is dairy farming, cocoa
or coffee cultivation or marketing
V.   Vehicle Operating Costs (VOC) will be lower for the current and generated
traffic.
VI.  In addition, other social benefits would also rise such as access to markets, social
services, educational centers and other rural development activities. These
benefits are considered as intangible and have not been quantified in this study.
Step One: The Basic Computation
A.    The benefits derived by existing traffic are equivalent to the area of the rectangle
marked as "VOCw/o, VOCw, A, C. Thus, the benefits when roads are open is
the area of the rectangle:
B, = [VOCw/o - VOCw ] x Tw/o
B.    The savings due to generated traffic is equivalent to the area of the
triangle marked as "ABC". The benefits when roads are open, due to generated
traffic are indicated by the area of the triangle "ABC", however, the benefits are
treated as if derived from separate origins, i.e., when roads are open and close:
(a)         Bg = 0.5 x [VOCw,O - VOCw ] [Tw - Tw,0 ]; normal VOCs apply.
(b)         CBg = 0.5 x [VOCm - VOCw ] [Tw - T/o, ]; higher VOCs apply.



73
Annex 4
Step Two: Additional Benefits due to Avoidance of Road Closure
Suppose bad weather closes road for d days/annum prior to modernization; then the
commuters "with out" the modernization would have to make an extra effort to transport
goods and services, i.e., the cost would now be VOCm which is greater than VOCwj, and
VOCw. Initially, assuming that extra effort required would be m-times the average level
of effort, this benefit would be:
CBn = [d x m] x [VOCm - VOCw ] x Tw/o
Step Three: The sum of these three quantities would be the total of VOC savings:
Bn +B1  +cB. + cBn = [VOCw1o - VOCw] x T\/o
+ [VOCw/o - VOCw ] x [T., - TW,, ] x 0.5
+ [VOCm - VOCw ] x [Tw - T,/, ] x 0.5
+ [VOCm - VOCw ] x Tw/o x [d x m]
Step Four: The Benefit-Cost Ratio of an individual road would be the ratio of total benefits
and its annualized investment, $Ca:
Benefit-Cost Ratio = [0Bn + Bg + cBn  I /Ca.
5.      Traffic Counts
Two ex-post traffic counts were conducted in mid-I 993 and mid-1996 utilizing
conventional methodology (i.e., recording of simple, visual observations), supervised by
DERBA's engineers. All vehicles passing a selected check point on a given road site on week
days between 6:00 and 18:00 hrs. were counted and verified subject to prior experience, local
knowledge and comparisons with analogous investigations. These daily counts were checked
with local respondents for consistency. Subsequently, these figures were expanded to a reliable
"average daily traffic" (ADT) using expansion coefficients for 24-hour traffic, average weekly
traffic and average annual daily traffic, which were obtained from studies on similar roads
carried out by DERBA.4 Tables 1, 2 and 4 present the coefficients of conversion and observed
traffic counts for years 1993 and 1996. The coefficients of conversion converts the observed
traffic numbers to an annualized ADT, through a stepwise approach, say initially to a 24-hr.
average, then to a weekly average and finally an annual average. Table I shows the ADTs for
the sample which were obtained by multiplying the observed count by three periodic
coefficients, i.e.,
ADT of road RS.I  1.5 = 43 x 1.478 x 0.926 x 0.934 = 55.
4These expansions were based on linear extrapolations from the existing counting stations in the area of
influence of each of the roads under study. Seasonal data dates from 1979, but is the most complete
observation available for 24 hours and 365 days and is used by DERBA and DNER for traffic
expansion studies in Bahia to this day.



74
Annex 4
I.    The expansion coefficients based on counting stations on roads with greater
traffic but in the same economic region where seasonal traffic behavior tends to
be homogenous, considered as relatively reliable.
II.    The coefficient of expansion to extrapolate a 12-hr. count to a 24-hr. estimate
although it appears high it represents the best methodology available and is also
used by DERBA.
III.   These linear extrapolations had been used previously for similar studies
conducted (by DEBRA and DNER in Bahia) for the relevant area of influence
of the individual road and its counting station. Moreover, computed ADTs
(1996) were further verified by comparing with its forecast for 1993 and the
percentage deviations to analyze unusual variations.
Table 1: Conversion of Average Daily Traffic Using Expansion Coefficients per
Day/Week/Year
Region       Road         Type      Count   24 Hours   Week    Year  ADT '96
Coffee (north)    RS.I 1.5     S        43       1.478    0.926    0.934     55
Coffee (north)    RS 11.6     S         64       1.478    1.011    0.934     89
Coffee (south)   RS.02.1a     S         168      1.366    0.963    0.918     203
Coffee (south)    RS.02.1b     S        80       1.366    0.987    0.918     99
Coffee (south)    RS.01.2a    S         78       1.408    0.961    1.031     109
Coffee (south)    RS.01.2b     S        85       1.408    0.961    1.031     119
Coffee (south)    RS.01.1     S         129      1.408     1.02    0.955     177
Coffee           BA 148       S          0                                    0
(Paraguacu)
Coffee           BA 142       S         145      1.37     0.962    0.987     189
(Paraguacu)
Coffee (Jequie)   RS.05.8a    M         19       1.593    1.031    0.865     27
Coffee (Jequie)   RS.05.8b    M          4       1.593    1.031    0.926      6
Coffee (Jequie)   RS.06.6      S         6       1.593    1.019    0.926      9
Cocoa (north)     C90         S         64       1.25     0.993    1.075     85
Cocoa (north)     CIO         S         201      1.25     0.871    0.932     204
Cocoa (south)     C44         M         114      1.316    1.005    0.942     142
Cocoa (south)     C23         M         23       1.316    0.942    0.942     27
Dairy (south)     LlOa        M         108      1.408    0.957    1.031     150
Dairy (south)     LlOb        M         94       1.408    0.957    1.031     131
Dairy (south)     LlOc        M         102      1.408    0.957    1.031     142
Dairy (south)     LiOd        M         53       1.408    0.957    1.031     74
Note: ADT 1996 = Count x [Coeff.24-hrs] x [Coeff.week] x [Coeff.year]; M=Municipal, S=State
Road
Source: Complementary and Updating Evaluation Study; J. G. C. Rocha, Coordinator.



75
Annex 4
Table 2. Average Daily Traffic (ADT) for 20 road sites by Vehicle Type - 1993
Region      Road   Extension    C        P     B     LT   HT    T    OT  TOTAL
(km)
Coffee (north) RS.11.5     30.5      14    11      0      18    7    0    3        53
Coffee (north) RS 11.6     22.1      20    39      0     13    4    0    10        86
Coffee (south) RS.02.1a    17.1      60    56    4       23    8      1    8      160
Coffee (south) RS.02.1b     31       137    57     4     87    10    0    9       304
Coffee (south) RS.01.2a    22.4      67    23      9     41    4    0       1     145
Coffee (south) RS.01.2b    10.5      36     7      0      7     4    0    13       67
Coffee(south) RS.01.1      28.4      48    22    11    15    0    0    4          100
Coffee        BA 148        55       59    23      2     18    4    0    78       184
(Paraguacu)
Coffee        BA 142        47       33    27      2      7     2    0    0        71
(Paraguacu)
Coffee        RS.05.8a     14.2       9     10     0     12    0    0       1      32
(Jequie)
Coffee        RS.05.8b     15.7      25     7      0     12    0    0    18        62
(Jequie)
Coffee        RS.06.6      11.3      13     0      0      0     0    0    1        14
(Jequie)
Cocoa (north) C90           13       44    38      0      17    0    0    9       108
Cocoa(north) CIO            15       20    27      2     35    6    0    11       101
Cocoa (south) C44          16.4      21     7      0      0     0    0    13       41
Cocoa(south) C23*          14.1      12     2      0      0     0    0    0        14
Dairy (south)  LlOa         12       32     7      2     16   21    0       1      79
Dairy(south)  LlOb         4.8       70    16      2     23    21    0    3       135
Dairy (south)  L10c        14.3      50    10      2     18    18    0    0       98
Dairy (south)  LIOd        15.2      35     7      0     11    3    0       1      57
Totals                     410      805   396    40    373   112    1   184    1911
Source: ISPN Field Research, July 1993.
Legend: C=Cars; P=Pickups; B=Buses; LT=Light Trucks; HT=Heavy Trucks;
T=Tandem; OT=Other Transport.



76
Annex 4
Table 3. Average Daily Traffic (ADT) for 20 road sites by vehicle type - 1996
Region      Road    KM.   C        P      B     LT    HT    T   M.C. OT. TOTAL
Coffee (north) RS. I I.5   30.5   30    0     0     10      2     0     1    1    43
Coffee(north) RS 11.6   22.1   38    0       0      24      2     0    0    0    64
Coffee (south) RS.02.1a   17.1   77   33    5       30      6     2    15    0    168
Coffee (south) RS.02.1b    31    28    18    2      16      2     0    14    0     80
Coffee (south) RS.01.2a   22.4   19   29    6       24      0     0    0    0    78
Coffee (south) RS.01.2b   10.5   12   35    6       32      0     0    0    0    85
Coffee (south) RS.01.1   28.4   71   32    10    14         0     0    2    0    129
Coffee        BA 148      55     0    0       0     0       0     0     0    0      0
(Paraguacu)
Coffee        BA 142      47    65   39    3        30      3     1    4    0    145
(Paraguacu)
Coffee        RS.05.8a   14.2    2    17    0       0       0     0    0    0      19
(Jequie)
Coffee        RS.05.8b   15.7    4    0       0     0       0     0    0    4       4
(Jequie)
Coffee        RS.06.6    11.3    2    4       0     0       0     0    0    3       6
(Jequie)
Cocoa (north) C90         13    35    13    2       14      0     0    0    3      64
Cocoa (north) CIO         15    63   69    6        36     11    0    16   40   201
Cocoa(south) C44         16.4   27   41    8        38      0     0    0    0    114
Cocoa (south) C23        14.1    5    14    0       4      0      0     0    0    23
Dairy (south)  LlOa       12    24   40    6        38     0      0     0    0    108
Dairy (south)  LIOb      4.8    13   35    6        40     0      0    0    0    94
Dairy (south)  LlOc      14.3   23   36    7        36     0      0    0    0    102
Dairy (south)  LIOd      15.2    7    20    4       22     0      0    0    0      53
Totals                   410   545  475   71    408    26    3    52   51   1580
Source: ISPN Field Research, July/August 1996. *O.T. is not included in the Total.
Legend: C=Cars; P=Pickups; B=Buses; LT=Light Trucks; HT=Heavy Trucks; T=Tandem; OT=
Other Transport.



77
Annex 4
Table 4: VOC for Hilly Terrain (US$1986/lOOOkm)
Type of            Earth (without road)         Gravel       Paved (with road)
vehicle                                         (with
road)
Cars                      126.9                  94.1                80.2
Pick-up                   222.2                  151.5               120.2
Bus                       495.4                 398.9                349.8
Light Truck               529.5                 314.5               222.5
Heavy Truck              1110.0                  612.0              402.8
Source: Project Completion Report, 1986. Secondary and Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1207).
6.    Results
All computations are shown in Tables 5 and 6. A step-wise guide to the computations
are appended below.
I.    We use III.c above to compute the Annualized cost of the project and its value in
1996, using future value rate "Investment, 1996" is the cost per km times the
length {km} plus 3% of cost per km adjusted to 1996 $s, by dividing with the
appropriate index value, 0.731).
II.    Next we use the data shown in Table 4, "VOC for Hilly Terrain" to compute
VOCw,0 and VOCw per km. and each type of vehicle. The traffic by type (as a
percent of total) of vehicles for 1996 is shown in columns C to HT (Table 6). A
weighted mean of VOCw/0 and VOCw is computed using percentage of traffic
type as weights and multiplied by the road length. Notice also that most of the
roads do not remain open during the entire year.
III.   With the information obtained in I and II above, benefits could be computed, as
shown in Table 7 which indicates that at 10% discount rate, about 12 projects
fulfill the evaluation criteria as their Benefit Cost Ratio is greater than 1.
IV.   Encouraged by these results, we advanced the computations further. Suppose we
drop the assumption that greater benefits occur to those vehicles if the roads
were not improved, thus the investment (I), now is evaluated on normal and
generated benefits only, such that what are the break-even benefits per vehicle
per day or  equivalently, break-even unit cost per vehicle, that would yield a B
-C ratio of l:
( I - [ `B3 +Bg] ) / ( Adij. Mean ADT. 1996 x Days Open With)
Also, we calculated this unit cost in terms of per km. by dividing this
quantity by road length, which is shown in Table 7:
(I - [ Bn +Bg] ) / ( Adj. Mean ADT. 1996 x Days Open With x
Length.km.)



78
Annex 4
Table 5: Preliminary Computations to obtain the Investment, Annualized Investment
and VOCs
Region           Road    Length  Irnvestment,   sc,,      C       P    B    LT   HT  VOC VOC, VOC d.VO  d.VO
(ki)    1996                                                    s     0    m    Cn   Cm
Coffee           RS.11.5      30.5 $1,633,064 $174.381    70%    0%   0%   23%   5%   .36   .23  .54  4.01  9.50
(north)
Coffee           RS 11.6      22.1 $1,183,302 $126,355    59%    0%   0%   38%   3%   .42   .26  .63  3.50  8.16
(north)
Coffee           RS.02.1a     17.1  $915,587  $97,768   46%   20%   3%   18%   4%   .34   .22  .51  2.06  4,99
(south)
Coffee           RS.02.1       31 $1.659,836 $177,240   35%   23%   3%   20%   3%   .33   .21  .49  3.62  8.71
(south)
Coffee           RS.01.2a    22.4 $1,199,365 $128,070   24%   37%   8%   31%   0%   .43   .28  .65  3.30  8.13
(south)
Coffee           RS 01.2      10.5  $562,202  $60,033    14%   41%   7%   38%   0%   .47   .30  .71  1.75  4.21
(south)          b
Coffee           RS.01.1      24.8 $1,841,882 $196,679   55%   25%   8%   11%   0%    30   .21  .45  2.25  6.00
(south)
Coffee           BA 148        55 $2,944,870 $314,458    55%   22%   3%   16%   3%   .35   .23  .52  6.54 16.13
(Paraguacu)
Coffee           BA 142        47 $2,516,525 8268.718   4S%   27%   2%   21%   2%   .35   .23  .41  5.82  8.40
(Paraguacu)
Coffee           RS.05.8a     14.2  $760,312  $81,187    11%   89%   0%    0%   0%   .29   .20  .44  1.30  3.36
(Jequie)
Coffee           RS.05.8      15.7  $840,627  $89,763   100%    0%   0%    0%   0%   .17   .13  .26   .70  2.07
(Jequie)         b
Coffee           RS.06.6      11.3  $605,037  $64,607   33%   67%   0%    0%  0O/o  .26 .18   .39            .90  2.37
(Jequie)
Cocoa            C90            13   $696,060  $74,326   55%   20%   5%   22%   0%   .35 .23   .52    1.50  3.77
(north)
Cocoa            CIO            Is  $803,146  $85,761    31%   34%   3%   18%   5%   .39 .25   .59    2.12  5.06
(north)
Cocoa            C44          16.4  $878,107  $93,766   24%   36%   7%   33%   0%   .44 .29   .66    2.50  6.11
(south)
Cocoa            C23 *        14.1  $754,958   $80,615   22%   61%   0%   17%   0%   .35 .23   .52    1.69  4.15
(south)
Dairy (south) LiOa             12   $642.517  $68,609   22%   37%   6%   35%   0%   .44 .29   .67    1.88  4.54
Dairy (south) LlOb             4.8  $257,007  $27,444    14%   37%   6%   43%   0%   .49 .31    73           .84  2.02
Dairy (south) LlOc            14.3  $765,666  $81,759   23%   35%   7%   35%   0%   .45 .29   .67    2.25  5.45
Dairy (south) LvOd            15.2  $813,855   $86,905    13%   38%   8%   42%   0%   .49 .31   .73    2.65  6.37
Notes: 1. The cost per km. is $38,000 plus a 3% maintenance charge.: 2. VOCs are
multiplied by road length to obtain the weighted average.
Legend: C=Cars; P=Pickups; B=Buses; LT=Light Trucks; HT=Heavy Trucks; T=Tandem;
OT=Other Transport.



79
Annex 4
NOTES ON COMPUTATIONS:
Investment: {[$38, 000 + .03 x $38,000] x Length [km]}/0.73 1 [standard WB
deflator which adjust an investment valued in US$1980 to US$ 1996].Annualized
Investment: we use the formula $Ca = $C/( I + 1 0%)" where n=20 to compute the
annualized value.
ii.    The columns titled as C, P, B, LT and HT show the actual traffic levels as a percent
of total traffic.
iii.    We use the numbers shown in Table 4 to compute the cost per mile per vehicle and
adjusted to US$s, 1996 for each category, i.e., earth-without road, gravel with road
and paved with road to compute a mean using vehicle type percentages as weights to
compute values in columns VOCw and VOCw/,0. The column titled as d.VOC,, is
1.5 times the VOC,/,,.
iv.    The columns title as shows the difference between VOCW and VOCw/, ,VOCm,
multiplied by the road length.



80
Annex 4
Table 6: Computation of VOC and Benefit - Cost Ratio at 10% Discount Rate
In 1996 Dollars
Region    Road  Initial  Adj.  Bg   CBg    OBn       cBn      Total  Benefit Unit Cost Unit
ADT  Mean                                  Benefits  -Cost per      Cost per
adj. to  ADT                                        Ratio at Vehicle  Vehicle
1996   96                                            10%   per Day  per Day
(US$)   per km
(US$)
Coffee     RS. 11.5    45    57  4,497  10,721 32,727   77,179  125,124   0.72   13.23   0.43
(north)
Coffee     RS 11.6   42    96 17,158  40,276 26,918   62,495  146,847   1.16    4.71   0.21
(north)
Coffee     RS.02.1a   40   189 27,887  68,014  15,064   36,338  147,303   1.51    1.59   0.09
(south)
Coffee     RS.02.1b   40   216 57,768 140,019 26,464   63,444  287,695   1.62    2.37   0.08
(south)
Coffee     RS.01.2a   40   134 28,187  69,679 24,192   59,152  181,209   1.41    3.11   0.14
(south)
Coffee     RS.01.2b   40    96  8,910  21,634  12,774   30,679   73,997   1.23    2.19   0.21
(south)
Coffee     RS.01.1    40   143 21,144  56,621  16,491   43,680  137,936   0.70    6.11   0.25
(south)
Coffee     BA 148    42   201 94,695 234,641 50,381  123,478  503,195   1.60    4.63   0.08
(Parag.)    * *
Coffee     BA 142    46   133  18,480 106,671 78,634   28,368  232,154   0.86   17.64   0.38
(Parag.)
Coffee     RS.05.8a   23    31    925   2,409  5,488   14,137   22,958   0.28   13.26   0.93
(Jequie)
Coffee     RS.05.8b   22    37    966   2,851  2,812    8,210   14,839   0.17   12.81   0.82
(Jequie)
Coffee     RS.06.6    14    15    51       136  2,303    6,047    8,538   0.13   23.35   2.07
(Jequie)
Cocoa      C90        47   104  3,886  29,439 19,117   15,973   68,415   0.92    5.45   0.42
(north)
Cocoa      CIO        42   178 26,132  62,748  16,300   38,713  143,894   1.68    1.34   0.09
(north)
Cocoa      C44        33    93  13,830  33,918  14,995   36,374   99,118   1.06    3.82   0.23
(south)
Cocoa      C23 *      18   21    242   1,789  8,329    6,794   17,155   0.21   37.43   2.65
(south)
Dairy      LlOa       47   118 12,250  29,766 16,005   38,468   96,488   1.41    1.88   0.16
(south)
Dairy      LlOb       45   139  7,243  17,407  6,938   16,493   48,082   1.75    0.52   0.11
(south)
Dairy      LlOc       46   125 16,002  39,062  19,029   45,945  120,038   1.47    2.06   0.14
(south)
Dairy      LIOd       46    68  5,276  12,748 22,460   53,674   94,158   1.08    4.77   0.31
(south)
* Initial ADT is unadjusted for 1993 * * 1993 ADT was adjusted to 1996 as road construction prevented
observations.



81
Annex 4
NOTES ON COMPUTATIONS:
i.    "Initial ADT adjusted to 1996" is computed with an annual growth rate of 3%
from the initial year to 1996. "Adjusted mean ADT, 1996" is the mean of 1993
ADT adjusted to 1996, and 1996 ADT.
ii.    Davs Open W/0 is assumed as 183 except for BA 142, C90 and C23 which is
292 and 274, in both. "With" improvements, roads are assumed open 365 days.
iii.   Bg = [Vocwlo - VOCw ] x [Tw - Twi, | x 0.5; shows the product of d.VOCwto
(Table 5) and the net gain in ADT (difference between "Adj. Mean ADT, 96"
and "Initial ADT adjusted to 1996") times the days open during year; note also
that due to the downward sloping demand curve, only half of the benefits
(savings) are included.
iv.    Bn =  [VOCw,o - VOCw ] x Tw/,; the quantity in brackets is substituted
with d.VOCn shown in Table 5. Tw,0 is the product of "Initial ADT adjusted to
96" and "Days W/O", i.e., the number of days the road is open per annum.
V.    cBn = [VOCm - VOCw ] x Tw,o x [d x m]; the product of d.VOCm (Table 5)
and the days closed (due to bad weather, i.e., the difference between "Days open
With" and "Without") times the "Initial ADT adjusted to 1996." m= 1.5, the
level of effort required either when roads are closed or worse conditions due to
bad weather, to transport produce, as compared when roads are open.
vi.   "Benefit - Cost Ratio" is the ratio of "Total Benefits" (sum of "Ba, Bg, CBg,
and cBn) and $C, the annualized investment (Table 5). A ratio equal or greater
than 1.0 indicates the particular project satisfies the 10% per annum investment
criteria.
7.    Sensitivity Analysis: The sensitivity of the Benefit - Cost Ratio is presented in Chapter 4
of this report.






83
Annex 5
BASIC DATA SHEETsSECONDARY FEEDER AND ROADS PROJECT (LOAN 1207-BR)
Key Project Data
Appraisal                      Actual
Estimate                      Forecast
Total Project Cost (US$ million)          237.0                         214.0
Loan Amount                               55.0                          55.0
Loan Disbursed                            55.0                          49.5
Date Physical Components                12/31/80                      06/30/84
Completed
Proportion of Physical                     100                           12
Components Completed by
Original Schedule (%)
Time Overrun (%)                           0                             72
Economic Rate of Retum (%)                n.a.                           n.a.
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY77   FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY86
Appraisal     0.5     8.0    24.0    40.0      52.0     55.0     55.0     55.0     55.0
Actual        0       0      2.0      6.5      7.4      18.1     23.3     45.5     49.5
Actual as %   0       0       8       14       16       14       33        83       90
of
Appraisal
Date of Final Disbursement: 09/13/84



84
Annex 5
Program Dates
Original                   Actual
Initiating Memorandum                                                01/07/74
Negotiations                                                         12/18/75
Board Approval                           n.a.                        02/10/76
Signing                                  n.a.                        03/01/76
Effectiveness                          06/01/76                      07/13/76
Loan Closing                           12/31/81                      06/30/84
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
FY76 FY77 FY78 FY79 FY80 FY81 FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 Total
Pre-
appraisal 28.8  1.0                                             29.7
Appraisal    32.2                                              32.2
Supervision    2.8   6.8  5.0  11.1  32.7  10.6  6.2  6.1  6.2  6.9   94.6
Other      .1               0.3  0.2   0.1            .4  1.0   2.1
Total  28.8 36.0   6.8  5.0  11.4  32.9  10.7  6.2  6.1  6.6   7.9  158.6
Other Program Data
Amount
Follow-up Operations              Loan No.   (USSMJ    Board Date
Second Feeder Roads Project         1730-BR     110.0      06/19/79
Third Feeder Roads Project          2224-BR     154.0       12/21/82



85
Annex 5
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT (LOAN 1730-BR)
Key Project Data
Item                       Appraisal                  Actual or Current
Estimate                      Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)          338.5                         205.8
Loan Amount                               110.0                          110
Loan Disbursed                            110.0                         90.5
Completion of Physical                  12/31/86                       8/31/87
Components
Proportion Actually Completed                                           85.5
by Above Date (%)
Economic Rate of Return                   n.a.                           n.a.
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY80      FY81       FY82      FY83       FY84      FY85      FY86      FY87
Appraisal     0        5         18        39        66        76        85        90.5
Estimate
Actual        0        3         18        30        48        67        90       90.5
Actual as     0        65        100       76        73        87        106       100
% of
Appraisal
Date of Final Disbursement: 12/31/86



86
Annex 5
Program Dates
Original                      Actual
Initiating Memorandum                    n.a.                           n.a.
Negotiations                             n.a.                        05/11/79
Board Approval                           n.a.                        06/19/79
Signing                                  n.a.                        08/24/81
Effectiveness                          09/18/79                      11/20/81
Loan Closing                           12/31/86                      12/31/87
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
FY79 FY80 FY81 FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88  Total
Pre-appraisal   2.9                                                2.9
Appraisal      41.8                                                41.8
Negotiations    8.7                                                8.7
Supervision    .6    6.9  8.1  8.3  5.2  6.0  8.1  3.8   .5  .6    48.2
Other         .9   .9  .2                        .0                1.1
Total          54.9  6.9  8.3  8.3  5.2  6.0  8.1  3.8    .5  .6    102.7
Other Program Data
Amount
Follow-up Operations              Loan No.   (USSM)        Board Date
Third Feeder Roads Project         2224-BR    154.0          12/21/82



87
Annex 6
LIST OF KEY CONTRIBUTORS AND REVIEWERS
The following are the key persons/organizations involved in the preparation and
review of this study.
- Mr. Albert Weckerle, OED, was the Task Manager for this study from its inception
through early drafts in 1994.
- Instituto Sociedade, Pesquisa e Natureza (ISPN), directed by Mr. George Martine,
carried out the survcy work in 1993 and prepared the main reports.
- The State of Bahia Road Department, DERBA, contributed personnel and expertise
through the preparation as well as through the review stages. Key contributors were:
- Ing. Genario Lemos Couto, Transport Coordinator
- Ing. Maria das Gracas L.F. Matos, Assistant Transport Coordinator
-The National Economic and Social Development Bank (BNDES) - Roberto Macedo,
Renato Garavello Antoniazzi, Luis Geraldo Japiassu and Vinicius Almeida.
- The Brazilian Company for Transport Planning (GEIPOT) - Nelson Campos, Arnaldo
Farias, Francisco Magalhaes, Rilson Raposo, Clovis Aragao and Francisco Rocha Neto.
- Government of the State of Bahia - Waldeck Ornelas, Generario Couto Maia, Marcus
Alban, Paulo Ermida and Nadja Holtz.
- SEAIN and GEIPOT (Borrower), reviewed both the early drafts and the final draft
versions.
- Mr. Joao Gualberto Rocha and his team prepared the complementary report in
1996/1997.
- Messrs. Claudio Volonte and Oliver Rajakaruna, OED consultants, contributed to the
preparation of the final report.
- Mr. Hernan Levy, OED, was the Task Manager for the preparation of the
complementary data collection in 1996, and for preparation of the final report.









IMAGING
Report No.:          16738
Type:      IER



