Document of
The World Bank                          £ GPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2584-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
June 6, 1979
This document ha a restricted disrbuion ad may be used by recipients only in the performnce of
their ofAicial dotes. Its contents my not otherwise be disclose  withut World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1978             May 10, 1979
Currency Unit   -    Cruzeiro (Cr$)               Cr$
US$1            -    18.31                        24.65
Cr$1            -    US$0.055                     US$0.041
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNDE    Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico -
National Economic Development Bank
DER     Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem (estadual) -
State Highway Department
DNER    Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem (federal) -
Federal Highway Department
ORTN    Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesoro Nacional -
Indexed Accounting Unit
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 = Cr$18.31)
corresponds to the cruzeiro buying rate as of December, 1978.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
LOAN ANn PROJECT SnTMMARY
Borrower:            Federative Republic of Brazil
Beneficiary:         The Borrower would make available the proceeds of the loan
to Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico (BNDE) on
the terms of the Bank loan to the Borrower. BNDE, which
would bear the foreign exchange risk, would onlend the
proceeds of the loan to states, municipal road consortia,
and individual municipalities.
Amount:              US$110.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace at
7.9% per anLnum.
Relending Terms:    Subloans would be for a period of not less than eight
years and not more than ten years plus one to four years
of grace. The interest rate for low-income states would
be 4%, for middle-income states 5%, and for the state of
Sao Paulo, 7%, with monetary correction.
Project
Description:      The proposed project would assist BNDE's program under
which funds are onlent to sub-borrowers for construction
and improvement of rural feeder roads. Three groups of
states have been designated to make it easier for lower
income states to participate in the project. The low-
income states would contribute only 20% of project costs;
middle-income states would contribute 30%, and the compara-
tively high-income state of Sao Paulo would contribute 40%
of project costs. The Bank's contribution of US$110
million or' 32.5% of total project costs (equivalent to the
estimated foreign exchange cost), would match the contribu-
tion of the National Economic Development Bank (BNDE).
The National Highway Department (DNER) would contribute
8.9% of project costs. The risks involved in the proposed
project are minimal since it is a continuation of a
program being financed by Loan 1207-BR, commitments under
which are well advanced.  The new administration, which
took office on March 15, 1979, has indicated that agricul-
tural development will be given high priority, and past
experience has shown that the Brazilian Government gives
effective support to programs which it considers to be of
importance.
This documrent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents rnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:    The total cost of the project is estimated to be US$338.5
million, including local taxes of US$54 million (about
16% of project costs). The estimated foreign exchange
component is US$110 million (about 32.5% of project costs).
Financing Plan:                                  In US$ Millions   % of Total
Proposed IBRD Loan               110.0            32.5
BNDE Contribution                110.0             32.5
DNER Grant 1/                     30.1              8.9
Sub-borrowers 1/                  88.4            26.1
Total                            338.5           100.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                       FY81      FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87
Annual             4.8 2/  17.2  31.0  30.0  17.6   8.4   1.0
Cumulative         4.8 2/  22.0  53.0  83.0 100.6 109.0 110.0
Rate of Return:      Roads to be financed under the proposed project would be
required to yield a rate of return of at least 12%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 2442b-BR, dated June 6, 1979.
1/   These proportions may vary depending on how the program funds are
apportioned between the three groups of states.
2/   Including expenditures for detailed engineering incurred through FY80.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRI) TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$110 million to
help finance a second feeder roads project. The loan would have a term of
15 years, including three years of grace, with interest at 7.9% per annum., The
proceeds of the loan would be onlent to the Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento
Economico on the same terms an,d conditions as the Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (No. 2283a-BR),
dated March 19, 1979, was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 30,
1979. The following discussion and related annex tables are based on that
report and on. subsequent information.
3.        A new Government, headed by General Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979 for a six-year term. In its
inaugural statements, the new Administration has emphasized the need to
reduce inflat:ion and limit the growth of aggregate demand in accordance with
Brazil's balance-of-payments constraint.
Recent Economic Performance
4.        From 1967 to 1973, Brazil enjoyed remarkable economic growth.  GDP
rose at a real rate of about 11% per year, with industrial value-added rising
13% per annum and agriculture 5%. Income per capita increased at more than 7%
per year. This growth was achieved with no significant deterioration of the
external resource balance, despite significant trade liberalization, and there
also occurre,i a gradual decline in the rate of domestic inflation. Although
relative income growth was unevenly distributed, available data indicate that
most Brazilians did share in the absolute improvement of living standards that
was taking place. Among the sources of development were a rapid growth of
public sector investments, the expansion of Brazil's agricultural frontier,
the inflow of foreign capital and technology, and a more than 25% per year
annual growth of manufactured exports. The total external debt (public and
private) increased over this period from US$3.3 billion to US$12.6 billion,
but much of this accumulation was added to international reserves, which rose
from US$0.2 billion to US$6.4 billion.
5.        One by-product of this process was a growing dependence of Brazil's
industry and transport system on imported petroleum. Few large nations are
apparently so deficient in fossil fuels as is Brazil, and despite a major
exploratory effort, over 80% of its petroleum needs must be imported. Thus,
as a consequence of the oil price increase, the cost of petroleum imports
rose from US$711 million in 1973 to US$2.8 billion in 1974. With imports
also swelled. by speculative stockpiling of other commodities, Brazil's current
1/   This part is reprinted from the corresponding part of the President's
Report for the Sergipe Rural Development Project (No. P-2554-BR,
dated May 16, 1979).



- 2 -
account deficit rose in one year from US$1.7 billion to US$7.1 billion, or 7%
of GDP. Coping with the trade-off between continued high growth and the sud-
denly tightened external resource constraint has been one of the basic problems
of Brazilian economic management since 1974.
6.        Brazil's capacity to manage the oil crisis has been enhanced by its
strong international reserve position; the continued rapid growth of its manu-
factured exports; the liquidity of international financial markets, combined
with widespread confidence in the nation's creditworthiness; and the opportun-
ities which its large domestic market offered for efficient import substitution.
Drawing upon all of these assets, and pressed by the high national growth
expectations generated by the 1967-73 experience, the authorities were initially
reluctant to restrain aggregate demand. The strategy shifted instead toward
increasing control over imports, which were held approximately constant in
nominal terms between 1974 and 1977. As a result of this effort, accomplished
through a variety of tariff and non-tariff trade barriers, a positive merchand-
ise trade balance was restored in 1977, and the current account deficit was
reduced to 2.4% of GDP. Meanwhile, GDP growth averaged 7.6% per year between
1973 and 1977, although with wide year-to-year variation.
7.        By 1976, however, the continued high growth of demand in the face
of constricted imports and increased protection of domestic industry had
resulted in a reacceleration of inflation above 40% per annum, and the
authorities acted to slow the expansion of public sector expenditures and to
tighten credit. This effort intensified in 1977, and the overall GDP growth
rate fell below 5% for the first time since 1966. Nevertheless, inflation
remained above 40%, stimulated in part by an accumulation of additional
international reserves totaling almost US$3 billion in 1976-77.
8.        The rate of GDP growth rebounded to 6.3% in 1978, despite a 2%
decline in agricultural output. The agricultural failure was caused by a
serious drought in southern Brazil which resulted in the loss of an estimated
30% of the soybean crop, 17% of corn output, 5% of rice, and 18% of cotton.
The resultant reduction of exports and increased need for imports cost the
economy an estimated US$1.5 billion in foreign exchange, about two-thirds of
which was attributable to reduced soybean exports. An important bright spot
in the picture was a 36% nominal increase in the export of manufactured
goods. Total merchandise exports rose only 3.5%, compared to a 13.4% increase
in imports.
9.        Interest payments abroad increased sharply as a combined result
of substantial borrowings and a steep rise in the London Interbank Rate (LIBOR),
to which most of Brazil's financial credits are tied.  The current account
deficit thus rose to 3.0% of GDP in 1978. Total debt service on medium- and
long-term debt (public and private), net of interest earned on Brazil's re-
serves, rose to 59% of exports in 1978, from 49% in the previous year. Part of
this increase, however, was associated with a further US$3.8 billion increase
in international reserves. By the end of the year reserves had grown to
US$11.7 billion, or about 8 months of projected 1979 import equivalence
(including non-factor services). Inflation remained at about 40% in 1978,
for the third consecutive year, despite continued curbs on credit and public
sector investment. The drought-related contraction of agricultural output



and the rapid build-up of international reserves contributed to the price
pressures. These pressures intensified in early 1979, while labor disputes
which had occurred sporadically in 1978 affected much of the public sector of
Sao Paulo as well as teachers in the major cities. The new Government
responded to the rise in inflation by adopting a new package of measures during
April 1979. The major components of the package are a temporary price-freeze
on supermarket sales, stricter enforcement of existing price control regula-
tions, new restraints on private sector foreign borrowing, and severe limits
on domestic credit expansion.
Poverty Programs
10.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has in recent years made serious efforts towards
the relief of poverty, and significant progress has been made in a number of
areas. Coverage of the social security program, for example, has been
expanded and extended to the rural population. More than 70% of the urban
population is-now covered by the social security's health care system, and a
cash transfer program has been established for the rural elderly poor.  Under
this latter system, rural households headed by persons over 65 years of age
are eligible to receive a monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an
amount which is almost twice the average per capita expenditure in the rural
Northeast. The urban population over age 70 is covered by a similar program.
Almost 2 milLion loans have been made by the National Housing Bank since 1964
for housing. A sites and services program was established in 1975 to
benefit the urban poor more diLrectly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a
program to finance home improvement and building materials. High priority
has also been given to the ext:ension and improvement of urban water supply.
Consequently, some 6 million households comprising about 30 million people
have been connected to public water supply systems since 1971, increasing the
proportion of urban dwellers who receive such services from 60 to 75%.
Efforts have also been made to attack the poverty-related problems of adult
illiteracy and malnutrition.
Future Prospects
11.       Since 1973, Brazil has undertaken major efforts to reduce the drain
on the economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been
accelerated and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk
contracts with PETROBRAS, the state oil monopoly.  Investments have been acce-
lerated to develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to initiate
nuclear power production, and to substitute alcohol for gasoline for automotive
use, while efforts have been made to induce energy conservation. The results,
however, have thus far been limited, and with oil now constituting 30% of
Brazil's merchandise imports, as compared to 11% in 1973, the trade-off between
growth and balance-of-payments viability will continue to be a principal
preoccupation of economic decision makers.
12.       The Government that took office on March 15 has acknowledged
that the balance-of-payments constraint and the need to reduce the rate of
inflation mean that Brazil must undergo a period of carefully moderated
economic growth. As noted above, a number of measures toward this end have
already been announced, including some increases in taxes and further reduc-
tions of public expenditures, credit, and subsidies. To assure the efficient



-4-
execution of these and future fiscal and monetary policy decisions, several
important institutional reforms have been set in motion. These include:
consolidation and improvement of information flows and centralized control
over the public sector budget, integrating the operations of the far-flung
semi-autonomous agencies and public enterprises; incorporation also into the
budget of many of the subsidized credit programs currently handled outside
the budget through the Central Bank; and elimination from the Central Bank.of
its gradually accumulated development banking functions. Important also in
this context, as well as to the efficiency of resource allocation, is the
decision to phase out over four years both the excess rebate of taxes to
exports and the prior deposit requirement on imports, and compensating these
actions through gradual real devaluation of the cruzeiro. Indications are
that Brazilian industry would be internationally competitive, even without
export subsidies, over a wide range of manufactures if an appropriate real
exchange rate is maintained.
13.       Growth is expected to average at most 5-6% per year in 1979 and
1980, as compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7% in 1973-78. But barring further
unforeseen difficulties that would constrain the availability of external
resources, it might be possible in subsequent years to reaccelerate the
economy gradually to a growth rate of 7-8% by 1985. Such growth rates would
be compatible with a declining current account deficit in relation to GDP and
a falling debt service ratio.
14.       This prognosis depends heavily on the continued vigorous growth of
manufactured exports, though at a rate more modest than that of the past 15
years. The export of manufactures grew at a real average annual rate of 28%
in the decade 1964-74, this pace dropping off only during the world-wide
recession of 1975-76. The momentum resumed in 1977 and 1978 with real growth
rates of 29 and 20%, respectively. By comparison, the growth rates assumed
in the projections -- 18% per annum during 1978-80 and 12% per annum in
1980-85 -- do not appear unreasonable, particularly in view of the broad
diversification of Brazil's manufactured exports in terms of both products
and markets.
15.       Also assumed is the continuation of Brazil's vigorous import-
substitution effort. The present substitution program was initiated prior
to the oil-related balance-of-payments difficulties in recognition that the
growth and increasing sophistication of the domestic economy had made possible
the efficient production of many capital and intermediate goods requiring
large-scale operations and advanced technology. Major projects were conse-
quently undertaken for the production, inter alia, of fertilizers, steel,
aluminum, other basic metals, and petroleum. The installation of hydroelec-
tric capacity could also be properly viewed in this context. Although public
investments will be restrained in coming years as part of the new Government's
announced stabilization program, these sectors will continue to receive
priority.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
16.       Despite the successful effort to restrict imports after the rise
in oil prices, the maintenance of high growth rates after 1973 has required a
substantial increase in Brazil's external indebtedness. By the end of 1978,



the total of public and private external debt outstanding had risen to
US$41.0 billion, as compared to US$12.6 billion at the end of 1973. As noted
earlier a significant fraction of this borrowing was added to Brazil's inter-
national reserves, which increased from US$6.4 billion to US$11.7 billion over
the same period. This "excess" borrowing occurred largely in response to the
steadily improving loan terms available to Brazil in 1977 and 1978, which
provided the economy relatively' low (net) cost insurance against future exter-
nal shocks and offered many private borrowers an alternative to expensive
domestic credit.
17.       A gross capital inflow of US$14.9 billion was required in 1978 to
cover the curicent account deficit (US$5.7 billion), amortization payments
(US$5.4 billion) and the reserve accumulation (US$3.8 billion). After
accounting for direct investments and short-term outflows, total medium- and
long-term credits (disbursements) amounted to US$14.3 billion. Financial
credits accounted for US$11.4 billion of the total.
18.       Brazil is expected to show a growing resource surplus beginning
around 1980, reaching US$2.0 billion by 1985. Rapidly increasing net factor
service payments abroad, emanating from both interest payments on its large
debt and royalties for imported technology, could reach US$7.5 billion by
1985, however, resulting in a continuing current account deficit through the
first half of the 1980s in the range of US$5.0-5.5 billion. But in proportion
to GDP, the current account deficit would fall to less than one percent by
1985.
19.       Gross borrowing requirements are expected to fall sharply to about
US$6.9 billion in 1979 as a combined result of the reduced growth rate and
the Government's announced intention to draw down reserves by about US$3
billion. Thereafter, gross borrowings would rise steadily from US$11.5 billion
in 1980 to US$16.1 billion by 1985. Net borrowing would grow from US$3.8
billion to US$5.8 billion over the same period. The need for external finan-
cing is thus expected to grow somewhat more slowly than in recent years and
significantly less rapidly than the rate of growth of exports. As a conse-
quence the net debt service ratio (including both public and private debt)
would peak at about 60% in 1980, falling steadily thereafter to 40% by 1985.
20.       In summary, Brazil is a dynamic, highly diversified, and resilient
economy in which policy makers have demonstrated repeatedly their ability to
adjust to changing circumstances when needed. After a period of very rapid
growth in the late 1960s and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of pet-
roleum imporl:s has forced the nation to moderate its growth expectations and
to adapt its economic structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjust-
ment process was eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of inter-
national creditworthiness, aggressive expansion of its manufactured exports,
and the ample opportunities for efficient import substitution offered by its
large domestic market. Nevertheless, Brazil's continued heavy dependence on
petroleum imports, the resurgence of domestic inflation, and the rapid accumu-
lation of external debt in recent years indicate that the process is not yet
complete. The new Government recognizes the need to restrain the growth of
aggregate demand for the next several years while continuing, with greater
selectivity than in the past, to make the investments necessary both to sustain



- 6 -
the progress of export expansion and import substitution and to alleviate
poverty. The task of economic management will not be easy, but the outlook
is favorable. The current analysis shows no diminution of Brazil's capacity
to service its existing and future debts. Moreover, the fact that imports
are small relative to GDP and that because of Brazil's size and diversity
most imports are residual in nature -- i.e., fill the gap between demand and
existing domestic production capacity -- means that relatively small changes
in the overall economic growth rate will generally suffice to adjust to
unforeseen shocks to the balance of payments. Brazil thus remains fully
creditworthy for continued Bank lending.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By April 30, 1979 the Bank had approved 85 loans to Brazil, amount-
ing to US$4,178.2 million, of which 42 were not yet fully disbursed. 1/ During
FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year, reaching US$202
million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77 and US$252 million in FY78. Dis-
bursements are expected to increase during the next few years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of April 30, 1979 and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.       Over the FY75-78 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
to over US$700 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made totalling
US$426.5 million; in FY76, ten loans totalling US$498 million; in FY77 seven
loans totalling US$425 million and in FY78, nine loans totalling US$705 million.
So far in FY79, four loans totalling US$317 million have been approved: a
US$100 million loan for a water supply and sewerage project in the northeast,
a US$93 million loan for a sites and services and low-cost housing project, a
US$98 million loan for an aluminum project, and a US$26 million loan for a
rural development project in the state of Sergipe. The documents for a US$28
million loan for the Sao Francisco Second Irrigation project, a US$109 million
loan for a power distribution project in the state of Parana, a US$70 million
loan for a medium-sized cities project, and for a US$40 million loan for
the Pernambuco Rural Development Project, have been recently distributed to
the Executive Directors. Work is relatively advanced on the preparation of
an industrial pollution control project in Sao Paulo, a power distribution
project in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, and a rural primary education
project in the northeast, for which we expect to propose loans in the near
future.
23.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1978, amounting to US$24.7 billion, the Bank held about 7.3%. The
Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 5.2%. When Brazil's total
(public and private) external debt is considered, the Bank's share in the
total outstanding at the end of 1978 was 4.4%, and its share in Brazil's
external debt service was about 2.6%. By 1980, the Bank's share in total
outstanding debt is expected to rise very slightly, while its share in total
debt service falls to about 1.7%.
1/   Since April 30, 1979, the Executive Directors have approved one addi-
tional loans, totalling US$26 million.



- 7 -
24.       As of April 30, 1979, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled US$460.2
million, of wlhich US$320.5 million had been cancelled, repaid or sold. Of
the balance oE US$139.7 million, US$103.5 million represents loans and US$36.2
million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of April 30, 1979 is given
in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is to help
intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop projects that
will increase productivity and income of the lowest income segments of the
population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and to
improve their living conditions. It is to these ends that the Sao Francisco
II irrigation project and the Pernambuco Rural Development Project presently
before the Executive Directors, are mainly directed. Previous loans for
nutrition research and developiment, vocational training, agricultural research,
agricultural extension and polder construction in the Lower Sao Francisco as
well as for integrated rural development in the States of Rio Grande do Norte,
Minas Gerais, Ceara, Paraiba, Bahia and Sergipe were all designed to assist
low-income groups in rural areas. Additional projects designed to assist
low-income groups in rural areas are in preparation, including a rural educa-
tion project and several integrated rural development projects in the Northeast.
The loans for water supply and sewerage in the State of Minas Gerais, Greater
Sao Paulo and the Northeast, for urban transport in five major cities, for
sites and services and low-cost housing, and for medium-sized cities develop-
ment are assisting to improve the living conditions of the urban population,
particularly of the urban poor. Several projects to reach low-income groups
in urban areas are in preparation: a second urban transport project, an
integrated urban development project, a water supply and sewerage project for
three southern states and an industrial pollution control project for Greater
Sao Paulo.
26.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutionaL development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and
help maximizes public savings and ensure that they are used economically
through rational selection of investment projects. This institution-building
objective has been important in Bank assistance, for example, in the trans-
portation sector where there has been emphasis on the selection of investments,
the strengthening of railway operations, and the improvement of railways'
financial performance. The proposed project would help to strengthen the
institutions responsible for feeder road construction, both at the federal
and state levels. Loans for ,electric power, water supply and sewerage, indus-
trial finance, agricultural research and extension, and urban development
also have important institution-building objectives.
27.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for



-8-
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic policy.
Lending for the electric power sector supports this objective, since it is
based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the need
for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemicals projects
is assisting Brazil to substitute imports with large-scale efficient domestic
production and aid its balance-of-payments position. Bank lending for agro-
industries in the Center and South of Brazil is also supporting this objective
and much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways,
ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and economic flow
of exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping Brazil to
expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can be produced
efficiently in Brazil in view of the country's ample supply of high-grade iron
ore and the scale of its internal markets. Likewise, the recently approved
VALESUL Aluminum Project would substitute aluminum imports with domestic pro-
duction relying on Brazil's abundant hydroelectric resources for power and on
Brazil's ample reserves of bauxite for raw material.
28.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue to need for some time in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued substantial lending by the Bank in Brazil is
regarded by the international financial community as an important sign of
confidence in Brazil and encourages them to continue their own programs there.
In some sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation
is helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on
more favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and commercial financial
institutions. Since 1976, nine co-financing operations totalling more than
US$365 million have been concluded with private financial institutions and
several others are in preparation.
PART III - THE SECTORS
A.   The Highways Sector
29.       The large area and difficult natural terrain of Brazil, combined
with its abundance of agricultural land and mineral resources, have made
transportation a crucial element in the development of the economy. Brazil
has over 1.5 million km of roads; of these, about 5% are federal highways, 8%
are state highways and 87% are municipal roads and tracks. The network has
been growing at an average rate of about 4% annually, with the most rapid
growth occurring in the federal system. Development of the national trans-
portation network has absorbed a considerable proportion of the country's
total investment. From 1970 to 1975, transport investment accournted for about
25% of gross fixed national capital formulation. Since 1974, transport policy
has been a corollary of the Government's policy to reduce dependence on
imported oil. Since then, however, such investment has been constrained by
measures to restrain public expenditures to keep inflation tinder control. An
increasing proportion of taxes previously earmarked for use by transport
agencies has since 1975 been transferred to the National Development Fund,



- 9 -
which is controlled by the Ministry of Planning. Since 1976, ceilings have
been set by l:he Ministry of Planning on investments by public agencies and
this, together with the increased control on earmarked taxes, has strengthened
Government control over investment expenditures of the various transport
agencies.
Bank Involvemnent in the Highways Sector
30.       Since 1968 six loans totaling US$490 million have supported the
construction and improvement of about 5,700 km of federal and state highways,
rehabilitation of about 1,500 km and the preparation of final engineering
designs for more than 9,000 km1.  The first four highway projects, which
involved construction and improvement of priority highways, have been success-
fully completed by the National Highway Department (DNER) as reported in the
Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) 1026 of February, 1976 for the First
Project, PPA'1 1644 of June, 1977 for the Second, and in a recently completed
audit for the Third and Fourth Projects.  The main recommendations of the
PPARs, which have been taken :Lnto account in subsequent projects, relate to
the need to allow more time for the development of engineering designs and to
the preparation of traffic forecasts. The Fifth and Sixth projects are still
in progress. Since 1969, the Bank has also provided technical assistance in
planning and in construction supervision, and has helped to strengthen highway
maintenance operations both at the federal and state levels, with various
degrees of success as shown in the respective audits.
31.       Since 1974, the focus of Bank projects has shifted to road mainte-
nance and rehabilitation, and to supporting the construction of feeder roads.
A loan for US$114 million for road maintenance and rehabilitation was approved
in 1978 (Sixth Highway Project, Loan 1557-BR) and a Secondary and Feeder Roads
Project (Loan 1207-BR) for US$55 million was approved in 1976. A number of
rural development projects have included feeder road components with a total
cost of about US$60 million. The proposed project would continue to support
the construction of feeder roads, thereby helping to bring areas of rural
poverty into the mainstream of the economy and to assist the Government in
attaining its agricultural production goals.
B.   The Agriculture Sector
32.       Although Brazil's geographic, topographic and climatic features are
favorable to agriculture, only 4% of the land is dedicated to permanent crops
and 20% to improved or permanent pasture. The country still has great agricul-
tural potential. The main factors limiting agricultural expansion are poorly
developed support services and poor infrastructure.
33.       Although agricultural production in Brazil has been growing at a
lower rate than the GDP as a whole, agriculture continues to be an important
sector in the economy. According to recent estimates, the national agricul-
tural work force numbers 12.8 million, or 39.5% of the economically active
population. About 60% of merchandise exports originate in the agricultural
sector (including processed agricultural goods), with coffee, soybeans and
sugar alone generating about 40% of the country's export earnings. Brazil is
the world's largest exporter of coffee, and one of the largest producers of
cane sugar and soybeans. It is also a major supplier of cotton, peanuts,
cocoa, orange juice, castor oil and sisal.



- 10 -
Bank Involvement in the Agriculture Sector
34.       The Bank's lending to the Brazilian agricultural sector has sought
to support institutional development and policy reform and to help Brazil ease
its foreign exchange constraints by supporting specific projects designed to
increase export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic produc-
tion for imports. The Bank has so far made 15 loans, totalling US$543.4
million, for agriculture and rural development in Brazil. These include
two for livestock development, amounting to US$60.5 million; two, amounting
to US$137 million, for agro-industries; one, of US$18.2 million, for grain
storage; one, of US$40 million, for an agricultural research program for the
Northeast, North and Genter-West of Brazil; one, of US$100 million, for the
development of agricultural extension services; and eight, totalling US$187.7
million, for various settlement, irrigation and rural development projects,
six of which are located in the Northeast. Apart from the Secondary and
Feeder Roads loan in 1976, there have been three loans, totalling US$196
million, for fertilizer production, and a loan of US$19 million for nutrition
research and development, all of which are having a direct impact on agricul-
tural production and development of the rural sector. A combined PPAR has
been issued on the two livestock development projects. It shows that the
second project was cancelled after a major part of the loan had been disbursed,
because of a Government decision to introduce subsidized credit programs for
this subsector. A Project Completion Report has been prepared on the grain
storage project and the corresponding PPAR is expected shortly. The project
faced difficulties similar to those of the livestock projects. Implementation
of the several integrated rural development projects is progressing satisfac-
torily, although there have been some delays, now being resolved, in the
provision of counterpart funding. The Agro-Industries credit projects have
been delayed as a result of the imposition of credit ceilings in 1977 as a
part of the Government's anti-inflation program, and the availability of
competing credit lines at subsidized interest rates. Commitments should
accelerate in 1979 as a result of the Government's announced intention to
restrict the availability of subsidized credit. The agricultural research
project has been delayed due to hiring constraints imposed by the outgoing
administration, but is expected to improve now that the new Government has
taken office. The agricultural extension project is proceeding according to
schedule.
35.       A major constraint to agricultural development has been the lack of
adequate rural infrastructure in areas of agricultural potential. The country's
size and enormous distances are indeed compounded by the lack of local roads
to markets and consumer centers. While much work has been done on the trunk
highway network which connects the country's major urban centers and ports,
there are still large regions which have no access to these trunk highways.
As a result, they are isolated from the mainstream of economic activity.
36.       Full agricultural development of areas within the zone of influence
of major trunk roads depends on the existence of an adequate internal network
of rural access roads. The proposed project would help overcome weaknesses in
the present situation and thereby provide important support to agricultural
development.



- 11 -
Planning and Institutional Framework for Feeder Roads
37.       In 1967 the National Economic Development Bank (Banco Nacional do
Desenvolvimento Economico - BNDE) in agreement with the National Highway
Department (Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem - DNER), established
the National Program for Rural Roads. More recently, the creation of Municipal
Road Consortia (para. 52) has helped bring about better micro-regional integra-
tion and increased technical assistance to municipalities 1/ from BNDE, DNER
and the state highway departments (DERs). These programs are designed to
solve problems which have handicapped rural road construction in the past.
One is the lack of municipal agencies which are experienced in technical and
financial planning and in the supervision of rural road projects. BNDE and
DNER intend :o aid states and municipalities in the analysis, design and con-
struction of feeder roads. nTis transfer of expertise would be significantly
furthered by the proposed project.
Financing of Feeder Roads
38.       Feeder roads are usually the responsibility of municipalities, and
consequently are financed by them. Municipalities, however, have limited
financial resources. Since the creation of the Municipal Road Consortia,
the state governments have provided some financial support to municipalities
for the maintenance of their road networks. Most states, however, are also
poor and consequently their contribution has not been adequate to meet the
needs of the municipalities.
39.       As much as 80-90% of states' own resources come from the value added
tax which is applied at the source of transactions of goods. The rate of this
tax is controlled by the federal government; states have no freedom to increase
their tax revenues through rate changes. They have to rely on the volume of
transactions in their jurisdi,ction for their revenue. Municipalities derive
most of their own income from (i) a service tax, which is levied on services
rather than goods; (ii) a 20% share in the state value added tax collected in
the municipalities; and (iii) a rudimentary property tax system. For the
majority of states and municipalities, their own resources barely cover current
operating expenditures, and investment funds are therefore obtained mainly
from federal transfers.
40.       About half the federal Government's tax revenues are shared in
different proportions with states and local governments. Since most taxes are
earmarked at the federal level, highways and roads (including feeder roads)
can only be constructed and maintained with revenue transfers earmarked for
that purpose such as the gasoline tax, the road transport tax and the vehicle
license tax. Municipalities share only in the gasoline tax; states also share
in the road transport tax and the vehicle registration tax. The gasoline tax
is, however, the most important of the three. Since 1975, federal transfers
1/   "Municipalities" (municipios) are the smallest units of local government
(para. 53).



- 12 -
to states and municipalities have averaged about US$1.0 billion. They are
expected to increase to about US$1.4 billion in 1979 and US$1.5 billion in
1980.
41.        Federal development programs such as POLONORDESTE and POLOCENTRO can
also finance feeder road construction, but the Government has decided, as a
matter of general policy, to encourage states and municipalities to use lines
of credit similar to the one proposed under the project, to not only ensure
more uniform and adequate project preparation and selection techniques, but
also to make states and municipalities bear some of the cost burden.
Experience with the Secondary and Feeder Roads Project
42.        The Secondary and Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1207-BR) was approved
in March 1976. After a slow start, it is progressing satisfactorily. By
June 1, 1979 six sub-projects were approved and some 3,230 km of secondary and
feeder roads are presently being constructed. When completed, the project
will have assisted the construction of 6,830 km of feeder roads. A total
of about US$106 million of the project's US$200 million have already been
committed and the remainder is expected to be committed by October, 1979.
43.        Subloans under the First Project were tailored to favor participa-
tion by the lower income states of Brazil through lower interest rates for
sub-projects in these states; despite this incentive, participation by
the poorer states has been limited. This has been partly due to (a) the
states' inability to generate the 40.1% of sub-project costs to be borne by
them, and (b) to subproject design and assessment criteria not fully adapted
to the requirements and capabilities of these states. The first of these
deficiencies would be remedied through changes in the cost sharing arrangements
(para. 64) and the second through appropriate engineering and economic criteria
(para. 61).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
44.        A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report of a Second Feeder Roads
Project" (No. 2442b-BR, dated June 6, 1979) is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. A Loan and Project Summary is at the front of
this report, and a Supplementary Project Data Sheet is appended as Annex III.
The project was appraised by a Bank mission in December 1978. Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. from May 7 to 11, 1979. The Brazilian delega-
tion was led by Mr. Josef Barat of BNDE.
Project Objectives
45.        Apart from the immediate advantages of improved and reliable road
access, in the longer term the project is expected to:



- 13 -
a)   provide means and incentives for higher agricultural productivity
and promote better land use;
b)   lessen the isolation of rural areas and improve their access to
health, education, and social services, and promote increased
regional integration; and
c)   promote the institutional development of participating agencies,
particularly the state highway departments, municipal road
consortia and the municipalities, and strengthen the capacity of
federal agencies (BNDE and DNER) to appraise and supervise feeder
road projects.
Project Description
46.       The proposed project would assist in the continuation of a program
administered by BNDE under which funds are onlent to sub-borrowers for the
construction and improvement of rural feeder roads. The program would include:
(a) the construction, rehabilitation or improvement of roads linking agricul-
tural areas or third level urban centers to state and federal through roads;
and (b) the improvement of earth roads and tracks to all-weather standards
in areas of high economic potential for which a defined development program is
to be implemented.
National Bank for Economic Development (Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento
Economico-BNDE)
47.       BNDE was created in 1952 as a federal agency to support the Govern-
ment's efforts to develop key sectors of the economy. In 1971 it was trans-
formed into a Government-owned public enterprise, and granted greater financial
and administrative autonomy under the Secretariat of Planning of the Presidency.
The administration which took office on March 15, 1979 placed BNDE under the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry. BNDE has become the Government's most
important financial instrument for economic development. Its investment in
transportation has been declining recently, mainly due to a reduction of loans
to the railways. BNDE's involvement in road transport has been primarily in
feeder road financing, and BNDE established a Feeder Road Working Group
(para 49). As of January 1, 1979, BNDE had participated in the construction
and improvement of nearly 19,000 km of feeder roads. Any changes in the
responsibility of institutions involved in the proposed project would be
subject to the Bank's approval prior to implementation (Section 5.01(c) of the
draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.05(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
The National Highway Department (Departamento Nacional de Estradas
de Rodagem-DNER)
48.       DNER, an autonomous agency under the Ministry of Transport, admin-
isters the federal highway network and has been the Government's executing
agency for six highway loans made by the Bank since 1968. DNER is well
managed and efficient. DNER operates through 21 district offices (one in each
state except Acre); roads in the federal territories are administered by DNER



- 14 -
offices in neighboring states. DNER derives its funds mainly from road-user
taxes, and administers a National Highway Fund, part of the resources of which
are used by DNER itself and part passed on to states and municipalities.
49.       A Feeder Roads Working Group was established within DNER to assist
BNDE with the administration of the first project. A Steering Committee would
be formed to coordinate the BNDE and DNER Working Groups (Special Condition of
Effectiveness, Section 7.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement), and DNER would
expand the staff of its Group (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The staff of the BNDE Working Group also needs to be expanded, initially by
the addition of two qualified economists (Section 2.03(b) of the draft Project
Agreement).
The Sub-Borrowers
50.       Under the Secondary and Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1207-BR), only
state highway departments and municipal consortia could participate. Munici-
palities could participate only if they were associated in a consortium,
forcing those in the more remote and poorer areas of the country to be left
out of the program. The proposed project would enable individual municipali-
ties to participate in the feeder roads project.
A.   State Highway Departments
51.       Each state has its own highway department (Departamento de Estradas
de Rodagem - DER) for the construction and maintenance of the state highway
network and related technical services. The DERs regulate public transporta-
tion services, police the state highways, and cooperate with state planning
agencies in the preparation of state highway plans. At times, they have
assumed joint responsibility for the construction, maintenance and policing of
municipal roads. In addition, some DERs (Minas Gerais, Rio Grande do Sul, and
Parana) maintain the federal highway network within their state jurisdiction.
A concerted Government policy supported by the Bank to delegate the maintenance
of federal highways to the state DERs is being implemented. Financially, the
DERs are dependent on revenues from the National Highway Fund, administered
by DNER, and, where available, on annual allocations in the state budgets.
Proceeds of the National Highway Fund are apportioned to the states on the
basis of their fuel consumption, population and area. Since 1976, as a result
of the distribution of the increase in fuel tax revenues, the financial
position of the DERs has improved considerably.
B.   Municipal Road Consortia
52.       Because of the limited financial and technical resources of many
individual municipalities, several states have encouraged the formation
of municipal consortia or other joint municipal agencies to take collective
advantage of economies of scale in the planning, construction and maintenance
of local municipal roads and services, and to join forces in the procurement
and use of funds. These consortia and agencies are incorporated as companies
under state law. Their primary purpose is the construction of an integrated
municipal road system and the provision of proper maintenance to the roads
built. They are financed by state contributions, public institutions, and the



- 15 -
municipalities themselves. Some consortia have sufficient funds to buy equip-
ment and hire qualified professionals, while others are technically and
financially weak. For this reason, the practice established by BNDE in the
first project, requiring adequate backing from the state governments both
with financial guarantees and with execution of the sub-projects, would be
extended to ithe proposed project.
C.  Municipalities
53.       Municipalities are the basic units of local government.  Each has a
recognized seat of government from which executive, legislative, administrative
and planning functions are discharged. Some municipalities, such as Sao Paulo,
Curitiba and Porto Alegre, have professional planning and administrative staff,
while others deliver only rudimentary services. The autonomy of municipalities
is guaranteed by the federal constitution.  They depend on the federal revenue-
sharing system and some of their own resources for revenues. In the more
developed ani industrialized rmunicipalities, the federal revenue-sharing system
contributes considerably to municipal budgets, but for most municipalities,
federal and state resources f:Lnance only the most basic services. Roads are
mostly financed with the municipal share of the gasoline tax (8% of the tax
proceeds). Since financial resources of individual municipalities are limited,
subloans to them would be no more than US$4.0 million equivalent, with a mini-
mum of about US$0.4 million equivalent.
54.       The proposed projectL would continue Bank efforts to strengthen not
only DNER and the sub-borrowers, but could in time improve the project pre-
paration capabilities of states and regional development banks, to whom BNDE
intends to delegate some of iits activities under the program. The fact that
these banks are more attuned to local needs and closer to the execution of the
works renders them well-suited for gradually assuming some of BNDE's functions.
A plan to strengthen state and regional development banks has been included in
the Development Banking Project (Loan 1206-BR). State banks in Minas Gerais,
Parana, Sao Paulo and Rio Grande do Sul, and regional banks in the southeast
and in the northeast, would possibly be among the first to take over some of
BNDE's functions. The delegation of responsibility to regional development
banks would considerably change the relationship between sub-borrowers and
BNDE, especially on sub-project preparation and execution. Before such a
delegation takes place, therefore, the Bank would be given an opportunity to
assess the technical capacity of the state or regional development bank
concerned. No delegation of responsibility would take place without the
Bank's prior consent (Section 2.05(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
Sub-Project Eligibility and Preparation
55.       Feeder roads are defined as roads which (i) channel the production
of agricultural areas to the trunk road and highway system, to marketing and
assembly centers, to consumption centers, or to processing, commercialization
or export centers, and (ii) provide road access to areas and population centers
where previously none existed.
56.       To promote uniformity in the preparation and presentation of applica-
tions for assistance under the program, in 1970 BNDE prepared a manual for
applicants that specified the conditions, types of projects, and studies to be



- 16 -
submitted in support of an application. This manual was revised in 1976 and
is being used to prepare applications for assistance under the first project.
The new manual included significant improvements in technical specifications
and the economic analysis methods for the proposed roads. However, the
engineering design criteria and the methodological requirements for subproject
evaluation proved to be too high, especially for the lesser developed states
of the north and northeast of Brazil. Substantive changes, which were discussed
during negotiations, have been incorporated into a new edition of the manual.
The issuance of an agreed final version of the manual would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 7.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
No further substantial change in the manual would be made without the prior
agreement of the Bank and DNER (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
57.       To be eligible for financing under the program, feeder roads would
have to meet the following conditions:
a)   not be part of the federal highway program;
b)   not be under consideration for inclusion in a state highway or
road construction program in the next five years;
c)   be part of the basic infrastructure required in a program area
for which defined development programs have been established, or
provide for the needs of third or fourth order urban centers;
d)   have a maximum (average annual) traffic of 700 vehicles 1/ per
day in the last year of their economic life (estimated to be
10 years); and
e)   have a minimum economic rate of return of 12%, estimated
according to the methods described in the manual for applicants.
If a road proposed for financing under the program does not comply with
conditions (a) to (c) above, a written statement will be required from the
State Planning Department, or equivalent state or municipal institution,
to ensure the compatibility of the proposed road with state or municipal
development programs (Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
58.       Responsibility for the preparation and presentation of subloan
applications would, as in the past, rest with the sub-borrower. Applica-
tions would be supported by technical and economic studies of the roads as
well as detailed information on the sub-borrower's financial position,
capability to plan and supervise construction, and to maintain the roads.
Few sub-borrowers have, however, developed the capability to carry out the
analysis by themselves, particularly the economic evaluation of the roads, so
consultants will continue to help prepare the feasibility studies in collabora-
tion with the sub-borrower's resident staff.
1/   This level of traffic is the maximum consistent with design standards
for feeder roads.



- 17 -
Methodology for Sub-Project Evaluation
59.       The manual describes the steps required to assess the economic
feasibility of roads according to either of the following two suggested
methods.
(a) The traditional transport project analysis method is recommended-
for comparatively developed areas, where economic activity and traffic are
already substantial (above 100 vehicles per day). In these cases, economic
justification would be based on vehicle operating cost savings. However, only
savings accruing from normal traffic and its historic growth would be allowed;
savings from generated and diverted traffic, and benefits attributable to time
savings, would not be included.
(b) The value-added or producer surplus method is recommended for
relatively undeveloped areas where the prime objective is not merely to
provide a basic transport infrastructure but also to provide other facilities
and services to promote the development of the area. In these cases, transport
investments are only one part of the necessary investment; a well-defined
program, placing all requirements in perspective, must be available. This
method permits the establishmient of a direct link between benefits and the
full package of investments required to realize those benefits.
60.       A combination of thes traditional method and the value-added method
can also be used to assess the economic feasibility of individual road links
or full programs in intermediate cases between the two extremes defined.
Engineering Standards
61.       Design standards and specifications used in the first project were
interpreted too rigorously. An effort has therefore been made to provide a
wider range of standards and to adapt specifications to the requirements of
lower standard roads. This would allow a more flexible approach. The new
standards have been designed to (i) link the geometric characteristics of the
roads to the tenth year traffic, and not the first year traffic as was the
case before, (ii) accommodate staged construction or improvement of the roads,
and (iii) allow a maximum of 700 vehicles per day in the tenth year.
Sub-project Review
62.       BNDE would approve or reject applications from states and municipal
consortia for which total project costs do not exceed US$10.0 million, and
applications from municipalities which do not exceed US$1.5 million, without
reference to the Bank. Applications which exceed these limits would be re-
ferred to the Bank for approval (Section 2.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
The Project would finance at least 12 to 15 sub-projects. Experience under
the first project suggests that two out of ten would be exempt from prior
review. By exempting relatively small sub-projects from Bank review, loan
administration is simplified, and operation of the program expedited. The
risks involved are minimal since BNDE has built up an adequate capacity to
review and screen applications.



- 18 -
Sub-project Execution, Supervision, and Monitoring
63.       Final engineering would be started once an application is accepted.
Its execution would be closely monitored by DNER and BNDE, and the Bank would
be kept informed of progress of the work (Sections 2.10(a) and (b) of the
draft Project Agreement). The responsibility for supervision of sub-projects
would rest with the sub-borrowers.  Their capacity to carry out this task
would be assessed in the process of reviewing applications. If, in the
opinion of BNDE and DNER, the sub-borrower has the capacity to supervise the
works, this would be permitted, but not paid for under the program. However,
if it is necessary to hire a consultant, the cost would be financed under the
program in the same proportion as other expenses. BNDE and DNER would closely
monitor the progress of sub-projects and keep-the Bank informed through
summary reports every quarter (Section 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
Engineering designs for the first of the sub-projects are expected to be
started in early 1980, and construction started in early 1981. The proposed
loan is expected to be committed in about three years and disbursed in about
six years after effectiveness.
Project Costs and Disbursements
64.       The total cost of the proposed project would be US$338.5 million,
including US$54 million (about 16 percent of total costs) in local taxes. The
proposed loan of US$110 million would finance 32.5% of the total project cost,
equivalent to the estimated foreign exchange component, and would be onlent by
the Government to BNDE on the same terms and conditions. BNDE would bear the
foreign exchange risk; its contribution would be equal to that of the Bank,
i.e., US$110 million equivalent in local currency. DNER would contribute 8.9%
(US$30.1 million equivalent) in the form of a grant, and the sub-borrowers
would contribute 26.1% (US$88.4 million equivalent) of total project costs.
The low-income states of the north and northeast (Group A 1/) would contribute
20% of sub-project costs; the middle-income states of the center and southeast
(Group B 2/), 30%; and the higher-income state of Sao Paulo (Group C), 40%.
An agreement to be entered into between DNER and BNDE, whereby DNER undertakes
to provide US$30.1 million equivalent as a grant (Section 3.01(c) of the draft
Loan Agreement), is also a special condition of effectiveness (Section 7.01(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement). The DNER funds would be passed on by BNDE, as a
grant, to sub-borrowers. The actual total amounts of BNDE and DNER contribu-
tions towards the program will vary depending on whether mcore sub-projects are
in the groups of States where their contribution is relatively larger. BNDE
and DNER would provide such additional funds as may be needed (Sections 3.01(a)
and (c) of the draft Loan Agreement). Bank disbursements would be made against
the reimbursable portion of BNDE's sub-loans--i.e., as a percentage of BNDE's
1/   Group A includes Acre, Alagoas, Amazonas, Bahia, Ceara, Espirito Santo,
Goias, Maranhao, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Para, Paraiba, Pernambuco,
Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe.
2/   Group B includes Mlinas Gerais, Parana, Rio Grande do Sul, Rio de Janeiro
and Santa Gatarina.



- 19 -
own funds and of Bank funds onlent to sub-borrowers, but excluding the DNER
grant. Depending on the state of origin of sub-borrowers, the Bank would
reimburse BN])E (Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement) as follows:
Group A States      47 percent of reimbursable payments made by
BNDE to sub-borrowers;
Group B States      52 percent of reimbursable payments made by
BNDE to sub-borrowers; and
Group C States      60 percent of reimbursable payments made by
BNDE to sub-borrowers.
In order to make the cost-sharing arrangements of the first and the proposed
second loans consistent with each other, the percentages of disbursement in
sub-loans still to be committed under the first loan (para. 43) would be made
to conform to the above percentages (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
BNDE estimates that 36 percent of the proposed loan would be committed by the
end of 1980, 69 percent by the end of 1981 and 100 percent by the end of 1982.
65.       To ensure an even diistribution of the project's funds, no more than
US$50 million (15%) would be spent in any one state, except in the comparatively
richer state of Sao Paulo, for which the limit would be set at US$25 million
(Section 2.05 of the draft Project Agreement).
Onlending Terms and Conditions
66.       Sub-loans would be for a period of not less than eight and not more
than ten years plus one to four years of grace (depending on the expected
construction period for each particular sub-project). The interest rate would
be 4% for Group A, 5% for Group B, and 7% for Group C with monetary correction
(Schedule 1, para. 3, of the draft Project Agreement). BNDE would bear the
exchange risk between the currencies disbursed by the Bank and the Brazilian
cruzeiro.
67.       An important condition of the financial assistance under the
program would be the assumption by the beneficiary of responsibility for the
maintenance of the roads builit. A thorough assessment of the sub-borrowers'
capability to maintain the roads would be made before approval of sub-loans.
State highway departments wouLd be required to maintain roads for which they
are the sub-borrowers. Municipalities and municipal consortia would have to
provide a formal commitment from their state highway department to assume the
maintenance of the roads in case they cannot honor their maintenance agreements
(Section 2.01(b)(vi) of the draft Project Agreement).
Procurement
68.       Individual contracts for civil works are expected to be for US$500,000
or less. Procurement of civil works would follow the Government's competitive
bidding procedures with local advertising only (Section 2.01(b)(ii) of the
draft Project Agreement). Alt'hough these procedures allow foreign contractors
to bid, it is expected that most, if not all, of the civil works would be



- 20 -
contracted to local firms. The Bank would take the following measures to
ensure proper execution of the project:
(a)  Based on the information on progress of designs, as supplied
by BNDE and DNER, review and approve, ex-post-facto, a sample
of about 10% of the final engineering and procurement documents
for sub-projects;
(b)  Review a sample of about 10% of contract awards on an ex-post-
facto basis, with the right to exclude from financing such
contracts not awarded following agreed procedures;
(c)  Review quarterly progress reports and other pertinent information;
and
(d)  provide supervision missions which would analyze the efficiency
of the institutions in operational procedures, visit a sample
of-subproject sites to review progress and quality of the works,
and, on a continuing basis, reassess the program to see whether
it would need changes to improve it. Bank supervision would,
by means of discussion and exchange of views, emphasize training
of the groups responsible for project preparation, appraisal and
supervision.
69.       Bid prices and total costs of the works would be closely monitored
by BNDE and DNER. Should they exceed the estimates provided in the feasibility
studies by 20% or more, the sub-borrower would be required to reassess the
economic feasibility of the proposed road. Should the reassessment show the
road to be no longer feasible, financial support for its construction would be
withdrawn. If the reassessment shows that the road is still feasible, finan-
cing would be honored, but additional costs beyond those initially included in
the sub-loan would have to be borne entirely by the sub-borrower.
Rate of Return
70.       A rate of return has not been calculated for the proposed project
because the sub-projects to be included in the program have not yet been
identified. However, experience with the first project shows that rates of
return will most likely fall between 15% and 25%, with some as high as 40%.
Roads to be financed under the proposed project would be required to yield a
minimum economic rate of return of 12% (Section 2.07(e) of the draft Project
Agreement).
Project Benefits
71.       The proposed project would have a positive impact on agricultural
development. Improved access from rural areas and communities to the rest of
the country would contribute to agricultural development by (i) reducing
operating costs and achieving economies of scale resulting from the use of
heavier vehicles, with the cost savings accruing principally to producers and
consumers, given the competitive nature of the road transport industry;
(ii) reducing risk and uncertainty to farmers by providing more reliable



- 21 -
all-weather access to markets, storage and processing facilities, and by
allowing farmers to shift production to some perishable products when demand
and supply conditions are appropriate; and (iii) facilitating access to
essential farm inputs such as fertilizers, seeds, insecticides and to Govern-
ment credit and extension programs for the agricultural sector. The proposed
roads would also produce significant benefits from road user savings accruing
to existing traffic.
72.       The frontier areas would also benefit from the provision of feeder
roads which would allow more integrated and economic development to take
place. Settlement is now occurring along main trunk roads. The proposed
project would provide for the construction of feeder connections from the
new settlement areas to the main trunk network, permitting better utilization
of the new lands.
73.       Arnother major benefit from the project would be better access for
isolated communities to social, health and education programs. In addition,
the project would have signif'icant institution-building aspects arising from
improvements in the planning, appraisal and selection of rural roads, both at
the state and local levels an,d at BNDE and DNER.
Project Risks
74.       The proposed project involves minimal risks.  The initial delays
experienced in committing funds under the first project are not expected to
be repeated in the proposed project because a portfolio of sub-projects would
be available. The strengtherLing of BNDE's Feeder Road Working Group would
allow BNDE to assist prospective sub-borrowers in the preparation of sub-
projects. The review of sub-projects under execution has led to the adoption
of improved procedures and practices for final engineering, contracting and
supervision;; further improvements and corrective measures will probably be
made as necessary.  BNDE has already demonstrated its ability to select
well-justified roads under the first project. It is expected that it will
continue to do so under the proposed project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Banco
Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico, and the draft Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
77.       Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section III
of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are described in paragraphs
49, 56, and 64.
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 6, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                          ANNEX I
Page I
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
/a
LAND AREA (IHOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                               - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           8512.0                                                 SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    2066.0                               MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME      INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                320.0       580.0    1390.0          1066.7    1796.4       2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    332.0       474.0    670.0            911.1    1525.0       2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                       69.8        92.8    113.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 44.5       55.7      61.4            57.9       52.2.
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       8.0        11.0      13.3            25.6       27.6        55.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    44.0        49.0      55.0            77.6      116.4        83.6
POPU'LATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRE.                        43.0        42.0      41.7            42.0       34.8        40.0
15-64 YRE.                        54.0        55.0      55.1            52.2       56.0        55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.0         3.0       3.2             3.7        5.7         3.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.0         3.0       2.8             2.7        1.6         2.9
URBAN                             5.5         5.0       4.4             4.3        3.4
CRUDE BIRT'H RATE (PER THOUSAND)   40.8        38.4      37.1            35.8       27.0        31.7
CRUDE DEATH'RATE (PER THOUSAND)     11.7        9.9       8.8             9.1        9.9         7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.6         2.6       2.5             2.6        1.9         1.6
FAMILY PLANN ING
ACCEPTOES, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       111.0    203.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         1.6        ..            15.1       19.3
FOOD AND NUT'RITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            87.8       100.0    112.3            102.1      103.8       114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 102.0       104.0    105.0            103.9      110.4       113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         61.0        64.0      62.1            60.3       77.7        89.9
OF MIHCH ANIMAL AND PULSE      38.0        39.0      33.6            26.7       22.2        48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      ..          ..        ..             8.7        1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    56.0       59.4      61.4            62.6       63.0        60.2
INFANT MORITALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          180.0      110.0        ..            56.9       38.2        22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        56.3      71.7            60.7       67.7        83.0
URBAN                              *-        77.7      83.2            78.0       83.5       100.0
RURAL                              ..        29.0      52.9            34.9       41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        59.9      65.5            61.1       70.3        57.8
URBAN                              ..        86.1      86.3            80.3       90.7        99.3
RURAL                              ..        26.5      39.0            25.4       38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         2170.0      1910.0   1650.0 If        1899.3    1310.8        976.9
POPULATIOII PER NURSING PERSON       ..      3220.0   2920.0 /f        1220.1      849.2       676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           275.0       260.0    260.0            422.3      275.4       325.8
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..           258.2      129.9       250.0
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..          2281.6      965.9       770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        18.0        *-            25.6       18.9        18.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.1         4.8        ..             5.2        3.9
URBAN                              ..         4.6        ..
RURAL                              ..         5.2        ..
AVERAGE NIJMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          1.1       1.1 /f         2.0        0.9
URBAN                              ..         1.0       1.2 77          2.1        0.8
RURAL                              ..         1.2       1.2 /f          2.7        1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINiGS)
TOTAL                            38.7        47.6      55.1            51.2       59.2
URBAN                              ..        75.6      77.9            77.3       78.0
RURAL                              *-         8.4      1N2.5           12.8       12.5



ANNEX I
-  24  -                                        Page 2
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                     REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
/a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  95.0        83.0       90.0            103.5        97.6        104.1
FEMALE                93.0         83.0      90.0            102.9        87.4        120.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0        27.0       26.0             37.2        47.8        44.7
FEMALE                10.0         27.0      20.0             37.9        42.6         46.0
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OP SECONDARY) 19.0           17.0      47.0 a           14.7        22.7         18.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIHARY                             33.0        28.0       22.0             32.8        25.4        30.6
SECONDARY                           13.0        13.0       11.0             17.8        24.9         16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         61.0         66.0        ..             74.9        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0        25.0       35.0             26.9        32.3        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          66.0        60.0       60.0            173.5       201.9        195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          18.0        66.0       83.0             69.4        97.7        108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   54.0         37.0      39.0             72.8        70.9        108.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0            1.9        ..              4.3         4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22700.0       29400.0   34100.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    17.5        20.4       21.6             21.4        17.4        26.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               52.0        40.4       37.8             37.8        38.4        25.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  14.8        18.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.0         31.6      31.5             30.8        33.7         40.1
MALE                                  52.7         50.3      49.5             47.2        50.8         55.8
FEMALE                                11.2         12.8      13.6             13.2        12.6         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6          1.5        1.4             1.7         1.4          1.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   27.7 /h       34.9 /h                     28.9        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  54.4 T        62.2  h                     57.7        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.5 /h         3.2  y     ..              3.2         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.6 /h        10.0 /h     ..             10.7        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..            251.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..     150.0            200.6       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     465.0            403.1       448.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..     332.0            258.0       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
DNCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      34.0             24.8        23.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      55.0             65.2        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Upper Middle Income (S1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /e High lncome
(over $2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1972;  /R  Beginning 1973, duration of general education reduced
from 7 to 4 years, therefore data may not be comparable to those of earlier years;  /h  Data refer
to economically active population.
September, 1978



- 25 -                                                              ANNEX I
DEFINITTONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                    Page 3
Notg: The adjusted group .Iverages for each indicator are popilatiox-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme valoes of the indicator and the most
popalated coantry in cash group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and in not uniform,  Due to lack of data.,
group averages for Capital Sorplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribhtion and poverty are
simple populxtion-ielghted geometric means without the eaclolroc of extreme vaiues.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. kn:                                                             Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total.
Total - Total surface aremi  comprising land area and inland waters.                     urban, and rural) divided by their respective nutber of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recenl. estimate of agricultural area used temporarily               available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, postures, market and kitchen gardens or to                   habilitation canteen.  Hospitals are establishmente pereanontly staffed by
lie follow.                                                                            at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care,are not included.  Rural hospitals. howover, include hcalth and medi-
GNP PER CAPIIA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at cureent market prices,                 cal centers not pernanently staffed by ' physician (at hby  a medical a.-
caloulated by cmam  co-nvrsino  method as World Sank Atlas (1975-77 basis);            sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer is-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 d.l:a.                                                            provide a limited range of medinol facilities.
Admissions Per hospital bed - Total number of odeisio.s to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPKTA - Annual consumption of commeccial energy                   from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                  NOUSING
Average siec of hmu...hold (persons net ho-ehold) - total, urba.. and rural -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATI'.TICS                                                          A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quanrura
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                  and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                          the houxehold for statistical purposec.  Statistical definitiono of hoon-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban tn total popula-                    hold vary.
tion; different definitLons of urban areas may affect comparability                 Aversee number of persons per room - total, arban, and rural - Average nma-
of data among countries.                                                               bar of persons per rtem in all, urban, and rural occupied conventfonal
Population density                                                                       dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude mno-permanent structures and
Per  as. km. - Mid-year ,opulation per square kilometer (LlO hectares)                 unoccapied parts.
of total area.                                                                       Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture Land - Computed as above for ngri-altural land                  Conventional dwellinga with electricity in living quarters ao  percentage
only.                                                                                  of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and ever) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
year population.                                                                   Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Coep,und annual                  Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total aud urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                      at the primary level ans percentages of respectively primary schooi-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                  populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted fcr
Crude birth rate (per tho.sand) - Annual live births per thousand of                     different lengths of primary education; for count rins with universa1 edu-
mid-year population; tea-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                   cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since none pupils dre below no
1970 and five-year avernge.eeding in 1975 for most recent estimate.                    sbove the official school age.
Crude death rate (per th-usand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                   Secondary school - total, and female - Conputed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithretic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                  tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
snd five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                         vides general vncational, or teather training instrucrtien  far pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average numher of daughters a woman will bear                  usulIly of 12 to 17 yearn of age; correspondence  courses are generally
in her normal seproductive period if she experiences present age-                      excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational imnlstuttons c.        -
1970, and 1975.                                                                        dlude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independertly
Family planning - acceptors., annual (thousands) - Annual number of                      or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                      primary and secondary levels divided by numberu of teachers in the corrc-
Family planning - users (per-ent of malrrid womee) - Percentage of                       nponding lev-e.
married woeen of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control              Adult literacy rate (Eercent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) cs
devices to all married aomen in same age group.                                        a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD ANl NUTRITION                                                                    CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index somber of per                  Pas..nge r oars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars  -prise mtca
capit .nnnual production of all food commodities.                                    seating less then eight persons; eccludes ambulances, hearses and ehlitacy
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                vehicles.
energy equivalent of net fbod supplies avallable in country per capita              Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of orceivers fin  radic
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less              broadcasts to general public per thoasand of population; excludes cnlicecsed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies e-clude animal feed, seeds,             receivers in rouetries and in years when ragistrotion  if radio sets wns in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                 effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-               abolished licensing.
anl activity and health considering envirormeetal temperature, body                 TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast tc  ciscraL
weights, age and se  distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                 public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in cow-
nest far waste at household level.                                                     tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                 Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shiws the average circula-
capita net supply of fcod per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                   tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
sbove.  Requirements fcr a11 countries estoblished by USDA provide for                c-tion  devoced primarily to recocrdig genera  onus.  it -  -conid-red to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                  be "daily" if it appears at least four ties a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.            Cinema snnual attendance Per capita per year - Based on the number cf ti-kets
These standards are lnver than those of 75 grams of totel protein and                  sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemso  and mobilc
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                    units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pnoie - Protein supply of food             EMPLOYMENT
derived from nnimals nr,d palces in grams per day.                                  Total labor force (thousands) - ecomosically active per-ons. includmg armed
Child (ass 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual de aths per thous-                ior-es and unemployed but eacluding housewives, stdents, etc.  Pfini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age groap.                             Lions in various countries are not comparable.
Pemale (percent) - Fesale labor fore as percentage  if total lsbor force.
NEALTN                                                                                 hAclci.1tre (percent) - Labor forne Em forcing, forestry, basting and fiol:fisg
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years, of life                      as p ercentage of total labor force,
remaining at birth; ussIally five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,               Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                              eletricity  w        a   g   an percentae of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (pr thousand) - Annual deaths of infants cnder                  Participanion rote (percent) -  total, mal, and female - Total, male, ud
one year of age per thousan..d live birhts.                                            remale labor force as percentages of their r-specofo- popclatico-
Access to safe water (peecent of population) - total. urbem, and rural -                 These are ILO's edjusted participation rates refl-ctirg ocr-sec
Number of people (tota], urban, and rural) with reasons.ls a. en.    s to t             ne-crre of the pepolatiso. amA lon  tine 1end.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                 Economic dpe tdescy ratio - Ratio of populatin ude  1  and hi and ovr to
uncontaminated water cc:eh as that from protected boreholes, springs,               Ethie labor foren  in age group of 11-64 years.
end sanitary wells) as percentagee of thair respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                   INCOME DISTRIBTION
than  200 meters from a house may be considered as being within tea-                PerCeae of private iocon   (both Is cash and bind) cecIi by   cl-ot N
sonable access of that house.  In tural areas reasonable access would                Percenta   richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent,  nd poorest hi prceste5
imply that the hoesewife or members of the household di  not have to                   of hous rehlds.t
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROP
Access no encreta disposl (percent of Population) - total, urba   and                P eRe abslt GO etn
rural - Number of peoplo (total, urban, and rural) served by ennceta                     Abs olute p ov erty i ncome level s that losen leel below whoch ano-an
disposal as percentage- of their respective populations.  Excrete                      nutritionally adequate diet P.lu  essential ron-fond  equ iree ents is 00t
disposal nay inclade the collectton and disposal, with or without                      affordable,
treatment, of human e-cretn  and waste-water by water-bor-e systems                 istimated rative pov          c      er             c        -rband
Or the use of pit priv:es end similar installations                                  es ative    pov erty  income level s than i..m.  icopit le   thatan s--thad
Pooalanlsn per ohysiciam  - Popalation divided by number of practicing                   per capita personal incme   of the cun try.
physicians qualified from a medical school at univerat-y level,                     Estimated population below povrty ihn l                         -ar       asi  rrot
Populainrs             n     n  - Population divided by number of                        Peret ot Population (urban and rural) who are cuber              ute por  or
practicing  male and fer-ale graduate  nurnes, practical nrsPes, and                   "ri-'Piv  poor" whichever Is greater.
assist ant narses.                                           re a                       rltv    or   hcee   sgetr
Economic and Social Data liviciso
Eronosic Analysis and Projections Department



fl0'3Co  HH-.0HH    0'H.3HH    HO-tO--oH       to         Co,H HZOCHCH.H00300
00000   o00b'0033  to oooOo    ooooHto                      300  00000300=3-HH
oOoOHo0H't0300t-OOOHH  000-Hon    000.03000    nO-onH'-30 0,30003000
3' 00030000  to 0,0000  33 000.3    H O3b 0-3300    O33000H C 0b33000 00
000000  HOHOHO  30    33030 0-tO 330   00'00H0    - 000oH0-33gq3%0
OH0Ott  000=t3   0t0H0              0       -      03-0  003 003 0b'-30
030 H  OHH  -3 0000-0. H      H  30  CO  H    30  0. 0 300
Ho     - '-0  30  0-000          H  0  0    H  0-0    H         HO
Ia         -O                     0        0 C         CO   0
gO                     0
I - 300H030300- H                OH>          HH3HHH       HHHOH0000  H         -
* - - ' ' ' 10- H 0-HHOO    OOHH'0    - '    H HO> 0-HO  0- -H0-H  HHH'0 O>0'O0-H H      H
H H 30HOH30H H                   H  H HO    H             HH0H    >  H
H '30''''''  0           H H H   -  - - -    >03'H0       HHHOH HoOt' 0-        -
CC       0  HC0-HHH  0HHHHH    >030    H HHHC0-H                                '        H>
OHHH                  HOOCH    ' ' '    H 30HHHOHHHHOH           000HHHHHHH            H
H 3030303030HH H         0-0-H    >HHHHHHHHH              HOOHHHH0-HHH          H
30>-HOC I H ,''* OHHHHH 0030- - - - - H
I 'H OHHHHOO  - H0-030H    ' ' '    H >0--oH OOOHHHH
I H 300000H0H  ' HOHOH    H-C    H 0000HH   0 HOHH         H0HH>O0 30          0
0 HOOHHH  0                   0 HHHHHO   H -OOHH        HOHHHOOHHHH
H OCHOCH> H                      HO>>    >HOOH            H 000HHH0-003H        H
H H '''''- 0  0-0>- - - H
OH HHHC H- C HOHHOH  H>HHHH    HH30    H HOHHOH   H HOOH           O000000HH30H3         0
I- 00300>00  ' 030030H    - - '    H OOOH OH   HCOOH       0000O'0H0- OOH       0
OH>    H HHOHOH   H 0>030        HHHHOHHOH0-30        0
H 0 30 H H    - - '    'H H - 0 0 0  0 H H H 03    H 00oHH0HH0- 0  0
>OH30o    CHH    HHHHH HO   H H03HO        003>0 HHH0-H0-H                C
000                                                 H  OH 0-H  0-00-H>        OH03HHHHHH  H         H        30
OH>    H 000-H OHOHOHO           oOOOoHOHO  0         'H       C
HOH                                  H H H    >00    H 3000 HHH   0-00H 0     H H OH> H> >0003              03
">0                                                                                                  0       H
'4  HHHO>   000-30>      HOHOOHO 0-0 H         HO       H
30030    H HOOCH>   0 0300H      0 0H>03030>o0->      030      -3
- - 00-0-   - ' -    0 o0-OH,H   0 300-030    0- H>0-HO>H0-00   30       0-
0030    0>0    0 0330>30003>0>> 30    H 0>0>000300303          C
03   H>>    >HO    HHOH>OH         HHHH      03H>OHHHH0HH          0
0030    - - '    H 0>0>300   H 'oHO>    HOHOHHHOH0>0          H
0003>03     03300 030-HOHOHO  -   -
0-H003   - - >03>    >00    0-00>000   003000         >00030000000
0-'  0        0              HtHHO    3  3  >,    3
--  3       0-30   03030    > 0003>00  0' HOHO      >0>0 HOHO  03         0
H 0 - - -H
H  H        H H    0- 0 H    0 0030000   000 H H    000-0-
0   0                                                                      0
0>    0300   30 >003>003   0 >0-003    0-0-0-H 30303030 -03  00
00    0300    0 3003>000   0 >030>     000-00>00>            3
030   '0003                            03000 '0000
30 0>00-0  - - ----0 H
>03    Oo>    0 000000  'H 0->>>       0000  03>0303 0       003
Ho    HH'H   oo>00030   0 OOHo         03000 00300 0         0
00    00>    0 03000>0   0 00>0        0000  0003> 0
O  >  '0   0>0->>        >000    -30 0         H
0 >030004>   00->>>      oH>O'Oooo 3000        H
H 0>0>00   COOHO'    000>0030-00>0             0-
30  H  00   0>00>        >03>0     0 0         H
0 >000>00 0 OH-OH  >OOoOOHOO>00- 0- 33-0   0
o 00>0000  0 00-0>0    000>00000>0             0
>H'0HO0               :z>00              >              I'
0 >0>0>030 30 000030    Mt'>0 00'oHOOO
0         0                  0
0           H                         030
0  0-  000003000    >>>0           030         H
0 >0003000  0 H-H-b    0>0-030000000           0
 000-0-t&Z             000>00003000          0
O 0>003>0>    >03>0   0 0
H 000000   0 0o0-0       0-Ooo>Oo '0000        0
00030-0>0   0 00300      o0000>0-HH00          0



ANNEX I
Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Million USS)
A C T U A L                           PRELIMINARY              P R 0 J E C T E D
1974          1975          1976           1977            1978           1979           1980          1985           1990
A.  Summary ot Balance ot Payments
1.     Exports (inel. NFS)                        8,471          9,376        10,797         12,808          13,376         15,704         18,124        38,648         76,818
2.     Imports (intl. NPS)                        14,678        14,308         14,475        14,020           15,767        16,730         18,064        36,635         75.958
3.     Resource Balance                           -6,207        -4,932         -3,678        -1,212           -2,391        -1,026             60         2,013            860
4.     Net Factor Service Income                   - 916        -1,770         -2,339        -2,825           -3,420        -3,838         -4,297        -7,454        -11,589
,s. Net Tnterest Payments                     - 652         -1,498        -1,809        -2,104           -2,500         -2,880        -3,234         -5,288         -8,145
b. Direct Investment Income                   - 248          - 235         - 380          - 455           - 575          - 542          - 590        -1,030         -1,775
c. Other Fastor Service Income                -  16          -  37         - 150          - 266           - 345          - 416         - 473         -1.136        -1,669
5.     Current Transfers (Net)                         1              2             4            -                76              7             7              7              7
6.     Balance on Currenr Account                 -7,122        -6,700         -6,013        -4,037           -5,735        -4,857          -4,230       -5,434        -10,723
7.     Net Private Direct Investment                 887           892            962           810              800            770           760            750           750
8.     Medium- and Long-Term Loans
a. Traditional Sourcesa/
(i) Disbursements                       1,956          1,612         2,054          2,553           2,888          3,722          4,204         7,035         11,230
(ii) Amortization                         - 739         - 992         -1,350        -1,701           -1,842        -1,652         -1,960        -4,421         -7,048
(iii) Net Disbursements                    1,217            620           703           852            1,046         2,070          2,244          2,614         4,182
b. Financial Credits
(i) Disbursements                       5,103          4,524         5,978          5,940          11,364          3,168          7,247         9,088         17,765
(ii) Amortization                        -1,181        -1,194         -1,669        -2,426           -3,526        -4,150         -5,734        -5,920         -9,719
(iii) Net Disbursements                    3 ,922        3,330          4,309         3,514            7,838         - 982          1,513          3,168         8,046
9.     Use of IMP Resources                          -                7           -             -                -              -             -              -              -
10.     Short-term Capital and Capital n.e.i.    138                789          2,294         - 440            - 122            -              -             -              -
11.     Reserves (-= increasg                                                                                  -
a, Reserve Accumulation-                         958         1,062        -2,255          - 699          -3,825          2,999            287        -1,098         -2,255
b  Dollar Valuation Adjustment                   185           176         - 252          -  16            - 660            -             -              -             -
c. Changes in Reserve Levelc/                  1,143         1,238        -2,507          - 715          -4,485          2,999          - 287        -1,098         -2,255
12.     Foreign Exchange Reserves                   5,272         4,034          6,541         7,256           11,741          8,742         9,029         10,127         12,382
(End of Period)
B.  Grant and Loan Comeitments
1.     Total M&LT Loans                            7,179         7,005          9,482         9,738           15,349
1.1    IBRD                                          242            426           498           425              705
1.2    IDB                                           203            167           186            270             300
1.3    Governments                                   518            512         1,251         1,184            1,311
1.4.    Suppliers                                  1,088          1,376         1,300         1,100            1,186
1.5    Bonds                                          25            -             269            819           1,000
1.6    Financial Credits                           5,103         4,524          5,978         5,940           10,847
C.  Memorandum Items
1.     Grant Element of Total Commitments               2,5           2.5           2.5            2.8              ,,
2.     Average Interest (Percent)                       9.5           9.5            9.4           9.3              8.2
3.     Average Maturity (Years)                         9.0           9.9            8.3           8.9             10.6
a/ Includes multilateral agencies, hilateral lenders, suppliers' credits and bond issues.
b/ TFS LLne 79d.
c/  IFS Line ld.                                                                                                                                                                  April 5. 1979
...  not available



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
Actual                        Preliminary
1974         1975         1976         1977          1978
A. Medium- and Long-Term Debt
(Disbursed only)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (end of period)                          17,166       21,171       25,985        32,037       40,968
a.  By type of Debt
(1) Financial Credits                                      11,211       14,561       18,194        21,528       28,849
(2) Traditional Lendersa/                                   5,955        6,610         7,791       10,509       12,119
b.  By type of Borrower
(1) Public and Publicly Guaranteed                          8,533       11,461       14,852        19,309       24,704
(2) Private                                                 8,633        9,710       11,133        12,729       16,264
2,  Net Debt Service                                                 2,572        3,683        4,825         6,231        7,851
a.  Total Interest                                               1,370        1,863        2,091        2,462         3,200
b.  Net Interest                                                   652        1,498        1,810         2,103        2,500
3.  Public Debt Service                                              1,287        1,550        1,982         2,505        3,923
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Net Debt Service Ratiob/                                          30.4         39.3          44.7         48.6         58.7
2.  Total Net Debt Service Ratioc/                                    33.3         41.8         48.2          52.2         63.0
3.  Public Debt Service Ratio                                         15.2         16.5          18.4         19.6         29.3
4.  Liquidity Ratio-/                                                 23.0         33.3          43.0         39.2           ...
5.  Net Debt Service/GDP                                               2.3           3,0          3.3          3.8          4.1
6.  Public Debt Service/GDP                                            1.2          1.3           1.4          1.5          2.0
7.  Total DOD/GDP                                                     15.6         17.1          17.8         19.3         21.1
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DODe/                                 10.9         10.9           9.9          9.5         10.0
2.  Net Debt Service/Total DODe/                                      20.5         21.5          22.8         24.0         24.5
D.  Dependency Ratios for M&LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                           48.1         42.9          55.5         60.6         90.4
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)I/                                25.7         14.6          20.2         13.6         36.1
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                                  53.4         34.0          36.4         22.4         39.9
E.  Exposure
1.  IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.                                       3.5          4.1           2.2          3.5          2.6
2.  IbRD DOD/Total DOD                                                 4.9           5.2          5.0          4.8          4.6
3.  IBRD Debt Service/Net Debt Service                                 3.0          2.5           2.4          2.9          2.6
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)                                               Outstanding December 31, 1978 (Prel.)
Amount                                  Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                 1,812                                    4.4
2.  Other Multilateral                                                      995                                    2.5
3.  Governments                                                          3,328                                    8.1
4.  Suppliers                                                             3,570                                    8.7
5.  Bonds                                                                2,208                                     5.4
6.  Financial Credits                                                   28,849                                   70.4
7.  Other                                                                   206                                   0.5
8.  Total M&LT Debt                                                     40,968                                  100.0
9.  Total Public M&LT Debt                                              24,704 (est.)                            60.3
C.  Debt Profile
L.  Net Debt Service 1979-85/Total DOD end of 1978                                             209.6
a/  Includes multilateral agencies, bilateral lenders, suppliers' credits, bond issues and M&LT Loans n.e.i.
b/  Net Debt Service as percent of exports of goods and NFS.
c/  Including Direct Investment Income in debt service.
d/  Net Debt Service as a percent of exports of goods and NFS plus exchange (at beginning of year) in excess
of 3 months imports.
e/  As percent of DOD at beginning of year.
f/  Net transfer is equal to total net disbursements minus gross interest.
...  not available
Note: Debt service ratios have been calculated on the basis of net rather than gross interest payments in
order to take into accomtnt interest earned upon Brazil's international reserves.
April 5, 1979



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
2HE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY' STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of April 30, 1979)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower                Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Forty-three loans fully disbursed                                  1,360.5
756   1971  Brazil                              Ports                45.0           10.9
828   1972  Companhia Siderurgica               Industry             64.5             .1
Paulista
829   1972  Centrais Eletricas de Minas         Power                60.0             .1
Gerais - Sao Simao
853   1972  Brazil                              Land Settlement       6.7            1.5
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -         Power               125.0           35.4
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                              Agro-Industry        54.0           31.2
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao          Power                81.0           32.4
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009   1974  Banco Nacional da Habitacao         Water Supply         36.0            3.2
1067   1974  Brazil                              Education            23.5           17.4
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal            Railways            175.0           28.1
1075   1975  Brazil                              Roads               110.0           35.6
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                 95.0           76.6
1152   1975  Comp.anhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                60.0           54.6
1153   1975  Brazil                              Agriculture          23.0           16.6
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista          Railways             75.0           36.4
1195   1976  Brazil                              Rural Development  12.0             10.9
1206   1976  Brazil                              Development Bank   85.0             68.0
1207   1976  Braz:il                             Feeder Roads         55.0           53.0
1249   1976  Brazil                              Agriculture          40.0           36.2
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes             Fertilizer           50.0           12.6
1257   1976  Companhia Paranaense de             Power                52.0           33.5
Energia Eletrica - COPEL



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of April 30, 1979)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1300    1976  Eletrobras                       Power                 50.0          39.8
1302    1976  Brazil                           Nutrition             19.0          17.9
1309    1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply             40.0          29.2
1317    1976  Brazil                           Agro-Industry         83.0          83.0
1343    1977  ELETROSUL                        Power                 82.0          48.7
1362    1977  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   42.0            27.2
1406    1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer            64.0          59.2
1411    1977  Fertilizantes Vale do            Fertilizer            82.0          49.2
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452    1977  Brazil                           Education             32.0          30.9
1488    1977  Brazil                           Rural Development   17.0            16.4
1525    1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sewerage                110.0         110.0
1537    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   24.0            23.8
1538    1978  ELETROBRAS                       Power                130.0         130.0
1557    1978  Brazil                           Roads                114.0         114.0
1562    1978  COPESUL                          Petrochemicals        85.0          82.5
1563    1978  Brazil                           Urban Transport       88.0          84.5
1568    1978  Brazil                           Agric. Extension   100.0           100.0
1589    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   37.0            36.3
1654 /1 1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0               93.0
1656 /1 1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0              100.0
1660 /1 1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.            Aluminum              98.0          98.0
Total                                             4,178.2 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                 544.5
Total now outstanding                             3,633.7
Amount sold                            45.8
of which has been repaid            37.7             8.1
Total now held by Bank                            3 ,625 .6
Total undisbursed                                                 1,967.9
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.  On May 31, 1979, the Executive
Directors approved a loan of US$26 million for a rural development project
in Sergipe.



ANNEX II
- 31-                                    Page 3
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS  (as of April 30. 1979
Fiscal Year                          Obligor                                      Type of Business         Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957              Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                      Electrical Equipv'nt       2.00       -       2.00
1958              Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                            Pulp and Paper             1.20       -       1.20
1958              D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                            Automotive Parts           0.45       -       0.45
1958              Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                    Motor Vehicles              2.45       -       2.45
1959              Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                 Cement                     1.20       -       1.20
1959              Champ:Lon Celulose, S.A.                                    Pulp                       4.00       -       4.00
1966/1968/
1972              Acos Villares, S.A.                                         Steel                      8.00      1.93     9.93
1966/1969         Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                          Pulp and Paper             3.78      3.41     7.19
1967/1972         Ultra.Ee-rtil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio
de Fertilizantes                                         Fertilizers                8.22      3.03    11.25
1969              Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                                   Petrochemicals              5.50      2.88     8.38
1970              Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio                     Petrochemicals             5.50      2.88     8.38
1971              Oxitenio, S.A. Industria e Comercio                         Petrochemicals             4.60      1.44     6.04
1971              Rio Ccande - Companhia de CeltLlose do Sul                 Pulp                        4.90       -       4.90
1972/1975         Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                      Cement                    29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977    Companhia Siderurgica da Guanatbara - COSIGUA               Steel                     76.96      7.50    84.46
1973              Capital Market Development FurLd - FUMCAP                   Capital Market
Development               5.00       -       5.00
1973/1978         Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos                      Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                  Refining                 85.00      8.34    93.34
1974              Industrias Villares, S.A.                                  Elevators and Tndus-
trial Equipment           6.00        -      6.00
1974              Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                           Textiles                   31.00       -      31.00
1975              Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                            Carbon Black               6.18      1.08     7.26
1975              Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                      Petrochemicals            10.00       -      10.00
1976              Santista Industria - Textil dc Nordeste, S.A.               Textiles                   6.45      1.00     7.45
1976              Tecanor S.A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste               Textiles                   6.00       -       6.00
1977              FMB S.A. Productos Metalurgicos                             Iron and Aluminum
Castings                 20.00       -      20.00
1977              Mineracao Rio do Norte S.A.                                Mining                     15.00       -      15.00
1978              Cimetal Siderurgia S.A.                                     Iron and Steel             7.0       3.0     10.0
1979              Volvo do Brasil Motores e Veicules S.A.                     Motor Vehicles            60.00      5.00    65.00
Total Gross Commitments                                                             415.53    44.69   460.22
Less Cancellations, Terminations. Repayments and Sales                              312.04      8.52   320.55
Total Commitments Now Eeld by IFC                                                   103.49    36.17   139.67
Total Undisbursed                                                                    74.38    11.94    86.32



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
There are now 39 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. After long
delays, project execution is proceeding satisfactorily although it
appears now that project completion will not be realized until early
1980. Accordingly, a postponement of the closing date will be
required. In spite of tariff increases, the financial condition of
the Port of Santos continues to be unsatisfactory. Price escalation
for civil works continues to increase the project cost. All of the
increase is in local currency and is expected to be covered by
additional allocations from Brazil's federal Port Authority,
PORTOBRAS.
828        COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 15, 1979. The Stage II project was substantially
completed in September 1978 at a total project cost of US$970.4
million. This is twenty-six months behind the appraisal schedule
and at a cost of US$593.6 million (157%) higher than anticipated
at the time of appraisal. Production reached 2.05 million tons
of raw steel equivalent in 1978 compared with 1.54 million tons
in 1977 and 2.34 million tons forecast for 1979 when the plant
is operating at full capacity. In spite of the capital cost
increase the project remains competitive because of the corre-
sponding increase in international prices in steel. Enphasis
will now be placed by management on reducing production costs
and financial and administrative expenses to improve internal
cash generation.
829        Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:  US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule.  An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which does
not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing. The first four units of the
power plant were commissioned in June of 1978.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -                       ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The road component of the project now completed was reduced from the
original 306 km to 238 km. The settlement agency, COLONE, has pre-
pared revised farm development plans whose credit component, to be
financed by public financial institutions, will be significantly
higher than originally estimated, although still low in comparison
to other settlement projects. Administrative delays in the release
of public funds for farm credit, road construction and COLONE working
capital requirements and difficulties in recruiting project staff de-
layed the start of project execution. COLONE continues to be hampered
by the lack of assured financing, and this problem is compounded by
cost overruns presently amounting to about 240%.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 65% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. However, commissioning of the units is expected to
be delayed about 6 months behind appraisal estimates, due to
geological problems encountered and very heavy rains which delayed
construction of the earthfill dam. The present cost estimate is
about 54% over the appraisal cost estimate, 10% of which is due to
the need for increased physical quantities due to geological problems.
The rest of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size
of the transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil
works. However, th,e project remains economically justified.
924       Agro-Industries Cre,dit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Dat,e: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were made
during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance with
the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by the Govern-
ment, reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3 million. Commit-
ments under this loan are almost at a standstill as a result of
competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a general slow-down
in industrial investments. Sub-loan commitments and disbursements
are more than 2 years behind schedule. The Bank has agreed to an
interim postponement of the closing date to June 30, 1979, pending
a review with the n,ew Government, which took office in March 1979,
on the prospects for future disbursements.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effe,ctive Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
th,e Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sohradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The original Closing Date of December 31, 1978 has been
postponed to Decembier 31, 1980.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1979. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Thirty-one sub-
projects have been satisfactorily completed out of a total of 41.
The remaining 10 subprojects are under construction and progressing
well. As of March 31, 1979, 91% of the loan proceeds had been
disbursed. It is envisaged that the loan will be fully disbursed
by June 1979. In early 1979, the Government increased COI'ASA's tariff
by 36% which should allow the company to operate on a sound financial
basis, at least during the first half of 1979.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because
of delays by the government in providing counterpart financing.
Project implementation units have been established in all eight
project states and these, together with the main project unit,
PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment studies in the
Northeast, financed under the loan, have been completed and have
yielded useful information for future sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing.  Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to effectively carry out its investment
program. The Government has decided to deregulate most freight
tariffs and has started to make payments to the railway to meet
deficits on uneconomic services. These actions should significantly
improve the borrower's financial position.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are now completed. Implementation
of the road maintenance component is making progress.



_ 35 _
ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date:  April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
Decamber 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. At the request of the Bank, a thorough review of the
project was made. Substantial changes were made resulting in better
management and control of the project. The project is now progress-
ing satisfactorily in line with the revised cost estimate and
schedule, and remains economically justified.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. Because of the delay in the Stage II project, the
Stage III project is being revised with the assistance of consultants.
Stage III is proceeding at a reduced pace in part because of un-
certainty of Government allocations of the necessary funds to fully
finance the project. COSIPA has released the preliminary report of
the project based on the revision mentioned above. The preliminary
estimate of the revised project cost is US$1.7 billion which is
44% above the appraisal estimate. However, the project remains
economically justified.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979. Construction on this project was delayed
because of heavy rains in the project area, and serious flooding
in February/March 1979 has further delayed project progress.
Current cost estimates show an 80% increase over the appraisal
estimate of US$56.5 million. These increases have resulted from
design changes, rapid increases in the costs of civil works and
equipment, and in the cost of land expropriation. The waters
from the recent floods have substantially receded, and construction
is expected to resume at a normal rate later in 1979.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date:  March 24, 1976; Closing Date:  June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport Master
Plan Study for Sao Paulo is substantially completed. The technical
assistance program which is intended to improve FEPASA's operations,
marketing, and data processing systems is showing results. The
Government recently deregulated most freight tariffs and is starting
to make payments to the railways to meet deficits on uneconomic
services. These actions should assist in improving FEPASA's
financial position. Preliminary results of the Transport Master Plan
indicate that a major redimensioning of the railway will be required.



_ 36 _
ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date:  July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily in the
areas of extension, marketing, applied research, and health. Two
potential problems could affect Phase II implementation: (i) the
possibility of a severe drought, and (ii) the relocation of the
POLONORDESTE program between government agencies and between cities,
and the possibility of a reorganization. The recent change in
state administration is having a favorable impact on the project.
The new administration is already taking drought-relief measures,
and has indicated its strong support of the project, and particularly
of Phase II implementation.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1979.
Project implementation is behind schedule. The major reasons are:
(i) differences between the relending terms of the agencies concerned
and those required under the Loan Agreement; (ii) a leveling off of
the industry's demand for investment financing; and (iii) resource
constraints of the National Development Bank (BNDE). To accelerate
commitment of the loan, the Bank agreed to amend the Loan Agreement
so as to finance the full foreign exchange cost of subprojects.
However, commitment of the loan is progressing slowly because of
the existence of competing credit lines at subsidized interest rates
and a general slow-down in investments. The Closing Date for
this loan has been postponed to September 30, 1979 to allow dis-
bursements to continue while the Government and the Bank hold
discussions concerning the project.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Six sub-loans totalling US$106 million have
been committed with a total Bank contribution of US$25 million.
Prospects are good that the full amount of the loan will be
committed by September/October 1979.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Project implementation experienced a signifi-
cant slow-down because of changes in the higher administrative
positions at EMBRAPA, which took place after federal and state
elections. Imposed hiring constraints significantly affected
the civil works, consultant services, and training components of
this project. The outlook for the remainder of 1979 should be more
favorable with a resumption of normal hiring procedures since the
new government has now taken office.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of Mlay 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980-.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 15 months due
to delays in delivery of equipment to be provided by Brazilian
suppliers. Total project cost has increased to US$321 million,
which is US$49 million over the appraisal estimate of US$272
million. All the increase is in local currency and with the
planned increases in local loans and equity commitment the project
has no financing gap.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
197-9. Project execution is on schedule and about 80% completed.
Procurement under the loan has also been completed. Disbursements
lag about 40% behind appraisal forecast, but the loan is expected
to be fully utilized by the closing date.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1980. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government definition
regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement is
now progressing satisfactorily. After a slow start, the agreed
targets for connection of low income households have been widely
exceeded. Substantial improvements in the management of the project
coimpanies have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial
control and planning of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. The INAN project unit is seriously
understaffed which is adversely affecting the progress of the
project. The nutrition delivery system's field tests are pro-
ceeding reasonably well. Disbursements under the industrial
credit components have not started because of competitive
programs at subsidized rates. Measures to deal with the staffing
problems are being studied by the new government.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. This loan has been fully com-
mitted for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan area of
Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in the
interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in rural
areas of the state. It is envisaged that the closing date will have
to be extended by one year to September 30, 1981, to allow for
completion of disbursements.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
have not started.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. The project is about 30% complete and about 60% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded; the remainder are expected to
be awarded by mid-1979. With the exception of a relatively minor
component, project execution is on schedule. The shortfall (25%)
in loan disbursements, caused by delays in the procurement process,
is expected to be reduced to 10% by mid-1979 and eliminated by the
end of that year.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Organization of this project is progressing
satisfactorily after initial delays. The credit component is
gathering momentum. Mainly as a result of administrative difficul-
ties, participation in this project by landless producers is signif-
icantly lower than originally envisaged, but concerted efforts by
the state government and the participating banks have improved this
situation recently. The health component has advanced significantly.
1406       Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about
nine months. Commercial production is now expected to begin in
September 1981. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
currently running about 8% below the budget estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
May 31, 1980. The project has been progressing satisfactorily
within the original budget estimate, and the plant start-up will
experience only a minor delay. VALEFERTIL has been sold by CVRD
to Petrobras Fertilizantes. This change in ownership is not
expected to affect project execution.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Construction of training centers and procurement of equipment are
proceeding according to schedule. With one exception (FUNDACENTRO),
the technical assistance program is underway at the training centers.



_ 39 _
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The implementation of the project has proceeded
satisfactorily after initial local funding delays.  Agricultural
extension and experimentation services, agricultural credit, input
supply, marketing and storage services are making good progress,
while the parts of the project relating to land purchase credit,
agricultural mechanization and cooperative societies organization
are progressing at a slower than expected rate.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
ClQsing Date: September 30, 1984. This project is proceeding
according to schedule. Civil works contracts for construction of
three sewage treatment plants have been signed and work is progressing
well.  Equipment contracts have been signed for two of these plants,
committing approximately US$50 million of the loan. Bids are underway
for the third plant.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and generally on schedule.
Civil works are underway and progressing well, and the non-farm
development component is showing encouraging initial results. How-
ever, administrative problems are causing difficulties in making
credit available to the smaller farmers and tenants.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan of
May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Initial disbursements have been delayed by about
six months due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market; however, it is
nct certain that project completion will also be delayed.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Ef'fective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Tbhe project is proceeding according to schedule. The training
ccomponent of the maintenance program for this project is now
underway.
1562      CCOPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date:  October 30, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well. Commencement of commer-
cial operations is now expected in June 1982, about six months
behind schedule, reflecting the slow start of some of the down-
stream projects. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
presently running about 2% above the original estimate.



_ 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Loan No.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,-1981.
This project is progressing according to schedule. Contracts for
civil works in Curitiba, Recife, and Salvador have been signed.  The
Bank has approved the subproject proposal for Porto Alegre and is
examining the proposal for Belo Horizonte.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The executing agency EMBRATER has initiated work with state/territory
agencies for project implementation. The Project Coordination Unit
has been effectively organized and project execution is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Implementation of the project has advanced satisfactorily after
initial local funding delays, and substantial progress is being made
in the majority of the components. Discussions with the new government
concerning the difficulties encountered in implementing the land
purchase credit component of the project are now underway.



- 41 -
ANNEX III
BRAZIL - SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
L.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  First presentation to Bank:         June 1977
(b)  Preparation mission:                August 1978
(c)  Departure of appraisal mission:  December 1978
(d)  Comapletion of negotiations:        May 1979
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:   September 1979
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions of the Loan Agreement and of the Project Agreement
(a)  BNDE and DNER to establish a Steering Committee to coordinate
work between them (Special condition of effectiveness, para. 49);
(b)  Sub-borrowers to provide assurances of sound maintenance of project
roads (para. 67);
(c)  BNDE to issue the Manual, as agreed by the Bank, and no substantial
change to be made in the Manual for Applicants without the prior
approval of the Bank (para. 56);
(d)  Project roads to conform to given criteria, including a 12%
rate of return (para. 57);
(e)  DNER to make available to BNDE, as a grant, the equivalent of
US$30.1 million for the project (agreement between DNER and BNDE a
special condition of effectiveness, para. 64); and
(f)  Nci more than US$25 million of total program funds to be spent in
the State of Sao Paulo and no more than US$50 million to be spent
in any other state (para. 65).






S  S   5 \  MA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRDH 14240
¾                           E~r~2¾    -YV E N E Z U E I A
FRENCH
COLOMBIA                                                             URINAMA                                                     r      Ocea n
r RORt  -A . .,  'N
GUYANA-        ,      /      ,     -1t
S~      ~             ~          ~~ /  7'                                         TEUrQq -j$ f X0'*S S+
TE RRTY I y      -               -------
7                       ',ls N  A        r E                                                                                           RI) RAD
R            -
k~~~                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ G7 0    0                                       
P   E    R    U   t    ,   .ATO  '  GS'6'S: 19 /, E , , E E RaE Z I L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t',                        , 
-4 a%oLVS \                                 / y                                                 D                            EEA   IHA   EWR
'I                                     --ll        t       e)  v < _   4   if oGIoupA F L V I A
A-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
K  ,LR~~~~~Okv,    -       U Y
f   7c '  \                                   -2  A
4AAAYONAA~~~ ~~~~~~~~~T                                     %                           AFEDERALcHGHWAY NETWOR
E$AN4AUL             5    (4~R-IL10GRND
EL  ~~~~~t~~VA            SECNDFEDE                                                                                     SECOND FEDEREROASDPROJEC
A                   7



