Document of
The World Bank
PETVURN TO
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                  PC!EP F-?--   p
Report No. 2442b-BR
FILE COPY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
BRA-ZIL
June 6, 1979
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciiients only in the performance of
their officl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WVorld Bank authorization.



Currency Unit              Cruzeiro (Cr$) divided into 100 cents
Exchange Rate (average for year)
1975       US$1  =  Cr$  8.90
1976       US$1  =  Cr$ 10.79
1977       US$1  =  Cr$ 14.19
1978       US$1  =  Cr$ 18.31
January 1979       US$1  =  Cr$ 21.22
Fiscal Year                January - December 31.
Abbreviations
BNDE           Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico -
National Development Bank
CRIBA          Consorcio Rodoviario de Bahia - Bahia's Road Construction
Consortia
DER            Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem (estadual) -
State Highway Department
DNER           Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem (federal) -
Federal Highway Department
FEPASA         Ferrovia Paulista S.A. - Sao Paulo State Railways
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GEIPOT         Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento dos Transportes -
Federal Transport Planning Agency
ISTR           Imposto Sobre o Transporte Rodoviario-Road Transport Tax
IULCLG         Imposto Unico Sobre Lubrificantes e Combustiveis -
Fuel Tax
ORTN           Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesoro Nacional -
Indexed Accounting Unit
PCR            Project Completion Report
PPAR           Project Performance Audit Report
RFFSA          Rede Ferroviaria Federal S.A. - Federal Railway Company
TRU            Taxa Rodoviaria Unica-Road Tax



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
BRAZIL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. THE SECTORS      .......................................1 
A.   Highways ................      . ..........................          1
B.   Agriculture  ............. .. .  ............  ............          2
C.   Planning for, and Coordination of, Feeder Roads
Construction   ............. I     ........................       5
D.   Financing of Feeder Roads ..........................                 6
TI. THE AGENT (BNDE) AND THE CO-EXECIJTOR (DNER) ...........       ..          8
A.   BNDE's Organization and Lending in the Transport Sector              8
B.   DNER's Organization and Financing .             .................    9
C.   BNDE and DNER's Capability to Appraise and
Supervise Projects .....         ..........................      11
III. THE SUB-BORROWERS ........................................                11
A.   State Highway Departments ............ .. ............              12
B.   Municipal Road Consortia ..............      .. ...........         12
C.   Municipalities .....................................                13
IV. BACKGROUND AND EXPERIENCE UNDER FIRST FEEDER ROADS PROJECT                14
A.   General ............................................                14
B.   Economic Analysis ......         .............................      16
C.   Engineering ...............I .........................              18
D.   Execution and Supervision .......        ....................       19
E.   Performance of BNDE and DNIER           .......................     20
V. THE PROJECT .......         ......................................       20
A.   General Description ......         ..........................       20
B.   Subproject Eligibility and Preparation .............                22
C.   Methodology for Subproject Evaluation ............       ...        23
D.   Engineering Standards for Subproject Roads .........                26
E.   Subproject Review ..................................                27
F.   Subproject Execution, Procurement, Supervision
and Monitoring ........        ...........................       28
This report has been prepared by Renato Schulz (Economist, Mission Leader),
Jean Claude Sallier (Engineer), Robert Mosse (Financial Analyst) and Kuldeep
Ohbi (Consultant), and has been edited by Miss Virginia R. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
G.   Subproject Financing and Disbursement     .............   30
H.   Subloan Terms and Conditions ....    ...................  32
I.  Project Administration .............. .. .............     33
J.   Project  Risks   ......................................   34
VI. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT        ..34
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .................. .     36
TABLES
1.  Highway Network (1973-1977) .....    ...................   38
2.  Municipal Road Network (1976-1977) .    ................   39
3.  Density of Municipal Roads by State and Region
(1977)..   40
4.  Status of First Feeder Roads Project
(January  1, 1979)   ............... .. ...............  41
5.  Status of Road Component in Rural Development Projects    42
6.  DNER Past and Expected Future Sources of Finance
1972-1979     .........................................  43
7.  DNER Past and Expected Future Expenditures 1972-1979      44
8.  ERRs for Road Links Financed Under
First Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1207-BR)  . .45
9.  ERRs by Length of Roads Financed Under
First Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1207-BR) .........    46
10.   Design Standards for Feeder Roads .    ..................  47
11.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .................      48
ANNEXES
1.  BNDE's Organization, Finances and Operation    .           49
2.  Estimate of the Foreign Exchange Component in the
Construction of Feeder Roads ......................     58
3.  Typical Subproject Implementation, Supervision
and  Monitoring   ....... ............ .................  61
4.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project  File   ....... ............. ..................  64
CHARTS
1.  Organization of the National Development Bank (BNDE)       65
2.  Organization of the Federal Highway Department (DNER)      66
3.  Organization of the State Highway Department of Parana
(DER-PR)     ...........................................    67
MAP
IBRD 14240 - Brazil - Second Feeder Roads Project, Highway Network
(Mato Grosso do Sul should have been colored pink since
it is included in Group A states, paragraph 5.33).



I. THE SECTORS
A.   Highways
1.01      Brazil has over 1.5 million km of roads; of these, about 5% are
federal highways, 8% are state highways and 87% are municipal roads and
tracks. During the period 1973-1977, the network grew at an average
rate of about 4% annually, with the most rapid growth being in the federal
system (Table 1). The federal system has about 70,000 km of- highways,
of which 42,000 km are paved and 28,000 km are unpaved. These highways are
the backbone of the interstate network and run from Amapa and Roraima in the
north to Rio Grande do Sul in the south (Map IBRD 14240). Complementary to the
federal network, there are about 130,000 km of state highways and roads, of
which about 30,000 km are paved and 100,000 km are unpaved. Connecting this
system of trunk through-roads is a network of over 1,300,000 km of municipal 1/
roads, 99.7% of which are unpaved, low standard, mostly seasonal feeder roads
and tracks (Table 2).
1.02      The federal and state highway systems, the main support of the
country's economic activity, were built mostly over the last 30 years since
1946, when the National Highways Fund was created. In the last few years,
preoccupation of the Brazilian authorities has shifted from construction
to maintenance and rehabilitation, nct only because of the age of the
network but also because, in many regions, traffic and transport loads have
increased well beyond expectations. The rapid growth of the Brazilian
economy is now showing its effect on road conditions.
1.03      Development of the highway networks has not been uniform.  There
are regions with a relatively low density of roads, partly a consequence of
Brazil's colonization process, generally coinciding with low population
densities in the hinterland (Table 3). The highest concentration of paved
highways is in the South and Southeast, especially in the states of Minas
Gerais, Sao Paulo, Parana, Rio Grande do Sul and Rio de Janeiro, which contain
over 60% of them. In the rest of the country, just a few states stand out
with large paved networks: Bahia, Ceara and Pernambuco in the Northeast and
Goias in the Center West.
1.04      Development of the national transportation network has absorbed
a considerable proportion of the country's total investment. From 1970
to 1975, transport investment consistently accounted for about 25% of
gross fixed national capital formation -- which is comparatively high and
reflects the size of the country and its expanding frontiers. In 1975,
Cr$ 63.8 billion (about US$7,800 million) was invested in the transportation
sector; about 69% went to road transport, 13% to rail transport, 8% to ports
and marine transport, 7% to air transport and 3% to pipelines and terminals.
Since 1974, transport policy has been, to a certain degree, a corollary of
the Government's policy to reduce dependence on imported oil and the impact
of high prices. The policy led to a high emphasis on rail and water trans-
port, to large increases in taxes on petroleum products and other measures
to save fuel, such as limiting opening hours of gasoline stations, mixing
alcohol with gasoline and reducing speed limits. Transport investment has
also been conditioned by measures tc, restrain public expenditures to keep
1/   Municipalities in Brazil are roughly comparable to counties in the U.S.



- 2 -
inflation under control. Thus, an increasing proportion of taxes previously
earmarked for use by transport agencies has lately been transferred to the
National Development Fund, which is controlled by the Ministry of Planning.
Since 1976, ceilings have been set by the Ministry of Planning on investments
by public agencies.  The setting of spending ceilings and the increased
control on earmarked taxes have strengthened Government control over invest-
ment expenditures of the various transport agencies.  Centralized financial
control has proven effective in containing expenditures and redirecting
policies, but has provided a precarious framework for investment planning.
1.05      Bank lending for highways started in 1968; six loans totaling
US$490 million have supported the construction and improvement of about
5,700 km of federal and state roads, rehabilitation of about 1,500 km, and
the preparation of final engineering design for more than 9,000 km. The
first four highway projects have been successfully completed, as reported in
PPAR 1026 of February 1976 for the First Project, PPAR 1644 of June 1977 for
the Second and a recently completed (April 1979) audit for the Third and
Fourth Projects. All four involved construction and improvement for priority
highways included in the Master Plan that evolved from a Transport Survey
prepared from 1965 to 1969. The Fifth and Sixth Projects are still in
progress. Since 1969, the Bank has also provided technical assistance in
planning and in construction supervision, and has helped to strengthen
highway maintenance operations both at the federal and state levels.
1.06      In line with the changing priorities discussed in preceding para-
graphs, the focus of Bank projects has, as reflected in the Fifth and Sixth
Highway Projects, in the First Feeder Roads Project and in the proposed
project, shifted toward road maintenance and rehabilitation and increased
direct support to rural development through assistance for the financing of
feeder roads. The latter led to a First Feeder Roads Project approved in
1976 (Loan 1207-BR, US$55 million), to the inclusion of important road compo-
nents in a number of rural development projects and to the proposed project.
The status of the ongoing Feeder Roads Project is described in Table 4 and
in paragraphs 4.01 to 4.20 and that of the rural development projects in
Table 5. A total of 3,150 km are being built with the assistance of the
First Feeder Roads Project, and another 4,500 km are likely to be included
before the project is complete. About 2,150 km are being constructed,
mostly in the Northeast, under Rural Development Projects. The Bank has
therefore assisted so far in the financing of about US$160 million worth
of feeder roads in nine states of Brazil.
1.07      The Bank's contribution to road development in Brazil covers,
therefore, the full spectrum of road investment, from construction and
rehabilitation of federal highways to betterment of rural tracks in remote
developing areas. The proposed project would continue support for this
latter activity and would help to bring large pockets of rural poverty
into the mainstream of the economy as well as to achieve the Government's
proposed increase in agricultural production.
B.   Agriculture
1.08      Although Brazil's geographic, topographic and climatic features are
favorable to plant and animal production, 60% of its area is in native forest
and natural woodland. Only 4% is dedicated to permanent crops and 20% to



- :3 -
improved or permanent pasture. Brazil's topography is of particular signifi-
cance to agriculture. About 4.9 million km2 (58% of the total land area) are
at elevations of less than 300 meters, on relatively flat to rolling terrain,
conducive to mechanized agriculture; there are 2.3 million km2 (27%) in the
300 to 600 m range, and high mountainous grounds represent only 15% of the
total area. The factors most limiting to agricultural expansion are poorly
developed support services and poor infrastructure, particularly roads.
1.09      Brazil's economy has traditionally maintained a strong agricultural
base. Although the relative importance of agriculture has gradually declined
in its overall contribution to GNP (from 13.3% in 1966 to 10.5% in 1975), it
still provides over 60% by value of exports. Recent increases in the price
of some export crops, particularly coffee, cacao and soybeans, have moved
Brazil into third place among the world's agricultural exporting countries.
Ten crops provide the bulk of agricultural exports: coffee, sugar, soybeans,
cacao, maize, castor bean (oil), tobacco, cotton, oranges and sisal.
1.10      Despite its gradually decreasing importance relative to GNP, there
were still 14.3 million Brazilians engaged in agriculture in 1978. This
figure represented 40% of the total active labor force, compared with 20% for
industry and 40% for services.
1.11      Since 1970, there have been two National Development Plans (PNDs):
PND I went from 1972 to 1974 and PND II from 1975 to 1979. Under both plans,
strategic objectives for the agricultural sector have been similar: an annual
growth of 7%. This rate of growth was achieved in 1974, but, for other years
since 1970, growth rates were between 3% and 5%. In both development plans,
there was a notable emphasis on increasing the area under production as well
as stimulating increased productivity by a series of fiscal incentives to
encourage production of key export and domestic consumption crops. The
major policy programs were:
(a) The Land Settlement and Rural Development Programs
The programs defined regional development "poles", chiefly in
the North, Northeast and Center West regions, and developed plans
for the areas around these growth poles: POLOAMAZONIA, POLONORDESTE
and POLOCENTRO. In the Northeast, special rural development
schemes have been initiated under POLONORDESTE, linked to
other programs such as the Program for National Integration
(PIN) and the Program for Land Settlement and Stimulus to Agro-
Industry in the North and Northeast (PROTERRA);
(b)  The Specific Crop and Livestock Production Programs
These are based around more specific objectives, such as the
development of chosen crops, as key elements in the drive to
increase exports of agricultural products. Programs for the



development of pastures and herds (PROPEC and PRONAP) and of
specific crops have been developed, and minimum pricing
policies for selected crops under the Production Financing
Commission (CFP) have been implemented and financed.
(c) The Production Credit, Food Distribution, Storage
and Nutrition Programs
These programs, particularly credit and nutrition programs, are
designed to assist low-income farmers. The regularization of
production incentives under the National Food Supply Council (CONAB);
food storage programs controlled by the Brazilian Storage Company
(CIBRAZEM); and food distribution programs under the responsibility
of the National Food Supply Superintendency (SUNAB) are examples
of programs implemented in this area.
(d) The Institutional Strengthening Program
In order to provide the necessary new technology and ensure
that new production techniques reach the farmer, the Government
has recognized the need to integrate and strengthen agricultural
research and extension services. As a result, steps are being
taken to improve key agricultural support services.
1.12      The Bank's lending to the Brazilian agricultural sector has sought
to help the Government achieve the objectives of these programs as well as a
number of other goals which are interdependent and complementary. One of
these latter goals is to support institutional development and policy reform;
it is designed to help maximize public savings and provide for their economic
use. Another lending objective has been to help Brazil ease its foreign
exchange constraints by supporting specific projects designed to increase
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production
for imports. So far, the Bank has made 14 loans, totaling US$517.4 million,
for agriculture and rural development in Brazil. Of these, two livestock
projects and a grain storage project have been completed; the respective draft
PPARs are still under discussion with the Brazilian authorities.
1.13      A serious limiting factor in attaining these objectives has been
the lack of adequate rural infrastructure in areas of agricultural potential.
The country's size and enormous distances are indeed compounded by the lack
of local roads to reach markets and consumer and commercialization centers.
While much work has been, and is being, done on the trunk highway network
which connects the country's major urban centers and ports, there are still
large regions which have no, or inadequate, access to these trunk highways.
As a result, they are isolated from the mainstream of economic activity
and excluded from participating in, and benefiting from, the policies and
programs being implemented for the agricultural sector.
1.14      Full agricultural development of areas within the zone of in-
fluence of major trunk roads depends on the existence of an adequate inter-
nal network of rural access roads. The proposed project should, therefore,
be viewed as a program furthering agricultural development as well as a
transport investment program. Transport is an essential ingredient of almost
every aspect of development and should be an integral part of investment



programs in agriculture.  Partly because of high transport costs, farmers pay
relatively high prices for their inputs such as fertilizers and farm machinery,
which discourages them from adopting new techniques.
1.15      The agricultural sector holds the potential to aake a major contri-
bution to increased foreign exchange earnings. This is especially the case
for a wide range of non-traditional products which Brazil can produce and
export at competitive prices. This potential also, however, implies emphasis
on transport facilities and investments that promote export capabilities.
Despite competitive farmgate prices for bulk grain and soybeans, for example,
high local transport costs often leave the FOB prices of potential exports
less than fully competitive with those of major world suppliers. For farmers
to receive the full benefits of increased output - especially from more
production of non-traditional exports such as maize, soybeans, forest products,
meat, orange juice and nuts - greater investments in transportation and other
related facilities, such as storage, are needed.
C.   Planning for, and Coordination of, Feeder Roads Construction
1.16      Despite the fact that feeder roads (access and local roads) account,
by far, for the largest proportion of the existing highway network, the system
has received little national attention until recently. Few statistical data
are available, and a general lack of studies bearing on the contribution of
rural roads to both regional and sectoral development has complicated the
formulation of guidelines for setting investment priorities. Moreover,
suitable methodologies for the study of individual rural road projects are
only now being developed.
1.17      In the First Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1207-BR), a major study
effort was launched aimed at measuring the "socio-economic impact" of rural
feeder roads. The study is expected to allow improving the operational
tools available to appraise these projects. As presently planned, the study
will include an analysis of the area of influence of some 50 roads (about
2,500 km) in the states of Minas Gerais, Goias, Paraiba and Rio Grande do
Norte. The study is being done jointly with GEIPOT, the Ministry of Trans-
port's main planning agency, which, with Bank assistance, developed, in
1976/77, terms of reference for the execution of the study and started, in
1977, a first round of data collection. The study is envisaged to last five
years and to cost between US$3.0 and US$5.0 million. To idate, no operational
results are available.
1.18      In an attempt to determine the most appropriate and cost-effective
means of establishing rural feeder road improvement priorities, the roads
selected for the study will be assessed with four alternative methods: (a) the
road user savings approach; (b) the producer surplus approach using aggregate
data from existing sources at the micro-region level; (c) a social surplus
approach using farm and community level primary data; and (d) a land-rent
method which tries to use satellite imagery combined with surveys of land



- 6 -
prices in the area of influence of the roads as its data source. Based on
the study findings, it is hoped that regression and linear programing models
might be developed which would enable forecasting of the impact of a given
change in accessibility on agricultural production and marketing, on labor
mobility, and on education and health levels of various groups of project
beneficiaries. In a parallel effort, the models are expected to be translated
into simplified guidelines on project selection and evaluation for use by
local planners.
1.19      A national policy toward rural roads dates to 1967 when the National
Development Bank (BNDE), in agreement with the National Highway Department
(DNER), established the "Programa Nacional de Estradas Vicinais"; more recently,
the creation of "Consorcios Rodoviarios Municipais" has helped to bring about
a better micro-regional integration and increased technical assistance to
municipalities from BNDE, DNER and the State Highway Departments (DERs).
These schemes touch on some crucial points which have handicapped rural road
construction in the past. One is the lack of agencies at the municipal level
which are competent in technical and financial planning and in the supervision
of rural road projects. BNDE and DNER intend to make their expertise available
to states and municipalities by aiding them in the analysis, design and construc-
tion of feeder roads, a task that would be significantly assisted by the
implementation of the proposed project (para. 5.40).
D.   Financing of Feeder Roads
1.20      Feeder roads (access and local roads which channel or feed traffic
to the trunk road system) are mostly municipal roads. They are usually the
responsibility of municipalities and consequently financed by them. Municipal-
ities, however, are known to have limited financial resources. States have,
therefore, particularly since the creation of municipal road construction
consortia (paras 3.05 to 3.09), provided, insofar as possible, financial support
to municipal efforts to improve and maintain their road networks. States, how-
ever, except for a few, are also comparatively poor and hard pressed for resources.
1.21      States and municipalities derive their funding from own resources
and federal transfers (revenue shares on federal taxes). The split between
the two sources varies significantly between richer and poorer states and
municipalities, depending on the size of their own tax base. State own
resources originate mostly (80% to 90%) from the value added tax (ICM,
imposto sobre a circulacao de mercadurias) which is applied at the source of
transactions of goods. The rate of this tax is controlled by the federal
government, and states have, therefore, no freedom to change their tax collec-
tion through rate changes, but have to rely on the volume of transactions
in their jurisdiction for their revenue. Municipalities derive their own
income mostly from a service tax, which operates like the value added tax but
is levied on services rather than goods; from a 20% share in the state value
added collected in the municipality; and from a rudimentary and undeveloped
property tax system. For the majority of states and municipalities, own
resources barely cover current operating expenditures, and investment funds
are normally obtained from federal transfers.



- 7 -
1.22      Federal transfers to states and municipalities originate in taxes
collected by the federal government. About half the federal government's tax
revenues are shared in different proportions with states and local govern-
ments. Since shared taxes are mostly earmarked, highways and roads (including
feeder roads) can be constructed ancd maintained only with revenue transfers
earmarked for that purpose. That is, they can be financed from transfers
originating in the gasoline tax (IULCLG), the road transport tax (ISTR) and
the vehicle license tax (TRU). MuniLcipalities share only in the gasoline
tax while states also share in the road transport tax and the vehicle regis-
tration tax. The gasoline tax is, however, the most important of the three.
1.23      The vehicle to channel the tax shares for highways and roads is
the National Highway Fund, managed by DNER, which has a set of well defined
rules for estimating and distributing the proceeds of tax shares to the
different states and municipalities. The municipal share of gasoline tax
proceeds, for example, is calculated by means of a formula which differen-
tiates between proceeds generated from the sale of imported and of domestic
oil. It weighs the size of the municipality (20%), its population (40%) and
its gasoline and oil consumption (40%) for proceeds generated from the sale
of imported oil. For proceeds generated from the sale of domestic oil produc-
tion, it weighs the size of the municipality (18%), its population (36%), its
gasoline and oil consumption (36%) and its crude oil production (10%).
1.24      Since 1975, federal transfers to states and municipalities have
averaged about Cr$ 19.0 billion a year in constant 1978 cruzeiros (about
US$1.6 billion). They are expected to increase to Cr$ 25.1 billion in 1979
and Cr$ 28.1 billion in 1980. However, there are 24 states and territories
plus the Federal District, and more than 4,000 municipalities in the country.
1.25      In addition, the federal government has other channels which can be
used to finance, in particular, feeder road construction.  These are mostly
regional, rural development programs such as POLONORDESTE, POLOCENTRO and
others applicable to specific areas. Under POLONORDESTE, for example, grants
are provided to invest, among other things, in feeder roads. Funds obtained
through this channel are a strong competitor to financing offered under the
National Feeder Program run by BNDE/DNER, which has been supported by the
Bank's First Feeder Roads Project, and which would continue to be supported by
the proposed project. Both types of programs should, however, be viewed as
complementary; the size of the country and the large overall need for feeder
roads make it possible for both programs to coexist with little interference.
Notwithstanding, it is clear that it is the Government's general policy to
encourage states and municipalities to use lines of credit similar to the one
proposed under the project, rather than funds of development programs such as
POLONORDESTE.  Use of the programs not only ensures more uniform and adequate
project preparation and selection techniques but also requires states and
municipalities to bear at least somie of the cost burden.



- 8 -
II. THE AGENT (BNDE) AND THE CO-EXECUTOR (DNER)
A.   BNDE's Organization and Lending in the Transport Sector
2.01      BNDE (Chart 1) was created in 1952 by Law No. 1628 as a Federal
autarchy 1/ under the Ministry of Finance. It was later changed into a public
company under the jurisdiction of the Secretariat of Planning (Law No. 5662
of June 1971).  The new administration which took office March 15, 1979 has
decided to relocate BNDE under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Industry
and Commerce. BNDE has administrative and financial autonomy, independent
judicial personality, as defined in private law, and its own assets and
liabilities. According to its bylaws (Decree No. 73713 of March 1, 1974),
BNDE is the main instrument for the execution of the Federal Government's
investment policy, and its purpose is to provide support to programs, projects,
works and services connected with the development of the national economy.
BNDE's organization, finances and operations are reviewed in Annex 1.
2.02      BNDE is governed by an Administrative Council.  The financial
execution of its policies is overseen by a Fiscal Council, and day-to-day
management is the responsibility of the Board of Managing Directors. The
Administrative Council is the highest executive body, is chaired by the
President of BNDE, and its members are the ex-officio Secretaries-General
of the Ministries of Finance and of Industry and Commerce and nine other
members appointed by the President of Brazil. The Council defines general
lending policies and lending regulations. BNDE's assets, liabilities and
accounts are monitored by the Fiscal Council whose three members are also
appointed by the President of Brazil. The Board of Managing Directors is
chaired by BNDE's President and has five Directors who are appointed to a
four-year term by the Minister in charge from a list of nominees suggested
by the President of the Bank.  They decide on BNDE's day-to-day operations
and direction. Each Director is in charge of one or more operational areas
and may, on occasion, also be an Area Superintendent (staff). There is also
a Loan Committee formed by three Executive Directors, who are, at the same
time, Area Superintendents; they are appointed by the Minister in charge
from nominees suggested by BNDE's President.
2.03      BNDE's investment in transport has been declining in recent years.
From a record investment of nearly Cr$ 3.9 billion in 1974 (about US$500
million), allocations decreased to Cr$ 1.6 billion (about US$113 million) in
1977.  Transportation accounted for about 20% of lending in 1974; it now
accounts for only 4%. In 1978, BNDE expected to invest Cr$ 1.03 billion (about
US$60 million) in transportation, just over 1% of its total estimated lending.
2.04      A major reason for the decline of BNDE's involvement in the
transport sector was the reduction of loans to the railways. In 1977, only
one loan worth Cr$ 300 million (US$20 million) was made to RFFSA (Federal
Railways), whereas, in the previous year, four loans (to both RFFSA and
FEPASA, the Sao Paulo State Railway) totaling Cr$ 2.7 billion (US$250 million)
had been made. Financing of the railways has shifted in recent years from
BNDE to the Federal Government's general revenues, the National Develop-
ment Fund and to overseas sources, including international lending agencies.
1/   Autarchies are administratively autonomous bodies of the government.



2.05      BNDE's involvement in road transport has been mostly in feeder
roads. The development of BNDE's Feeder Roads Program is described more
fully in Chapter IV. As of 1 January 1979, BNDE had participated in the
construction and improvements of close to 19,000 km of feeder roads with an
estimated total cost of Cr$ 3.3 billion, including an ongoing Bank-assisted
First Feeder 1,oads Project. BNDE's continued involvement in feeder roads
projects was reviewed and confirmed after the recent change in its jurisdic-
tional dependency (para 2.01). The effect of this change on the proposed
project was discussed during negotiations, and it was agreed that no change
in the institutional responsibilities for the proposed project would be
undertaken without prior consultation with the Bank.
B.   DNER's Organization and Financing
2.06      The federal highway network is administered by ]DNER, an autarchy
under the Ministry of Transport. DNER was created in 1937 and last re-
organized in 1977, as shown on Chart 2. The executive head of DNER is the
Director-General, appointed by the President of Brazil, wiho is assisted
by an Executive Director and a Deputy Director, both appointed by the Minister
of Transport. The Director-General, the Executive Director and the Deputy
Director have certain functions under their direct control, such as financial
audit, security and information, systems control and bidding procedures.
DNER's operations are otherwise carried out by nine departments, eight headed
by a Director and one by the Solicitor-General, all nine appointed by the
Director-General.  The governing body of DNER is the Administrative Council,
presided over by the Director-General, which includes the Executive Director,
the Deputy and the nine Department heads. DNER exercises its responsibility
for the highway network through 21 Federal Highway Districts (DRFs, one in each
state except Acre); roads in the territories are administered by DNER offices
in neighboring states.
2.07      Construction and maintenance of federal highways are the responsi-
bility of DNER's Directorates of Works and Maintenance respectively. The
Planning Directorate programs and coordinates project preparation. The
Transit Directorate monitors and supervises the operation of the system; it
runs the federal highway police and enforces axle weight regulations. The
Road Transport Directorate is responsible for licensing vehicles, as well as
passenger and freight operators, and for implementing regulations on road
transport. Three Directorates--Personnel, Administration and the Comptroller--
take care of DNER's administrative and financial aspects. The Instituto de
Pesquisas Rodoviarias (IPR), which has the rank of a Directorate, is respon-
sible for road research and training. DNER operates in each state through
its DRFs. The District Engineer is a direct representative of the Director-
General and has similar functions itn his jurisdiction. Each DRF is further
broken down into Residencies, which are mainly operational units taking care
of road construction and maintenance.
2.08      The main source of financing for highway activities is the fuel tax.
From 1974 to 1975, revenue from this tax remained stagnant as the Government
absorbed, through tax rate reductions, some of the rise in petroleum prices.
Beginning in 1975, however, the Government followed an agressive and strong



- 10 -
pricing policy aimed at inhibiting fuel consumption and relieving the country
of the heavy balance-of-payments effect of petroleum imports. Successive in-
creases in the fuel tax contributed to raising the retail price of gasoline
from about US$0.98 per gallon in 1975 to about US$1.70 per gallon in 1978.
For diesel fuel, prices increased from about US$0.55 to about US$1.00 per
gallon in the same period. The expected reduction in consumption occurred,
but, at the same time, revenues generated by the fuel tax more than doubled
in real terms in 1976. This trend slowed, however, in 1977 and 1978, as the
Government slowed the increases in fuel taxes to help reduce inflationary
pressures.
2.09      Only part of the windfall from the greatly increased petroleum tax
proceeds is being channeled back to the highway sector, the remainder being
redirected to other sectors through the National Development Fund created in
1975 to increase flexibility in public sector investment planning. It is
administered by the Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN). Allocation of fuel tax
proceeds to the highway sector through the National Highway Fund decreased
from 77% in 1970 to about 48% in 1978. A similar trend is taking place in
the percentage of revenues allocated from the motor vehicle license tax
(TRU) and the tax on road transport (ISTR). Because of the considerable
increase in the total to be apportioned, however, the absolute level of tax
revenues earmarked for highway spending was, in real terms, about 40% higher
in 1977 than in 1975. The federal highways department has also received
increasing amounts of appropriations from the federal government's general
budget and, in recent yeas, has complemented its resources with significant
amounts of borrowing. As a result, total allocations from federal sources for
highways (including earmarked taxes, budgetary allocations and borrowing) more
or less doubled in real value over the six-year period 1972-1977, reaching
about US$2.9 billion equivalent in 1977. Within the highway sector, there
has also been some reallocation of resources. The states and municipalities,
which share in the proceeds of these taxes (para 1.22), did not suffer any
reduction in their percentage share of the petroleum tax proceeds; DNER did.
A larger pro-portion of the 1976 windfall increase in resources was thus passed
on to the states and municipalities, which had their finances considerably
strengthened.
2.10      An analysis of DNER's past and current sources of finance (Table 6)
and expenditures (Table 7) and a review of its medium term prospects suggest
that funding of DNER's proposed investment program will depend upon increased
transfers from the National Development Fund. DNER will contribute the
equivalent of US$30.1 million for the proposed project. This was confirmed
during negotiations, and the legal documents mention specifically DNER's
contribution to the project, thereby binding it to transfer the funds to BNDE.
A Subsidiary Agreement will be signed between BNDE and DNER, defining the
mechanisms to be used to effect the transfer. Execution of the Agreement will
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.



- 11 -
C.   BNDE and DNER's Capability to iAppraise and Supervise Projects
2.11      BNDE has been engaged since 1967 in a program similar to the one
proposed under this project. Since 1970, it has had the technical assistance
of DNER, and the ongoing First Feeder Roads Project has strengthened this asso-
ciation. BNDE and DNER have, therefore, long accumulated experience with, and
knowledge about, rural roads. Although occasional lapses in the technical
and economic evaluation of subprojects in the ongoing Feeder Roads Project
have been noticed, they have been rectified. The quality of BNDE's appraisal
reports and its followup during impLementation are improving. Both BNDE and
DNER staff are competent and proficient in the use of the methodologies out-
lined in the revised Manual for the evaluation of subprojects, which is an
extension of rules and guiding principles similar to those contained in the
Manual that guides implementation of the First Project.
2.12      The proposed project is similar in nature to the ongoing one, but
would include a larger number of subprojects because financial resources
would be about doubled and because it would be available to municipalities,
of which there are more than 4,000 in the country. To analyze each road
in each subproject in a reasonable time, the Bank would make available to
BNDE standardized computer software developed by the Bank's Central Projects
Staff, specifically, the Feeder Roads Package and CBPack. Professional staff
of both BNDE and DNER would be trained in the use of this software as part of
project supervision.
2.13      Because of the large number of individual roads expected to be
included in subprojects, BNDE/DNER supervision staff would have to be increased
beyond the numbers currently assigned to accompany execution of the ongoing
project. BNDE is hiring additional engineering consultants to supplement
its staff, and DNER has set up and staffed a unit under its Executive Director
for the purpose of supervising works in the ongoing as well as the proposed
project. To coordinate these two groups, a Joint Steering Committee would
be established, in which both institutions would be represented (para 5.42).
III. THE SUB-BORROWERS
3.01      Under the First Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1207-BR), state highway
departments and municipal consortia were qualified to be sub-borrowers.
This arrangement worked satisfactorily, but was found restrictive in that it
allowed municipalities to participate only as long as they were associated
in a consortium. Other municipalities, particularly those in the more remote
and poorer areas of the country, were left out of the Program because they
were associated with no one. The proposed project intends to remedy the
situation by opening up the Program to enable individual municipalities to
become sub-borrowers. Possible sub-borrowers of the proposed project would
therefore be state highway departments, municipal consortia and individual
municipalities.



- 12 -
A.   State Highway Departments
3.02      Each state has its own highway department (DER) responsible
for the construction and maintenance of the state highway network and all
connected technical services. The DERs regulate public transportation
services, police the use of state highways and also cooperate with state
planning agencies in the preparation of state highway plans. At times, they
have assumed joint responsibility for the construction, maintenance and
policing of municipal roads. In addition, some DERs (Minas Gerais, Rio
Grande do Sul, Parana) have accepted the responsibility of maintaining the
federal highway network within their state jurisdiction. A concerted Govern-
ment policy to delegate the maintenance of federal highways to the states is
being implemented with the assistance of the Bank (Fifth and Sixth Highway
Projects, Loans 1075-BR and 1557-BR).
3.03      The organization of the DERs is essentially similar to that of
DNER (see Chart 3 for the DER of Parana). Although some details may vary
to accommodate unique administrative requirements, most of the DERs have the
following in common:
(a) With the exception of a few autonomous DERs which
are directly responsible to the state Governor, they
report to the state's Secretary of Transportation.
(b) They have a governing body, the Highway Council, which
includes the Director of the Department, a representa-
tive of the state's Secretary of Transportation, and a
representative of the State Engineering Association; the
Council is headed by an independent engineer appointed
by the Governor. The council is responsible for approving
policies, programs and the budget.
(c) They have an Executive Council which is, in effect, the
Board of Directors for the Department; the Council
comprises the Director of the DER, who chairs it, and
all his division directors, usually Planning, Operations,
Engineering and Legal.
3.04      Financially, the DERs are dependent on revenues from the National
Highway Fund, administered by DNER, and, where available, on annual alloca-
tions in the state budgets. Proceeds of the National Highway Fund are appor-
tioned to the states on the basis of their fuel consumption, population and
area. Since 1976, as a result of the distribution of the windfall increase in
fuel tax revenues (para 2.09), the financial position of the DERs was streng-
thened considerably.
B.   Municipal Road Consortia
3.05      Because of the limited financial and technical resources of many
individual municipalities, several states have encouraged the formation of
municipal consortia or other joint municipal agencies to take collective



-- 13 -
advantage of economies of scale in the planning, construction and maintenance
of local municipal roads and services and to join forces in the procurement
and use of funds. These consortia and other agencies are incorporated as
companies under state law. Their primary purpose is the construction of an
integrated m Aicipal road system. They are financed by state contributions,
private investors, and the municipalities themselves.
3.06      Typically (e.g., in the states of Bahia, Ceara, Goias), the
consortia are "mixed-economy" companies, where the state and the partici-
pating municipalities hold 51% or more of the shares, ancl the rest is held
by other public organizations. In some cases (e.g., in the State of Rio
Grande do Sul), all shares are heldl by the state and municipalities. Typically,
a consortium is administered by a Board of Directors, elected by the General
Assembly - the consortium's highest governing body. Finances are usually
controlled by a Fiscal Council, consisting of three members elected according
to the specific state law on corporations. Normally, the consortia work with
the municipalities on the planning and engineering of projects, and they
contract out the construction works. In many cases, the consortia work closely
with the state DERs; in fact, in many states, such cooperation is a statutory
requirement for the consortia.
3.07      The consortia, at times, also maintain municipal roads; they set
maintenance standards and purchase maintenance equipment for the participating
municipalities. Many consortia have broad powers pertaining to adequate
maintenance of the roads. In Bahia, for example, CRIBA's (Consorcio Rodoviario
de Bahia) charter specifies that, if the municipalities do not maintain the
roads properly, the agency can have the maintenance done by contract and deduct
the cost from the municipalities' share of the National Highway Fund.
3.08      Since the charters of individual consortia vary, detailed informa-
tion about the sub-borrowing consortium or agency would be stated in the
request for financial assistance under the proposed program. An analysis is
then carried out by BNDE as part of subloan appraisal procedures. This
practice has worked satisfactorily under the First Feeder Roads Project and
would be maintained for the proposed Second Project.
3.09      The technical competence of the consortia, particularly their
professional expertise in planning, design, execution andl maintenance of
municipal roads, varies considerably - certain consortia have sufficient
funds to buy equipment and hire qualified professionals while others are
technically and, financially weak. For this reason, the 'established practice,
in the First Project, of requiring adequate backing from the state govern-
ments, both on financial guarantees and on the technical execution of the
subprojects, would be extended to the proposed project.
C.   Municipalities
3.10      Municipalities are the basic units of local government.  They are
made up of varying numbers of districts. Each municipality has a recognized
seat (sede) of government from which the appropriate executive, legislative,



- 14 -
administrative and planning functions are discharged. There are over 4,000
municipalities in Brazil; some have as few as 50 inhabitants, others millions,
particularly the urban municipalities in the more populated states. Consider-
able variations also exist in terms of area, e.g., in Mato Grosso and Amazonas,
a municipality may incorporate an area as large as a medium-sized European
country.
3.11      Each municipality has a Prefect as its chief executive.  Legisla-
tive functions are discharged through a chamber of local representatives.
Some municipalities, such as Sao Paulo, Curitiba and Porto Alegre, have
professional planning and administrative staff, while others deliver but
rudimentary services.
3.12      The autonomy of municipalities is guaranteed by the federal
constitution. Fiscally, they depend on the federal revenue-sharing system
and some own resources (paras 1.20 to 1.25) for revenues. In the more de-
veloped and industrialized municipalities, the federal revenue-sharing system
contributes considerably to municipal budgets. For most municipalities,
however, federal and state resources finance only the most basic services.
Because of Brazilian practices on tax revenue earmarking, roads are mostly
financed with the municipal share of the gasoline tax, i.e., 8% of the tax
proceeds, which is distributed among the municipalities of the country. Since
financial resources of individual municipalities are limited, subloans to them
would be limited to between 25,000 ORTNs and 250,000 ORTNs (between about
US$0.4 million and US$4.0 million equivalent respectively, January 1979
prices).
IV. BACKGROUND AND EXPERIENCE UNDER FIRST FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
A.  General
4.01      BNDE has been engaged in a National Feeder Roads Program since
1967. The Program was initially funded with about Cr$ 60 million and financed
60% of subproject costs. At the end of the first year of operation of the
Program, almost all its funds were committed. It was therefore expanded to
a total of Cr$ 100 million (approximately US$25 million). By the end of
1969, resources had again been fully committed; BNDE then requested the
assistance of USAID for the continuation of the Program. A US$83 million
Program was developed, for which USAID loaned US$25 million, BNDE allocated
an equivalent amount, and the remaining US$33 million was raised by the
beneficiaries. This new Program was also fully committed and was followed by
the ongoing Bank-assisted Program (First Feeder Roads Project, Loan 1207-BR).
4.02      The BNDE/USAID Program financed nine subprojects in eight states
and built about 6,000 km of roads. The average project contained between
20 and 30 road sections and had an average cost of about US$9 million.



- 15 -
4.03      The Bank-assisted BNDE/DNER/IBRD Program, in effect since 1976, has
incorporated DNER into the National Feeder Roads Program both technically and
financially and helped to expand its size. Overall funding of the Program
was originally US$237 million, made up of the Bank loan (US$55 million), an
equivalent contribution by BNDE, a non-reimbursable grant by DNER of US$32
million, and the remainder raised by the beneficiaries themselves (US$95
million). Subprojects under the Program were originally financed in the same
proportion as contributions to the overall funding of the program, i.e., the
Bank 23.2% of subproject costs (just below the estimated 25% foreign exchange
component of subprojects), BNDE 23.2%, DNER a non-reimbursable 13.5%, and the
beneficiaries 40.1%.
4.04      Subloan terms under this ]?rogram were tailored to favor the partici-
pation of the lower income Northeast and Northern states: loans bore 7%
interest in Sao Paulo, 5% in Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, Parana, Rio de
Janeiro and Minas Gerais, and only 4% in the North and Northeastern states,
plus full monetary correction. Yet, despite this incentive, participation by
the poorer states has been limited, partly because (a) their lack of resources
prevented their generating the 40.1% of subproject costs to be borne by them,
and (b) the criteria for subproject design and assessment did not fully adapt
themselves to the requirements and capabilities of these states. The first
of these deficiencies was partially remedied by changes made to the financial
arrangements applicable under the Program. As indicated in paragraph 4.05,
the participation of low income states was reduced for subprojects approved
after January 1, 1979. Further changes will be introduced upon signature of
the Loan Documents for the Second Project when the cost-sharing arrangements
under the proposed project will be extended to subprojects to be approved
under Loan 1207-BR. This will faci:Litate further the participation of low and
middle income states. The second set of deficiencies will be remedied under
the proposed Second Project by the introduction of revised engineering and
economic criteria embodied in the revised Manual (para 5.09).
4.05      To facilitate participation by the lower income states (para 5.33,
group A), the Bank and BNDE have agreed to an interim change in the cost-
sharing arrangements: as of January 1, 1979, sub-borrower contributions to
the financing of subprojects in those states have been reduced from 40.1% to
20%. Correspondingly, the Bank's and BNDE's contributions were increased:
the Bank's from 23.2% to 32.5%, reflecting present estimates of the foreign
exchange component of the works involved, and BNDE's from 23.2% to 34%.
DNER's grant remained the same at 13.5% of costs. These changes had the
effect of reducing somewhat the total amount of resources available for the
Program, from US$237 million to about US$200 million.
4.06      After a rather slow start, the First Feeder Roads Project gained
full momentum in late 1978 and early 1979. Up to June 1, 1979, six sub-
projects were approved in as many states. Some 3,230 km of secondary and
feeder roads are about to be, or presently are being, constructed for a total
committed amount of about US$106 million, of which about US$25 million would



- 16 -
be financed from Bank loan proceeds (about 53% of loan funds, Table 4).
Disbursement of loan proceeds will be about US$5.0 million by mid-June 1979
(about 9% of the loan amount). Seven more applications for assistance are
presently being processed by BNDE; if one takes into account the changes being
introduced into the financial arrangements (para. 4.05), these would commit
all available funds in the First Project by October 1979 (Table 4). In addi-
tion, preliminary requests have been received to assist in the implementation
of six more subprojects which would constitute the initial portfolio of the
proposed new project.
4.07      In order to have some uniformity in the preparation and presenta-
tion of applications for assistance under the program, BNDE prepared, in
about 1970, a Manual for Applicants that specified the conditions, types of
projects, and studies to be submitted in support of an application. That
original Manual was the subject of extensive discussions between the Bank and
BNDE, and later DNER, and led to the publication of a new Manual, "Manual de
Rodovias Vicinais, IBRD/BNDE/DNER", which has served since 1976 as the basis
for the preparation of applications under the Bank-assisted First Project.
The new Manual included significant improvements in technical specifications
and the economic analysis methods for the proposed roads. However, the
engineering design criteria and the methodological requirements for subproject
evaluation proved to be too high, especially for the lesser developed states
of the North and Northeast of Brazil. The requirements in the Manual have
therefore been the subject of further in-depth discussion among the Bank, BNDE
and DNER, and substantive revisions have been incorporated into a revised
Manual which would replace the existing one as the proposed project becomes
effective. Experience gained with the use of the Manual in the two critical
areas of economic analysis and engineering design are described in the following
paragraphs, and the provisions of the revised Manual are discussed in Chapter V.
B.   Economic Analysis
4.08      Five subprojects for the construction, rehabilitation and improve-
ment of secondary and feeder roads have been approved. The subprojects
include 108 individual road links, each of which has been assessed separately.
The average economic rate of return (ERR) of them has been 33% (Table 8), with
rates ranging from over 10% to over 54%.
4.09      The distribution of lengths of roads by ERRs is shown in Table 9.
About three-quarte.; of the kilometrage yielded ERRs between 10% and 35% while,
at the upper end, about one-quarter of the kilometrage yielded ERRs above 35%.
Overall, the rates of return reflect the removal of accessibility constraints
to agricultural areas and marketing centers and the integration of isolated
pockets of potential economic activity to the mainstream regional economies.
4.10      To date, most of the economic evaluations of subprojects have been
carried out bv consultants since the beneficiaries (State Highway Departments
and Municipal lsnscrtia), with a few exceptions, have lacked the expertise
to carry out the analysis with their own staff. This has worked out con-
trary to expectations stated at the time the ongoing project was defined.
It was expected that, by providing detailed guidelines on how to proceed with
the economic assessment of the roads, sub-borrowers would avail themselves
of their own staff to carry out the analysis. Two methods were offered to



- 17 -
study the feasibility of roads: (a) in comparatively developed areas, where
there is some vehicular traffic, the traditional consumer surplus (user
savings) approach was accepted; arid (b) in lesser developed areas, where
there is minimal or no traffic, the producer surplus (value-added) method
was suggested. In addition, a combination of the two methods was accepted as
long as no double counting of benefits was incurred. Other than a subproject
in the state of Bahia and two roads in Goias, subprojects have all been
assessed by means of the traditional consumer surplus approach regardless of
the nature of the area of influence. The main reason for this preference has
been the consultants' general familiarity with the method. This is consid-
ered a shortcoming, however, because traffic on the roads is difficult to
measure by conventional means, particularly in areas of little current activity.
Similarly, estimating future traffic growth with conventional traffic analysis
means is difficult and usually necessitates resorting to the producer surplus
approach. For low traffic volumes, the method is also highly sensitive to
the composition of traffic, and seldom are adequate traffic statistics
available.  Thus, subprojects assessed by means of the traditional approach
have, on occasion, produced less than adequate results and have required
considerable quality control to ensure the reasonableness of the expected
benefits and, consequently, of the proposed projects.
4.11      To redress the heavy reliance on the consumer surplus (user savings)
approach, the Bank, in the course of normal supervision, has been trying to
shift emphasis to the producer surplus (value-added) approach, particularly
for the lesser developed areas where traffic volumes are comparatively low.
However, there is a general reluctance to use the proposed method: it is
viewed as too difficult and too demanding on information that is allegedly
not available. To try to clear these misconceptions, the revised Manual
contains clarifications, revisions and simplifications, wherever possible, in
the description of the methodology.  The approach is documented in detail in
the revised Manual.
4.12       BNDE has generally performed well in ensuring that sub-borrower
analysis conforms to the guidelines for the economic evaluation of subprojects
as outlined in the Manual. However, a concerted effort is now required to
assist potential sub-borrowers with the interpretation of' the Manual and, if
necessary, with the use of the proper methodology. To this end, BNDE's
staff should be supplemented with two highly qualified economists to be
charged with the specific task of assisting potential sub-borrowers in
the preparation of the studies required to support their applications for
financial assistance (para 5.40).
4.13       It is unlikely, however, that sub-borrowers would develop enough
expert staff in the short run to carry out analysis by themselves; conse-
quently, reliance on consultants tc assess the economic feasibility of the
roads would likely continue. BNDE's increased effort and the Bank's close
supervision would help to improve the situation over time and, eventually,
help to reduce the costs as well as improve the quality of studies, through
the training effect that direct assistance may have on sub-borrower staff.



- 18 -
C.   Engineering
4.14      About 3,230 km of feeder roads are, or will soon be, under construc-
tion in the First Project. Designs for most of these roads were carried out
by about 30 different consulting firms, and some were done by DERs themselves.
Review of the designs has shed a fairly consistent light on the quality of
them. It has become evident that the concept of low cost feeder roads has not
yet been fully grasped by highway authorities and consultants. The following
are highlights of the main deficiencies:
(a) Horizontal and vertical alignments are often overdesigned;
less costly alignment alternatives are often not considered;
(b) Geotechnical studies are being done as if the roads were
to be paved; they are rarely limited to the requirements
of gravel roads. The study of the location and quality of
borrow-pits is weak, and there is little attempt at tapping
local materials which can be used more economically; and
(c) Drainage works are generally overdesigned and unnecessarily
expensive for gravel roads; other items such as slope grassing
and concrete fence posts are not in harmony with the needs of
local feeder roads.
4.15      Clearly, highway authorities and consultants have been influenced
by DNER's strict design norms and specifications for paved roads and have
difficulty transposing their experience to the more modest requirements of
gravel roads. The net result is that more costly roads are being built than
is essential; costs range from about US$20,000 per km to about US$50,000 per km,
the average being about US$35,000 per km. These difficulties can be overcome
by innovation in the definition of norms and specifications for, particularly,
low standard feeder roads. In order to remedy the situation, the proposed new
project makes provision for a wider range of standards for design purposes,
opening up, in particular, the lower end of the spectrum. Furthermore, it uses
DNER specifications as indicative ceilings and not as minimum requirements.
These changes, together with a renewed effort to adapt DNER's design standards
and specifications, would help to reduce the cost of the roads to be built.
4.16      Attempts have been made to correct these deficiencies during execu-
tion of the construction works, but this has put an added burden on the
already taxed supervision teams. Field supervision of construction works
has been observed to be often performed by young, inexperienced engineers.
Coupled with deficient designs, this results in anomalies such as:
(a) Lack of adequate quality control, for example, of embankment
compaction and drainage structures. This could lead to sub-
sequent failure of the roads; and
(b) Excessive dedication to quantity rather than quality controls.
Frequent work quantity measurements and numerous laboratory
tests to determine the amount of material excavated and moved



- 19 -
for embankment building (such as swelling and shrinking co-
efficients, optimum moisture content, etc.) do not contribute to
quality control, but interfere with progress of the works and tax
the capacity of supervisicin teams. Moreover, the use of present
payment systems is prone to generate increases in costs because
they are not consistently related to the construction techniques
used by contractors.
4.17      To help alleviate the work of supervision teams and to assist in
remedying the measurement and payment problems, efforts are being made to
develop suitable supervision, measurement and quality control, and appro-
priate payment norms for unpaved feeder roads. In particular, the applica-
bility of geometrically fixed volumes as a means of contracting and paying
for the construction of feeder roads is being explored. Applying this
method would require redefining unil: prices as well as the contracting
system, a task which may take several months and possibly need legislative
changes. Simultaneously, the possibility is being explored of making con-
tractors responsible for maintenance of the roads for a period of, say six
months, after completion of the works. These measures, if found implement-
able, would be incorporated into the revised Manual and the guidelines for
the proposed project.
D.   Execution and Supervision
4.18      Construction under the First Project involves about 150 contractors.
Experience has shown that these are usually rather large, highly mechanized
contractors who can perform an average of 150,000 m of earthworks a month.
While there is nothing against the use of large contractors, this has nonethe-
less worked contrary to expectation: for the building of feeder roads, local,
medium and small size contractors, with a good understanding of the local
conditions, were expected to be engaged. The participation of large contractors
has been favored by at least two connected factors: (a) the nature of the designs
and (b) the short construction period allowed by the contracting agencies. Both
factors are being changed, the first by the review of the design standards,
and the second by a reassessment of the construction periods allowed in future
contracts.
4.19      Top level monitoring of the construction works has generally been
found to be satisfactory, as has periodic supervision by BNDE. However,
field supervision has turned out to be less than adequate. BNDE and DNER
are both aware of the need to develop simpler procedures to supervise these
simpler works and thereby allow resident engineers to concentrate more on
quality than quantity controls. As explained, efforts are being made in
the right direction, and results would be incorporated in the respective
sections of the revised Manual. Similarly, BNDE has been requested to care-
fully assess, according to Manual requirements, the capability of sub-borrowers
to carry out supervision with their own staff and to request inadequately
staffed borrowers to contract supervision to specialized consulting firms.



- 20 -
E.   Performance of BNDE and DNER
4.20      BNDE/DNER performance in the implementation of the First Project is
satisfactory, although improved progress is hampered by two interrelated
problems: one is the comparative shortage of staff available to operate the
program, and the other is the lack of clear leadership in the administration of
it. A program the size of the ongoing First Feeder Roads Project would normally
be administered by a full department staffed accordingly. The ongoing program,
instead, is being administered by a group of eight full-time professionals
(all BNDE staff) and nine part-time professionals (seven BNDE and two DNER
staff) plus two part-time senior staff (one BNDE and one DNER). It is clear
that such a reduced number of professionals cannot assist prospective sub-
borrowers in the preparation of projects, review applications, administer
day-to-day matters, and simultaneously think about ways and means of improv-
ing the program to make it more accessible and responsive to the needs
of the lesser developed states. The matter has been discussed on various
occasions with BNDE/DNER, and definite measures are expected to be implemented
to remedy the situation (paras 5.40 to 5.42). A joint BNDE/DNER steering
committee would be formed to administer the program, and additional staff
would be hired to improve the supervision and monitoring of subprojects and
to assist prospective sub-borrowers in the preparation of projects.
V. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
5.01      The proposed project would be similar in nature to the ongoing
First Project (Loan 1207-BR). It would assist in the continuation of a program
administered by BNDE under which funds are onlent to sub-borrowers for the
construction and improvement of feeder (rural) roads. Specifically, the
program would include:
(a)  the construction, rehabilitation or improvement of roads linking
agricultural areas or third level urban centers (as defined by
the Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica) to state
and federal through roads; and
(b)  the construction and improvement of earth roads and tracks to an
all-weather road condition in areas of high economic potential for
which a defined development program is to be implemented (program
areas).
5.02      Apart from the immediate advantages of improved and reliable road
access, in the longer term, the project is expected to:
(a) correct imbalances in the structure of the road system;
(b) promote the interconnection of regional networks;



- 21 -
(c)  facilitate the implementation of development programs in
program areas;
(d)  facilitate modernization of the agricultural sector and
provide means and incentives for higher agricultural pro-
ductivity through better land use within the zone of
influence of existing transportation systems;
(e)  break the isolation of some areas in order to improve
health, education and social cohesion and promote
increased regional integration; and
(f)  promote the institutional development of participating
agencies, particularly the state DERs, municipal consortia
and the municipalities.
5.03       The continuation of the program would be jointly funded by IBRD, BNDE,
DNER and the sub-borrowers. DNER's contribution would be a grant to sub-
borrowers. The program's additional funding would be about US$338.5 million
equivalent, financed as follows (para 5.36): IBRD US$110.0 million (32.5%,
equivalent to the estimated foreign exchange cost of feeder road construction,
Annex 2), BNDE about US$110.0 million (32.5%), DNER about US$30.1 million (9%,
contributed as a grant) and sub-borrowers about US$88.4 million (26%).
5.04       The financial arrangemetnts for the proposed project would require
a 20% participation from sub-borrowers from lower income states (mostly in the
Northeast), 30% in the case of middle income states and 40% for sub-borrowers
from the state of Sao Paulo. The cost-sharing arrangement would be as indi-
cated in paragraph 5.33.
5.05       Sub-borrowers would apply the proceeds of the subloans to procure
the construction, rehabilitation or improvement (including paving) of roads
and structures, and the procurement of consulting services to carry out the
final engineering and supervision of civil works. Eligible expenditures
under the program would be financ:ed in the proportions indicated in paragraph
5.33 by category of state. Bank participation would, on average, be 32.5% of
total subproject costs, which is the Bank estimate of the foreign exchange
component for these types of roacls (Annex 2). The financed portion of total
subproject costs would vary between 60% and 80%, depending on whether the
sub-borrower is in Sao Paulo or a lower income state.
5.06       To enable a more effective assistance to the states, BNDE intends
to delegate some of its activities under the program to State and Regional
Development Banks. The fact that these Banks are closer to the needs and
the execution of the works renders them well suited for assuming at least some
of the functions that BNDE is currently hard pressed to carry out from a
distance. For example, in some states, supervision of the works under the
ongoing project has been found to be inadequate and could better be under-
taken by the local Development Bank, advised by the state DER, than by BNDE
headquarters advised by DNER. Similarly, in time, the State Banks or the



- 22 -
Development Banks could be used to channel, and first screen, the applications
for assistance under the program to be eventually submitted to BNDE. BNDE
foresees this delegation to be gradual, however, with some state Development
Banks taking over before others, as they equip and staff themselves to carry
out these functions. A plan of action to strengthen State and Regional
Development Banks has been included in the Development Banking Project (Loan
1206-BR). State Banks in Minas Gerais, Parana, Sao Paulo and Rio Grande do
Sul, and two regional banks, BRDE in the Southeast and BND in the Northeast,
would possibly be among the first to take over some of BNDE's functions for
the feeder roads program.
5.07      The delegation of activities to Regional Development Banks would
not directly affect the lending relations between the Bank and BNDE. It would,
however, bring considerable change to the relation between sub-borrowers and
BNDE, especially on matters dealing with subproject preparation and implemen-
tation. Before such delegations take place, therefore, the Bank would be
given an opportunity to assess the technical capacity of the State or Regional
Development Bank concerned, and no such delegation would take place without
the Bank's prior consent. This was confirmed during negotiations, and
provision to this effect was made in the legal documents.
5.08      Subprojects may include the following types of work:
(a) new construction -- construction of roads, where none
existed before, to the specified standards (Table 10);
(b) improvements -- upgrading of existing tracks or roads
to the specified standards, substantially along existing
alignments, including, if shown necessary and feasible,
paving of the facility;
(c) rehabilitation -- reconditioning of deteriorated roadways
to their original standard if shown adequate to the local
need; and
(d) construction or reconstruction of bridges, drainage structures,
side ditches or any other additional work necessary for the
facility to meet the specified standards.
B.   Subproject Eligibility and Preparation
5.09      For purposes of the proposed program, feeder roads are defined
in the revised Manual as those (a) channeling the production of agricultural
areas (or special program areas) to the trunk road and highway system, to
marketing and assembly centers, to consumption centers or to processing,
commercialization or export centers and (b) providing road access to areas
and population centers where none existed previously. An updated draft of
the revised Manual was discussed during negotiations, and issuance of an
agreed final version by BNDE was made a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan.



2 23 _
5.10      To be eligible for financing under the program, feeder roads would,
according to the Manual, have to meel: the following conditions:
(a)  not be part of the federal highway program;
(b)  not be considered for construction in a state highway or road
construction program in the next five years;
(c)  be part of the basic infrastructure required in a program area
for which defined development programs exist, or provide for
the needs of third or fourth category (comparatively small)
urban centers as defined by the Instituto Brasileiro de
Geografia e Estatistica;
(d)  have a maximum (average annual) forecast traffic of 700 vehicles
per day 1/ in the last year of their economic life (estimated
to be 10 years); and
(e)  have a minimum economic rate of return of 12%, estimated
according to methodologies described in the Manual.
Should a road proposed for financing under the program not comply with
conditions (a) to (c) above, a written pronouncement would be required from
the State Planning Department, or equivalent state or municipal institution,
to ensure the compatibility of the proposed road with state or municipal
development programs.
5.11      Responsibility for the preparation and presentation of subloan
applications would, as in the past, rest with sub-borrowers. Applica-
tions would be supported by technical and economic studies, as well as by
detailed information on the sub-borrowers' financial position, capability to
plan and supervise the construction, and to maintain the roads. Few sub-
borrowers have, however, developed the capability to carry out the analysis by
themselves, particularly the economic evaluation of the roads. It is conse-
quently expected that consultants will continue to be engaged to help prepare
the feasibility studies in collaboration with the sub-borrowers' resident
staff. Preparation work should be greatly facilitated, however, by experience
gained under the ongoing project (Loan 1207-BR), and by the revised guidelines
in the Manual. The Manual itself has been substantially improved to make it
easier to understand and expanded to provide for a simpler presentation of the
methods suggested to be used in the economic assessment of the proposed
subprojects. Furthermore, BNDE's increased capacity to assist prospective
sub-borrowers with the preparation of the necessary studies (para 5.40) should
help to develop, over time, a sufficiently large pool of capable staff in many
states.
C.   Methodology for Subproject Evaluation
5.12      The Manual describes in detail the steps required to assess the
economic feasibility of roads accorcling to the following two methods which
are suggested to be used in the circumstances defined:
1/   This level of traffic is the maximum consistent with the design standards
used for the feeder roads.



- 24 -
(a) the traditional transport project analysis, which is recommended
to be used in comparatively developed areas, where economic activity
and, consequently, traffic are already substantial (say, above 100
vehicles per day). In these cases, economic justification would be
based on vehicle operating cost savings. However, only savings
accruing from normal traffic and its historic growth would be
allowed. Savings from generated and diverted traffic and benefits
attributable to time savings would not be accepted to avoid spurious
accounting of unlikely benefits; and
(b) the value-added or producer surplus method. This method is
recommended for relatively undeveloped areas where the prime
objective is not only to provide the area with a basic transport
infrastructure but with a number of other facilities and services
which would remove, all taken together, constraints to the
development of the area. In these cases, transport investments
are not the only necessary investment, and, therefore, a well
defined program that puts all requirements into perspective
should be available. The methodology is especially recommended
for program areas in which the socio-economic development as a
whole, together with the specific road investment, needs to be
shown feasible.  The method permits establishing a direct link
between benefits and the full package of investments required to
realize those benefits and, therefore, ensures that road invest-
ments would not be assumed to generate, by themselves, benefits
that roads alone cannot produce. It would further allow ensuring
that proper care would be taken of the financing and institutional
arrangements necessary to remove bottlenecks and achieve the defined
objectives.
5.13      A combination of the traditional method and the value-added method
is also accepted to assess the economic feasibility of individual road links
or full programs in intermediate cases between the two extremes defined, as
long as care is taken not to double count benefits.
5.14      Should the proposed project be assessed as a traditional transport
project, the following would be required:
(a) a description of the objectives and justification of the priority
of the proposed roads;
(b) a description of the area of influence of the proposed roads,
including relevant maps of the federal, state and municipal
networks in the area;
(c) a quantification of expected benefits and a description of
non-quantifiable social or other benefits;
(d) an identification and description of constraints in sectors other
than transportation that may prevent realizing the full expected
benefits of the road investment. A description of possible
solutions to the bottlenecks and an estimate of the cost of
removing them should ideally be included;



- 25 -
(e) a description and justification of the engineer:ing standard
proposed for each link;
(f) quantification of the costs of the proposed roads; and
(g) calculation of the economic rate of return of each road over
its expected 10-year life, including a sensitivity analysis of
the rate assuming a 20% increase in costs.
5.15      Should the proposed project refer to a program area and be assessed
by the value-added method, the following information would be required:
(a) a description of the area, including maps of the topography and
the federal, state and municipal road networks :in it;
(b) a description of the development plan for the area: its objec-
tives and expected effects on agricultural production, storage,
distribution and marketing of the production generated, a descrip-
tion of major bottlenecks that would be removed by the proposed
plan, the institutional arrangements to implement it, and the
sources of financing for it;
(c) a quantification of expected benefits and a description of
non-quantifiable social or other benefits;
(d) a description and justification of the engineering standard
chosen for each link in the system;
(e) quantification of the costs of:
-    implementing the proposed road project
-    removing the bottlenecks and
-    implementing programs in other sectors
these costs would all be considered in the economic analysis, but
only road costs would be financed; insofar as possible, the informa-
tion would be provided for the area as a whole, as well as for each
link in the system;
(f) calculation of the economic rate of return for the program as a
whole and for each link separately, over the program's expected
economic life and the road's expected 10-year life respectively,
including a sensitivity analysis of the rates of return assuming
a 20% increase in costs; and
(g) documents to show the effective allocation of resources to
implement the development program.



- 26 -
5.16      It is the sub-borrower's responsibility to develop the necessary
information and analysis. Considering the limited resources of most expected
sub-borrowers and the experience under the ongoing project, the methodologies
described were revised to:
(a) be sufficiently simple and flexible, yet adequate to permit a
more sophisticated analysis whenever possible;
(b) take into account that data and statistical information available
may be limited in some states: the objective is to use available
sources first and develop new information only if absolutely
indispensable; and
(c) be relatively inexpensive and, hence, not out of tune with the
expected low costs of the works.
5.17      Subproject costs would be estimated at the borrowers' option, on
the basis of either (a) unit prices obtained from recent contracts for similar
works, or (b) unit costs as estimated by means of DNER's Highway Construction
Cost Manual or similar Manual published by the state's DER, properly adjusted
for price changes according to indices published by the Getulio Vargas Founda-
tion. These financial costs, including adequate provision for contingencies
(10% to 15% depending on the nature of the engineering on which the quantity
estimates are based) would serve as the basis to estimate the financial
assistance requested, expressed in ORTNs. Bid prices, also expressed in
ORTNs, are not expected to exceed these estimates by more than 20%. Should
this occur, however, the sub-borrower would be required to submit a new
economic assessment of the proposed road (para 5.27). There is therefore a
strong inducement to assess costs as close as possible to the likely bid
prices and to adjust designs to real requirements, an element which was weakly
handled by the previous operational rules of the program.
D.   Engineering Standards for Subproject Roads
5.18      Given the restrictions imposed on the development of the First
Project by the design standards (paras 4.14 to 4.17), a new set of standards
has been developed. This new set, by offering five alternatives, provides
for a more flexible approach to identifying the most appropriate characteris-
tics for the proposed roads. The new set of standards (Table 10) has been
designed to (a) link the geometric characteristics of the roads to the
tenth year traffic, and not the first year traffic as was the case before;
(b) accommodate staged construction or improvement of the roads; and
(c) allow a maximum of 700 vehicles per day in the tenth year.
5.19      The new standards are highly sensitive to traffic estimates; in
fact, as seen in Table 10, traffic ranges for each class overlap, allowing
for different traffic growth rates to be accommodated. Two roads with
the same traffic in the first year, but with different growth rates, would
have different standards, i.e., the higher traffic growth road would have a
higher standard than the lower. The right choice is, however, predicated on
the accuracy of traffic and growth rate estimates. In traditional transport



- 27 -
project analysis, traffic studies would be done according to DNER's Traffic
Analysis Manual, which has been reviewed and found adequate to ensure that
reasonable estimates would be produced. In program areas, traffic would be
assessed as a function of production growth estimates in the area of influ-
ence of each road in the program; the reasonableness of the estimates would,
in turn, depend on the quality of the analysis of the development program as
a whole.
5.20      The highest class of road (A) provides a structure that could, if
necessary, be paved immediately. It is equivalent to DNER class III but has
only a 9-meter roadway. This type of road is more than likely to have been
included in a federal or state-highway program and would, if so, not be
eligible under the proposed project. It is, consequently, expected that the
standard would be used in only a few cases. The two middle classes (B and C)
have geometric standards that would allow future paving without additional
earthworks. Both would at present be gravel roads. Class B would be expected
to be paved within the first five years after construction, and class C to be
paved sometime between the fifth and tenth year after construction. The two
lowet classes (D and E) are gravel roads; D has a 7-meter roadway including
side drainage, i.e., is a fair two-lane gravel road, and E is a one-lane earth
road graveled only where necessary to keep it open all year.
5.21      To design class A and B roads, DNER's Design Manual and its estab-
lished specifications would be used; for the others, special norms and speci-
fications defined in the Manual would apply. These special norms and specifica-
tions are an attempt at simplifying design methodologies for comparatively low
cost roads (para 4.15) and are consequently expected to produce comparatively
lower cost designs. Since there is little or no experience in Brazil with the
use of these simplified methods, an intensive assistance effort will have to be
undertaken by BNDE arid DNER to help state DERs and consultants to implement them
and to avoid the influence of the stricter, more sophisticated methods generally
used for designing paved roads.
E.   Subproject Review
5.22      BNDE would continue to be responsible, as in the First Program,
for approving applications for assistance under the program. In deciding
whether or not to approve a request, BNDE would be assisted by DNER and the
Bank.  DNER would, within 45 days after receipt of an application, express
its opinion on (a) the technical and economic feasibility of the proposed
project; (b) the technical specifications chosen for the roads and their
cost estimates; (c) the selection of roads and their compatibility with
the project's objectives; (d) the compatibility of the proposal with
federal, state and/or municipal road development programs; (e) the appli-
cant's capacity to administer the project, plan and supervise the proposed
works and maintain the roads built; and (f) the suitability of the plan
for the execution of the proposed project.
5.23-   B'BDE would simultaneously carry out its own assessment of the
applfication. Based on it and DNER's opinion, it would approve or reject
applications from states and municipal consortia for which total project



- 28 -
costs do not exceed 650,000 ORTNs (about US$10.0 million, of which about
US$3.25 million would be loan proceeds) and applications from municipalities
which do not exceed 100,000 ORTNs (about US$1.5 million, of which about US$0.5
million would be loan proceeds). Applications for assistance in subprojects
which exceed these total cost limits would be sent to the Bank for prior
review and concurrence. For practical reasons, as opposed to the First
Project, free limits would now be expressed in terms of total project costs
rather than Bank loan proceeds. The Bank would have 60 days (vs 90 days in the
First Project) from receipt of the relevant documents to express its views on
the proposed subproject, after which time approval would be BNDE's respon-
sibility. Free limits and deadlines for submission of views were discussed
and agreed during negotiations.
5.24      Experience under the First Project suggests that the Bank can expect
two out of ten subprojects to be exempt from prior review. Similarly, the
situation is expected to occur with reasonably few municipal subprojects.
By exempting relatively small subprojects from Bank review, loan administra-
tion is simplified and operation of the program is significantly expedited.
The risks involved are minimal since BNDE is committed to the objectives of
the program and would build up an adequate capacity to review and screen
applications (paras 5.40 to 5.42).
F.   Subproject Execution, Procurement, Supervision and Monitoring
5.25      Once an application has been accepted, the sub-borrower may
proceed to have the final engineering prepared. There are two alternatives:
(a) the sub-borrower may do the engineering with his own resources
if, in BNDE's opinion (taking cognizance of DNER's opinion),
adequate expertise and capacity are available to him; in this
case, at BNDE's discretion, up to a maximum of 5% of the cost
of civil works may be allowed as part of the sub-borrower's
own contribution to the execution of the subproject;
(b) the sub-borrower may hire consultants to do the work if
desired, or if BNDE insists; in this case, the consultants
would have to be approved by BNDE (after obtaining DNER's
opinion), and the program would pay for the services in the
same proportion as other expenses (para 5.33).
Execution of the engineering would be closely monitored by DNER and BNDE,
and the Bank would be kept informed of progress of the work.
5.26      The sub-borrower would be responsible for the execution of the sub-
project. Procurement of civil works would follow the Government's competitive
bidding procedures with local advertising only, which is acceptable and in
accordance with Bank Guidelines for these types of works. Although these
procedures allow foreign contractors to bid, it is expected that all civil
works would be contracted to local firms. Procedures for civil works procure-
ment are contained in Decree-Law No. 200 of February 25, 1967 and in Decree



- 29 -
No. 73140 of November 9, 1973, both of which have been reviewed and found
acceptable since they provide for adequate competition ancl reasonable prices.
Local advertising is appropriate for these works since the roads would be of
relatively low cost (contracts in tlhe First Project average about US$500,000),
would be scat ered over several states, and foreign firms, not already estab-
lished in Brazil, would not be interested. Procurement procedures and Bank
review of procurement were agreed during negotiations.
5.27      Bid prices and total costs of the works would be closely monitored
by BNDE and DNER. Should they exceed by 20% the estimates provided in the
feasibility studies, the sub-borrower would be required to reassess the
economic feasibility of the proposed road. Should the reassessment show the
road to be no longer feasible, financial support for its construction would
be withdrawn and the road would be deleted from the list of roads to be
built under the subloan. Should the reassessment show the road still to be
feasible, financing for its completion would be honored, but additional costs
beyond those included in the subloan would have to be borne entirely by the
sub-borrower.
5.28      Supervision of subprojects would rest with the sub-borrowers and,
to this effect, their capacity to carry out this task would be assessed
at an early stage in the process of reviewing applications. If, in the
opinion of BNDE (upon DNER's advice), the sub-borrower has in-house capacity
to supervise the works, this would be permitted, but not paid for, by the
program. If, on the other hand, the sub-borrower hires a consultant for
this task, the cost of this service would be eligible for financing under
the program and would be covered in the same proportion as other expenses
(para 5.33).
5.29      BNDE, with the assistance of DNER, would also, by means of regular
supervision visits, ensure that the terms and conditions of the subloans,
particularly the technical standards of construction, are adhered to. Hence,
BNDE, with the help of DNER, would closely monitor progress of subprojects
and inform the Bank accordingly in summary reports every (quarter.
5.30      The Bank would take the following measures to ensure proper
execution of the project:
(a)  Based on the information on progress of designs, as supplied
by BNDE and DNER (para 5.25), review and approve, ex-post-facto,
a sample of about 10% of the final engineering and procurement
documents for sub-projects;
(b)  Review a sample of about 10% of contract awards on an ex-post-facto
basis, with the right to exclude from financing such contracts not
awarded following agreed procedures;
(c)  Review quarterly progress reports and other pertinent informa-
tion (para 5.29); and



- 30 -
(d) Provide supervision missions which would analyze the efficiency
of the institutions in operational procedures, visit a sample of
subproject sites to review progress and quality of the works, and,
on a continuing basis, reassess the program to see whether it
would need changes to improve it. Bank supervision would, by means
of discussion and exchange of views, emphasize training of the
groups responsible for project preparation, appraisal and supervision.
5.31      Engineering designs for the first of the subprojects to be under-
taken under the proposed project are expected to be started in early 1980.
The first civil works would start in early 1981. The proposed loan is
expected to be committed in about three years and disbursed in about six years
after effectiveness, that is, by 1986.
5.32      A typical implementation schedule for a subproject is given in
Annex 3. This schedule, based on experience gained during implementation
of the First Project, was discussed and agreed with BNDE and DNER during
negotiations. Annex 3 also discusses indicators to be used for project
monitoring and post-evaluation. The impact of subprojects would be monitored
essentially through periodic traffic surveys and periodic reports to be
prepared by sub-borrowers after completion of road construction, acccording
to provisions in the Manual. Specific arrangements for project monitoring
and post-evaluation were agreed during negotiations.
G.   Subproject Financing and Disbursement
5.33      The foreign exchange component for feeder road construction is
estimated in Annex 2. Based on those calculations, the Bank would finance an
average 32.5% of subproject costs. The local component of subproject costs
including various taxes and transfers (about 16% of total costs) would be
financed by BNDE, DNER and the sub-borrowers. Following changes approved by
the Brazilian Federal Government to the financing structure of the ongoing
project (Loan 1207-BR) to make it more attractive to the lower income states,
participation by these states was reduced from the previous 40.1% of subproject
costs to 20%. Similarly, participation by middle income states would be
reduced to 30%. For the state of Sao Paulo, however, the contribution to the
financing of subprojects would remain at 40%. Three groups of states are
consequently recognized for financing purposes. The difference between the
Bank's contribution and the sub-borrowers' contribution would be split between
BNDE and DNER (para 5.03). The following financial arrangement is obtained by
type of state of the sub-borrowers' origin:



- :31 -
Group A        Group B        Group C
State         State          State
------(Percentage Cost Share)------
IBRD                       32.8            32.2          32.5
BNDE                       37.0            29.7          21.6
DNER Grant                  10.2             8.1          5.9
Sub-Borrower               20.0            30.0          40.0
Group A includes:
Acre, Alagoas, Amazonas, Bahia, Ceara, Espirito Saar..t; Coias,
Maranhao, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Para, Paraiba,
Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio GraLnde do Norte, Sergipe, ad the
Territories.
Group B Includes:
Minas Gerais, Parana, Rio Grande do Sul, Rio de Janeiro and
Santa Catarina;
Group C includes:
Sao Paulo
5.34      During appraisal, it was agreed with BNDE that its present system of
disbursing subloans in tranches wouLd be continued. Each tranche disbursed by
BNDE includes its own, the Bank's and DNER's contribution, of which only the
Bank's and BNDE's are reimbursable lby sub-borrowers. The Bank would reimburse
BNDE against amounts disbursed according to the following schedule by state
of origLin of the sub-borrower:
Group A states      47% of reimbursable payments made by BNDE
to beneficiaries
Group B states      52% of reimbursable payments made by BNDE to
beneficiaries, and
Group C states      60% of reimbursable payments made by BNDE to
beneficiaries.
5.35      BNDE's applications for reimbursement would be supported by certi-
ficates and relevant documents to attest to the nature of the expenses for
which the funds were disbursed roat] by road in each subloan. The Bank would
reserve the right to review ex-post-facto a sample of bid dlocuments, bid
evaluation and contract awards (para 5.30) and records of expenditures for
subprojects for which reLimbursements are being claimed, and to exclude from
financing contracts not awarded according to agreed procedures (para 5.26) or
expenditures made for purposes other than those allowed in the Program (para
5.08). Detailed Bank reimbursement. procedures were agreed during negotiations.



- 32 -
5.36      During negotiations, it was agreed that no more than 15% (US$50.0
million) of the program's funds would be spent in any one state. For the
state of Sao Paulo, which constitutes Group C by itself, this limit is lowered
to US$25.0 million. While there is no intention of strictly allocating
program funds among groups of states, it has been assumed that Sao Paulo
would use its full allowance and that the remainder would be used in equal
proportions by Groups A and B. The resulting cost sharing scheme would
therefore be:
Group A     Group B       Group C      Total
States      States        States
---------(Equivalent US$ Million)---------
IBRD                 51.41        50.47          8.12       110.00
BNDE                 57.99        46.55          5.40       109.94
DNER Grant           15.98        12.69          1.48        30.15
Sub-Borrowers        31.35        47.02         10.00        88.37
Total               156.73       156.73         25.00       338.46
The prospects for the development of the program were reviewed on the basis of
confirmed indications of interest received by BNDE from various states and
taking into account the experience gained under the First Project concerning
time needed to prepare and process subprojects. The following initial esti-
mates of the schedule of commitments under the proposed project were agreed
(in percent of total loan funds).
1980       1981       1982
Annual                       36         33         31
Cumulative                   36         69        100
It was also agreed that BNDE would update the schedule of commitments starting
no later than December 31, 1979, and at six-month intervals thereafter, on the
basis of an analysis of the portfolio of subprojects under preparation.
5.37      The schedule of estimated disbursements of Bank loan proceeds was
prepared accordingly and is shown in Table 11.
H.   Subloan Terms and Conditions
5.38      Subloans would be for a period of not less than eight and not more
than ten years plus one to four years of grace (depending on the expected
construction period for each particular subproject). They would be denomi-
nated in ORTNs, thereby be fully adjusted for monetary variations, and would
bear interest at the following rates, depending on the state of origin of the
applicant:
4% for the states of Acre, Alagoas, Amazonas, Bahia, Ceara,
Espirito Santo, Goias, Maranhao, Mato Grosso,
Mato Grosso do Sul, Para, Paraiba, Pernambuco,
Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte, Sergipe, and the
Territories;



- 33 -
5% for the states of Minas Gerais, Parana, Rio Grande do Sul,
Rio de Janeiro and Santa Catarina;
7% for the state of Sao Paulo
BNDE would fully bear the exchange risk between the currencies disbursed by
the Bank and the Brazilian cruzeiro and would obtain adequate repayment
guarantees from sub-borrowers. Guarantees have normally been provided on the
basis of revenues originating in the fuel tax, normally channeled to sub-borrowers
via the National Highway Fund (paras 1.20 to 1.24).
5.39      An important condition for financial assistance under the program
would be the assumption by the beneficiary of the responsibility to maintain
the roads built. To this effect, the Manual provides for a thorough assess-
ment by DNER and BNDE of the sub-borrower's capability and capacity to do
the maintenance before approval of subloans. Formal maintenance agreements
between BNDE and the sub-borrower would be contained in subloan contracts.
These agreements would include a formal maintenance guarantee for a period
at least as long as the amortization period of the subloan. In addition,
municipalities and municipal consortia would need to provide a formal commit-
ment from their state highway authority to assume the maintenance of the roads
should the local authority not be able to honor their agreement.
1.   Project Administration
5.40      As with the First Project (Loan 1207-BR), BNDE would be responsible
for project administration. BNDE's Feeder Roads Unit, in the Infrastructure
Department of Projects Area II, would discharge this responsibility. Staffing
of this Unit is presently insufficient to carry out all tasks necessary to
adequately administer the ongoing First Project, let alone the proposed one
(para 4.20); for this reason, adequate staffing of the Unit was discussed and
agreed during negotiations. The Unit would, in addition, have two qualified
economists charged with the specific task of assisting prospective sub-borrowers
in the preparation of support studies, advising them on the use of the proper
methodologies, and in processing their applications for assistance under the
Program (para 4.12).  During negotiations, BNDE confirmed that this staff
would be appointed by July 31, 1979.
5.41      BNDE would, as in the past, be assisted by DNER in the adminis-
tration of the proposed project. DNER set up and staffed a Unit under its
General Director to provide this assistance. However, further staffing of
the Unit (which is a function of the size, staffing and capabilities of BNDE's
Unit) was discussed and agreed duriLng negotiations, and specific mention of
the minimum staffing of the group will be made in the agreement to be entered
into between DNER and BNDE (para. 2.10).
5.42      To coordinate actions of both Units (BNDE's and DNER's), a Joint
Steering Committee would be formed.. Its composition was discussed and
agreed during negotiations.  The chairman of the Steering Committee would
be the working liaison between the Bank and the project. Official



- 34 -
communications would, however, as in the past, be channeled through BNDE's
normal routines. Establishment of the Steering Committee, appointment of the
chairman, and its acknowledgment by BNDE and DNER in a letter to the Bank, is
a condition for effectiveness of the loan.
J.   Project Risks
5.43      The proposed project involves no particular risks and would benefit
from experience gained under the First Feeder Roads Project. The initial
delays experienced in committing funds under the First Project would not be
repeated since the proposed project would start off with an initial portfolio
of subprojects (para 4.06). Moreover, the new administration installed on
March 15 has, on many occasions, indicated that public investments in support
of agricultural development would be given high priority. Several of the
new Governors have also indicated their interest in feeder road programs.
The strengthening of BNDE's unit responsible for the program (para 5.41)
would allow BNDE to publicize the program and to assist prospective sub-
borrowers in the preparation of subprojects. The cost-sharing arrangements
and the design criteria have been amended to better fit the capacity and the
requirements of the low-income states. Their full participation would also
be encouraged by BNDE's enlarged role in project preparation.
5.44      The review of subprojects under implementation has led to the adop-
tion of improved procedures and practices for final engineering, contracting
and supervision. As the program unfolds, further improvements and corrective
measures will undoubtedly be found necessary. The full realization of the
objectives of the program in this field would imply active supervision of all
subprojects by BNDE and Bank staff at least once a year. The related manpower
requirements would clearly be in excess of the average staff allocation for
supervision of highway projects. The receptivity shown to Bank advice and the
need for first-hand contact with sub-borrowers suggests that Bank assistance
to BNDE in project supervision would be warranted and would be an essential
element in reducing the risk of implementation problems.
5.45      The Manual would set simple albeit very specific requirements con-
cerning the economic viability of subprojects. This requirement has been
adhered to rigorously by BNDE and has led to the selection of well justified
roads under the First Project. BNDE's feeder roads program, although signifi-
cant, is of relatively small size compared to the current demand for secondary
and feeder road improvements. Sub-borrowers would have to make substantial
direct contributions to the cost of the subproject. The above factors
suggest that the risk of including economically unjustified subprojects
in the program is minimal.
VI. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT
6.01      Agricultural productivity cannot increase significantly where
access roads are impassable or non-existent, where transport costs are high,
and where ability to get to the markets is uncertain. Under these conditions,



- 35 -
there are neither the means nor the incentives to produce a surplus. The
proposed project is geared to help in solving these problems which, despite
the efforts being made by the Brazi:Lian Government, still exist in some
regions of the country.
6.02      Traditionally in Brazil, increases in agricultural production have
been accomplished by placing additional land into production. However,
because new available lands are distant from the main markets and lack invest-
ments in supporting infrastructure, further gains can most economically be
achieved through better use of lands within the zone of influence of existing
transportation systems. The proposed project would help to integrate micro-
regional transport networks and to correct imbalances in the road infrastructure,
thereby providing significant savings to existing traffic as well as improved
access for the rural population.
6.03      Improved accessibility increases rural contact with services pro-
vided by Government agencies and private sources, including extension services,
medical and veterinary coverage, marketing cooperatives, credit agencies,
and equipment suppliers. The provision of these services has to be motivated
and channeled, and improved access provides a strong incentive for these
additional inputs to be mobilized.
6.04      Apart from a need for improved transport in areas already developed,
Brazil needs roads for the new areas being brought into cultivation in
frontier states. Some settlement is taking place along main highways built
across the interior of the country, but increased investment in feeder roads
is essential if the interior is to be occupied in an economically meaningful
way and not merely traversed by the trunk roads. The proposed project is
aimed at helping to provide for the construction of these feeder connections
between the newly incorporated areas and the main trunk network.
6.05      A rate of return has not been calculated for the proposed project
because the subprojects to be included in the program have not yet been
identified. However, the roads to be financed under the program would have
to yield a minimum economic rate of return of 12%.
6.06      Judging from experience with the ongoing First Project, rates of
return for subprojects may be expected to range up to over 40% and to be most
frequently in the 15% to 25% range (Tables 8 and 9).
6.07      Benefits of the proposed project are expected to accrue mostly to
farmers in the areas of influence of the roads built, or to consumers, since
the transport industry in Brazil is competitive and dynamic to respond to
increasing demands (see Report 1862b-BR, Staff Appraisal Report, Sixth Highway
Project, Brazil). The country as a whole would benefit from an improved rural
well-being.



- 36 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a)  no change in the institutional responsibilities for the proposed
project to be undertaken without prior consultation with the
Bank (para 2.05);
(b)  DNER's commitment to make available US$30.1 million to the funding
increase of the National Feeder Roads Program (para 2.10);
(c)  BNDE not to delegate functions of its responsibility to State
or Regional Development Banks without the Bank's prior consent
(para 5.07);
(d)  free limits and deadlines for submission of views on
applications for assistance under the project (para 5.23);
(e)  procurement procedures and Bank review of procurement (para 5.26);
(f)  implementation schedule and arrangements for project monitoring
and post-evaluation (para 5.32);
(g)  detailed procedures to disburse Bank loan proceeds (para 5.35);
(h)  maximum amount to be spent in any one state not to exceed 15%
(US$50.0 million) of the program's funds; for Sao Paulo state,
this limit is lowered to US$25.0 million (para 5.36);
(i)  a schedule of commitment of program funds, its review by
December 31, 1979, and its periodic updating at six-month
intervals (para 5.36);
(j)  staffing of Feeder Roads Unit in BNDE's Infrastructure
Department of Projects Area II (para 5.40);
(k)  appointment, by July 31, 1979, to BNDE's Feeder Roads Unit
of two qualified economists for the purposes of assisting
prospective sub-borrowers in the preparation of support studies,
advising them on the use of the proper methodologies and in
processing of applications for assistance under the program
(para 5.40);
(1) additional staffing of DNER's Feeder Roads Unit (para 5.41); and
(m) composition of the Joint Steering Committee (para 5.42).



- 37 -
7.02      The following were agreed as conditions of effectiveness of
the proposed loan:
(a)  execution of a Subsidiary Agreement between BNDE and DNER
defining the mechanisms to be used to transfer funds, pledged
by DNER to the program, to BNDE (para 2.10);
(b) issuance by BNDE of an agreed final version of the Manual
(para 5.09); and
(c)  acknowledgment by BNDE and DNER, in a letter to the Bank, of
the formation and chairmanship of the Joint Steering Committee
(para 5.42).
7.03      Subject to the preceding agreements with the Government, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$110.0 million. The loan would
be amortized in 15 years, including a three-year grace period.
June 6, 1979



TABLE 1
- 38 -
BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Highway Network
(1973-1977 in km)
1973        1974        1975        1976         1977
NORTH      Federal        8,052        9,015       9,769     10,069       10,177
State        10,345       11,182      11,818       5,526       6,408
Municipal    10,609       12,523      12,807      13,955       15,720
NORTHEAST  Federal       19,597       20,378      20,749     20,943       21,037
State        33,162       36,045      37,038      31,049      33,827
Municipal   290,110      297,643    311,703    330,922       351,248
SOUTHEAST  Federal       16,608       16,209     16,554      17,010       17,033
State        45,775       46,476      47,220      30,350      30,863
Municipal   356,680      366,201    382,526    428,274       433,008
SOUTH      Federal        8,737        9,172       9,690      9,966       10,400
State        26,463       27,476      28,531      17,798      20,458
Municipal   313,524      324,370    343,591    361,879       361,015
CENTERWEST Federal       12,006       12,041      12,202     12,210       12,231
State        30,772       34,115      33,427      34,098      35,469
Municipal   114,899      125,010    139,960    162,441       152,529
TOTAL      Federal       65,000       66,815      68,964     70,198       70,878
State       146,517      155,294    158,034    118,821       127,025
Municipal 1,085,822   1,125,747  1,190,587  1,297,471   1,313,520
BRAZIL                1,297,339   1,347,856  1,417,585  1,486,490   1,511,423
Source: GEIPOT, Anuario Estadistico dos Transportes.
January 1979



- 39 -                            TABLE 2
BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Municipal Road Network
(1976, 1977 in km)
1976                          1977
Region        State           Paved      Unpaved    Total    Paved    Unpaved    Total
NORTH       Rondonia             10        446        456       11        462        473
Acre                 8        548        556        10       520        530
Amazonas            44      1,127      1,171        51     2,481      2,532
Roraima              3        613        616         3       584        587
Para               358     10,236    10,594        427    10,439    10,866
Amapa               10        552        562        10       722        732
433     13,522    13,955       512    15,208    15,720
NORTHEAST   Maranhao             71     40,332    40,403         70    41,695    41,765
Piaui               44     41,389    41,433         44    45,926    45,970
Ceara              246     64,131    64,377        255    66,948    67,203
R. G. de Norte      73     25,130    25,203         61    27,131    27,192
Paraiba             16     32,124    32,140         17    31,728    31,745
Pernambuco          53     33,274    33,327         56    35,364    35,420
Alagoas             30      9,533      9,563        33     9,867      9,900
F. de Noronha        -          19        19         -        19         19
Sergipe              8      7,605      7,613         9     7,911      7,920
Bahia              161     76,683    76,844        161    83,953    84,114
702    330,220   330,922       706   350,542   351,248
SOUTHEAST   Minas Gerais       276    189,116   189,392        293   195,276   195,569
Espirito Santo      35     21,974    22,009         38    20,374    20,412
Rio de Janeiro    401      18,483    18,884        408    18,592    19,000
Sao Paulo          974    197,015   197,989    1,012   197,015   198,027
1,686    426,588   428,274    1,751   431,257   433,008
SOUTH       Parana              91    126,938   127,029         92   127,690   127,782
Sta. Catarina      196     82,963    83,159        185    77,752    77,937
R. G. do Sul       223    151,468   151,691        230   155,066   155,296
510    361,369   361,879       507   360,508   361,015
CENTERWEST  Mato Grosso         12      72,872    72,884        13    62,752    62,765
Goias               30     89,527    89,557         68    89,696    89,764
Federal Distr.       -        -          -           -       -          -
42    162,399   162,441        81   152,448   152,529
BRAZIL                       3,373  1,294,098 1,297,471    3,557 1,309,963 1,313,520
Source: GEIPOT, Anuario Estadistico dos Transportes
January 1979



- 40 -                                      TABLE 3_
BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Density of Municipal Roads by state and region
(1977)
POPULATION        AREA      !   MUNICIPAL                   MUNICIPAL
REGION AND STATE      P                                   ROADS                   ROADS PER
(1.000 hab)   (1.000 km)       PAVED      TOTAL      1.000 km      1.000 hab
NORTH
Rondonia                     153             243          11        473         1.94          3.09
Acre                         264             153          10        530         3.46          2.00
Amazonas                  1,152           1,566           51      2,532         1.61          2.19
Roraima                       51             230           3        587         2.55         11.50
Para                      2,711           1,249         427      10,866         8.69          4.00
Amapa                        154             140          10        732         5.22          4.75
TOTAL                     4,485           3,581         512      15,720         4.38          3.50
% of Brazil Total         4.0            42.0          14.4       1.2
NORTHEAST
Fernando de Noronha         _       -                   -            19           -             -
Maranhao                   3,471             329          70     41,765       126.94         12.03
Piaui                     2,110              252         44      45,970       182.42         21.78
Ceara                     5,409              149         255     67,203       451.o2         12.42
Rio Grande do Norte       1,973               53          61     27,192       513.05         13.78
Paraiba                   2,785               56          17     31,745       566.87         11.39
Pernambuco                6,141               98         56      35,420       361.42          5.76
Alagoas                   1,873               28          33      9,900       353.57          5.28
Sergipe                   1,031               22           9      7,920       360.00          7.68
Bahia                     8,849             561         161      84,114       149.93          9.50
TOTAL                    33,642           1,548         706      51,248       226.90         10.44
2 of Brazil Total        29.7            18.2          19.8       26.7
SOUTHEAST
Minas Gerais             12,985              587         293    L95,569       333.16         15.06
Espirito Santo            1,777               46         38      20,412       443.73         11.48
Rio de Janeiro           11,019               44        408      19,000       431.81          1.72
Sao Paulo                21,922             248       1,012    L98,027        789.49          9.03
TOTAL                    47,703              925      1,751    i33,008        468.11          9.07
% of Brazil Total        42.1            10.9         49.2       33.0
SOUTH
Parana                    9,146              200         92      27,782       638.91         13.97
Santa Catarina            3,553               96        185      77,937       811.84         21.93
Rio Grande do Sul         7,795              282        230      55,296       550.69         19.92
TOTAL                    20,494              578        507      61,015       624.59         17.61
% of Brazil Total        18.1             6.8          14.3      27.5
CENTER-WEST
Mato Grosso               2,191           1,232          13      62,765        50.94         28.64
Goias                     3,825             642          68      89,764       139.81         23.46
Distrito Federal            869                6         -         -             -             -
TOTAL                     6,885           1,880          81    L52,529         81.13         22.15
% of Brazil Total         6.1            22.1           2.3      11.6
B R A Z I L             113,209           8,512       3,557      1,313,520   154.31          11.60
Source:  Instituto Brasilieiro de Geografia e Estatistica - IBGE
Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem - DNER
GEIPOT
January 1979



BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Status of First Feeder Roads Project
(January 1, 19791/)
Subproject       Km in          IBRD          Subloan        Subproject Costs                Subproject Financing
Beneficiary      Project      Approval          Date        ORTNs        US$ mil.        IBRD      BNDE      DNER      BORR
A. Committed before January 1, 1979
DER-GO I          650.3        6/30/77        9/21/77   1,259,744         19.40          4.50      4.50      2.62      7.78
DER-MAT           615.0        5/11/77        9/29/77   1,140,831         17.57          4.08      4.08      2.36      7.05
CRIBA             493.3        9/19/77       10/21/77   1,259,029         19.39          4.50      4.50      2.62      7.77
DER-MG            649.3        6/21/78        6/26/78   1,584,424         24.40          5.66      5.66      3.30      9.78
DER-SP            735.7       10/10/78                   1,386,576        21.35          4.95      4.95      2.89      8.56
B. Committed after January 1, 1979
DER-PB             84.4        2/06/79                     254,920         3.92          1.27      1.33     0.53       0.78
Sub-total       3,228.0                                  6,885,554       106.03        24.96    25.02    14.32    41.72
C. In Process
nER-MA            378.0                                    624,R25         9.62          3.13      3.27      1.30      1.92
DER-GO II       1,066.0                                  1,704,922        26.25          8.53      8.93      3.54      5.25
DER-AL I          215.0                                    306,043         4.71          1.53      1.60      0.64      0.94
DER-BA          1,139.0                                  1,369,041        21.08          6.85      7.17      2.85      4.22
CINTEA (RS)         2.8*                                   299,480         4.61          1.07      1.07      0.62      1.85
DER-PR            530.0                                    853,224        13.14          3.05      3.05      1.77      5.27
DER-SC            200.0                                    872,217        13.43          3.12      3.12      1.81      5.39
Sub-total       3,530.8                                 6,029,752         92.84        27.28    28.21    12.53    24.82
GRAND TOTAL    6,758.8                                  12,915,276       198.87         52.24    53.23    26.85    66.56
*51 bridges
1/  1 ORTN = Cr$318.44  1 US$ = Cr$20.68
Source: Mission
April 1979



BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Status of Road Component in Rural Development Projects
Project Costs       Loan Amount         Number of Roads                        Rate of
Year                 For                For               Under    Comple-    Total    Return
Loan                Approved   Total       Roads    Total   Roads    Total    Constr.        ted         Km   Proj.  Road
Alto Turi             1972      12.60       9.92      6.70    4.30       22        2         20         238    16      12
Lower Sao Fco.        1975      52.60       1.05a/  23.00    0.35a/       2        -          2          64    16    n.a.
Ceara Rural Dev.      1977      55.75       7.84    17.00    2.39        30       12          -         370    21    n.a.
Paraiba Rural Dev.   1978       67.30      17.64    24.00    6.29        25        2          -         322    32    n.a.
Bahia Rural Dev.      1978    106.62       23.60    37.00    8.30       116       29          -       1,139    15    n.a.
60.05             21.63      195       45         22      2,133
a/ Actual costs
Source: Bank Appraisal Reports
January 1979



TABLE 6
BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
DNER Past and Expected Future Sources of Finance 1972-1979
(All in 197b Cr5 ml  lion, infIators used for 19/Z-II indicated below)
1972         1973         1974         1975         1976         1977         1978          1979
(Inflator)l/                  (5.053)      (4.398)       (3.418)      (2.673)      (1.893)      (1.327)                   (current)
Total DNER Receipts                      25,248.3    35,807.2    38,408.1    36,556.7    48,276.9    53,643.0    51,956.3            64,335.9
Transfers to States, etc.                 9,650.2    13,870.9    13,657.3    13,442.2    21,539.9    22,149.4    19,735.0            25,177.5
Net DNER Resources                       153598.1    21,936.3    24,750.8    23,114.5    26,737.0    31,493.6    32.221.3            39,158.4
Current Receipts
Own and other various receipts          1,014.4        524.2         768.0      1,011.7      1,985.6      1,191.1     2,128.5      2,223.0
Transfers to DNER                       1,047.9      1,019.5      1,157.3       1,179.3        663.9        742.9     1,205.5      3,239.0
IULCLG                                  2,220.8      2,920.7      3,547.2      4,764.9       6,901.1      5,256.2     3,A38.8      3,077.9
National Development Fund                  -            -             -            -            -            -        1,729.2      1,980.0
Subtotal                         4,282.9      4,464.4       5,472.5      6,955.9      9,550.6      7,190.2    8.902.0    10,519.9
Capital Receipts
Own and other various receipts            278.4        432.8        354.8          15.5      1,157.2        265.9         0.4        125.2
Transfers                                 808.5         -             -        1,812.6         135.9         49.5        58.o     2,635.9
Borrowing                               2,511.8      5,734.6      8,759.7      6,540.6      5,580.4       4,288.7    71024.7      3,064.5
Advances                                   -            -             -            .            -         6,755.8    5,090.o      5,090.0
IULCIG                                  6,394.6      6,380.6      5,296.5      2,794.9       2,842.2      2,381.6    1,576.2      1,081.4
ISTR                                      467.4        543.2        589.6         643.1      1,001.9      5,138.1    2.000.0      2,560.0
TRU                                       853.9      2,900.9      3,084.7      3,276.0       2,153.7      2,310.7    2.345.2      2,531.4
National Development Fund                  -             -            -            -         3,350.6      1,646.8    3,685.8    9,469.1
Progress                                   -         1,479.9      1,175.8      1,075.9         964.7      1,466.3    lj539.o    2,081.0
Subtotal                        11,314.7    17,471.9    19,278.2    16,158.6    17,186.5    24,303.4   23,319.3   28,638.5
Grand Total                     15,598.1    21,936.3    24,750.8    23,114.5    26,737.0    31,493.6   32,221.3   39,158.4
1/  Source Vargas Foundation,  Conjuntura Economica"
Source: Mission, based on DNER data in project file
April 1979



BRAZIL
SECOND EEEDER ROADS PROJECT
DNER Past and Expected Future Expenditures 1972-1979
(All in 1978 Cr$ million; inflators used for 1972-1977 indicated below)
1972         1973        1974         1975          1976        1977          1978         1979
Inflator)`1                         (5.053)      (4.398)      (3.418)      (2.673)      (1.893)      (1.327)                   (current)
Total DNER Expenditures                          26,115.9    38,785.9    39,691.9    41,039.9    49,257.6    53,642.8    51,956.3    64,335.9
Transfers to states, etc.                         8,726.0    13,862.9    13,291.9    13,478.9    20,866.9    22,149.4    19,735.0    25,177.5
Net Expenditures by DNER                         17,389.9    24,923.0    26,400.0    27,561.0    28,390.7    31,493.4    32,221.3    39,158.4
Current Expenditures                              3,391.1      3,840.3      4,341.9      6,288.5      6,976.5      6,464.2      7,449.1    10,009.9
Capital Expenditures
Construction and Paving                         8,866.5    13,621.5    14,205.5    12,634.2    11,741.5          6,669.8      6,617.3      5,202.0
Rehabilitation                                    664.9        749.4        996.0      1,687.9      1,670.9      3,288.4      2,855.0      4,813.0
Maintenance                                       657.4      1,716.5      1,199.7      1,706.4      2,336.9      2,438.9      2,558.0      3,040.0
Services with Special Programs (Mtce.)            387.6        445.9        519.5        548.2        184.8        506.9      1,075.2      1,038.0
Other Investments                               2,364.3      3,328.8      3,777.2      3,302.8      3,312.8      3,077.8      3,536.5      3,072.9
Other Capital Expenditures/                     1,058.1      1,220.4      1,360.0      1,392.9      2,167.3      9,047.4      8,129.2    11,982.6
Subtotal                                         13,998.8    21,082.7    22,058.1    21,272.5    21,414.2    25,029.2    24,772.2    29,148.5
Grand Total                                      17,389.9    24,923.0    26,400.0    27,561.0    28,390.7    31,493.4    32,221.3    39,158.4
/ bource Vargas Fbundation, "Conjuntura Economica"
21 Includes financial investments, capital transfers such as amortizations and repairment of advances, capital
contribution such as those for feeder roads and the construction of terminals , and debt service
Source: Mission, based on DNER data in project file
April 1979



BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
ERRs for Road Links Financed under First Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1207-BR)
Number        Total number                 Number of Links with ERR between
State           Road Links      of kilometers       10-15    15-20    20-25    25-30    30-35    35-40    over 40
Goias              14              650.3              5         3        2         1         3         -
Mato Grosso         9              614.0              -         1         6        2         -         -          -
Bahia              22              493.3              -         3        1         2         -         4         12
Minas Gerais       23              649.3              3         9         2        5         1         2          1
Sao Paulo          40              735.7              3         3        7         4         6        11          6
Total            108            3,142.6             11        19       18        14        10        17         19        @
100%                              10%       18%       17%       13%        9%      16%        18%
Source: Data in Files
January 1979
tTj
OD



BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
ERRs by Length of Roads Financed under the First Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1207-BR)
Number of                        Number of kilometrage with ERR between                     Total
State             Roads             10-15    15-20    20-25    25-30    30-35    35-40    over 40           Length
Goias              14               204.1    143.4    159.5       65.0      78.3       -          -         650.3
Mato Grosso         9                 -       106.0    392.0    116.0        -         -          -         614.0
Bahia              22                 -        39.0     63.1      23.0       -        81.0     287.2        493.3
Minas Gerais       23               165.0    259.3      22.7    123.8       20.3      39.2       19.0       649.3
Sao Paulo          40                47.7      44.3    151.8      60.7      78.2    230.1      122.9        735.7        a
Total            108               416.8    592.0    789.1    388.5    176.8    350.3         429.1      3,142.6
13%      19%       25%       12%       6%       11%        14%         100%
Source: Data on Files
January 1979
'.0



- 47 -                                  TABLE 10
BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Design Standards for Feeder Roads
Class A   Class B   Class C   Class D  Class E
Specification             Type of Terrain    Road        Road       Road       Road      Road
Tenth Year Traffic (ADT)                             700-300   400-200   250-100   150-50         75
F to R1             80         80         60         60       50
Design Speed (km/h)                R toHL'              60         60         40         40       40
H to My/            40         40         30         30       30
F to R             200        200        110        110       70
Minimum Radius (m)                  R to H             110        110         50         50       45
H to M              50         50         30         30       30
F to R                3         4          5          6        8
Maximum Gradient (%)                R to H               5          6          7          8       10
H to M               7          8          9         10       12
F to R             100        100         75         75       50
Stopping Sight Distance (m)        R to H               75         75         50         50       50
H to M              50         50         50         50       50
F to R             500        500
Passing Sight Distance (m)         R to H              350        350
H to M             175        175
Right of way (m)                                   Offset width plus 20 meters (on rural area)
F to R             9X0o       8.00       7.50      7.00, /  6.00o/
Roadway Width (m)                  R to H              9.00       8.00       7.50      7.002/  6.002/
H to M             9.00       8.00       7.50      7.00!.  6.00!!
F to R             7.00       6.00       5.50
Carriageway width3/(m)             R to H              7.00       6.00       5.50
H to M             7.00       6.00       5.50
F to R             1.00       1.00       1.00
Shoulder width3/(m)                R to H              1.00       1.00       1.00
H to M             1.00       1.00       1.00
Overall Width Bridges (m)                                9        7.50       7.50      5.20    5.204/
1/ Flat to Rolling (F to R) terrain is on vertical slopes less than 5%
Rolling to Hilly (R to H) terrain is on vertical slopes between 5% and 20%
Hilly to Mountainous (H to M) terrain is on vertical slopes more than 20%
2/ Including lateral drainage ditches
3/ Carriageway and shoulders provide for possible future pavement requirements
4/ Bridges to be timber designed to ABNT"s 36 ton load standard
Source: BNDE, DNER, Mission estimates
February 1979



- 48 -                       TABLE 11
BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(Millions of US$)
Disbursed in         Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal year                   Quarter           Disbursements       Percentage
1980
September 30, 1979                     _                    _
December  31, 1979                     _                    _
March      31, 1980                    _                    _                _
June       30, 1980                    _
1981
September 30, 1980                     _                    _                _
December  31, 1980                     _                    _                _
March      31, 1981                   2.4                  2.4               2
June       30, 1981                   2.4                  4.8               4
1982
September 30, 1981                    3.3                  8.1               7
December  31, 1981                    3.3                11.4               10
March      31, 1982                   5.3                 16.7              15
June       30, 1982                   5.3                 22.0              20
1983
September 30, 1982                    6.3                28.3               26
December  31, 1982                    6.3                 34.6              31
March      31, 1983                   9.2                 43.8              40
June       30, 1983                   9.2                53.0               48
1984
September 30, 1983                    9.2                62.2               57
December  31, 1983                    9.2                 71.4              65
March      31, 1984                   5.8                 77.2              70
June       30, 1984                   5.8                83.0               75
1985
September 30, 1984                    5.9                88.9               81
December  31, 1984                    5.9                94.8               86
March      31, 1985                   2.9                 97.7              89
June       30, 1985                   2.9               100.6               91
1986
September 30, 1985                    2.7               103.3               94
December  31, 1985                    2.7               106.0               96
March      31, 1986                   1.5               107.5               98
June       30, 1986                   1.5               109.0               99
1987
September 30, 1986                    1.0               110.0              100
December  31, 1986
Source: Mission estimates
May 1979



- 49 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
BNDE's Organization, Finances and Operation
A.   BNDE's Organization
1.        BNDE is structured into five operational and three non-operational
areas: Planning, Representation, Projects I, Projects II, Projects with
Agents and Administration, Legal and Finances respectively (Chart 1). Each
area is headed by a Superintendent who reports to the Director in charge.
Infrastructure projects and the Feeder Roads Program are in Projects Area II.
2.        BNDE is staffed by competent and dedicated professionals who enter
the institution following a competitive selection process. Managerial
and professional staff turnover in the institution is comparatively low, as
reflected by the ratio of new recruits to staff on hand, which is about 10%.
BNDE increased its managerial and professional staff 60%, from 354 to 566,
between 1976 and 1978. Total staff decreased, however, in the same period
mainly because of a sharp reduction in the ratio of administrative support to
professional staff (Table I of this Annex). The ratio went from 1.6 support
staff to 1 professional in 1976, to 0.6 to 1 in 1978. Although BNDE's pay
scales and other benefits are competitive vis-a-vis the private sector, the
institution has not been able to attract a sufficiently large number of
competent professionals to satisfy all its needs. Pressure on senior staff
has therefore been high in recent years, and, as a result, there have been
occasional lapses in the technical and economic depth of the review of subloan
applications as well as the supervision of subprojects in the ongoing First
Feeder Roads Project. BNDE is hiring additional consultants to help solve the
shortage of staff engaged in the Feeder Roads Unit.
B. BNDE's Resources, Portfolico and Financial Performance
3.        As of December 31, 1977, BNDE's resources consisted of its (a) equity
(Cr$ 48.7 billion or US$3.0 billion equivalent), (b) domestic borrowing (Cr$ 39.7
billion or US$2.5 billion equiva,lent), (c) foreign borrowing (Cr$ 17.8 billion
or US$1.1 billion equivalent), (d) short term deposits by clients (Cr$ 3.8
billion or US$0.24 billion equivalent), and (e) funds of the two national
savings systems (Cr$ 75.3 billion or US$4.7 billion equivalent) (Table 2 of this
Annex). The two national savings systems, i.e., the Program for Social Integra-
tion (PIS) and the Program for the Creation of the Public Servants' Patrimony
(PASEP), which BNDE has administered for the Government since 1973, have been,
and will continue to be, the mainstay of BNDE's resources. PIS and PASEP are
funded with contributions from private and public employers; for the past
three years (1975-1977), they have provided about US$1.5 billion yearly



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
to BNDE. Forecasts are that yearly receipts from PIS/PASEP will reach around
US$2.0 billion by the end of 1980. Other BNDE sources of funds (Table 3 of this
Annex) include Government budgetary grants which eventually are incorporated into
the capital (Table 4 of this Annex, "Appropriations") and special borrowing agree-
ments with other financing institutions such as the Central Bank (BC) and the
National Housing Bank (BNH). BNDE has also recently increased its borrowing in
the international market; from about US$270 million in 1975, it went to about
US$385 million in 1977. This has strengthened its own financial position
and supported the Government's balance-of-payments stabilization efforts.
4.        BNDE's portfolio included Cr$ 147.6 billion ('S$9.2 billion equiva-
lent) in outstanding loans and Cr$ 33.9 billion (US$2.1 billion equivalent) in
equity investments. Both increased in real terms since 1975, 58% and 27%
respectively (Table 2 of this Annex). BNDE's comparatively small provision for
doubtful loans which, in 1977, represented only 0.7% of the outstanding portfolio,
is warranted because most of its loans are either to State Development Banks
which have the guarantee of the respective State Governments or to public
companies in which the Federal Government has a majority interest.
5.        Comparative income statements for 1975, 1976 and 1977 are in Table 4
of this Annex. In 1977, BNDE generated a net profit of Cr$ 3.4 billion, which
is about 7% over its year-end equity (Cr$ 48.7 billion). Since 1975, BNDE's
income statements make provision to net out inflationary effects on its
working capital. In 1977, its net profit was reduced from Cr$ 9.8 billion to
Cr$ 3.4 billion to reflect financial results without inflationary distor-
tions. However, Decree No. 76651 of November 19, 1975 changed the accounting
laws for public companies effective January 1, 1978, and requires them to
eliminate inflationary distortions not only on working capital but also on
net assets and liabilities. Therefore, in terms of the new law, BNDE's net
profits for 1977 may be somewhat overstated. For the same reason, some of the
financial ratios in Table 5 of this Annex should be interpreted with caution.
6.        BNDE's capital structure is sound, with low financial leverage.  The
total debt/equity ratio for 1977 was 2.70:1 (Table 5 of this Annex). This re-
flects a conservative financial policy (Development Banks and Credit Institutions
would normally have a debt/equity ratio of about 10:1) and should allow the
institution considerable room to undertake operational expansions. BNDE's
foreign exchange borrowings are relatively limited, 13.4% of outstanding debt.
Since it normally passes on the foreign exchange risk to its ultimate borrowers
by lending in ORTNs, it is fairly secure and may even have a foreign exchange
gain.
C.   BNDE's Operations
7.        BNDE's investments, since its creation  in 1952 until 1956, were
directed primarily to the energy and transportation sectors, especially
railways. In the early 1960s, in step with Government priorities, thrust was
placed on steel, shipbuilding and mechanical industries, together with rural
electrification. Since 1965, BNDE's activities have become more diversified,



-- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
and special programs have been set up to support private industry in many
fields. Since 1970, priority has been assigned, not only to national under-
takings requiring large volumes of resources, but also to programs for
the expansion, modernization and strengthening of small business (POC),
small industries (FMRI), industries in the northeast (PIB/NE), and Regional
and State Development Banks (PEB). Innovative programs in support of these
activities have been implemented.
8.        BNDE employs a variety of methods to accomplish its objectives.
They include:
(a) Programs directly financed and executed by BNDE;
(b) Joint programs with public or private entities;
(c) Projects carried out by subsidiary corporations;
(d) Projects undertaken through financial agents such as
State and Regional Development and Investment Banks;
(e) Underwriting of shares and debentures; and
(f) Guaranteeing of overseas cperations relating mainly to
the importation of goods and services.
9.        Operations through subsidiary corporations have had the largest
growth in the last few years. The Corporation for the Acquisition of Machinery
and Equipment (FINAME), for example, registered an increase of 79% per year
in the value of projects it undertook between 1975 and 1977.
10.       3NDE's disbursements increased about tenfold in the five-year
period 1973-1977. In 1977, disbursements were about Cr$ 44.5 billion (about
US$3.2 billion), 82% in manufacturing and other industries in the private
sector and about 18% in the public sector including infrastructure (6%).
The public sector share of BNDE's investment decreased over the years from
about 34% of disbursements in 1974 to about 18% in 1977. Regionally, the
distribution of investments has been rather biased toward the Southeastern
region, which received about half BNDE's total investments (52%), followed
by the Northeastern region (27.3%), the Southern region (19%), the Center West
region (1.4%), and the Northern region (0.3%).  However, a slow but perceptible
trend to de-emphasize concentration in the South (the states of Minas Gerais,
Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo) in favor of the poorer northern regions is
evident. The Northeast is now second only to the Southeast, a region of
heavy industrial concentration, as a recipient of BNDE investments.   Equally
significant, in a regional context., is the emerging emphasis on inter-regional
operations (projects of national magnitude which benefit more than one region);
these increased from about 11% of operations in 1974 to about 40% in 1977.



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
11.       Since BNDE's creation, its objectives and priorities have been
those of the Government's Development Plan. BNDE's 1975-1978 Plan of
Action was closely linked to the Government's Development Plan (PND, 1975-
1979). Its new Plan of Action, 1978-1981, has basically the same objectives
as the previous one: (a) acceleration of economic development; (b) streng-
thening of Brazil's private enterprise; (c) reduction of regional inequalities;
(d) promotion of balanced sectoral development; (e) growth and diversification
of exports; (f) preservation of the environment; and (g) improvement of
living standards. Although the goals of the new Government may affect
specific aspects of the new Plan, it is expected that the general thrust of
it will remain unchanged. Over the four-year period encompassed by the new
plan, operations are expected to increase by about 13% per year and infra-
structure investments to increase from about 21% of BNDE's lending to about
28% by 1981.
April 1979



BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
BNDE Staffing
New Recruits                Terminations            Staff on Hand at End of Year
1976    1977    1978        1976    1977    1978          1976      1977      1978
Management                                -       18      31           -        -       -          148       166       197
Economists                                5      21       17           3       8        3           66        79        93
Engineers                                 3      28       14          5       10       22           61        79        71     1
Business Administrators                   1      14         7         -        -         2           6        20        25    @
Lawyers                                   5        2      15           1        8        5          66        60        70
Others                                    5     107       17           5      19         2           7        95       110
Subtotal Professional Staff             19      190      101         14       45       34          354       499       566
Administrative Support                   84       33      32          27      66      167          508       475       340
TOTAL                               103      223      133         41      111      201         862        974       906
Source: BNDE
January 1979



- 54 -                              ANNEX 1
TABLE 2
BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
BNDE: Audited Comparative Balance Sheets, December 31, 1975-1977
(millions of current cruzeiros)
1975          1976        1977
ASSETS
Current Assets
- Cash Bank balances and               1285.9          702.2        261.7
funds in transit
Loans Outstanding
- Gross loan portfolio               46,522.3      88,571.1   148,665.0
Less: provisions against
doubtful loans                  -           1,106.2      1,034.9
- Net loan portfolio                 46,522.3      87,464.9   147,630.1
Investments                            13,215.1      21,808.1    33,867.5
Other Assets                            1,424.1       1,223.7      3,706.7
Fixed Assets (Net)                        123.4         229.7        611.4
TOTAL ASSETS                           62,570.8    111,428.6   186,077.4
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities                     2,032.2       3,231.4      3,787.1
Long-Term Borrowings
- Domestic Banks                     15,524.5      26,054.2    39,705.7
- Foreign Banks                       5,400.7       9,259.2    17,807.2
- National Social Security
funds (PIS/PASEP)                  14,263.2      37,343.7    75,339.6
35,188.4      72,657.1   132,852.5
Other Liabilities                          492.5         496.6        733.0
Equity
- Share Capital                      13,250.0      27,000.0    40,000.0
- Reserves                           11,607.7       8,043.5    _8,704.8
24,857.7      35,043.5    48,704.8
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY          62,570.8    111,428.6   186,077.4
Source: Mission from BNDE data in Files
February 1979



BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
BNDE: Sources and Application of Funds Statements, Years 1975-1977
(millions of current Cruzeiros)
1975          1976           1977
Balance available at the beginning of the year                  (161)        1170            (417)
Sources of Funds                                              30,662       37,202          55,311
Federal Government Grants                                    1,400           300          1,390
Borrowing:   Domestic                                        4,906        5,182           8,959
Foreign                                         2,186        1,766           5,437
National Savings Funds (PIS/PASEP)                          10,895       16,473          21,633
Internal Cash Generation                                     5,447        9,888          16,383
Debentures Underwritten by
Federal Government in order to increase                    4,250
BNDE's share capital
Other                                                        1,578        3,593           1,509
Application of Funds                                           29,331       38,789          54,622
Lending                                                     19,693       28,500          41,131
Participation in Subsidiary Companies                        1,320        1,993           3,320
Other lending                                                2,306        4,965           3,721
Repayment of Borrowing                                       1,158        2,227 /         4,268
Increase in Share Capital                                    4,250          -  1            -  -
Other                                                          604        1,104           2,182
Balance available at the end of the year                       1,170         (417)             272
l/ The increase in Share Capital for 1976 and 1977 was financed by internal cash generation.                    m
In 1975, the increase in Share Capital was financed by debentures underwritten by the                        w
Federal Government
Source: Mission from BNDE data in Files
February 1979



- 56 -                              ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
BNDE:  Audited Comparative Income Statements, Years  ended December 31, 1975-1977
(millions of current cruzeiros)
1975         1976          1977
INCOME
Interest and Commissions
on loans                                  1,948.4      3,725.9       4,985.7
Monetary correction on loans                5,594.8    14,885.4       18,040.9
Income on loans                           7,543.2    18,611.3      23,026.6
Income from subsidiaries                       56.3         28.5         111.4
Dividends                                     170.5        143.9         201.8
Share bonuses                                 164.5        675.7         334.9
Other                                          10.9         13.9          17.8
TOTAL INCOME                             7,945.4    19,473.3      23,692.5
EXPENSES
Interest and Commissions
on borrowings                            1,109.1      2,084.4        2,980.6
Monetary correction on borrowings           2,109.4      5,999.0       8,895.9
Expenses on borrowings                    3,218.5     8,083.4      11,876.5
Salaries and other personnel charges          240.0        520.0         668.6
Other expenses                                237.91/   1,176.91/        127.5
Grants                                         44.3         53.3          61.8
Provision Fund for:
- Income Taxes                               450.0        639.6       1,096.3
- Reserves to counter inflationary
effects on BNDE's working capital    2,300.0        6,722.6       6,430.3
TOTAL EXPENSES                         6,490.7    17,195.8       20,261.0
NET PROFIT                             1,454.7      2,277.5       3,431.5
APPROPRIATIONS
At the beginning of the year                6,036.0    11,608.0        8,043.0
Increases:
Federal Government Grants                   1,400.0        300.0       1,390.0
Share in the Capital Increases
of Subsidiaries                              401.0      1,035.0       2,426.0
Provision Fund to counter in-
flationary effects on BNDE's
working capital                            2,300.0      6,722.0       6,430.0
Other                                          16.0         50.0          85.0
Net Profit                                  1,455.0      2,278.0       3,431.0
Decreases:
Reserve for Capital increases                           13,750.0      13,000.0
Federal Government participation                           200.0         100.0
At the end of the year                     11,608.0      8,043.0       8,705.0
1/ Includes Cr$ 67.1 million related to others (non-administrative) expenses
2/ Includes Cr$1,106.2 million for provisions against doubtful debts
Source: Mission from BNDE data in Files
February 1979



BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
BNDE: Past (1975-1977) Financial Ratios
1975         1976         1977
Total income as a % of average total assets (ATA)1/              17.04         22.38        15.92
Financial Expenses as a % of ATA                                  6.90          9.29         7.98
Administrative Expenses as a % of ATA                             0.88          0.67         0.53
Administrative Expenses as a % of total income                    5.17          3.03         3.36
Provision for doubtful loans as a % of ATA                         -            1.27         0.69
Provision for doubtful loans as a % of                             -            1.24         0.69
outstanding loan portfolio
Foreign borrowings as a % of the outstanding debt                15.34         12.74        13.40
Income on loans as a % of average outstanding2/                  21.55         27.78        19.58                 >
loan portfolio
Financial expenses as a % of average borrowing 3                 12.67         14.99        11.55
Net profit*as a % of average share capitai4/                     13.07         11.31        10.24
of"   it " i it "      if   it   equityA/                        7.28          7.60         8.19
Total Debt/Equity                                              59/41 or      67/33 or    73/27 or
1.44         2.03         2.70
Average loans outstanding to average borrowings                   1.38          1.24         1.14
1/ Total assets in 1974 amounted to Cr$30,645.6 million
2/ Total outstanding loan portfolio in o974 amounted to Cr$23,464.5 million
3/ Total borrowings in 1974 amounted to Cr$15,585.6 million
4/ Share capital in 1974 amounted to Cr$9,000 million; Equity in 1974 amounted to Cr$15,053.3
* Reserves to counter inflationary effects on BNDE's working capital are already accounted for in
arriving at BNDE's nominal net profit.
Souxce: Mission from BNDE data in Files                                                                           '--
February 1979



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Estimate of the Foreign Exchange Component in
the Construction of Feeder Roads
1.        Based on contracts (including taxes which are part of the local
cost) for more than 1,000 km of unpaved feeder roads in the states of Bahia
and Goias (Loan 1207-BR) with 30 different contractors working on all types
of terrain, the following average percentages of road works were estimated:
Earthworks          Cleaning                           3.4
Cuts (lst Category)              19.2
Cuts (2nd Category)               4.0
Cuts (3rd Category)               5.3
Embankments                       3.1
Total                                     35.0
Gravel              Extraction, loading,
spreading                        7.0
Transportation                   19.0
Total                                     26.0
Drainage            Pipe culvert                      12.0
Box culvert                       5.0
Total                                     17.0
Structures          Bridges                           13.0
Total                                     13.0
Miscellaneous       Fences                             9.0
Total                                      9.0
100.0        100.0
2.        According to DNER's official pricing structure, and based on
consultants' feasibility studies, the breakdown of the costs of construction
items, including overheads and supervision, is as follows:



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
(para 1)
Weight  Equip.  Fuel  Labor  Steel  Cement  Timber  Dynam.
-------------------------(Percentage)--------------------
Cleaning           3.4      60      17    23
Cut 1st Category 19.2       62      20    18
Cut 2nd Category  4.0      63       22    15
Cut 3rd Category  5.3       43      10    28                                19
Embankments        3.1      65      20    15
Gravel             7.0      70      'L8   12
Transportation   19.0       40      45    15
Pipe culvert      12.0      10       5    45       10      25       5
Box culvert        5.0      10       5    25       15      25      20
Bridges           13.0      10       5    25       15      15      30
Fences             9.0       5       2    53       30      10      30
100.0   36.7    17.9  25.1       6.6    7.1      5.5      1.0
3.        According to Bank estimates, the foreign exchange components (f.e.c.)
of major construction items is about as follows:
Direct f.e.c.  Indirect f.e.c.  Total f.e.c.
-----------------(Percentage)--------------
Equipment             15               40                50
Fuel                  40                -                40
Labor                           -                         -
Steel                 80                -                80
Cement                 -               25                25
Timber                 -                -                 -
Dynamite              20                30               45
4.        The f.e.c. for civil works is then estimated by multiplying the
percentages in paragraph 2 by those in paragraph 3, as follows:
Equipment             36.7  x  0.50  =  18.3
Fuel                  17.,9  x  0.40  =   7.2
Steel                  6.6  x  0.80  =   5.3
Cement                 7.1  x  0.25  =   1.8
Dynamite               1.0  x  0.45  =   0.5
Foreign Exchange Component                33.1



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
5.         Consulting services for final design are about 7.5% of civil works.
This figure is an average obtained from the review of 26 different contracts
in the First Feeder Roads Project. The f.e.c. of consulting services can then
be estimated as follows:
Weight   f.e.c.   Weighted f.e.c.
Personnel                        65       10            6.5
Vehicles and transport           24        40           9.6
Laboratory, survey                8        80           6.4
Office supplies                   3       50            1.5
100                    24.0
6.        The resulting overall f.e.c. (civil works and consulting services)
for feeder roads construction in Brazil can therefore be estimated to be:
Civil Works and Supervision               0.93  x  33.1  =  30.8
Final design                              0.07  x  24.0  =   1.7
Overall Average Weighted f.e.c.                               32.5%
May 1979



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Typical Subproject Implementation, Supervision and Monitoring
1.        The proposed project wouLd finance the construction and improvement
of roads as agreed. Based on experience gained under the First Feeder Roads
Project, a schedule has been developed to show the sequence of key events in
the processing of a typical subproject (Table 1 of this Annex). It should be
understood that, although the sequence of the events that take place in the
processing of an application may not vary too much, the estimated time (19
months) required from receipt of an application to start of the civil works
may vary with the nature and content of it. Similarly, the time to comple-
tion of subprojects may vary substantially, depending on the type of work
to be undertaken.
2.        Bank supervision requirements for the project are estimated to be
as follows:
(a) Ex-ante-facto review of applications as per paragraph 5.23;
including a review of the likely environmental and ecological impact
of the proposed roads;
(b) Ex-post-facto review, on a sample basis, of other applications;
(c) Ex-post-facto review, on a sample basis, of final engineering
design for all subprojects;
(d) Ex-post-facto review, on a sample basis, of procurement procedures
and contract awards;
(e) In-situ inspection, on a sample basis, of civil works;
(f) Review, from time to time, of progress reports and other
information submitted by BNDE quarterly; and
(g) Review, on an ongoing basis, of the efficiency of the institu-
tions in operational procedures and periodic reassessment of the
program to see whether it needs operational adjustments.



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
3.        Impact of subprojects can be monitored only by quantifying targets
they were supposed to accomplish. These, however, pose a difficult data-
gathering and statistical problem. Goals such as the increase in rural
income, the increased productivity of land, labor and capital allocated to
the agricultural exploitation with and without the project, employment
generated, improvements in education, health and social services, improve-
ments in the general quality of life for the rural people, increased moderni-
zation and monetization of the agricultural sector in the area of influence
of the roads, etc., are indeed difficult to measure and more so to monitor
on a regular basis. Monitoring the subprojects should be simple and easy,
and commensurate in cost to the cost of the works undertaken. Subprojects
would therefore be monitored largely on the basis of measuring periodic
increases in traffic and by means of occasional surveys tailored to review
progress in achieving the goals and solving the problems identified in the
feasibility studies. These reports would be prepared by sub-borrowers
according to provisions of the Manual. Arrangements for subproject
monitoring were agreed during negotiations and will be incorporated into the
revised Manual.
May 1979



BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Typical Subproject Implementation Schedule
Activity                                                 Months
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19
1. Review and approval of application           (4 mos)  V-      l
2. Hiring of consultant for final engineering (2 mos)
3. Execution of final engineering               (5 mos)              a
4. Review and approval of final engineering   (2 mos)
5. Tendering civil works for bids               (3 mos)
6. Review of bids and award of contracts        (3 mos)
7. Execution of civil works          (at most 3 years)
8. Monitoring of Projecti/
1/  A once-a-year survey designed and agreed upon with the Bank
Source: Mission Estimates
February 1979



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   Draft   Feeder Roads Manual
2.   BNDE    Action Plan 1974-1978
3.   BNDE    Action Plan 1978-1981
4.   BNDE    Instructions for the Presentation of
Infrastructure Projects
5.   DNER    Instructions and Basic Legislation on the
Municipal Share of the National Highway Fund
April 1979



65                                                CHART 1
BRAZIL
SECOND FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Organization of the National Development Bank (BNDE)
A00 OAF.h0   Co04ELKO FISCAL
DIa ETORIA
:Z2REYORE SI DE TE
I  t3AUDITOA
T I RTERNA
DIRETORES
I  | 11 | [ll |   t .,400  o|nY
_                  I
ARIA CE  K D no-Ro.cE"TO   o1~ ~  |AR;NT~ooREA  CE
FTR.E~~~~~    Kt^I_""T                             !Of-*'-*N'TO; DX r1-
PLANEJAMENT3                                                                        PROJ'cs-ir
I -_---________- ---|    L t CcEoT                                               SUPER?AENJTCETE  _
*SSUERSQINT N ET ot        _________                                                      AOI.S100IA  DE
I   tORDt.~A io   |       I C       fOTs4"o 11 OEPRTLNII"TO OT  1_                     |COtODtIACIO
k~~~~~~~~~O _   C  AICOIDAfS                          NOICDSTOIS OAIXIC*S 
I 
NO  D STtAt1C"T^CO fOIARTAWfSTO
[0 lATITC fOi j                   M D SISTOaAAS 
AREA  DE
| AREA DE                                i _   t,,ACio    . 7-N ..TA-     r          rMINISTRAAO0
1 fiEFRESENTA      ; CO SAO            _ .AUL*I '                T
riSUPERINTENZIENT         j R*(PPSfNTUVLO                    O f*AfTALfI TO   fi       |COOODtE5CO
j    tOCOD'Ct ;Of lO _         COOLTE$     j                 Ot PfSSO aL
I REPR(8T5TA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A1.. ILOA
NO WAO'OETOMOPASET
;7l ^ -   A'REA CE
.  _        FNAF NVAS
Of   .-EOTLO E .TO               o ..a a r
_ PR0OJSTOS TOMI BA*CO               Ot ftfCIJ*Ot                *sStS(OOIA Ot
AREA DE PROJETOS          Of ,PvfTatNTO   J                                             COC5OffA;O
CoM  AGENTES    -
AREA
'!E^i T  T O MffT^*T7 W  J2SUPERINTEN        I
AREA CE              i      VR'AIft A&5 io             |        Safe      r                5      t j
l   PROJETOS  -I I 
I         {   ^~~~SSTI5OAIA bti         OfCAP^ITA L       |
'Source: BNDE
lFebruary 1979



3R .ZI L
SEWND 7EIR lRDD PF9JECT
Org"n-iatio- of the Federol. lighway Depottment (DNER)
uty ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~FonilDpt
d  ovoe            and Tonst      o   |      rnse ht   DoptDirector |l D                             er             Diarcto
Dodiet h     i Cootrol     Bridges ond             Nanteannce                 Tolls             Freight Tran.p ort        RduR.e-                 Deeti- &di | O riDo'                                 Dob
Divlioon     |  | ih ildtg  Dicininon     |     Diviotl                 Division               RDinisi        |  |      Division      X     Trsinio8 Rinision t    |    DiviDion-t             Comptr-ollero D
Dudies and                                       iqipmeot    ||lli5hway Police                         -TrCinio                        || assificttoc                  Coordination
| Projects Divisiotn |                       |      Division      l  l      Divi-itn                T                  l         Di-Ron           LgIDivision  -            Divi.ion
l                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Techtniat  Socio-Medlcal
Dats Proces6in6                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~Infonoation  Aaoiotonte
PEODRAL HICINAY DISTRICTS|i
Dill.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|Re6idencies  ||Infrastructure                                   A  uditing
SottcOD DlfD?t
FebOewry 1979                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1



BR0ZIL
6ECOND FEEDER RCADb PROJECT
Organization of the State flighway Department of Parana (DER-PR)
Comptroller's           Studies and             programming           Quality Contr                Office of               Technical                 Legal             Bid Evaluatio
Office             Projects Office             Office                  Office                 the Cabinet           Advisors Office             Office              Advisors Office
Research and
Development
Cente
l~~~~            ~Ra Saet                          Geea SrIces
Construction                       Maintenance                    Administrative                        Financial
Directorate                      Direc tor ate                     Directorate                       Directorate
Supr  Diiso                  Supr  Divsio                       Human Resources |                   Accounting 
Support Diision |   lSupport Diision l          |     Division                           Division 
r Supervision                        Equipment                   r     Materials                         Financial 
Division                         Divition                          Division                          Division
| Road Safety   |               General Services ||                    Valuation
|  Division                          Division                          Division
|Maintenance  ig,F,hw.y |
Centers         Di8tricts
Source: DER-PR
January 1979






-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRA  14240
I~~~~                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F'                                a                                          MARCH IH79
.                   |    ~~~~~~~~~~~~V E N E Z U E L A   , -- 0             r..
\ VENEZ .......... R f Ftl -(  .............    il  UEILA  N  <   A N
COLOMBJA                                                          SI RINAME   JAN't/tp Cea
RORAIMA                   Ctlant,c  Oeon
'-'P  1                  GU~~~~YANA 
>A~=r=I..s J s      g<k /   t   T&~\ 5R4ilIFOY  *~'  C-  .................... e r ~ ~g~~. AMAR                                   -.R.GRANADA
=  -U -        2  -   IERThTOA
'-C'~ ~~~ -s                                                        'CA-'  ('1"'  ?E'SC-            M"'1.  {4ol4    $ S >w
, < B O L v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I A U    /z    
K  -~~~~~~~~~I-
A.            /  U-       --                 t    aRGNTIA                 /    _z         v      g        AFDRLHIHA   EWR
/~ -t%I/9                                )2 Senhs 1r  Group  A 0 U R U G U A Y s s af  } ,R Y                          A H/o  P.
P |EA R                  Cs                                            E  rz T I r al / \ D D 50L  j/   brstcs 1,-- -,   R   C
--                                                                                               A/A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iA~~~~~~~~~S-
.C. A ) 0 + u ,  603  s  a,  S  f x--.-------
\ACRE  f/
<  TERRITORY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PiIO AT
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P                       A
-C  A~~~~~~ofk ~ A~1                                             "n
Cc HAM  s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~EEALHGWY  EWR
fCOA     A - <   I,                     ---/AIA     c
-  ~ ~~  CRC ~~~  AP/   EGATIHAF  Pt   P---                        --- ---



