 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14797

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 09/01/2015

               Country: Moldova
             Project ID: P107612                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: National Water Supply         Project Costs (US$M):                        14                 13.2
                         & Sanitation Program
  L/C Number:            C4414                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                        14                 13.2
      Sector Board:      Water                         Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                             05/13/2008
                                                                Closing Date:          06/30/2013         12/30/2013
          Sector(s):       Water supply (62%); Sewerage (23%); Central government administration (8%); Energy
                           efficiency in power sector (7%)
          Theme(s):        Urban services and housing for the poor (40% - P); Climate change (20% - S); Rural services
                           and infrastructure (20% - S); Other human development (20% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Jason R. Cardosi           John R. Heath          Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The objectives of the project are to: “(a) improve the coverage, quality, efficiency, and sustainability of water and
sanitation services in selected urban and rural communities; and (b) strengthen the capacity of [Ministry of
Construction and Territorial Development] MCTD to prepare and supervise its investment program and to provide
technical assistance to water utility entities” (Moldova National Water and Sanitation Project, Financing Agreement,
June 2, 2008).
Revised PDO:
“Increase access, quality, and operational efficiency of water and sewerage services in selected areas” (ICR, p. iii).
(There is no Project Paper or other document in the files to support PDO revision and therefore the ICR is the only
source that IEG could find for the revised PDO.)

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 08/10/2012

c. Components:

Original Components:
(descriptions from Financing Agreement pp. 5-6, amounts from PAD p. 9 and ICR pp. 4-5)
1. Water Supply and Wastewater Services in Selected Water Utility Entities (Appraisal US$ 8.0 million, Actual US$7.4
million). Improvement of the coverage, quality, efficiency, and sustainability of water and sanitation services in select
urban municipalities including Balti, Cahul, Caui, Floresti, Orhei, Soroca, and Ungheni through carrying out
rehabilitation works, including:
(a) installation of water pipe in the municipalities;
(b) rehabilitation of a water treatment plant;
(c) rehabilitation of networks and pumping stations;
(d) supply of construction machinery and trucks; and
(e) construction of new sewage collectors.

2. Water Supply Services in Selected Rural Communities (Appraisal US$4.00, actual US$3.5 million). Rehabilitation
of water systems and provision of assistance in about fifty rural communities, consisting of:
(a) rehabilitation of existing deep wells and piped water systems in order to
provide a safe water supply; and
(b) carrying out health and sanitary education programs to teach safe water consumption habits.

3. Capacity Building (Appraisal US$1.0 million, actual US$1.2 million). Provision of assistance to MCTD to enhance
capacity and enable it to prepare, appraise, and supervise the implementation of water supply and sanitation activities
through provision of equipment, provision of technical assistance through consultants services and assistance with
incremental operating costs and carrying out of training programs.

4. Energy Efficiency (Appraisal US$1.0 million, Actual US$1.2 million). Demonstration and dissemination to Water
Utility Entities of appropriate means of increasing energy efficiency in municipal water and wastewater operations and
reducing emission of greenhouse gases through, inter alia, carrying out of energy audits, provision of hydrological
optimizations, and rehabilitation of electromechanical equipment, as necessary.

Revised Components (ICR pp 4-5). During the restructuring in August, 2012 the components were revised. The key
changes were as follows:
Component 1 – Dropped the town of Soroca due to cancellation of complimentary GEF financing.
Component 2 – The number of participating villages was reduced from 50 to 10 while the scope of activities in each
village was expanded to maximize the impact of the investment.
Component 3 – The focus on MCTD capacity was shifted to other entities following the government’s decision to retain
the PIU.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project costs: The final disbursed amount of US$ 13.2 million is equivalent to the appraisal cost of US$ 14.0 million
due to exchange rate differences between SDR and US$.

Financing: The project was financed 100% by IDA
Borrower contribution: The borrower did not contribute financially to the project.
Dates: The closing date was extended once for 6 months from June 30, 2013 to December 30, 2013 to allow for
completion of activities.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
The relevance of the original objectives were substantial. At the time of appraisal in 2008 the quality and reliability of
water and sanitation services in Moldova was deteriorating due to ageing, lack of investments and
under-maintenance. About 45 percent of the existing infrastructure was in need of rehabilitation. In urban areas, 80
percent of residents had access to centralized water supply and 63 percent to sewerage services. Access to services
in rural communities was 50 and 40 percent respectively. Utilities could not support capital investments and routine
maintenance while funding from the public sector was minimal. Utilities operated at a loss due to a combination of
factors including outdated equipment, high physical losses, inefficient operations, low staff productivity, and low tariffs.
Increasing access to water and sanitation services and improving the performance of the sector was a priority for the
Government. The key objective of its strategy adopted in 2005 was to meet the Millennium Development Goals
(MDG) for water and sanitation and it envisaged rehabilitation, technical renewal, and development of municipal
systems across the country. In 2007 the Strategy was updated and investments in the magnitude of US$65 million
per year were prioritized for the period until 2012. Since the national budget was unable to finance required
investments, the Government focused on attracting external funding. In December 2007, it organized a Donor
Coordination Workshop and presented its Strategy to international partners. A number of agencies expressed interest
in assisting the sector, including IDA.
The second pillar of the Country Partnership Strategy for the period FY09-12 aimed to contain a specific objective to
improve quality of water and sanitation services. The current Country Partnership Strategy, FY -17 does not
specifically include water supply and sanitation support. There is a possibility that AAA work in natural resource
management and energy efficiently could lead to downstream operations involving water supply and sanitation.
Following the restructuring the project continued to address improvements in water and sanitation services but
dropped the sustainability and capacity building related activities. While the capacity building omission can be justified
based on the shifting priorities of the government of Moldova, the change did expose the project to longer term risks
with regards to the sustainability of the changes. Even with this minor shortcoming, the relevance of the revised
objectives remains substantial .


 b. Relevance of Design:
The relevance of design was modest against the original and revised objectives. The project built upon the lessons of
the Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project that closed in 2008 with a satisfactory rating. The project utilized similar
objectives and components, the same PIU, and secured client involvement in the prioritization of investments.
The project components supported the achievement of the PDO in terms of coverage, quality, and efficiency of water
and sanitation services. But the activities in support of the sustainability objective were inadequate. According to the
ICR, the project did not build on the pilot’s experience in this area and did not support an effective policy dialogue
about how to build sustainability into project design. The TTL clarified that the sustainability objective was addressed
too narrowly by the project. The financial ratio targets did not include activities to improve capacity of the utilities and
overestimated the willingness of local authorities to increase tariffs.
The restructuring addressed these limitations by dropping the sustainability and capacity related objectives and
concentrating on the core improvements required of the sector. Thus, the rating of the restructured design is
substantial, but the scaling back of remaining activities could have reduced their potential contribution to improving
access, quality and efficiency thus illustrating a minor shortcoming of the restructured approach.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

Original Objective - Improve the coverage of water and sanitation services in selected urban and rural communities
(modest),
Revised Objective - Increase access to water and sewerage services in selected areas (substantial).
Outputs:
Water supply:
    ·1228 new connections were established in towns and 3649 in villages, for a total of 4877 new connections under
     the project. This was 116% percent of the original target of 4200 (ISR). According to the ICR, this was 96 percent
     of the revised target of 5080. The ICR anticipated that the target would be exceeded with in a “few months.”
    8434 water connections were rehabilitated in towns exceeding the revised intermediate results indicator target of
     7902.
    59.14 km of water supply network was rehabilitated in participating towns. 149.55 km of water supply network
     was constructed in participating villages. These villages did not have water supply networks before the project.
    10 rural water systems were rehabilitated which is 100% of the restructured target and 20% of the original target
     of 50.
    Deep wells, pumping stations, water towers were also rehabilitated or constructed in the targeted villages
     Sanitation and sewerage: 7.67 km of sewerage pipeline was rehabilitated in two towns and a sewerage pressure
     collector was constructed in Orhei. The target was 5.5 km.


Intermediate Outcomes:
    23,305 people benefited from new water connections out of a revised target of 18,510. The original target was not
     indicated.
    7,759 people in villages benefited from improved supplies to public buildings;
    298,100 in the six towns benefited from rehabilitation of public water systems;

The project did not report on intermediate outcomes related to sanitation or sewerage coverage

Original Objective - Improve the quality of water and sanitation services in selected urban and rural communities
(modest)
Revised Objective - Increase the quality of water and sewerage services in selected areas (substantial)
Intermediate outcomes:
    In Causeni, 92%of water samples met Moldova standards prior to the project. At completion, 100 percent of
     samples met national standards as a result of project interventions. This meets the original target of 100% and
     exceeds the restructured target of 98%.
    In other participating towns, 100 percent of water samples met Moldova standards at completion though this
     could not be attributed directly to the project as it did not support interventions to improve water quality in these
     areas.
    Service delivery hours increased to 24h/day in both Causeni and Cahul due to project interventions. Cahul had a
     baseline 19h/day supply and an original project target of 20h/day. Causeni had a baseline of 15h/day and an
     original project target of 20h/day. In Bathi, Floresti, Orhei, and Unghehi service delivery hours were already
     24h/day at start of the project (ISR)
    Nine new village water systems have potable water (out a revised PDO target of 10 and an original target of 50).
    There was no reporting on Sanitation or Sewerage service quality.

Original Objective - Improve the efficiency of water and sanitation services in selected urban and rural communities
(Substantial)
Revised Objective - Increase the efficiency of water and sewerage services in selected areas (Substantial)
Water Supply
Outputs:
    Three water pumping stations were rehabilitated in Ungheni, Orhei and Causeni; two water pumps were supplied
     and installed in Cahul;
    The water treatment plant in Ungheni was rehabilitated;
    Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems were supplied for Floresti and Cahul;
    6460 water meters were procured and installed.

Intermediate Outcomes:
   An average electricity consumption (MWh per cub. m produced) target was added for five towns at restructuring
    and these targets were exceeded. The average consumption decline across the towns was 17%.
  Non-Revenue Water was reduced to an average of 43% across five towns compared to the original target of 45%
    and a revised target of 48% (ratio of metered and estimated water production less metered and estimated water
    consumption divided by meter and estimated water production).
Sanitation/Sewerage:
  An average electricity consumption target of 157 MWh was added for the sewerage system in Orhei. The
    achievement was 104 MWh


Original Objective - Improve the sustainability of water and sanitation services in selected urban and rural
communities (modest). Dropped at restructuring .
The project did not report on the original financial working ratio targets that were established with each utility (the ratio
of cash operating costs (without depreciation)/cash operating revenue (urban)). The final ISR prior to restructuring
mentioned that 2 of the original 7 utilities were in compliance.


Original Objective - Strengthen the capacity of MCTD to prepare and supervise its investment program and to
provide technical assistance to water utility entities (Negligible). Dropped at restructuring .
The project did not report on the original target indicators related to the objective and it was dropped during the PDO
restructuring.
The project improved the efficiency of operations (by reducing non-revenue water and improving the energy
efficiency).


5. Efficiency:
 Efficiency is rated substantial both before and following he restructuring.

The ICR's economic analyses included components 1/ Urban WS, 2/Rural WS, and 4/Energy Efficiency.
Urban WS - The economic benefits estimated included the value of reduced water system losses; fixed system
capacity investments recovered as a result of new connections; water consumption savings that resulted from
increase in metered connections; and customer health, productivity, and time saving improvements.
IRR: 22.55%
NPV: USD 6 million
Cost-benefit ratio: 2.11

Rural WS - Benefit estimates included the value of utility system investment recovery and health, productivity and
time savings
IRR: 10.65%
NPV: USD 139 thousand
Cost-benefit ratio: 1.05

Energy Efficiency - . Benefit estimates were carried out for the value of reduced electricity consumption that resulted
from the investments made under this component.
IRR: 38.81%
NPV: USD 1.78 million
Cost-benefit ratio: 3.75

Simple average of IRR: 24%
The coverage of the analysis in terms of total percentage of the components analyzed is 92% although the analysis
did not appear to cover all outputs including the sewerage pipeline.

In contrast to the ICR analyses, the PAD undertook a least cost analysis of sub-projects. The assumptions and
analysis were not presented. The replaced electromechanical equipment in pumping stations was presented as the
sub project with the highest returns with an economic rate of return of 26% with a payback period of 3.4 years.
Efficiency may have not met its anticipated level as the expected project cost was USD 14 million compared to the
actual cost of USD 13.2 million (largely due to exchange rate differences) while rehabilitation targets, and sewerage
activities were reduced. However while the number of towns serviced was reduced, the scope covered in the
remaining ones was increased.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                       24%                                     92%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The original and restructured relevance of objectives was substantial due to minor shortcomings related to
sustainability issues. The relevance of design was modest before restructuring due to initial shortcomings concerning
the narrowness of the sustainability and capacity building components, and substantial following restructuring.

Efficacy was negligible against one of the original objectives, modest against three of the original objectives, and
substantial against one of the original objectives. It was substantial against all three of the revised objectives.

Efficiency was substantial throughout due to the broad economic analyses results carried out at completion . These
covered the bulk of project activities in urban and rural water supply, as well as energy efficiency.

The outcome is rated moderately unsatisfactory against the original PDO and satisfactory against the revised PDO
(with a rating score of 3 points prior to restructuring and 5 points after restructuring) on a scale of 1 to 6. The weighted
average is 3.88 points (with weights of 56% prior to restructuring and 44% after restructuring).

Thus the overall project outcome rating is therefore moderately satisfactory .
 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
  Risks to the sustainability of outcomes include:

     The ability of villages to finance maintenance of rehabilitated or newly developed assets,
     The ability of participating utilities to maintain newly acquired or rehabilitated assets.
     The lack of a single management model to guide villages with new water systems. This risk is partially mitigated
      through an informal agreement between the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation and the Ministry of
      Environment to provide villages with information on management of water systems.
     While the target for non-revenue water was surpassed, financial self-sufficiency targets were dropped when the
      project was restructured.
     While the project implementation unit was to be taken up as part of the Ministry of Environment, this had yet to be
      implemented at the project’s completion and resources for doing so had not been secured.

     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The Bank facilitated the preparation and appraisal of the project such that it was likely to achieve the planned
outcome in terms of improved coverage, quality, and efficiency of water and sanitation services and enhanced
capacity of the government. Safeguards and fiduciary mitigation measures were appropriately designed, were
consistent with the Bank’s fiduciary role and ensured smooth project implementation.

A minor shortcoming addressed in the ICR concerned of activities supporting the sustainability objective.
Sustainability under the project focused on financial sustainability of supported utilities. Despite being a second
generation project, lessons learned from the pilot project were not fully taken into consideration. The last project
audit of the previous project indicated that participating utilities were not compliant with set financial ratios. The
same financial ratios were used in the current project and there was inadequate support to enhance financial
capacity of utilities to operate and maintain their systems, and address political will towards tariff reform.

     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
     The Bank performed its fiduciary role satisfactorily, and ensured compliance with safeguards policies. The
Bank was proactive in identifying that the sustainability objective was unlikely to be met and advised the borrower
to restructure. The Bank responded to communication problems and related implementation delays by increased
communication amongst the TTL, the PIU and MoE, with frequent missions and technical visits. This resulted in
improvement of implementation and project performance. For example, delays under the rural, institutional and
energy efficiency components were overcome, disbursements picked up, and the IP and PDO ISR ratings
transitioned to the satisfactory range. Unfortunately, the changes in communications and improvements only took
place following restructuring when the project was 50% disbursed and with one year of implementation remaining.

In addition, the restructuring process was initiated in 2010 and itself took two years to complete, a shared
supervision responsibility with the borrower. The process was not well documented and did not include the
rationale for revising the PDO or the official approval of the change.
In terms of monitoring and management of the results framework, the project saw limited reporting on
pre-restructuring indicators which was not addressed during the life of the project. In addition, the outcome level
indicator for sanitation and sewerage was dropped during the restructuring, yet sanitation remained part of the
development objectives.




     Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:
 a. Government Performance:
    Strengths in the government’s performance included adequate fiduciary oversight, strengthening the PIU after
a period of implementation delays, and securing parallel financing in order to broaden the project’s impact.

The Government was proactive in recognizing that the original PDO could not be achieved and recommended that
the PDO needed to be amended or additional resources needed to be added to the project.

There were shortcomings that led to implementation delays including institutional disputes, a two year
restructuring period led by the MOE and lengthy PIU vacancies. These were overcome, and the government
ultimately led the achievement of the revised PDO.

   Government Performance Rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    During the period prior to the restructuring in 2012, there were a number of disputes between the Project
Implementation Unit, the ministry, and among PIU staff. These led to significant implementation delays.

However with the restructuring and leadership changes, the PIU was able to overcome these challenges and
performance improved. During the last year of implementation, the PIU was characterized by strong leadership,
efficiency, close supervision with the Bank, and improved project performance. The unit’s high level of
performance led to plans for it to be absorbed into the Ministry of Environment to manage multiple donor
interventions.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The objectives were generally supported by the project’s results framework. Baseline values were established at
appraisal for most PDO and intermediate outcome indicators. A number of indicators were dropped and redesigned
during the PDO level restructuring. An M&E officer was added to the PIU in 2011.

There were significant shortcomings. At appraisal, MCTD was indicated as having responsibility for data collection,
but there was no specific provision made on how data would be collected, the PIU did not originally include an M&E
officer, and it was unclear if these responsibilities were designated elsewhere. The restructuring found that the
sustainability indictors related to financial ratios were over ambitious and could not be met. The outcome indicator for
sewerage coverage was dropped at restructuring, even though this remained part of the develop objectives. Only
output level data was collected.


 b. M&E Implementation:
   Reporting against revised indicators took place quarterly. In 2009, the project found validity issues with many of
the baseline values and outcome indictors. Some areas showed increases in value, without any intervention. The
project did not report data on several original PDO and Intermediate outcome indicators making progress prior to
restructuring difficult to assess. The dropping of the indicator on percentage of households connected further
obfuscated the project’s contribution.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The validity issues with some of the original indicators led to their redesign and recalculating during restructuring.
The water GIS established under the project was recognized as an important management tool. It is publicly
accessible and facilitates the work of Government and other donors in the sector.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest
11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project triggered OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), OP 7.50 (Projects on International Waterways), and OP
4.11 (Cultural Property) though the project did not end up taking place in proximity to cultural property so compliance
was not assessed. The project was classified as category B.

OP 7.50 was triggered although the project did not change the volume of extraction or discharge of water or quality of
the Nistru and Prut Rivers. Given the rehabilitation nature of the implemented activities, the project was subject to an
exemption to the notification requirement under paragraph 7 (a) of the Policy and obtained it from the ECAVP before
project appraisal (on March 10, 2008).

Mitigation activities within OP 4.01 were included in specific Environmental Mitigation Plans for the selected towns. A
plan was also prepared to reflect mitigation and monitoring aspects for the rural investments. Implementation of EMPs
were satisfactory throughout the project.

In 2012, water quality tests failed to meet national potable standards in five villages (Valeni, Colibasi, Sarata Noua,
Navirnet and Bestemac). Corrective measures were introduced in four of the villages. In the fifth village – Bestemac, a
technical solution could not be found and a public awareness campaign was initiated to try and avoid public health
risks in this village. At the time of the ICR, water quality in Valeni and Colibasi met national quality standards. Water
quality in Sarata Noua was nearly in compliance with national standards and expected to be fully compliant by
May/June 2014 following remaining minor technical adjustments. In Navirnet, the project brought improvements to the
water source through the water distribution network caused quality to deteriorate. At the time of the ICR, the
Government has confirmed the remaining funding of USD 1 million for the remaining few kilometers of the water
main.


 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
 Financial management risk at project appraisal was rated high before and the project undertook mitigation measures
and related follow up. Financial management was in the satisfactory range throughout implementation. The project
complied with covenants, including timely submission of IFRs and annual audit reports, and adequate staffing).
Financial management systems were acceptable to the Bank's requirements. The annual project audits were carried
out and received in a timely manner and contained unqualified audit opinion on financial statements and accounts.

There were shortcomings within the financial management of water utilities. Audit statements for the utilities were
often qualified and, despite remedial training, financial management remained poor throughout implementation.

Procurement risk was rated high at appraisal. The project implemented mitigation measures and procurement
remained in the satisfactory range during implementation with a final ISR rating of moderately satisfactory. The
various procurement reviews performed by the Bank (post reviews, mission reviews and MTR) confirm compliance
with the Bank’s procurement guidelines. Overall, the capacity of the PIU to implement procurement activities was
satisfactory, though there were periods when PIU procurement position was vacant.

Two cases were brought to the attention of the Bank’s Integrity Vice Presidency and at the time of the ICR review, the
status of these had not been communicated to the project team.

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
The project leveraged additional investments from development partners, the National Ecological Fund and local
governments which benefited urban and rural water systems. The project also contributed to building sector capacity
through: (i) providing and analytical base for energy efficiency investment planning and (ii) delivering a water GIS
database as a tool for management and planning beyond the life of the project.


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                              ICR                 IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR derived a number of lessons from the project experience:
  The project was a second generation project following an earlier project which did not carry out adequate
    background analysis and was therefore too ambitious in scope regarding the require an increase in tariffs,
    which were not sustainable due to the weak sector level policy dialogue and political climate.
  A well-functioning PIU, in terms of structure, staffing, internal organization, reporting lines, decision authority,
    and performance incentives, was essential in improving implementation.
  Even though the project was originally intended to rapidly assist with the aftermath of the 2007 drought, the
    infrastructure investments should have been accompanied by assistance for management and maintenance,
    and other sustainability support.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is concise, well written, and provided an informative summary of the project. In some cases statements,
such as “achievement in record time,” were not supported with facts or comparators to explain them. In addition, in
section F: - Results Framework Analysis, there were several blanks in the indicator tables, without explanation, that
made pre-restructuring progress difficult to assess.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
