Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9258
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1351-MAI)
DECEMBER 28, 1990
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =      Malawi Kwacha (K)
SDR 1.00          =      US$1.08995 (Feb. 28, 1983)
US$1.00           =      K1.10
K1.OO              =     US$0.91
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 meter           =      39.27 inches
1 kilometer       =      0.62 miles
1 sq. kilometer   =      0.39 sq. miles
ABBREVIATIONS
AIDS       Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CHSU       Community Health Sciences Unit
CMS        Central Medical Stores
MOH        Ministry of Health
MOWS       Ministry of Works and Supplies
PCR        Project Completion Report
PHC        Primary Health Care
UNICEF     United Nations International Children's Education Fund
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
WHO        World Health Orga.iization
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31                                           4



THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of DiucGne-tual
Opeqatean Ew,Iuatg 
December 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Malawi
Health Proiect (Credit 1351-MAI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Malawi: Health Project (Credit 1351-
MAI)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
of teir ffical dtie. .t co.en ma no otews_edslsdwtou  ol  akatoiai
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the peformance
of their official duties. Its contentas may not otherwise be discksed without World Bankt autboriztion



MALAWI                  FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 1351-MAI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface l  Su.  .ary  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    i
Evaluation'Su'mmsr'y'                        ............... ii
PART I    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Project Identity . . . . ...  .       .  .  . . . .      .   1
B.  Project Background . . . .  .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
C.  Project Objectives and Description . . .  . . . . . . . . . 2
D.  Project Design and Organization  . . .   . . . . . . . . .  3
E.  Project Implementation . . .  . . . . . .                .  4
F.  Project Results  . . . . . ....           . . . . . . . . . 5
G. Project Sustainability ... .  . . . .  . . . . . ....  7
H . Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . .                 .  7
I.  Borrower Performance ......    ......... ....  8
J. Consulting Services  . . . .  . .  . .    . . . . . . . . . 8
K.  Project Documentation and Data . . . . .                * . 8
PART II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information
Contained in Part III  ..  .....    ............. ....   9
B.  Comments on Analysis in Part I . . .  . o . . . .   . .   . . . 10
C.  Bank Performance.. . . . . . .       ....       .   . . .  .  10
D.  Ministry Performance . . o . o . . . . . . . o . .   . o.  . 10
E.  Project Relationship . . . . . . . .  . .   . ....  . . . .  10
F.  Relationship with Cofinanciers . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . 10
PART III  STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.  Related Bank Loans andlor Credits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
B.  Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . .       . . . . . . . . 12
C.  Credit Disbursements ........... ..........   12
D.  Project Implementation . . .. .     . ..   . . . . . .....   13
E.  Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
F.  Project Results  . . . . . . ..    . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
G.  Status of Covenants  . .. .................   19
H.  Use of Bank Resources  . . . . .     .  . .  . .  . . . . . . . . . 21
ANNEX 1:  Letter from Malawi Government (May 3, 1990) forwarding Part II
of Project Completion Report - Health Project (Credit 1351-MAI)
MAP
IBRD 16734.R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1351-MAI)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Health Project in
Malawi, for which Credit 1351-MAI in the amount of SDR 6.3 million was
approved on April 21, 1983. The credit was closed on December 31, 1988, four
years behind schedule. The last disbursement was on July 31st, 1989 and the
sum of SDR 37,823.59 was cancelled
The PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resources Operations
Division of the Southern Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Sunmmary, Parts
I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during a mission in October,
1989, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit,
Guarantee, and Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



- iil. -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1351-MAI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.      The project's objectives were co improve the effectiveness and
efficiency of the health care system, through: strengthening of planning
and administration, and preparation of a comprehensive new national health
plan; development of Ministry of Health (MOH) capacity to perform
epidemiological studies and evaluate health programs; expansion, on a
selective basis, of primary health care facilities; expansion of training
facilities; introduction of child spacing programs; and improvement of the
pharmaceuticals supply system, especially in procurement and distribution.
These objectives were timely and appropriate, and followed consistently
from the findings of a Bank health sector review (by largely the same team)
completed just prior to project preparation. In line with the objectives,
the project provided for: training; renovation and upgrading of facilities;
strengthening of support services for primary health care (e.g., equipment,
vehicles, income generating activities); and studies and technical
assistance. The project design and organization were basically sound and
appropriate to the objectives, although more could have been done during
preparation to avert the implementation problems noted below.
Implementation Experience
2.      The main variances between planned and actual implementation were:
(a) the implementation period was lengthened from two to six years, through
three extensions; (b) two of the components, pertaining to the Community
Health Sciences Unit (CHSU) and the pharmaceuticals supply system, remained
not yet fully operational at project completion, even with the extensions;
and (c) lengthy delays were experienced in civil works. The factors
contributing to these problems included: deficiencies in the architectural
briefs prepared by the MOH for the Ministry of Works and Supplies (MOWS),
and in the coordination between the two ministries; diversion of effort to
the preparation of the national health plan, and to the development of the
second and, later, the third projects; turnover and shortages of key MOH
personnel and MOWS architects; MOH's dissatisfaction with the work done by
the initial pharmaceutical consultants; problems in providing housing for
CMS personnel; insufficient emphasis on supervision (especially regarding
time in the field and mission composition); and the fact that a full-time
project cocrdinator was not in place until 1987.
Results
3.      The project achieved virtually all of its objectives, except that
the aims of the CHSU and pharmaceuticals components will be fully attained
only when the remaining issues in those areas are resolved. The planning



- iv -
and administration component was successful in producing a national health
plan of good quality that formed the basis for the second project. This
achievement was all the more impressive considering that after the
consultants responsible for this work failed to complete the plan to MOH's
satisfaction, the MOH decided to do it themselves without outside help. As
an important side-product, the arduous process of developing the plan in-
house served to markedly strengthen MOH's planning and evaluation
capabilities. The child spacing component fully met its overall objective
to introduce family planning programs in Malawi; this work %s completed
ahead of time and the training program exceeded original targets. The PHC
component, also completed ahead of schedule, was largely successful in
developing the first phase of national primary health care program based on
community involvement in LbO villages of the pilot districts. The CHSU and
the pharmaceutical components, as noted above, were extensively delayed and
have yet to achieve their full potential.
Sustainability
4.      Malawi is likely to derive important long-term benefits from the
project as a result of its success in launching child spacing and primary
health care in the country. In terms of the constructed and improved
health and child spacing facilities. the benefits will probably be
sustainable over the long term.  -taer activities and programs will need to
be sustained through wider refurms in health manpower development
(expansion of posts, improvemer.ts in conditions of service) and continued
Government and donor commitment to increased levels of recurrent spending -
these are being supported in the Bar;;'s Second and Third Health Projects in
Malawi.
5.   Once operational, both the CHSU and the pharmaceutical components will
also contribute significantly to project benefits. At appraisal, savings
from the planned improvements in procurement and distribut_.on of
pharmaceuticals were estimated to more than offset the incremental
recurrent costs of the project. It is too early to confirm these
calculations since neither the envisaged systems are in place nor are there
any dependable, recurrent cost data available.
Findings and Lessons Learned
6.      With this project, the Bank started its positive contribution to
Malawi's health and population sector, and built a constructive dialogue
with the respective Malawian authorities. The Government and people of
Malawi have benefited. On lessons learned, it is clear that the
implementation period should from the outset have been set at more than two
years, which was far too short for the work to be done and the challenges
to be overcome. Second, the project might have gained from being
simplified and scaled back even further than was done during preparation,
considering that this was a first project and the sector had serious staff
shortages. Third, further development of the CHSU and pharmaceuticals
components before implementation would have helped. Fourth, more
persistent effort to get a well-trained and experienced project coordinator
in place early on could have aided the resolution of many problems. Fifth,
supervision missions should have spent more time in the field and included
more involvement by specialists in the areas experiencing difficulties,
especially on civil works and pharmaceuticals.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPOkT
MALAWI
HEALri PROJECT
(CREDIT 1351-MAI)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
- Name                : Health Project
- Credit Number       t  1351-MAI
- RVP Unit            : Africa Regional Office
- Country             : Malawi
- Sector              : Population and Human Resources
- Subsector           : Health and Population
B. Project Backgrouind
1.     Sector Development Objectives.  The principal objectives of the
Government's health and population sector development over the long run were
to improve the health status of the Malawi people and to address the country's
population problems. The sector's immediate objectives were targeted to
establishing a sound health services delivery system capable of promoting
health, preventing and curing diseases, and increasing productivity. Since
gaining independence in 1964, the Government has pursued these objectives by
focusing on health manpower development in the 1960s and 1970s; and has sought
to strengthen and expand the basic health services network while controlling
communicable diseases.
2.     Policy Context.  The 1973-88 National Health Plan provided the basis
for developing a network of facilities to substantially increase health
coverage. The plan called for a comprehensive health care system to be
developed comprising primary health centers, health sub-centers and health
posts, together with the provision of health services at the community level.
Financial constraints, however, largely prevented the development of such a
system and contributed to staff shortages, inadequate training and transport
difficulties. In response to these problems, the Government developed a
primary health care program in 1978 to supplement its existing rural and MCH
programs. At the same time the Government decided to permit properly trained
health staff to offer child spacing services, including counselling and
distribution of modern contraceptives.
3.     Despite these initiatives, the Bank's health sector review in 1980
revealed that slow progress in health improvement was the result of
inadequately defined and coordinated policies and strategies, poor sector
planning, a bias towards hospital-based curative services, lack of criteria
for guiding health sector investments, failure to adequately coordinate the
private sector's extensive health activities with those of the Government, and
deficiencies in the procurement and distribution of pharmaceuticals. The
findings of the sector review, thus clearly showed the need for the
development of an up-dated and financially viable national health plan and
provided the basis for developing the Health Project.



C. Prolect Objectives and Description
4.     Project Objectives.  The mafn objective of the project was to improve
the effectiveness and efficiency of Malawi's health delivery systems in
responding to its health needs. Specifically, it was supposed to help the
Government reach this objective over a two-year period by:
(a) improving the MOH ability to plan, monitor and evaluate health
programs and policies and develop a comprehensive national health
plan;
(b) strengthening the MOH's ability to carry out epidemiological studies
with supporting laboratory services;
(c) Instituting an efficient, cost effective pharmaceutical procurement
and distribution system;
(d) introducing the first phase of a national primary health care program;
and
(e) introducing a child spacing program.
5.      Prolect Components.  The project included five components:
(a) Planning and Administration
(i) technical assistance and training fellowships for MOH for
producing a comprehensive national health plan (including a
staff development plan), establishing a permanent planning,
evaluation and monitoring capability, and improving the
financial management, accounting and service statistics systems;
(ii) support of studies on infant and child mortality and on possible
linkages between traditional and modern health sectors; and
(iii) technical assistance and on-the-job training for re-organizing
the Central Medical Stores (CMS) into a commercial entity;
(b) Community Health Sciences Unit (CHSU)
Renovation and additions to an existing building in Lilongwe with the
provision of housing, equipment and vehicles, training fellowships,
and consultant assistance (funded, in part, by UNDP/WHO), to establish
a unit to collect and analyze epidemiological data, including the
necessary laboratory support services;
(c) Pharmaceutical Procurement and Distribution
Renovation of existing buildings in Blantyre, construction of new
buildings in Lilongwe and Mzuzu, with housing equipment, vehicles, and
consultant assistance to improve the procurement and management of the
pharmaceutical system and its associated manufacturing capability,



-3-
provide for the move of CMS from )lantyre to Lilongwe, as well as
equipment for the training of pharmacy technicians;
(d) Primary Health Care Development
Training (with contributions from UNICEF and WHO), essential upgrading
of rural facilities, equipment, vehicles and bicycles communications
improvements, income generating activities and monitoring and
evaluation activities, to develop a primary health care program based
on community mobilization in three districts covering about 150
villages; and
(e) Child Spacing
Renovation of antenatal facilities at Zomba General Hospital and 15
selected district hospitals, furniture, equipment, training and a
family formation study, to initiate a child spacing program in urban
and rural areas.
D. Prolect Desi_n and Organization
6.     The Health Project derived its conceptual foundation from the
discussions between the Bank and Government on the findings of the health
sector review mission in September 1981. The Government accepted the findings
of the review and felt that they would provide a good basis for developing
this project. Initially, the Government had requested Bank assistance in a
very broad scope. When it became apparent, however, that financial
constraints would preclude the dimensions of such a project, the concept of
the project was scaled down considerably. In retrospect, this decision was
clearly correct. The project thus did not attempt to address all of the
identified deficiencies of the sector, but focused on developing a national
health plan and on redressing the most critical constrair . in the health care
delivery system. Future health projects would then be designed to deal with
some of the other problems.
7.     Project preparation extended over a relatively short period of time.
After the preliminary project discussions in September of 1981, the project
was identified in January 1982, appraised in July 1982, and negotiated in
March 1983. The preparation process benefitted from: drawing upon the results
of a successful pilot program, in the case of the Primary Health Care
Development component; thorough discussions with Government over an extended
period of time, in the case of the Child Spacing component; and utilizing the
findings of the health sector study. Two of the components (CHSU and
pharmaceuticals) were not as well advarced as the others by the time of
project effectiveness, and this was mirrored later in the project outcomes.
8.     In both the preparatory and implementation phases of the project, it
could not have been foreseen that the country would be beset during the
project period by multiple economic problems (in incomes, employment, balance
of payments, and then tightening of the budget) and the effects of the
Mozambican war. These developments significantly exacerbated the constraints
o01 easing staffing shortages and obtaining the building materials (especially
cement) needed for civil works.
9.     Overall responsibility for project implementation was to rest with the
MOH, with each component managed by the head of the applicable section of the



- 4 -
Ministry -- the Chief Health Planner for administration and planning, the
Deputy Chief Medical Officer for CHSU, the Assistant Chief Medical Officer
(MOH) for the Primary Health Care (PHC) program, and the Chief Pharmacist for
the pharmaceutical procurement and distribution component. Responsibility for
overall project coordination was assigned to the Principal Secretary of the
Ministry. A coordinating committee, chaired by the Principal Secretary, was
to have met quarterly to ensure the smooth progress of implementation. Soon
after project implementation had started, it became apparent that neither the
Principal Secretary nor his deputy was devoting sufficient time to adequately
monitoring and coorGinating the project on a day-to-day basis. The Bank
consequently already recommended the appointment of a full-time project
coordinator in its first supervision mission. But it was not until January
1987 that a project coordinator arrivci in Malawi -- initially for the Second
Family Health Project (Credit No. 1768-MAI) but later, by default, for the
(first) Health Project as well.
10.    How the design, preparation, and organizational/institutional features
of the project contributed to its outcome is, as always, difficult to sort out
from the influences of other factors on outcome, such as implementation
performance. Nevertheless, it seems likely, for the reasons indicated in the
following sections, that the design and preparation work could have been more
effective in preventing difficulties that arose during implementation,
particularly in regard to the CHSU and pharmaceuticals components and the
delay in project completion. The design should have provided for longer than
a two-year implementation period, which was far too short for the work that
was to be done and the challenges the Government faced. It might also have
been advisable to simplify and scale back the project even further than was
done during preparation, given that this was a first project and the sector
had serious staff shortages. In addition, further development of the CHSU and
pharmaceuticals components before implementation would have been desirable,
although oth r factors from the implementation period also weighed heavily on
the progress of these components and could not have been entirely foreseen at
the outset.
E. Project Implementation
11.    The main vAriances between planned and actual implementation were: (a)
the implementation period was lengthened from two to six y ars, through three
extensions; (b) two of the components (CHSU and pharmaceuticals) remained not
yet fully operational at project completion, even with the extensions; and (c)
lengthy delays were experienced in civil works. The slower than anticipated
progress of the CHSU and pharmaceuticals components has delayed efforts to
build local capability to carry out epidemiological work, medical research and
publiz health laboratory work (for example, imported goods cannot be tested
for zontamination in Malawi at the present time). In addition, the
anticipated benefits from the pla-ned improvements of the pharmaceutical
component have not yet been fully realized, since some aspects (including the
manufacturing plant in Lilongwe, and the establishment of appropriate
distribution and inventory systems and procedures and the required computer
support) are still not entirely operational.
12.    Factors common to most of the civil works delays include (a) the
preparation by MOH of inaccurate and/or incomplete architectural briefs for
the Ministry of Works and Supplies (MOWS); (b) poor coordination between MOH



and MOWS; (c) during first couple of project years focus diverted to resolving
massive problems relating to the preparation of Natior.al Health Plan; (d) to
an increasing degree beginning from May 1984, focus by all concerned parties
on preparation of a second health project; (el lack of proper synchronization
between training of personnel and construction schedules; (f) unexpected
transfers of senior MOH personnel; (g) shortage of architects at MOWS due to
transfer of personnel and death of two key architects; and (h) shortage of
building materials due to delays in issuance of foreign exchange permits for
importation.
13.    Also, the completion of CHSU was delayed becauses  (a) Several
candidates to head CHSU were not accepted by foreign universities; and (b) tLe
epidemiologist desigaated te head the unit after completion of training was
transferred to head the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) program.
Additional reasons for the delay of the pharmaceutical component included:
(a) MOH's dissatisfaction with the work by the initial pharmaceutical
consultants caused about a two year project delay; (b) housing in Lilongwe
built for CMS, but occupied by non-project personnel effectively preventing
start-up of the pharmaceutical component; (c) protracted disputes between
contractors and MOWS over designs of some buildings; and (d) failure to create
the staff posts in a timely fashion.
14.    While some of these factors could hardly be anticipated during project
preparation or avoided by more astute supervision, staff shortages at almost
all levels of the project and the difficulties at MOWS should probably have
required more conservative projections with regard to the expected
implementation period at the design stage and more aggressive .ccention and
follow-up during the supervision of the project. Based on the very positive
experience and impact on the project progress once the project coordinator was
on board, efforts on the part of the borrower and the Bank should have been
more intensive to fill this position much sooner. Furthermore, forward
planning and synchronization between civil works schedules, training and
assignment of personnel, and availability of equipment and materials could
have expedited the implementation period -- for example, through evacuating
staff houses in time so that project personnel at CMS Lilongwe could start
operation of the facilities; training lab technicians to avoid that
manufacturing of pharmaceuticals in Blantyre is done without any quality
control of material input or production output; readying computer and
inventory systems so enable the completed drug depots in Lilongwe and Mzuzu to
assume their regictal distribution role and to allow the transfer of the CMS
from Blantyre to Lilongwe; and assigning the required staff to operate the
three completed and totally underutilized PHC training units.
F. Prolect Results
15.    The project achieved virtually all of its objectives, except that the
aims of the CHSU and pharmaceuticals components will be fully attained only
when the problems noted above are resolved.
16.    One of the primary goals of the project was to produce a comprehensive
ten year national health plan for 1985-95 and to improve the planning and
evaluation capability of MOH. While the plan was expected to be completed by
December 31, 1984, serious problems developed relating to the performance of
the consultant group, which ultimately led to a mutually agreed, premature



-6-
termination of the contr ct. As a consequence, MOH planning staff decided to
take on the job themselves and, with the assistance of senior MOH management
and some consultant advice, worked hard to complete the wotk. The final
product, completed in December 1985, printed in Summer of 1986 and issued in
early 1987, was of good quality and received high acclaim from the National
Health Planning Committee. The plan also formed the basis for the development
of the Second Family Health Project. As an important side-product, the
arduous process of developing the national health plan in-house served to
markedly strengthen MOH's planning and evaluation capabilities.
17.    The child spacing component fully met its overall objectives to
introduce family planning programs in Malawi. The component was completed
ahead of time and the training program exceeded original targets. According
to latest statistics, child spacing services are offered in 106 of the 364 MOH
and Private Hospital Association of Malawi (PHAM) facilities. Unfortunately,
the initial momentum in the selected pilot districts -- Dowa, Mzimba and Mzuzu
-- has not continued to date. Other districts have now exceeded by far the
Mwanza and Dowa districts in terms of acceptors. Contributing to this
slowdown has been the grave shortage of nurses qualified in child spacing
service delivery, and the lack of in-service training and infrequent health
inspections. In addition, after most of the construction of the antenatal
units was completed and operational, integration of child spacing with MCH
activities was introduced rendering most of the existing antenatal facilities
too small and no longer space efficient, despite the fact that about ten
facilities are currently being upgraded with funds from project cost savings.
18.    The PHC component also almost fully met its objective to develop the
first phase of national primary health care program based on community
involvement in 150 villages of the pilot districts. The component was also
completed ahead of schedule. Mainly due to severe financial constraints and
staff shortages, the PHC program now has difficulty to sustain its early
momentum. For example, the national coordinator of the National PHC Committee
is the only person in MOH attending to PHC matters. He has no support staff,
no funds for field visits, no vehicles, and no funds to effectively stimulate
community-based programs. On the civil work side, the construction and
upgrading of six rural health centers was successful despite some continuing
water supply problems. Unfortunately, the three PHC training centers were
never used for the intended purpose, as all PHC training had been completed
when the construction was ready for occupancy. In addition, Government
correctly decided that additional PHC training would in the future better be
carried out in the communities rather than in classrooms. As a result, the
training units are neither properly staffed, supplied and maintained, and
remain grossly underutilized.
19.    The problems with the CHSU and the pharmaceutical components have been
described. It must be emphasized that when and if the current constraints and
deficiencies are eliminated, both components should also meet their original
objectives. With respect to CHSU this would primarily mean the creation of
posts for and the recruitment of a senior epidemiologist, a microbiologist and
laboratory technicians. With respect to the pharmaceutical component, this
would mean the return of staff houses to project staff, the possible redesign
and reconstruction of the drug manufacturing plant in Lilongwe, the
development of appropriate computer, inventory and distribution systems, and
the recruitment of qualified personnel.



-7-
G. Project Sustainability
20.    Malawi is likely to derive long-term benefits in the social sectors
from the project as a result of its success in launching child spacing and
primary health care in the country. In terms of the constructed and improved
health and Maternal and Chield Health (MCH)/Child Spacing facilities, the
benefits should be sustainable over the long term. Other activities and
programs will need to be kept alive through persistence, search for new
initiatives, and continued funding. Once operational, both CHSU and the
pharmaceutical components should also contribute significantly to project
benefits.
21.    At appraisal, savings from the planned improvements in procurement and
distribution of pharmaceuticals were estimated to more than offset the
incremental recurrent costs of the project. It is clearly too early to
confirm these calculations since neither the envisaged systems are in place
nor are there any dependable, recurrent cost data available. If the savings
do eventually outweigh the costs, that is likely to take longer -- given the
delays in project implementation -- than the originally expected "ten years or
sooner" from project effectiveness.
H. Bank Performance
22.    With the Health Project, the Bank started its positive contribution to
Nalawi9s health and population sector. During the full implementation period,
the Bank's dialogue with the respective Malawian authorities was constructive.
In hindsight, it appears that the Bank's supervision activity was overshadowed
by efforts to prepare and supervise a second project and later prepare a third
project. In light of the serious problems encountered throughout
implementation, more field time during the 14 supervision missions for the
first project could probably have identified difficulties earlier.
Considering that a large number of problems, especially in the later years,
stemmed from the civil works part of the project, it is unfortunate that there
was no consistency in the use of implementation specialists and that in four
missions no such specialization was represented. Similarly, a pharmaceutical
specialist participated in only three of the first five missions, but not in
any of the following nine missions. As indicated, the pharmaceutical
component is still not operational and has yet to overcome some very difficult
problems. With a more forceful and persistent approach, the Bank could likely
have contributed to earlier solution of problems such as the occupation of
staff housing by non-project personnel, the assignment of a project
coordinator, the submission of timely audit and progress reports, or the
establishment of an appropriate project cost monitoring system.
23.    For future projects the following lessons learned from the Health
Project may be of value:
(a) Priority of supervision of projects must remain high within the work
program of the Bank and within Government. Sufficient staff,
consultant, and budgetary resources must be allocated to supervision.
(b) Project performance must be rated accurately to receive the
appropriate attention from management.



-8-
(c) Sufficient time has to be allotted during supervision missions to
visit project sites and facilities. A plan should be set up for each
project to ensure that over a certain number of supervision missions,
say a cycle of four missions or about two years, all such sites and
facilities have been inspected. As supervision must not cease after
closing date of a loan/credit if earlier difficulties in the project
have not been fully resolved (OD 13.05), budgetary resources should in
these cases continue to be available.
(d) A well-trained and experienced project coordinator who on a full-time
basis facilitates and properly monitors project implementation, and
liaises between government agencies and cofinanciers, is a key element
to successful projects.
I. Borrower Performance
24.    MOH's performance especially during the early stages of the project
was affected by the departure of senior staff and by the lack of an
experienced, full-time project coordinator. During the first couple of years,
MOH's main focus was on overcoming problems arising from consultants who had
been retained to prepare the ten year national health plan and to prepare the
pharmaceutical components. In this context, MOH is highly commended for
taking on the final preparation of the ten year national health plan primarily
through its own resources when the consultant group failed to produce an
acceptable document. By enormous effort, it completed work of excellent
quality. During this difficult period, MOH could probably have benefitted by
consulting more closely with the Bank in order to solicit the Bank's advice
and support.
25.    The borrower's compliance with the Credit Agreement is detailed in
Par- III, Table 7. The review shows that the main problems relate to (a)
substantial implementation delays; (b) poor record keeping of project
activities, costs and financing; (c) non-project related occupation of staff
housing an the child spacing hostel; (d) failure to provide personnel for the
operation of CHSU, CMS and the PHC training units; and (e) substantial delays
in preparation of audits and submission of progress reports.
J, Consulting Services
26.    As indicated, MOH experienced major problems with the consulting group
retained for the development of the national health plan. Because was MOH wus
dissatisfied with the performance of some of the consultants in the field and
their frequent personnel changes, the contract was terminated by mutual
agreement at the end of 1984. MOH was not satisfied with the consultants
initially retained for the preparation of the pharmaceutical component and MOH
hired additional consultants to complete the work in this area. Following
this experience, MOH became exceedingly cautious in their recruitment
practices regarding external technical assistance.
K. Project Documentation and Data
27.    In spite of repeated comments by early supervision missions, a proper
project monitoring and information system wag never put in place. As a



-9-
consequence, there is little institutional memory regarding this project in
MOH as many of the persons involved in the early stages have left the
ministry. Especially grave is the lack of essential project data, such as
project investment and recurrent costs (beyond IDA disbursement data), foreign
exchange content, the Government's own contribution to the project, and
assistance provided by cofinanciers. In its last progress report dated June
30, 1989, MOH reports that it has not been possible to locate in the MOH
Registries documentation on several aspects of project implementation
including reports of supervision missions. The available documentation
conveys the impression that regular monitoring of project activities at both
MOH and IDA has not had high priority.   Preparation of PCRs under such
circumstances become an exceedingly difficult undertaking.
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Adequacy and accuracy of factual information contained in Part III
28.    The Ministry is in general agreement with the information presented
subject to the following:
(a) Project Costs (5)
Information on project costs are not available in the required format,
and are therefore estimates derived from disbursements under the
credit and Malawi Kwacha expenditures.
(b) Project Financing (5)
Activities by other agencies except in respect of the CHSU have been
completed as part -f their country programmes and it has been found
difficult to extract expenditures in respect of project items.
(c) Project Results - A. Direct Benefits
The following need to be noted:
(i) All officers of disease control programmes were posted to the
CHSU during December, 1989. The Unit is functional.
(ii) Regional and district PHC coordinators were appointed effective
22 August, 1989 and the momentum of the work is being
accelerated.
(iii) The PHC Training Centers are being utilized for training
activities including PHC with first priority to MOH.
(d) Projects Results - B. Studies
Although the study at (5) was not done, a pilot survey to develop
indicators for the measurement of progress for Health for All 2000 has
been completed and will be revised annually.



- 10 -
(e) Status of Comments (7)
In regard to item 4.01 (c), it may be noted that the audit report for
the period April, 1988 to March, 1989 was submitted to IDA on 20
February, 1990.
B. Commen:s on Analysis in Part I
29.    The Ministry is in general agreement with the analysis in Part I.
However, it is necessary that the following are noted:
(a) The number of static MOH facilities offering child spacing services as
at 31 December, 1989 stood at 171.
(b) The deployment of only the National PHC Coordinator at the center
should not be considered a down grading of the PHC effort. PHC
pervades the entire spectrum of MOH activities especially the
preventive services and are supported by programme personnel.
(c) Comments at para. 19, in regard to the CHSU and the pharmaceutical
component of the project, need to be viewed in the context of recent
intensified efforts by MOH to overcome the stated problems.
C. Bank Performance
30.    The Bank inputs during preparation, appraisal and implementation were
most critical in this first health project. Greater focus on major issues
during supervision and efforts at their resolution may have facilitated
satisfactory progress.
D. Ministry Performance
31.    Unforseen problems and additional tasks detailed in Part I, placed
heavy burden on the limited resources available to Government resulting in
implementation delays. One important lesson arising from the implementation
record is the need to treat parts of each component as a whole and to ensure
their implementation in a systematic and synchronized manner, enabling
avoidance of some of the problems experienced in this project.
E. Proiect Relationship
32.     Bank relationship with Government during the evaluation and
implementation phases of the project has been good.
F. Relationship with Cofinanciers
33.    Activities cofinanced were implemented in parallel as part of country
programmes of UNICEF and UNFPA. The only component not implemented was UNDP
technical assistance to CHSU. This was due to delayed completion of
facilities. The relationship with all agencies was good.



- 11 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Table 1: IDA CREDIT RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
Loan/Credit      Year of      Purpose of         Status          Comments
Title         Approval      Project
Credit 1768-MAI      1987     Improve family      Under        Implementation of
Second Family                 health, child-      implemen-   civil works
Health Project                spacing services   tation        processing well;
and MOH capacity                software compo-
to deliver                      nents are affected
health services                 by chronic
shortage of
personnel



- 12 -
B. Proiect Timetable
Table 2: PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLES
Item                    Planned Date          Revised Date          Actual Date
Health Sector Mission                                                  10/1980
Identification Mission                                                09/1981
(Initial project
discussion with
IDA)
Preparation Mission         09/21/81             09/21/81             09/21/81
Appraisal Mission           07/07/82             07/07/82              07/07/82
Credit Negotiations         03/15/83             03/15/83             03/15/83
Board Approval              04/26/83             04/26/83             04/26/83
Credit Signature            05/20/83             05/20/83             05/20/83
Credit Effectiveness        07/01/83             08/22/83             08/22/83
Project Completion                              06/30/85              06/30/88
Credit Closing              12/31/85             12/31/86              12/31/88
12/31/87
34.     Comments on Timetable.  The originally projected date of project
completion, less than two years after Credit Effectiveness, was unrealistic.
The Credit Closing was formally extended three times. Construction of major
works on Central Medical Stores in Lilongwe, the Regional Medical Stores at
Mzuzu and the Community Health Sciences Unit started in July/August 1986,
i.e., well after the initial Credit Closing date.
C. Credit Disbursements
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(SDR '000)
Bank FY:  1984   1986   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Appraisal Estimate               1,650   4,8006,360   -         -      -      -
Actual                            119    1,914  2,446  2,780  3,810  5,916  6,262
Actual as X of Est.                7        40    s9      44     60      94     99
Date of Final Disb. a/
*/ As of July 31, 1989, SDR 37,823.69 was cancelled.
Last application: No. 167 for K 621,892.4 dated July 31, 1989



- 13 -
D. Project Implementation
Table 4: PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION DATES OF CIVIL WORKS COMPONENTS
Planned         Actual         Months
Component                        Completion      Completion     of Delay
Community Health Sciences
Unit (CHSU)                        12/85            09/87          31
Pharmaceutical Procurement
and Distribution                   05/85            09/89          52
Health Centers                     06/85            01/86           7
Child Spacing                      01/85            08/85           7
10/89           5
35. Comments on Proiect Implementation
The civil works program that had been agreed before Board presentation
was overly optimistic. Design work was to be done by MOWS staff with no
private architects being involved. As it soon turned out, staff shortages in
MOWS prevented timely preparation of designs and tender documents. Tendering
itself did not seem to have presented difficulties or delays, probably because
no international competitive bidding was required. After construction had
started, problems and major delays occurred in connection with importation of
building materials, seriously delaying, e.g., completion of buildings for the
Central Medical Store in Lilongwe. Completion of store buildings for the
regional medical store in Mzuzu was badly delayed because of the need, after
construction had started, to re-design the roof structure, which caused a
protracted dispute between the contractor and MOWS engineers.
In retrospect as indicated in Part I, paragraph 16, the appointment of
a project coordinator would have minimized the implementation delay.



- 14 -
E. Prolect Costs and Financing
Table 6: PROJECT COSTS
(USs '000)
Appraisal Estimate                 Actual
Local    Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign  Total
Category                        Costs    Costs      Costs     Coats   Costs    Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
Pharmacout,cal Supply
and Distribution         2,260.2    676.6    2,826.8    N/A       N/A    2,669.8
Community Health
Sciences                   416.8    808.6    1,224.8    N/A       N/A       108.3
Planninga and
Administration              98.9    832.1      981.0    N/A       N/A    1,268.8
Primary Health Care        1,678.2    667.4    2,346.6    N/A       N/A    2,351.4
Child Spacing                470.0    696.0    1,065.0    N/A       N/A      497.4
Total Invest. Costs        4,914.1   3,478.1   8,392.2     N/A      N/A    6,886.7
II. RECURRENT COSTS              211.6     109.5     321.0    N/A      N/A       N/A
III. TOTAL PROJECT COSTS       6,126.6   3,687.6   8,713.2    N/A      N/A       N/A
36. Comments
Actual project costs are based on estimates since the borrower did not
keep complete records of its own contribution to the project cost. Due to
Kwacha devaluations, Bank agreed to finance certain expenditures which were
envisaged under the Second Family Health Project (Credit 1768-MAI) from QECH;
35 additional vehicles). Thus, total estimated investment costs for the
Health Project amounted to only US$6.9 million.



- 15 -
Table 6: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Planned                Actual
IDA                                    6.8                     6.2
Domestic                                1.3                    0.7 a/
Sub-Total                   8.1                    6.9
UN Cofinancing
Institutions                         0.6                Not available
TOTAL COSTS                             8.7
37. Comments on Prolect Financing
As the cofinancing amounts were relatively small, no formal
cofinancing arrangements were made. UnZortunately, no accurate records as to
the type of support provided by the cofinanciers or the value of this support
was maintained over the project period by the borrower. Likewise, since only
IDA disbursement records were kept, Government's own contribution to the
project cannot be quantified with any precision. The given estimate is based
solely on the Credit Agreement percentages for foreign exchange and local
exchange (Schedule 1). The Government's contribution, however, was most
likely higher since not all expenditures incurred for the project were
submitted to IDA for reimbursement.



- 16 -
F. Prolect Results
Table 7: Direct Benefits
Esttmated at:
Indicators                 Appraisal                 Closing Date              Full Dovelopment
Proparation of             Planned period             198U-1995 Hoelth                 N/A
Revised Natlonal           1986-1996.                 Plan issued In
Health Plan.                                          1987.
Establish CHSU to          Epidemiological            Construction                Operation not
undertake opTd-            work to start              completed, not yet          likely to start
miological studies         January 1986;              operational due to          before 1991/2
and laboratory             Microbiology to             lack of managing           unless T.A.
services (public           start middle of            personnel,                  received to manage
health                     1985; Biochemistry                                     CHSU.
laboratory).               to start middle of
1986; Lab, tech-
nology to start
January, 1986.
Transfer Central           Move to take place         Construction                Transfer in 1990
Medical Stores             In Spring of 1986.         virtually                   only possible If
from Blontyr- to                                      completed, but              problems of staff
Lilongwe.                                              lack of                    housing, computer
procedures,                and stock-keeping
computer software,         procedures can be
shortage of staff          resolved.
and unauthorized
use of staff
housing prevent
imp lamentation.
Improve drug manu-         Production to              Major construction         Production start-
facturing In              start by Spring of         design deficion-            up at Lilongwe
Blantyre and add           1986.                      cios and housing            will depend on
facilities In                                         shortage continue           expert review of
Mzuzu and                                             to cause                    plant.  Full pro-
Lilongwe.                                             substantial delays          duction cannot be
in start-up of             envisaged before
Lilongwe plant.            1991.  Quality
Mzuzu drug manu-           control needed.
facturing facility
was cancolled.
Improve drug               Depots and                 Construction of            Computer and pro-
distribution In            improved system to         depots completed            cedure specialist
Malawi including           be ready by the            but not yot                 needed to
establishmnt of            middle of 1985.            occupied.  Little           eliminate major
two regional                                          work done on                problems.
depots.                                               system and
procedure Improve-
ments. Major
computing
problems.



- 17 -
Develop PHC                Pilot program              About 1201,00               Service coverage
PTrogr" Ea-sd on           covering 120,000           persons initially           oxtended by the
community                  persons.  Full-            affected by                 project.  The sub-
mobilization In            time PHC                   Project.  Shortage           *equent project
Uwange, Dows and           coordinatoro to be         of staff and                is supporting PHL
Mzimba districts,          appointed.  PHC            funds.  No full-            activit-s.
committee                  time PHC
structure at               coordinators
village, area,             assigned; health
district and               inspectors carry
region to be               out PHC tasks in
established.               addition to their
regular work.
Selection,                 800 PHC workers to         300 trained within          Pilot scheme was
training/                  be trained/re-             original project            successfully
retraining of              trained,                   implementation             *xtended to a
community workers                                     period (two                 large number of
(TEAS and health                                      years).  However,          other districts.
are workers),                                         after 1982 review,
National core                                         PHC worker system
group to train                                        was replaced by
district -alth                                        Health Service
management team.                                      Assistance.
Upgrading of               6 units.                   6 units completed;          6 units.
facilities in Dows                                    one unit under
and Uzimba to                                         construction
health sub-centers                                    (Nalunga).
and add staff
housing.
Construction of            a training                 Construction                Training centers
PHC training               centers.                   completed only              to be used for
centers in Mwanza,                                    after PHC training          district$s non PHC
Dows and Uzimba                                       had taken place             health training
districts.                                            and after program           n-eds and other
change calling for         ministries.
all PHC training
to be performed in
the communities
themselves. Due
to staff shortage,
centers are mostly
unused.
Provision of child         First project              CS available at                    N/A
!prcinJ  (CS) at           year; CS at _                ill central and
central hospitals,         central hospitals          district hospitals
all district               and 22 district            and in a large
hospitals and at           hospitals; second          number of rural
rural heoith               project year:  CS          health centers.
c-nters.                   at one rural
health center in
each district.
Upgrading of               Upgrading of               Zomba hospital and          Duo to savings,
antenatal                  antenatal care at          12 units                    additional
facilities to              Zomba hospital and         completed,                  improvements at 10
permit CS                  15 of 21 district                                      hospitals
services.                  hospitals.                                             initiated before
Credit Closing
date.
Orientation of             2,000 during               Partly alone.               CS training
health staff in            initial project                                        continues.
CS.                        period.
g.



- 18 -
Technical CS               I1a.                        116.                               N/A
trainin7g of
hospital staff.
Establishent of            Throe centers to            Centers are                         N/A
technical training         be established,             operational.
conters for CS at
Lilongws, Zomba
and Blantyre
hospitals.
38.   Comments on Prolect Results
Due to the originally anticipated brevity of Project implementation
(two years), it was felt at Appraisal that project impact could primarily be
measured by process indicators, rather than by direct results on health status
improvements. Furthermore, this Project was meant to a large degree to
prepare the basis for future health projects.
Table 8: PROJECT STUDIES
Purpose as
Defined at                                             Impact of
Appraisal                  Status                      Study
1.   Infant and            Analysis of 1977            Not done.                   See under Study
Child                 census data to              However, Family            No. 8.
Mortality             provide                     Formation Study
information on             addressed Infant
infant and child           and child
mortality by               mortality Issues.
district.
2.   Role of               Obtain objective            Not done.  But WHO          Impact of WHO
Traditional           Information to              consultant did             supported study
Medical               determine linkages          some work In this          not known.
Practi-               between modern and          area In 1988.
tioners               traditional health
sectors.
S.   Review PHAM           Review ways of              Not done.  On               Utilization of
Improving the low          financial side,             PHAM facilities
level of                   however, a lot of           remains low.
utilization of             work has been
PHAM facilities            done.
and need for
financial
assistance.
4.   Medical               Determine                   Completed by WHO            Provided basis for
School Study          financial                   and consultant             Covernment
feasibility of             consortium.                 decision to pursue
developing medical                                     development plans.
school in Malawi.



- 19 -
6.   Boo-line              To measure PHC              Focus clightly              N/A
Epidemi-              program's Impact            changed.  Primary
ological              over time.                  focus In PHC given
Study                                             to troining.  In
1987, MOH, NHO,
UNICEF, etc.
carried out PHC
roview.
To determine               Conducted In 1984           Survey updated
6.   Family                future priorities           by the National             demographic
Formation             In programs for             Statistical Office          Indicators
Survey                mothers ond                 with MON                    particularly on
children.                  participation.              fortility and
mortality and
gathered baseline
data on KAP
regarding child
spacing.
G. Status of Covenants
Table 9: COMPLIANCE WITH CREDIT AGREEMENT
Section/Covenant                                      Status of Compliance
3.01(a)        The Borrower shall carry out the             In compliance, with the exception of (i)
Project in conformity with                  substantial implementation delays; (ii)
appropriate practices.                      poor record keeping relating to Project
activities and financing; (Ili) due to
severe housing shortage, staff housing
and child spacing hostel built under
Project have been occupied by non-
project related personnel; and (iv)
necessary staff positions for some
project components (CHSU; pharmaceutical
distribution; PHC training centers) have
neither been created nor filled due to
budgetary problems, but this Issue is
now being resolved.
8.02(a)        The Borrower shall employ                    In full compliance.
*peci.lists In accordance with World
Bank guidelines.
The Borrower shall employ not later         Covenantod personnel has been employed
than September 80, 1988, a health           at differont times but not during full
planner, an epidemiology, a                 project period.  Epidemiologist has bee
finanlial analyst, a manpower               trained; but was recently appointed to
planning expert and two                      lead AIDS Program.
pharmaceutical consultants.
(b)        Designate a Malawian counter-part to         In light of severe staff shortages,
work with each consultant so                counterpart personnel has been made
employed,                                   available whenever possible.



- 20 -
3. e           The Borrower shall cause all goods           Houses built under Project for staff to
and services under the Credit to be         operate CHSU and Central Medical Stores
used exclusively for the purpose of         in Lilongwe have been or upied by non-
the project until Its completion.           project personnel causing substantial
delays In the start-up of these
facilities.  Also, Child Spacils
Training Hostel (old nurses home) cannot
be used for Intended purpose due to non-
project use. The COM Is in the process
of releasing these houses to the
designated institution.
3.04(a)        The Borrower shall furnish to IDA            In compliance.
certain project documents.
(b)        The Borrower shall maintain records          Record keeping regarding Project
on project progress, permit IDA             activities, Project costs and Project
mission visits and provido at               benefits have been insufficient to
regular intervals certain                   adequotely monitor progress of the
information.                                Project.  Progress reports were
submitted to Bank only very
sporadically, although quartorly
reporting was stipulated. Between 1987
and 1989 only two progress reports were
received.
(c)        The Borrower shall prepare a PCR not        Although Bank had requested basic
iater than six months aftor closing         information requirod for PCR
date.                                       preparatlcn, such Information was not
received du. ing the covenanted period.
Some important data (Project costs, co-
financlngi tupport, namely non-IDA costs)
have stltl nmot been furnished.
8.05           The Borrower shall acquire land              In compl irncrj.
rights as neoded for Project.
4.01(s)        The Borrower shall maintain Project          In compllnic* only in so far as IDA
accounts.                                   disbura.enlt accounts are concerned.  No
accounts mnAn.arned for Government's and
co-financie-n' contribution to Project's
investment an*d recurrent costs.
(b)        The Borrower shall maintain separate         In compliancQ
accounts for statements of
expenditures.
(c)        Audit roports shall be submitted            Reports were dnliAquent for every fiscal
within six months after the end of          year during Froject period.  Due to
each fiscal year.                           these delays, *udits for two yeare had
to be combined. Only two audit reports
were received, covering period: April
1984 - March 1988 and April 1986 - March
1988. Latest audit report for period
April 1988 to March 1989 not yet
received. Audit ropfrto only covered
IDA portion of Project.
4.02           The Borrower shall produce a revises         National Health Plan for 1988 - 1996 was
National Health Plan for the period          issued in 1987 after an about two year
1986 - 1995 by December 31, 1984.           delay.
T pZ



- 21 -
4.08          The Borrower shall Introduce a scalo      Revisod scale of foes was Introduced In
of fees for health services by April      1994.
1, 1984.
4.04          The Borrower shall operate the            Not fully complied with.  Central
Contral Medical Stores as a district      Medical Stores now operated as Treasury
self accounting undertaking not          Fund Activity  within MOH, providing
later than April 1, 1984.                advan.e foreign exchange funding for
purchase of pharmaceuticals and medical
equipment; but with lose autonomy than a
district self-accounting undertaking
would have provided.
4.06          The Borrower shall ensure review of       Review not undertaken.
NOOs by PHC core group of MOH to
ensure bettor coordination between
them and public health providers.
4.08          In order to improve the staffing of       In compliance as health centers under
the health centers in Its primary        Project are concerned.  Staffing posts
health care program, certain             for the thre training units In Mzimba,
staffing levels at health centers,       Mwanza and Mponola have not been
PHC t-aining units and districts          created, and consequently units are not
should be achieved,                      staffed.
H. Use of Bank Resources
Table 10: STAFF INPUTS AS OF DECEMBER 18, 1989
Stage of
Project Cycle        FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY88   FY87   FY88   FY89    FY90   Total
Preparation           66.0                                                                  66.0
Appraisal                    49.8                                                           49.8
Negotiations                  7.7                                                            7.7
Supervision                   0.4   81.1   19.2    8.9   13.1   11.4    6.8                89.4
Other (PCR)                                                          0.7    0.1     8.4      9.2
TOTAL                65.0   67.4   81.1   19.2    8.9   18.1   12.1    6.4          8.4   208.6
39. Comments on Staff Inputs
Staff input for project preparation through negotiations amounted to
112 staff-weeks, which is about the average for Bank projects overall.
However, supervision input exceeded the originally expected time substantially
because the implementation period was estimated at two years but actually
extended over six years. The total annual staff time allocated to supervision
appears to have been adequate, an average of 14 staff-weeks per annum. While
supervision carried out in the field amounted to 18 staff-weeks during the
first year of project implementation (FY84), the average amount of time spent
in the field during the following five years amounted to only about 5 staff-
weeks or about 2.3 staff-weeks per mission.



- 22 -
Table 11: MISSION DATA
Performance
Month/     No. of        Staff Weeks    Status by
Mission           Year       Persons a/   in Field         Activity b/
Health Sector
Mission         10/80
Appraisal         07/82
F  M  DI  OS a/
Supervision I     09/83      2(A,PH)          2            1  1   -   1
Supervision II    12/83      2(A,A)           2            1  1   -   1
Supervision III   02/84      4(E,M,P,PH)      7            1  2   1   2
Supervision IV   06/84       4(A,H,P,PH)      7            1  1   1   2
Supervision V     10/84      4(HP,M,P,PH)    4   c/        1  1   1   2
Supervision VI    04/85      3(A,HP,PH)       3   c/       1  1   1   2
Supervision VII   06/86      4(A,E,MS,PH)    2   c/        1  1   1   2
Supervision VIII  09/86      3(A,E,MS)        4   c/       1  1   1   2
Supervision IX   04/87       2(A,E)           2   c/       1  1   1   2
Supervision X     08/87      1(E)             1  c/        1  1   1   2 dl
Supervision XI    11/87      3(A,E,PH)        2            1  1   1   2
Supervision XII   03/88      3(A,E,PH)        2   c/       1  1   1   1
Supervision XIII  10/88      3(A,E,PH)        1.5 c/       1  1   1   1
Supervision XIV   03/89      3(A,E,PH)        1.5 c/       1  1   1   1
TOTAL                                         45.0
Proj. Completion  11/89      2(A,E)           4            -  -   -   -
a/ A=Architect; E=Economist; H=Health Advisor; HP=Health Planning Specialist;
M=MCH/FP Specialist; MS=Management Specialist; P=Pharmaceutic Specialist;
PH=Public Health Specialist
b/ F=Available Funds; M=Project Management; DI=Development Impact;
OS=Overall Status
c/ The Health Project was supervised together with the preparation/super-
vision of the Second Family Health Project.
d/ No Form 590 on record.
39. Comments
The performance ratings of the project do not seem to reflect the
serious difficulties described in the supervisions reports. In light of the
staffing shortages, management problems and underutilization of project
facilities, the project management, development impact and overall status seem
overrated. Over the six year project implementation period, three different
taks managers/project officers were responsible for the project's supervision
providing a considerable degree of lack of continuity. Also, regarding public



- 23 -
health specialization, there has been remarkable consistency in Bank
personnel. However, with respect to architects, seven different specialists
(staff or consultants) participated in ten full supervision missions. No
architect/ implementation specialist was represented in four missions.
Moreover, in light of the difficulties in the pharmaceutical component, a
specialist in this area may have been able to identify some of the design,
construction, and procedural problems at an earlier stage and assisted
Government in taking the appropriate remedial actions. Pharmaceutical
specialists were used in only three early supervision missions.
Record of Project Progress Reports Submitted by Govenrment
(a) As of October 22, 1985.
(b) For period ending December 31, 1988, submitted on March 9, 1989.
(c) For period ending June 30, 1989, submitted on October 27, 1989.



ANNEX 1
-25-                        Page I of 2
I.n reply please quore No. AJ)M1 /14/87
Tdeann: Mma , Ulo tu                                        MINISRY OF HEALTH
Telepbons: LUlog 730099                                        P.O. BOX 30377
cuuuao ibeu be aid'mu ge                                        CAPITAL CITY
Tb. S.awb,7 for Healtb                                             LILONGWE 3
EsEa1t ^t-1*sX                   MALAWI
3rd May, 1990
Mrs. N. Shields, AF6PH
The World Bank,
Population and Human
Resources Division,
1818 H. Street, N.W.
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20433,
U.S.A.
Dear Mrs. Shields,
MALAWI: HEALTH PROJECT (CREDIT 1351 MAI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Thank you for your letter of 2 April, 1990 forwarding
the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the above project.
I have studied the report with interest and have
noted  the  areas  for  follow-up.    The  Ministry  has  taken
several steps to strengthen its performance.   Specifically,
action is being taken to strengthen the Planning Division
and the Project Implementation Unit.  Already, an appointment
has been made to the post of Principal Health Planning
Officer and the Project Implementation Unit has been staffed
with a Project Architect and additional accounting staff.
We are also pursuing the establishment of a Manpower
Development Unit as part of the Planning Division and
renewed efforts are being made to ensure improved co-
ordination not only in project work, but in all Ministry
activities at central and lower levels.
Important aspects of this project which need continued
attention will be closely followed up and IDA will be
kept  informed  of  progress.    This  will  be  particularly
relevant to the Pharmaceutical Supply and Distribution
activities and the Community Health Sciences Unit.
DOate          Lo,g /p5/~ 
Recd.  /       No.
Foa-Actbn:
cc:
c  _    _                                                           2/...
ITo  ____-
5I-e           (cJ  .i



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
The project review from the Government's perspective
for inclusion as Part II of the report is forwarded herewith.
I have forwarded copies of my letter to the Secretary
to the Treasury and the Principal Secretary, Ministry
of Works for their information.
Yours sincerely,
R. P. Dzanjalimodzi
SECRETARY FOR HEALTH



I B R D 16734R
jj>, <tARONGA;AAM \
woD~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1 ORV  , g d  W,AMAINIO 
\  '>' XCh-we~~~to  ;t 
'    ~ o    e il NGS CSTON I A5    .   ,.
\i; PAlr I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M~ -(                             / j koooo 9 Y 
;gc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~55. 3 /  H+
NKHATA                        .j
RELIEF                      1    A   r IiNGS0N A
below  915  /     \        htw rz*SAY                           t        16
Roods~ ~ ~~;i~  \\                                  1;J -
/                   /  ,4' 4 Bonoe        V.I Cab ) {" c~                        u 
= Rovads                   ' K1\~e 
-- District boundaries                                t+                         f 
O    20   40            80    1 00                           ,t e-
L              ~~~~~~~ItLES       ToB n'                                 #



