Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4 3 4 2 -MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
HEALTH PROJECT
March 24, 1983
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizationi.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =      Malawi Kwacha (K)
SDR-1.00              =     US'1.0995 (Feb. 28, 1983)
US$1.00               =      K1.10
K1.00                 =      US$0.91
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 metre               =      39.37 inches
1 kilometer           =     0.62 miles
1 sq. kilometer       =     0.39 sq. miles
ACRONYMS
CMS       -      Central Medical Stores
EDF       -      European Development Fund
FUA       -      Fund Units of Account (African Development
Bank)
IBRD      -      International Bank for Reconstruction and
Rural Development
IDA       -      International Development Association
IMF       -      International Monetary Fund
IUD       -      Intra-Uterine Device
MCH       -      Maternal and Child Health
MOR       -      Ministry of Health
MOWS      -      Ministry of Works and Supplies
PHAM      -      Private Hospitals Association of Malawi
PHC       -      Primary Health Care
UNDP      -      United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA     -      United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF    -      United Nations Children's Fund
WHO       -      World Health Organization
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1- March 31
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission comprising
Messrs. H.M. Jones, V. Jagdish, V. Kumar and D.M. de Ferranti (IDA) and
F.H.H. Walker (consultant) which visited Malawi in July 1982. Mr. E.M.
Schebeck participated in concluding discussions.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
DEFINITIONS
Crude Birth Rate            Number of births per 1,000 population in a
given year.
Crude Death Rate            Number of deaths per 1,000 population in a
given year.
Rate of Natural Increase   Rate at which a population is increasing (or
decreasing) in a given year due to a surplus
(or deficit) of births over deaths, expressed
as a percentage of the base population.
Fertility                   Actual reproductive performance of an indivi-
dual, a couple, a group, or a population.
Total Fertility Rate        Average number of children that would be born
alive to a woman (or group of women) during
her lifetime if she were to pass through her
childbearing years conforming to the age-
specific fertility rates of a given year.
Incidence                   Number of cases of a given disease which come
into being during a specified period of time,
that is the frequency of events, usually ex-
pressed as the numbr of cases per specified
unit (e.g., 1,000) population.
Infant Mortality Rate       Number of deaths of infants under one year of
age *in a given year per 1,000 live births in
that year.
Child Mortality Rate        Number of deaths in children one to four
years of age per 1,000 children one year of
age in a given year.
Life Expectancy at Birth   Average number of years an infant will live
if the current age-specific mortality trends
prevailing at the time of birth were to con-
tinue.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I~~~



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
BASIC DATA
General
Area (including lake)                             118,500 sq.km.
Area (land only)                                   94,300 sq.km.
Population (1981)                                      6.1 million
GNP Per Caput (1981)                               US$200
Annual Growth Rate of Population (1966-77)             2.9 %
Health
Birth Rate/1000 population (1977)                       52
Death Rate/1000 population (1977)                       27
Infant Mortality Rate/1OO live births (1975)         190
Total Fertility Rate                                   7.5
Life Expectancy (years) (1970-75)
Males                                               40.5
Females                                             41.8
Population 14 years and younger (1977)                  46 %
Doctor/Population Ratio (1980)                   1:43,262
Nurse/Population Ratio (1980)                     1:4,245
Hospital Bed/Population Ratio                        1:840
Central Government Expenditures on Health
as Percentage of Total Government Expen-
ditures (FY 1980-81):
- Capital                                        -
- Recurrent                                    3.9 %
- Total                                        3.9 %
Percentage of Births Supervised (1979)           about 40 %
Percentage of Pregnant Women Receiving
Antenatal Care (1979)                           about 66 %






REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND                                       1
A.  Geographical and Socio-Economic Situation                  1
B.  Demographic Situation                                      2
II.  THE HEALTH SECTOR                                               2
A.  Health Status                                              2
B.  Health and Population Policy and Planning                  4
C.  Administration, Staffing and Major Programs                5
D.  Financing and Costs of Health Services                    10
E.  Bank Group Involvement in Health and Population           11
F.  External Assistance                                       12
G.  Problems and Directions                                   13
III. THE PROJECT                                                    14
A.  Concept, Design and Objectives                            14
B.  Summary Project Description                               15
C.  Detailed Project Description                              17
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                                    27
A.  Costs                                                     27
B.  Financing                                                 27
C.  Procurement                                               29
D.  Disbursements                                             32
E.  Accounts and Audit                                        32
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                         33
A.  Organization and Management                               33
B.  Monitoring and Reporting                                  33
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS                      34
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                 37



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
1    Consultant Services: Summary Terms of Reference
2    Summary of Primary Health Care Strategy and Program
TABLES
1    Ten Leading Causes of Morbidity of First Visit Out-Patients
(All Facilities) 1978 and 1979
2    Eleven Leading Causes of Mortality of All In-Patients
of All Ages, 1978 and 1979
3    Administration of Health Sub-Centers, Maternities and Dispensaries
4    Distribution of Expenditure in the Health Sector 1980/81
5    MOH Share of Government Expenditure on Revenue Account
6    Percentage Distribution of MOH Revenue Account
7    Estimated Costs by Component and Year
8    Estimated Costs by Expenditure Category and Year
9    Estimated Costs by Expenditure Category and Component
10 Disbursement Schedule
CHARTS
1    Organization of the Ministry of Health
2    Implementation Chart - Adminis.tration and Planning Component
3    Implementation Chart - Community Health Sciences Unit
4    Implementation Chart - Pharmaceutical Procurement and Distribution
5    Implementation Chart - Primary Health Care
6    Implementation Chart - Child Spacing
MAP
IBRD 16734 - Malawi, Showing Location of Project Districts
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
-    Report of a Mission to Malawi to Review Existing Laboratory Ser-
vices and to Make Recommendations for the Setting up of a Central
Public Health Laboratory, WHO, March 1981
-    Feasibility Study for the Foundation of a Medical School in
Malawi, WHO/UNDP, September 1981
-    Health Sector Review, IBRD, November 1981
-    The Demography of Malawi, IBRD, December 1981
-    Guidelines for the Development of Primary Health Care, WHO/UNICEF,
January 1982
-    Plan of Work and Implementation of Primary Health Care in Malawi,
Ministry of Health, July 1982
-    The Pharmaceutical System in Malawi, IBRD, August 1982
-    Malawi Child Spacing Plan, Ministry of Health, January 1983



I.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
A.   Geographical and Socio-Economic Situation
1.01      With a land area of 94,300 sq.km. and a further 24,200 sq.km.
covering part of Lake Malawi Malawi is a relatively small country,
about the size of Liberia. Administratively, Malawi is divided into
three regions each of which is sub-divided into districts. 24 in total.
It lies within the tropics (between 90 and 170 south latitude), but the
varied topography associated with its position along part of the Great
Rift Valley produces wide bio-climatic variations. Much of the Northern
Region consists of plateaux from 1,200 to over 2,200 metres high with
annual average temperatures varying from only 14WC to 18°C. The Central
Region has a low-lying lakeshore area bordering plateaux 900 to 1,700
metres high. Malawi's lowest and hottest area - the Shire Valley -
where temperatures may rise to 380C, is in the Southern Region which
also contains its highest mountain, Mulanje, and the Shire Highlands
where temperatures are also generally cool. Topography and climate com-
bine to produce an environment which favors the presence of vectors such
as mosquitoes, snails and flies, the carriers of "classical" tropical
diseases. Although all but 5% of the land area receives at least 770 mm
of rain annually the minimum needed for secure dry-land farming in cen-
tral Africa, there is a dry season of 5-7 months at the end of which a
dearth of food resources is not uncommon with noticeable increases in
deficiency diseases and associated mortality.
1.02      Since independence in 1965, the country has made significant
progress, both in terms of economic growth (between 1967 and 1979 GDP
grew at an average annual rate of 5.5%) and in meeting the educational,
health and other basic needs of the population. Over the past years,
however, Malawi has experienced economic difficulties; as export prices
(for tea, sugar and tobacco) have fallen and prices of essential imports
have continued to rise, the budgetary position has deteriorated and
there has been a sharp increase in the level of external debt.l/ The
Government has addressed these and other problems under the aegis of IMF
standby arrangements in 1979 and late 1980 and by means of an economic
recovery program supported by an IBRD Structural Adjustment Loan of
US$45 million, approved in June 1981. Since the Government began imple-
menting its recovery program, the balance of payments situation has im-
proved, due mainly to sharp cuts in imports and better tobacco prices,
and the budget deficit has been brought into line with available resour-
ces. However, in spite of these positive developments, prospects are
for continued economic difficulties over the next several years and with
a per caput GNP of only US$200 equivalent, Malawi is among the twenty
poorest countries in the world.
1/ Malawi: Growth and Structural Change: A Basic Economic Report,
Report No. 3082a-MAI, February 8, 1982.



B.   Demographic Situation
1.03      The demography of Nalawi is characterized by ar extremely high
fertility rate, very high levels of infant and child mortality, low ur-
banization and a significant level of international migration.  Analysis
of the 1977 census data indicates a rate of natural increase at that
time of around 2.9% per annum, the product of a crude birth rate in the
neighborhood of 56 and a crude death rate of around 27. There is no
evidence of variation in any of these rates since that time; projections
prepared for the 1982 World Development Report, however, suggest that
the annual rate of natural increase may iOT7 be in the order of 3e4%a
The crude birth and death rates are higher than the nieighboring coun-
tries of Zambia, Zimbabwe and Mozambique, although international com-
parisons can be misleading because of variations in data reliability.
Primarily the result of early and almost universal female marriage, the
total fertility rate of over 7.5 is extremely high. Census analysis in-
dicates that infant mortality has fallen marginally from about 200/1000
in the mid-1960s to about 190/1000 ten years later.  This rate may have
fallen subsequently but it is still at a level of serious concern. In
the early 1970s9 about 33% of children died during their first five
years of life, a very high level of mortality compared with other east
and southern African countries.  These rates were much lower in urban
than rural areas, but only about 9% of the population is urbanized com-
pared with some 15% for the East Africa Region as a whole.  The popula-
tion of Malawi is very youthful, 46% being aged 14 years and younger.
The implications of the demographic situation are that the current popu-
lation of between 6.0 and 6.5 million people will almost double, under
any set of reasonable assumptions, in the next 18 years, with inevitable
strains on the country's resources.  The target population of maternal
and child health (MCH) services will grow from 2.5 million (women aged
15-49 years and children under five years of age) to nearly 5 million by
2000.
II.   THE HEALTH SECTOR
Aa   Health Status
2.01      Morbidity and mortality data are derived almost exclusively
from statistics collected at Government and non-Government health ser-
vices delivery facilities.  They are not comprehensive and have never
been evaluated by the Ministry of Health (MOH) for accuracy or quality.



-3 -
Vital registration is not mandatory and demographic mortality indices
are the product of analyses of census and survey data. Absolute numbers
are thus not reliable but the available information provides some evi-
dence of the incidence of disease and of trends. The lack. of arn epedi-
miological capability is a most serious constraint in identifying the
incidence, trends and patterns of diseases as a basis for determining
health status and guiding health planners.
2.02      With an expectation of life at birth of only 41 years and high
infant and child mortality rates as its main characteristics, the health
status of the Malawian people can at best be described only as poor,
even by regional standards. Malaria, which accounted for over one-
quarter of all first outpatient visits in 1979, is the leading cause of
morbidity (Table 1). Highly prevalent throughout the country, except at
the highest altitudes, it is also the third leading cause of inpatient
mortality. Diseases of the respiratory system, including tuberculosis,
are the second leading cause of morbidity accounting for 16% of first
outpatient visits. Pneumonia and tuberculosis were the second and ninth
cause of inpatient mortality respectively in 1979. Gastro-intestinal
and diarrhoeal diseases have a similar incidence of about 16% of first
outpatient visits and account for about 60% of morbidity of children
aged four years and under; including enteritis, they were the fifth
leading cause of inpatient deaths. Together, these three conditions
accounted for about 57% of all first outpatient visits in 1979. The
leading cause of mortality in inpatient facilities was, however, mea-
sles (Table 2); in 1975, 24% of measles cases admitted to hospital were
children under one year of age, 53% were aged between one and four
years, and 23% were aged five years and over. Since 1979, immunization
against measles has become an integral part of MCH services and field
impressions since then indicate a decline in the number of cases seen at
health facilities. Although not reflected in available statistics, eye
diseases and minor accidents are very common in rural areas.
2.03      Disease patterns are exacerbated by low standards of living
characterized by poor hygiene and inadequate nutrition. The incidence
of cholera and gastroenteritis are related to the availability of safe
water and proper sanitation and waste disposal. Nearly 70% of the urban
population but only 30% of those living in rural areas have access to
safe water. Waterborne sewerage systems are available only to some 15%
of the inhabitants of Lilongwe, Blantyre and Zomba, the remainder using
septic tanks or pit latrines. No data are available for the remaining
90% of the country's population. This contrast between rural and urban
conditions is also exemplified by the infant mortality rate which is
some 30% lower in urban than rural areas. Health status is clearly low-
est in rural areas where a shortage of services, particularly extension
services and health education, exists in an environment conducive to the
growth of infectious and parasitic diseases which are the principal
causes of morbidity and mortality.



2.04      Malnutrition is an important contributory factor to the major
causes of mortality and morbidity, particularly among children under
five years of age. Nutritional information is sparse and generally out-
dated; data from a national agricultural survey should be available for
analysis early in 1983. It would appear, however, that "lean season
shortages, lack of adequate breast-feeding supplements and poor intra-
familial food distribution, rather than inadequate food availability,
are the major causes of malnutrition. Disease and malnutrition interact
and an extension of programs which provide oral rehydration and weight
gain measurement of children aged 0-24 months in conjunction with in-
struction on the preparation of nutritious weaning foods would probably
contribute significantly towards alleviating nutrition-associated prob-
lems.
B. Health and Population Policy and Planning
2.05      The Government's health objective is to "raise the level of
health of its people through a sound health services delivery system
capable of promoting health, preventing, reducing and curing diseases,
protecting life and promoting general well being and increasing pro-
ductivity." Since independence in 1964, the Government has pursued
these objectives by focusing on health manpower development in the
1960's, and in the 1970's seeking to strengthen and expand the basic
health services network while controlling communicable diseases and
training additional health manpower. The 1973-88 national health plan
provided the basis for developing the network of physical infrastruc-
ture without which, it was assumed, proper health coverage could not be
achieved. In 1978, the Government decided to introduce, on a pilot
basis, a primary health care system, involving village communities.
Present government plans call for a comprehensive health care system to
be developed comprising health centers, health sub-centers, and health
posts, as well as health services at the community level to be provided
by primary health care workers. The health center would serve 50,000
people, the sub-centers 10,000 people and the health posts 2,000 people,
with the primary health care worker operating at the village level. The
size of village communities varies but on average a village has about
750 people.
2.06      Financial constraints have, however, prevented the development
of the health care system as proposed by the Government. In 1980, less
than half the targeted number of health centers were in place, only one-
third of the sub-centers had been completed, and of 1,760 health posts
planned, only 53 had been built and 17 staffed. Because of the lack of
an up-to-date comprehensive health plan, policy shifts towards preven-
tive care have been ad hoc and not properly realized in practice. One
of the major reasons for the lack of a national health plan has been the
weak planning capability of the Ministry.



2.07      The MOH has the prime responsibility for executi-n8g government
policy, developing strategies and programs for health care, and for the
quality of that care. In common with other Ministries, tlhe MfOR thas a
small planning division of six staff, four of whom are departmental
staff and two are subject to transfer among ministries. The staff have
had little training and limited experience in health plannin5, monitor-
ing and evaluation.  Their functions have been mainly restricted to
preparing submissions for capital projects to potential donors and
subsequent implementation. The unit has thus little time for develop-
ing strategies and operational plans, program evaluation or statis-
tical analyses.
2.08      The Government does not have a stated population policy, but
its stance has been essentially pronatalist. Family planning and birth
control activities have not been officially condoned. In late 1982,
however, the Government decided that, for health reasons, child spacing
services, consisting of counselling and the distribution of modern con-
traceptives, should be offered through the public health system within
the context of the MCH program. A detailed, operational plan to imple-
ment service, training and education activities was prepared in January
1983, and reviewed by Bank staff. The Governmment's recent decision to
include child spacing as a part of health services is a favorable devel-
opment in that it will permit couples who wish to space births and limit
family size to do so; family planning and population control, however,
remain extremely sensitive subjects within Government.
C.   Administration, Staffing and Major Programs
2.09      The MOH has administrative and technical branches, with
divisions for major activities such as planning, training, MCH and phar-
macies (Chart 1). With the exception of the health inspectorate and the
MCH program, the Ministry has no organization at regional level. At
district level, the District Medical Officer reports directly to the
Chief Medical Officer who heads the technical branch of the Ministry.
Two of the regions, Central and Southern, have regional hospitals and
there is also a general hospital at Zomba, the old capital, in the
Southern Region. Each district has a local hospital and a variety of
other facilities, theoretically tiered in descending order to health
centers, health sub-centers and health posts; in practice, the lower
levels mostly comprise an assortment of maternities and/or dispensa-
ries (Table 3). The Ministry and its service facilities are critically
short of technical staff. In 1980, half the technical posts in the
Ministry were vacant and over half the districts lacked a medical
officer. There are serious shortages in all paramedical cadres in
district facilities. Administrative staff are drawn from general
cadres and are subject to frequent transfer to and from the Ministry.



2.10      Since 1979, the post of Assistant Chief Medical Officer,
Epidemiology, has been vacant and no epidemiological work has been
carried out except by specialized programs such as those for bilharzia
and leprosy. Health statistics are routinely collected from all health
facilities and assembled by the planning unit. Concerned mainly with
project formulation, the unit has little time to monitor the efficiency
of the system and evaluate its result. Epidemiological surveys and
analyses should be routinely available to provide one of the bases for
policy determination, planning and program evaluation.
2.11      No health staffing analysis has been undertaken in Malawi.
Malawian doctors are trained abroad but the return rate is very low,
perhaps 20%, and Government efforts to induce doctors to return have
been unsuccessful, primarily because of the monetary and other attrac-
tions of working in Western Europe and North America. The World Health
Organization (WHO) has produced a medical school feasibility study for
the Government which is politically committed to the establishment of a
school; because of the present economic situation, the Government has
temporarily shelved this proposal, although the proposed project will
include a study of its financial implications. Even though about 60% of
the physicians licensed to practice in Malawi are expatriates, there is,
nevertheless, an acute shortage of doctors; in October 1980, 41% of the
61 medical officer posts sanctioned at district hospital level were va-
cant. This situation leads to many of the few specialists being used
for administrative duties because of their seniority, and to the substi-
tution of para professionals - clinical officers - for doctors. Clinical
officers are para-professionals who receive four years of training, in-
cluding surgery. Medical assistants are junior clinical officers by
training and function as physicians' assistants. In October 1980, 27%
of clinical officer posts and 14% of medical assistant posts in Govern-
ment service were vacant. Both cadres are trained in Malawi.
2.12      State Registered Nurses fill the senior posts of matrons,
tutors and ward administrators, whilst Enrolled Nurses (the majority of
whom have midwifery qualifications) are the main service providers.
With few exceptions, paramedical staff are Malawians, although 32% of
the State Registered Nurses employed by the Private Hospitals Associa-
tion of Malawi (PHAM) are expatriates. There are serious shortages of
both cadres particularly at district level. Preventive health is the
concern of Health Inspectors and Health Assistants, whose functions
include the monitoring of public health ordinances and carrying out
immunization programs.
2.13      Because there has never been a staff development plan, train-
ing outputs despite the high quality of training, are inconsistent in
terms of both quantity and relevance to the country's needs. Chronic
staff shortages, resulting in part from recent expansions of facilities,
have aggravated the imbalance of staff between hospitals and peripheral



- 7 -
facilities. Lack of staff housing in rural areas has contributed to
this situation.  Shortages of senior specialized staff have led to the
use of expatriates on a considerable scale. A staff development plan is
urgently required as one of the essential steps in the preparation of a
revised national health plan for which technical assistance will be
required.
2.14      A national MCH program was initiated in 1975 and a MCH divi-
sion created under an Assistant Chief Medical Officer. MCH services are
provided by health units which conduct under-fives clinics on a weekly
or monthly basis according to need, either at static units or through
mobile clinics, establishment of the latter depending mainly on the
identification of suitable sites, and staff availability. Lack of ade-
quate transport and of staff housing are serious program constraints in
rural areas. The clinics carry out health education, weighing, screen-
ing, immunizations, oral rehydration and simple treatments. Diphtheria,
pertussis and tetanus, poliomyelitis and measles vaccines are provided,
as well as chloroquine as a malaria suppressant. They are, essentially,
well-baby clinics and provide only very basic treatment for the minor
ailments of unwell children; serious ailments have to be referred to the
nearest health unit. In addition, special nutrition clinics are orga-
nized for children who have been recognized at under-five clinics as
underweight and likely to be malnourished or to develop malnutrition.
In December 1980, there were 373 static and 594 mobile clinics through-
out the country, the MOH being responsible for running 60% of the total
number. The training of traditional birth attendants to improve home
delivery practices is supported by the WHO with funds from the United
Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA).
2.15      Financial constraints have contributed to staff shortages,
limited expansion *of service points, as well as inadequate staff hous-
ing and transport which in turn have inhibited the growth of the MCH
program so that coverage of child health has probably declined as a
proportion of the rapidly growing number of children.  In response to
this situation, the Government has developed the concept of primary
health care as a means of reinforcing the effectiveness and efficiency
of existing health programs, particularly MCH activities, by mobilising
community participation. After a series of workshops in 1978 and the
establishment of an inter-ministerial committee, a pilot program was
started in the districts of Mwanza, Mzimba and Dowa with the assistance
of the WHO and the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF).   The pilot
program was evaluated in January 1982 by WHO/UNICEF consultants, one of
the main points made being that the communities themselves had had only
a small part to play in its development. The consultants endorsed the
general approach and set out guidelines based on experience with the
pilot program. Resulting from this evaluation, the MOH has set out a
strategy and work program for the introduction of the first phase of a
national primary health care program. In Malawi, primary health care



will not be a new vertical program.  By promoting interest in their o.-
health and nutrition problems, communities and primary health care WOLrk
ers will encourage support for the expansion of existing p--'grams. Pri-
mary health care concepts will also be integrated with other development
activities, particularly those in the fields of commlunity development,
water supply, education and agriculture. Although initial direction and
organisation will come from the national level, emphasis on strategy de-
velopment and implementation will be on the district and village level.
This "bottom-up" approach requires careful planning, sound training, and
particular attention to the needs of middle and lower management. A
synopsis of the concepts, strategies and activities of the Malawian pri-
mary health care program is in Annex 2.
2.16      The majority of Malawi's pharmaceutical needs, for both public
and private sectors, is met by imports from South Africa, Zimbabwe,
Europe and the United States. The local pharmaceutical industry is not
well developed. In principle, there are three manufacturing facilities
in the country (two private and one public) but only one private manu-
facturing unit functions effectively.  A well defined national drug
policy does not exist and no drug legislation has been enacted. A for-
malized drug registration or drug regulation system for imports of drugs
and pharmaceuticals within the country has yet to be instituted. Impor-
ters are seemingly free to import any new drug into the country. The
Central Medical Stores (CMS) has a small and inadequate quality control
laboratory capable of handling only simple chemical analyses. There is
no national laboratory for this purpose and no system to check regularly
the quality of pharmaceutical products produced in or imported into
Malawi. The CMS is the government agency for procuring and distributing
drugs and medical supplies. In addition to procuring drugs and medical
supplies from foreign sources using international tenders, CMS also
makes up a few compounds such as medication for coughs and diarrhea in
its small manufacturing pharmacies, the facilities and practices of
which are of a very low standard.  Government health facilities are vir-
tually obliged to order from CMS; PHAM, army and district council health
units may do so.
2.17      The procurement and distribution of pharmaceuticals through
the CMS in Blantyre are a particular cause for concern. In FY 1980/81,
the CMS handled drugs to the value of K2.3 million and ancillary medical
supplies to almost K1.0 million; a further KO.5 million of drugs from
agencies such as UNICEF and Save the Children FTund was also handled by
the CMS. The financial structure of the CMS is unsound. It is depend-
ent on a capital fund of KO.4 million sanctioned in 1964 by the Treasury
and is clearly under-capitalized in view of the steep rises in both
pharmaceutical prices, particularly in the last four years, and con-
sumption.   As a result, the CMS relies on an overdraft from the Reserve
Bank which in 1980/81 had reached K1.5 million. The marks-up of 3% to



- 9 -
Government facilities and 5% to private and parastatal facilities were
set in 1964 and are unrealistic. Administrative costs and operational
expenses are met from the MOH recurrent budget.  Pharmaceutical short-
ages at the periphery are the most obvious and serious results of:
(a)   over-centralization;
(b)   the geographical location of Blantyre;
(c)   lack of a well-defined national drug policy which results
in an unnecessarily extensive drug list of over 800 items
and an excess of high-cost drugs which are rarely used;
(d)   inadequate facilities and erratic distribution; and
(e)   cumbersome procurement procedures, which lead to sup-
plies with a limited shelf-life, piecemeal deliveries,
and local purchases at 50% to 300% higher costs than the
average CMS.prices for the pharmaceutical purchased.
2.18      An important provider of health services is PHAM, a group of
15 Protestant and Catholic missionary societies (Table 3). Of the coun-
try's 44 hospitals (excluding the two regional hospitals), 20 are run by
PHAM members, representing 38% of all hospital beds and 35% of all in-
patients. PHAM hospitals also have subsidiary facilities but they ac-
count for only 18% of the country's outpatients. The Government assists
PHAM financially to the extent of some K1.0 million annually, but the
basis for this assistance needs to be analyzed and reviewed annually.
Coordination between the two delivery systems, despite protestations to
the contrary, is not very strong. In contrast to government services
(maternity cases excepted), PHAM facilities charge fees. There is no
commonality of staffing patterns, staff emoluments, and fees charged;
statistical returns from PHAM facilities appear to be usually incom-
plete. Some District Councils run small health facilities as do private
estates. There is a small number of private practitioners in the three
principal urban areas - Lilongwe, Blantyre and Zomba. A 1979 report
estimates that there are some 5,000 traditional practitioners in Malawi,
including herbalists about 400 of whom belong to the Herbalists Associa-
tion. Their association with the formal sector is slight but their con-
tribution, particularly to primary health care could be significant.
Studies are required to understand how best this could be done. The
overall pattern of Malawi's health facilities is one of wide variation
in terms of quality, accessibility and utilization, PHAM's facilities
appearing to be significantly under-utilized, probably because fees are
charged for all services. The private sector, nevertheless, is an im-
portant provider of health services which has largely been ignored in
sectoral planning. A revised national health plan would be concerned
with both private and government services and seek to maximize the
private sector's contribution.



- 10 -
D.   Financing and Cost of Health Services
2.19      Total expenditures on health services (public plus private and
recurrent plus capital) have been about US$9 per caput annually in
recent years, about 4% of GNP. This is above average for low-income
countries in Africa, but characteristically below middle-income coun-
tries by a significant margin. Slightly over half the total expendi-
ture is by government institutions, and more than 80% of government
spending is by the MOH. PHAM members, the other major providers, ac-
count for about a quarter of total spending (Table 4).
2.20      MOH outlays increased substantially between FY 1975/76 and
FY 1980/81 - 25% in real terms - but not enough to keep pace with the
even more rapid growth in other government spending, particularly on
debt service (Table 5).   As a result, health's share of total central
government expenditure fell slightly during those years, and by FY 1980/
81 was only 3.9%. To maintain the same level of public services that
prevailed in FY 1980/81 will require increasing the MOH's budget by 50%
in nominal terms by FY 1986/87. To avoid the deterioration in health
status that could occur if this funding gap is not closed, the Govern-
ment has expressed strong interest in possible initiatives for increas-
ing cost recovery within the sector.
2.21      Under the present MOH fee policies, developed more by ad hoc
pragmatism than by deliberate design, any patient, regardless of income
level, can receive "free" care or elect a "paying" option, for both in-
patient and out-patient care at all MOH facilities.  "Free" care is not
entirely free; there is a charge of Kl to K3 for deliveries. For all
other services, however, "free" patients pay nothing. Paying patients
get separate accommodation and, as outpatients, can go directly to a
doctor without waiting to be seen by paramedical staff. The same staff
and medical procedures are used for both the "free" and paying groups.
Most of the paying patients are seen at the two major hospitals, in the
urban centers of Blantyre and Lilongwe, and are high officials or em-
ployees of firms. During December 1980, paying patients were 7% and
13%, respectively, of all admissions at these two hospitals, compared to
3.5% at Zomba General Hospital. Paying patients are charged for each
individual service (e.g., X-rays, drugs) separately according to a fee
schedule that distinguishes between those with and without insurance.
All fees collected go directly to the Treasury and thus cannot be used
by MOH to cover its expenses. PHAM facilities charge fees for all
patients, but apparently waive payment sometimes for those unable to
pay. Each member mission sets its own fees individually, which has
resulted in large differences between facilities. The missions have
recently agreed to move toward more uniform fees.



- 11 -
2.22      Fees collected by the MOH contribute only 3% of the funds
required to finance MOH recurrent expenditure; tax revenue covers most
of the remainder, while external assistance is the predominant source
for capital projects. Related to these issues are the allocation of
funds among competing needs and opportunities for improving management.
The present allocation devotes over two-thirds of the recurrent budget
to the two largest hospitals; in some districts, less than a quarter of
the available funds get to facilities below the district hospital.
While the present problems are considerable and progress may be slow,
the options that Government is currently discussing for raising more
revenue and containing costs have the potential for reducing by 75% or
more the amount of additional funds needed in the next five years to
maintain existing levels of service. They include the elimination of
free food at inpatient facilities and improved bill collections. Other
initiatives beyond that are possible (including the introduction of a
government health insurance scheme) which could raise the level of cost
recovery substantially. A health financing survey, funded by WHO and
designed with assistance of Bank staff, is now in progress and will
provide detailed information for the first time on the costs of facili-
ties and programs. The results are expected to be available in mid-
1983 and will provide one of the important bases for national health
planning.
E.   Bank Group Involvement in Health and Population
2.23      The Bank Group's involvement in health in Malawi dates back to
1971 when the first Karonga Rural Development Project included a health
component. In all, eight agricultural projects have included health
components with a total investment of about US$4 million. Inputs have
ranged from enlarging and modernizing Karonga Hospital to bilharzia
control programs and the development of sub-centers and health posts.
Whilst they have contributed to infrastructural development, their im-
pact on the health program as a whole has not been significant mainly
because they were conceived as part of the 1973-88 national health plan
which remains largely unrealized. Problems with recurrent costs have
meant that many of the subsidiary facilities remain under-staffed. In
October 1981, IDA and the Government conducted a joint mid-term review
of the National Rural Development Program. The review proposed that in-
vestments in other sectors, such as health, should be included in the
development plans of the concerned ministries wherever practical.
2.24      In 1980, the Government asked the Bank to review the health
sector and a mission visited Malawi in October. Discussion of the con-
clusions of its report (summarized in para. 2.30) took place in 1981
when the Government accepted its conclusions and proposed strategy and
asked for Bank assistance to carry it out.



- 12 -
2.25      A dialogue with the Government was started on population
issues in 1981 when the Basic Economic Report (Malawi: Growth and Struc-
tural Change, Report No. 3082a-MAI) was discussed. Population growth
was selected as an issue and the report, which contained a substantial
analysis of the demographic situation in Malawi, concluded that "the
continued rapid growth of population is probably the single largest
obstacle to an improvement in incomes and welfare of the majority of
Malawians." The Government has recently accepted the inclusion of child
spacing as an integral part of the MCH program. At Government's re-
quest, the Bank has reviewed the Child Spacing Plan for inclusion as a
component of the proposed project. The Plan document provides a sound
basis on which to develop a child spacing program in the Malawian cul-
tural context.
F.   External Assistance
2.26      Both international and bilateral agencies have supported
health activities in Malawi since independence. Initially UNICEF's
contribution was almost solely in the form of supplies (vaccines and
medicines), equipment and transport. More recently, there has been a
fundamental shift towards support for primary health care, water and
sanitation, nutrition and primary education. UNICEF allocated US$3.3
million to support these activities in the period 1981-83. WHO, which
established an office in Malawi in 1977, provides technical assistance
on request and makes available a number of training fellowships each
year. With financial support from UNFPA, WHO assists the MCH program
and has also provided consultant assistance for paramedical training and
health education. The European Development Fund (EDF) has financed the
replacement of two old district hospitals and is appraising the
replacement of two more. In 1981, the African Development Bank ap-
proved a loan of FUA 9.0 million to reconstruct two district hospitals
and to build two new health sub-centers.
2.27      Bilateral assistance has been provided by some ten governments
including the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom and
the United States. Voluntary agencies have also supported health acti-
vities. Members of PHAM receive most of their support from overseas
missionary societies. In FY 1980/81, about one-third of all estimated
expenditures on health in Malawi came from external assistance. Over
95% of the Government's development (capital) account budget in FY 1982/
83 is externally funded. Additional recurrent costs over and above
those for present services will be generated by development projects now
underweigh or committed. About US$1.5 million incremental recurrent
costs annually, equivalent to 12% of FY 1980/81 expenditure, will result
from the US$14.2 million committed in these projects. These additional
costs underscore the need for new cost-containment measures.



- 13 -
2.28      External assistance to the sector has by and large fxea  un-
coordinated and tended to perpetuate the uneven balalac;a o Inp.::
allocations in favor of curative services.  The production ot a revis E
national health plan is needed to provide a framework for investmialrns
from external as well as local resources.
G.   Problems and Directions
2.29      Responding to the Government's request, a health sector review
mission visited Malawi in late 1980 and discussed its report with the
Government in 1981. The report identified six major issues:
(a)   health status (particularly high infant mortality),
was not good and health services were not properly
oriented to deal with country's health problems;
(b)   lack of an up-to-date  national health plan which clearly
defined and coordinated existing policies, objectives and
strategies based on a current evaluation of Malawi's health
problems had led to misdirection of resources, lack of cri-
teria for acceptance of external assistance, and prolongation
of the bias towards hospital-based curative services in the
delivery sytem.
(c)   lack of a staffing plan had led to the irruption of para-
medical cadres, the training of which was not properly orien-
ted to health problems and staff functions, and the aggrava-
tion of already serious staff shortages at all levels;
(d)   lack of a satisfactory accounting system had led to the
misdirection of scarce financial resources because of its
inability to assess the costs, let alone the cost-
effectiveness, of health strategies and programs;
(e)   lack of effective administrative support had led to
the use of scarce professional staff on routine ad-
ministrative matters and, particularly in the phar-
maceutical field, to wasted material and financial
resources; and
(f)   failure adequately to coordinate public and private
sector health activities had led to the latter's se-
rious under-utilization.



- 14 -
2.30      It concluded that a national health plan covering: (a) the
public and private sectors; (b) the need for expanded outreach preven-
tive activities to combat the most common health problems; and (c) com-
munity involvement (including traditional medical practitioners), using
a primary health care approach to make the public more aware of and res-
ponsible for ameliorating their own health problems, was needed before
any further investment decisions could be proposed and accepted with
confidence. The report and its conclusions were accepted by the Govern-
ment, which requested Bank assistance to address the main issues.
III.    THE PROJECT
A.   Concept, Design and Objectives
3.01      Following acceptance of the health sector report, the Govern-
ment requested assistance in four major areas:
(a)   manpower development, including training at all levels
from medical and paramedical education to specific train-
ing for planners, statisticians, etc.;
(b)   primary health care development;
(c)   pharmaceutical supplies and distribution; and
(d)   strengthening of health administration, including
decentralization of administration to regional level.
As an essential preparatory step, the Government agreed to the hiring of
a consulting group to be financed through the Project Preparation
Facility to produce a comprehensive health plan (including a staff
development plan) as a framework for the project proposals.
3.02      It soon became apparent, however, that the development of a
project along the lines of the Government's request was precluded by the
rapidly deteriorating financial situation. The concept of the project
was thus changed to deal with critical issues relating to planning and
financing. Each of the five components deals with major problems
identified in the sector review.
3.03      The objective of the project is to make individual components
of the health system more effective in relating to the health needs of
Malawians. In order to achieve this objective, the project will assist
the Government in developing:



- 15 -
(a)   a comprehensive, revised national health plan;
(b)   improved systems of financial accounting, health and
service statistics, and an epidemiological survey and
evaluation capacity;
(c)   an improved planning and monitoring capacity;
(d)   an efficient, cost effective system of pharmaceutical
procurement and distribution;
(e)   the first phase of a national primary health care
program; and
(f)   the introduction of child spacing activities.
It is designed to improve the central systems of the MOH, directing
attention to areas which need building-up and to others which require
improved efficiency, administratively and financially. These are neces-
sary before other issues, such as the decentralization of health servi-
ces, originally requested by the Government, can be addressed. Although
some activities in primary health care and child spacing are proposed at
district level, the main objective of each of these components will be
to assist the MOH to develop the capability of planning, organizing and
monitoring these activities. In the context of the country's size and
good communications between major urban areas, the modest degree of de-
centralization proposed for pharmaceutical distribution is administra-
tively feasible. Successful achievement of the institution-building
aspects of this project would be a necessary pre-requisite to a second
Bank-assisted systems-expansion project designed to meet other critical
problems such as staff shortages, inadequate facilities and poor com-
munications, as well as expanding the primary health care program,
should the economic situation improve sufficiently.
B.   Summary Project Description
3.04      The project will include five components:
(a)   Planning and Administration (US$0.8 million)1/:
(i)   technical assistance and training fellow-
ships for MOH for producing a comprehensive
national health plan (including a staff
development plan), establishing a permanent
planning, evaluation and monitoring capabi-
lity, and improving the financial management,
accounting and service statistics systems;
I/ All figures in the paragraph exclude contingencies.



- 16 -
(ii)   support of studies on infant and child
mortality and on possible linkages bet-
ween traditional and modern health sectors;
and
(iii)   technical assistance and on-the-job train-
ing for reorganizing CMS into a commercial
entity;
(b)   Community Health Sciences Unit (US$1.0 million):
Renovation and additions to an existing building
in Lilongwe with the provision of housing, equip-
ment and vehicles, training fellowships, and con-
sultant assistance (funded, in part, by UNDP/WHO),
to establish a unit to collect and analyse epide-
miological data, including the necessary labora-
tory support services;
(c) Pharmaceutical Procurement and Distribution (US$2.1
million): Renovation of existing buildings in
Blantyre, construction of new buildings in Lilongwe
and Mzuzu, with housing, equipment, vehicles, and
consultant assistance to improve the procure-
ment and management of the pharmaceutical sys-
tem and its associated manufacturing capability,
provide for the move of CMS from Blantyre to
Lilongwe, as well as equipment for the train-
ing of pharmacy technicians;
(d) Primary Health Care Development (US$2.0 million):
Training (with contributions from UNICEF and
WHO), essential upgrading of rural facilities,
equipment, vehicles and bicycles, communications
improvements, income generating activities and
monitoring and evaluation activities, to develop
a primary health care program based on community
mobilization in three districts covering about
150 villages; and
(e) Child Spacing (US$0.9 million): Renovation of ante-
natal facilities at Zomba General Hospital and 15
selected district hospitals, furniture, equipment,
training and a family formation study, to initiate
a child spacing program in urban and rural areas.



- 17
C.   Detailed Project Description
Planning and Administration
3.05      To provide technical assistance to develop a compreheIslsive,
revised national health plan for the period 1985-1995, the project
provides for the retention of a consulting group. The group will be
headed by a health planner and comprise, in addition, an epidemiologist,
a financial analyst and a manpower planning expert. Summary terms of
reference are in Annex 1 and implementation schedules in Chart 2. The
health planner will be responsible for the work of the group, one of the
functions of which will be to provide on-the-job training for planning
unit staff, the establishment of planning processes and the preparation
of basic manuals to guide staff in the future on plan revisions, moni-
toring and evaluation. As essential preliminaries to preparing a draft
plan, the group will, inter alia, assist in:
(a)   reviewing the organization and administration of all
levels of the health care delivery system (both public
and private);
(b)   reviewing manpower policies, job descriptions, training
programs and facilities to produce a national health man-
power development plan;
(c)   reviewing information on the incidence of mortality
and morbidity and evaluating the effectiveness of cur-
rent health program strategies;
(d)   reviewing the present system of health information re-
trieval and analysis;
(e)   reviewing existing budgeting and accounting procedures;
and
(f)   examining options for supplementing financial resources.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the revised national
health plan will be completed by December 31, 1984 so that it can guide
the budget process for the Malawi FY April 1, 1985 - March 31, 1986
(para. 7.01(a)).
3.06      The project also makes provision for two studies.  One will be
an analysis of 1977 census data to provide information on infant and
child mortality by district which is not available. A second study will
investigate the role of traditional medical practitioners. Although



- 18 -
traditional practitioners have formed an association in Malawi and are
known to play an important role in the delivery of health services,
little objective information has been collected and evaluated.  Such
information is needed to determine whether and how the traditional and
modern sectors can be linked in ways which will extend modern sector
outreach without incurring a heavy burden of recurrent costs. The con-
sulting group would also be required to assist in reviewing ways of
improving the presently low level of utilization of PHAM facilities,
Government's financial assistance to PHAM, and the financial feasibility
of developing a medical school as proposed by WHO in its report to
Government in 1981.
3.07      The project makes provision for 43 months of consultancy work
under this component. It also provides for 12 months of short-term
fellowships for staff to be trained abroad in health planning. Training
will be so timed as to allow the maximum contact between the consulting
group and the planning unit as its primary counterpart. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that four consultants, a health planner, an
epidemiologist, a financial analyst and a manpower planning expert,
would be employed by the Government by September 30, 1983 (para. 7.02
(b)). Allowance is made for periodic reviews and for individual consul-
tants to return to Malawi to assist with the implementation of systems
improvements during the implementation of the project.
Community Health Sciences Unit
3.08      The capacity of the MOH to collect and analyse health status
information is very limited. Health planning and evaluation is made
difficult by the scarcity of valid epidemiological data. Historically,
disease control programs have been developed with little coordination
between each other and with the health system as a whole. There are no
laboratory facilities to provide the support for field surveys and
analyses. The project, therefore, makes provision for the establishment
of a community health sciences unit to undertake epidemiological studies
and the necessary laboratory services. The latter would also be used,
to a limited extent, to provide services normally required of a national
public health laboratory which Malawi lacks.
3.09      Provision is made for the conversion of old buildings in
Lilongwe, once used as a hospital, and the construction of a new wing
for the laboratory, as well as essential housing for staff who will be
required to be on call and to live on the site of the unit. Equipment
and vehicles used by existing programs will be absorbed by the unit and
supplemented by new equipment and vehicles.



- 19 -
3.10      The Deputy Chief Medical Officer (Communicable Disease Control
and Epidemiology) in the MOH will also be director of the unit which
would have two sections. A field activities section, headed by an epi-
demiologist, would be responsible for the malaria, schistosomiasis,
leprosy, tuberculosis and environmental health programs. This section
will also become responsible for the collection and evaluation of health
statistics, feeding the evaluated output to the MOE planning unit. The
pathologist of the Kamuzu Central Hospital in Lilongwe would head the
laboratory services section covering microbiology, biochemistry and
parasitology.
3.11      Although the staff of existing programs will form part of the
new unit, training will be required for staff with skills not now avail-
able. A director has been identified, and a pathologist and a para-
sitologist are available. An epidemiologist (one year), microbiologist,
and biochemist (two years each) and two laboratory technologists (one
year each) will need external training. The six persons required to
staff the field activities unit will be drawn from the health inspectors
and health assistants now employed under existing disease control prog-
rams which will be subsumed under the Community Health Sciences Unit.
They will receive training in Malawi in survey methodology from the
epidemiologist recruited to assist in primary health care (para. 3.25).
Laboratory technicians and laboratory assistants are available for the
laboratory services section. Two years will be needed to establish the
facilities and train staff. From January 1985, four consultants provi-
ded by WHO with UNDP funding - an epidemiologist, microbiologist, bio-
chemist and laboratory technologist - will be made available for two
years to assist in establishing the unit's work program and the smooth
functioning of laboratory services. From that date, the unit will be
able to:
(a)   undertake epidemiological studies and surveys;
(b)   coordinate, monitor and periodically evaluate all
disease control programs; and
(c)   coordinate ongoing research programs in, for example,
schistosomiasis, trypanosomiasis and leprosy.
The sequence of implementation activities is shown in Chart 3.
Pharmaceutical Procurement and Distribution
3.12      The objectives of this component are to assist the CMS to
remedy administrative inefficiencies, achieve financial savings,
regularize financial and stock accounting procedures, improve pharma-
ceutical manufacturing practices, and prepare for the transfer of CMS
from Blantyre to Lilongwe.



- 20 -
3.13      To assist with the improvement of procurement procedures,
inventory control and management, and distribution procedures a consul-
tant will be recruited. Another consultant will also be required to
assist with the improvement of manufacturing in Blantyre and establish
facilities in Lilongwe and Mzuzu. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that these two pharmaceutical consultants would be employed by
the Government by September 30, 1983 (para. 7.01(c)). The consulting
group's financial analyst will be required to make recommendations on a
suitable financial structure, appropriate changes in accounting proce-
dures, and revised marks-up on supplies to the private and public sec-
tors. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the CMS will be
established and operated as a distinct self-accounting undertaking, with
appropriate business practices and an organizational status acceptable
to the Association, not later than April 1, 1984 (para. 7.01(d)). The
pharmaceutical consultants will each visit Malawi twice, first to estab-
lish appropriate systems and secondly to ensure their proper functioning
and provide on-the-job training.
3.14      The project will provide for improvements to CMS buildings at
Blantyre to improve stock control, security, and flows, and to ensure
the adequate and safe storage of flammable materials and perishable
items. Ventilation, lighting and cold storage also require improvement.
3.15      The introduction of a rational distribution system to improve
stock flows and cut transport costs requires the establishment of re-
gional facilities. When the new airport at Lilongwe is fully open for
international traffic, CMS will have to be transferred from Blantyre as
60% of its supplies are imported by air. The facility at Blantyre would
then become a regional depot. To serve the Northern region a depot will
be established at Mzuzu which is being developed by the Government as a
regional centre. Each regional depot will require storage handling
equipment. At each of the three locations, housing will be provided for
staff who are required to live on site and be on call.
3.16      To improve standards and cut costs, each facility will have a
manufacturing pharmacy capable of compounding commonly used tinctures,
concentrated mixtures and ointments to WHO standards. Once a regional
capability has been developed, existing hospital manufacturing facili-
ties will be closed. The project makes provision for the necessary fa-
cilities and for manufacturing and quality control equipment. The local
pharmaceutical industry is not well developed but there is one private
sector undertaking which is presently working at only 48% of its capa-
city. The Government has already had preliminary discussions prior to
the possible negotiation of procuring large-volume, common, essential
drugs on a job-contract basis to utilize the spare capacity and will be
assisted by the consultants during their consideration of the procure-
ment and financial systems of CMS.



- 21 -
3.17      The Lilongwe School for Health Sciences trains about ten
pharmacy assistants each year with support from WHO. This level of
output is adequate for present needs and the two additional regional
manufacturing pharmacies, but cannot conduct up-grading courses for
pharmacy technicians. The only requirement needed to introduce such
courses is the more sophisticated equipment used by technicians, for
which the project makes provision.
3.18      Two of CMS's major problems are an over extensive stock list
and an inventory surplus to requirement. To prepare for the establish-
ment of improved procurement systems, an essential drugs list of not
more than 300 items which the CMS may procure and standardized dosage
regimens have been drawn up, and the taking of a full inventory of cur-
rent CMS stocks with write-off action where appropriate has been com-
pleted. The sequence of implementation activities is shown in Chart 4.
Primary Health Care
3.19      The major causes of morbidity and mortality - communicable
diseases, childhood diseases, and malnutrition - could be prevented by
simple, appropriate techniques, but health service coverage in the rural
areas is far from adequate. Financial constraints will inhibit the ex-
pansion of health services for many years to come and a strategy and
work program for the introduction of the first phase of a national pri-
mary health care program have been prepared (para. 2.15 and Annex 2).
Given the current, serious financial situation and the urgent need to
upgrade the health status of the people, the primary health care program
provides the only feasible least cost solution to the problem of exten-
ding service coverage presently available. Other complementary solu-
tions such as the involvement of traditional practitioners and the pos-
sibility of establishing community drug dispensaries require respec-
tively further study and an overhaul of the whole pharmaceutical dis-
tribution system before they can be considered. Because community mobi-
lization and involvement in health care is relatively new in Malawi, the
MOH will have to develop a national and district level capability to de-
vise, implement and monitor activities acceptable to communities for
their implementation. This will require considerable training and
orientation of health services staff as well as community- committees and
community workers.  Such a program requires the effective support of the
health services; outreach will be based on the health sub-center and
these have to be brought up to standard in terms of staff, facilities
and equipment to cope effectively with an extension of services. The
role of the health sub-center has been redefined to include support for
primary health care programs and will be the focal point for referrals
from community workers. The primary health care program will also
require the introduction of interpersonal communications techniques.



- 22 -
3.20      The objective of the component is to assist the MOH to prepare
for the introduction of community mobilization and health activities
carried out by communities.  It will require two years and be directed
at communities in the Mwanza, Dowa and Mzimba districts, covering some
120,000 people, chosen because they were the focus of the pilot program
and require a minimum of infrastructural development. A national co-
ordinator has been appointed as has a national core group representing
sections of the Ministry and of PHAM whose activities will be improved
and extended by community involvement. After training in Malawi by two
EDF supported consultants, four members of the core group will, in turn,
train members of the district health management teams using curricula
prepared by the core group with consultant assistance. This should be
completed by May 1983. Funding from EDF has been assured and a program
is being established to train the national primary health care core
group. In addition to health staff, the district team will comprise
members of other government departments and PHAM and will, in turn, be
responsible for the training and regular retraining of some 250 peri-
pheral health staff, and orienting three district development and about
150 village health committees as well as important community groups such
as teachers and traditional medical practitioners. The process of iden-
tifying health problems will be initiated through the local committees
at area (sub-district) and village level and will include sample surveys
organized by the MOH to collect information on living standards, water
supplies, nutritional status and major causes of morbidity and morta-
lity. In discussions between communities and local health staff, health
and nutrition problems will be identified and activities to deal with
them planned. An important outcome will be the selection of two primary
health care workers by the community one of whom would be a traditional
birth attendant responsible for MCH and nutrition work, in addition to
her pre-occupation with deliveries. Retired midwives or women already
trained by the Red Cross might also be selected to carry out these func-
tions. The other part-time worker will be concerned mainly with water,
sanitation and the treatment of the four most serious community health
problems - eye diseases, malaria, accidents and diarrhoeas. The com-
munity will be expected to reward them in cash or in kind. The training
and retraining of these 300 workers will be tailored to local situa-
tions. Courses will be brief and simple, dealing firstly with major
local problems and not developing a comprehensive knowledge immediately.
Local conditions, such as the seasonality of agricultural activities,
will dictate the length and frequency of training courses. Curricula
will be developed, after the areas have been surveyed, by district
trainers closely supported by the core group. A training unit will be
established in each of the three districts staffed by a clinical officer
and a public health nurse who will be supported by central and district
level trainers. All training and orientation for primary health care
will include child spacing concepts (para. 3.28).



- 23 -
3.21      To support training and orientation activities and to provide
committees and workers with adequate information materials such as leaf-
lets and posters, the MOH's health education unit (assisted by a resi-
dent WHO consultant) will produce support materials and a simple hand-
book for primary health care workers. Two local artists will be hired
for 12 months to assist in production.   Community interest in their
development will be important and all materials will be pre-tested in
the selected districts before final production. All materials will be
locally targeted. UNICEF is already assisting with the development of
the handbook. In addition, a 12 months overseas fellowship is provided
to train a MOH staff member in communications planning and strategy
development with particular emphasis on interpersonal communications.
3.22      Several organizations have been historically associated with
activities which will become integrated in the primary health care
program. WHO, through its regular budget, will continue to sponsor
candidates for a primary health training course in Nigeria, and, with
UNFPA funds, will continue its assistance in the training of traditional
birth attendants. UNICEF helped with the original pilot program and will
continue to assist in funding certain local training courses, kits and
drugs for primary health care workers, as well as the development and
testing of the handbook. This assistance will amount to some US$500,000
over the proposed two year project period. As the individual agency
amounts are relatively small, formal co-financing will be impractical.
Each agency will be advised by the Government of the project details and
asked to confirm its continuing interest in funding specific activities;
a negative response is not anticipated. Local representatives of the
agencies concerned met with MOH officials during appraisal and indicated
their interest in participating. The costs are included in the project
costs and are treated as parallel funding.  In addition, two candidates
were selected for training at seminars organized by the Economic Devel-
opment Institute (EDI) in Washington in November 1982, and two other
candidates have been selected for an EDI course in Nairobi in April
1983.
3.23      The project also makes provision for the upgrading of six
existing facilities in Dowa and Mzimba districts to health sub-center
standards and the provision of essential staff housing in these rural
areas. Selection followed a careful review of the location and catch-
ment area of the facilities. After taking into account ongoing assis-
tance in the three districts from the United Nations Capital Development
Fund and International Fund for Agricultural Development, the project
covers the minimum support necessary to provide acceptable standards for
health units needed to support the community mobilization program. Two
dispensaries will be upgraded by adding a maternity, one maternity by
adding a dispensary and three sub-centers require refurbishing. To



- 24 -
complete the provision of four staff houses for each of the six sub-
centers, 14 houses will be constructed. Without housing, it will not be
possible to post staff to these rural areas.  Standard drawings, which
have been reviewed and are acceptable to IDA, will be used for the
construction of these facilities. Sites are available at all locations.
3.24      Existing training units, such as agricultural extension cen-
ters, will not be able to accommodate the training load of this pro-
gram. Local training will, therefore, be carried out in training units
located at district hospitals provided that they are readily accessible,
In Mwanza and Mzimba districts, training units consisting of dormitory,
kitchen, classroom and two staff houses will be constructed and equip-
ped for 30 participants at the district hospitals. As the hospital of
Dowa district is on the periphery of that district, a training unit will
be built adjacent to the centrally situated health center at Mponela and
a laundry, now lacking, built to serve the health center (which has 16
in-patient beds) and training unit. Each training unit would have a
four-wheel drive vehicle (provided by UNICEF) to facilitate support for
village level activities. Existing training units, such as agricultural
extension centers, will not be able to accommodate the training load of
this program. Transport in rural areas is very difficult and the pro-
ject therefore makes provision for 468 bicycles and 3 motorcycles for
health service staff and voluntary workers to cope with the increase in
extension activities.   The Government considered but discarded the idea
of paying a small honorarium to primary health care workers since it
would increase recurrent costs for primary health care activities by
more than two-thirds. During the project period, the MOH will review
the success of community income generating schemes in Malawi and deter-
mine whether their introduction would be feasible in the primary health
care field to finance health activities.
3.25      For any program involving community mobilization and voluntary
participation, the outcome is inevitably difficult to forecast; it will
also be the first phase of a program designed eventually to cover
Malawi. Monitoring and evaluation are thus of particular importance in
this component and necessary to indicate appropriate modifications if
required. In addition to developing a framework for routine evalua-
tion, a baseline epidemiological study will be carried out in order to
measure the program's impact over time. To assist in this process,
three months consulting in epidemiology is required. The- consultant
will help to prepare the survey methodologies and to train staff who
will become part of the field activities section of the Community Health
Sciences Unit (para. 3.11).  Because the project period will be taken up
with establishing the primary health care program, project evaluation
will be based on process indicators, the time available to assess the
program's impact on health status being too short.



- 25 -
3.26      The sector review pointed to the dichotomy of services between
the Government and PHAM. The latter organization has now recruited a
primary health care coordinator.  To develop divergent courses of ac-
tion, not difficult on a subject which has already generated diverse
opinions, would be wasteful and potentially damaging if communities were
given different signals, for example, on the payment of workers or the
content of training programs. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that all primary health care activities initiated by non-
government entities will first be reviewed by the national primary
health care core group established by the MOH and representative of
all national interests (para. 7.01(e)).
3.27      The staff needed for the training units comprises three
clinical officers, three public health nurses, and three support staff.
To bring the health sub-centers up to strength, one medical assistant,
one health assistant and seven enrolled nurses-midwives will be re-
quired. Staff will be posted when facilities and housing are avail-
able. With the provision of housing and in view of the small numbers
involved, no problems with postings are anticipated. Indeed, some
neighboring health centers are overstaffed with enrolled nurse-midwives
because they are located in large villages where rented housing is
available. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that health
centers involved in the primary health care program will each be staffed
with one medical assistant, one health assistant and two enrolled nurse-
midwives, training units will be staffed with one clinical officer and
one public health nurse, that district health teams in the selected
districts will comprise one district medical officer, in overall charge,
one public health nurse, one health inspector and two MCH coordinators
(para. 7.01(f)). The sequence of implementation activities is shown in
Chart 5.
Child Spacing
3.28      Child spacing services and counselling will be introduced as
part of the MCH program of the MOH. Whilst counselling will eventually
be available at all MCH clinics, services will be provided in the first
year at the two central hospitals in Lilongwe and Blantyre, the general
hospital at Zomba and at each of the remaining 21 district hospitals.
In the second year, services will be extended to one rural health cen-
ter in each district. At the central hospitals, sterilization will be
available in addition to condoms, oral contraceptives and Intra-Uterine
Devices (IUD). Condoms and oral contraceptives will be available at
health centers. Antenatal facilities at which child spacing services
will be provided are inadequate at Zomba general hospital and 15 of the
21 district hospitals. The project provides for the minimum amount of



- 26 -
refurbishing required to make these facilities satisfactory in terms of
cleanliness, adequate waiting space and privacy. In each district there
is at least one recently constructed health center with adequate ante-
natal facilities. Basic equipment will be provided for all service
points.
3.29      To provide services, including effective counselling, techni-
cal training and orientation of MOH staff will be needed. This will be
done by training a group of ten experienced nurse-midwives in contracep-
tive service techniques and counselling. This two-weeks training will
be done by the senior obstetrical staff of the Queen Elizabeth Hospital,
Blantyre. A further four weeks will be spent in devising curricula and
training materials for child spacing courses. During this six weeks pe-
riod, a consultant will assist in training and advising on course pro-
graming.
3.30      The trainers will then give the tutors of the country's three
nurse-training schools and the Lilongwe School for Health Sciences a
week's orientation in child spacing.  In the following six months, the
tutors will provide for the inclusion of child spacing concepts and ac-
tivities in all health training curricula for critical review by the
Nurses and Midwives Council and MOH approval. Technical training will
also be provided for the staff of hospitals and health centers by the
trainers and will last one week. For hospital staff who will be requir-
ed to insert five IUDs as part of their training, this period may be ex-
tended depending upon the clinic load available. Over two years, 116
staff will receive technical training.
3.31      All health staff throughout Malawi will receive orientation in
child spacing concepts and how the program operates. This will be done
by hospital staff who have received technical training and will even-
tually cover about 2,000 staff during the project period. In addition,
selected groups of community leaders, such as civil and political lea-
ders, traditional chiefs, teachers, traditional medical practitioners
and government staff, will receive similar orientation in two-day semi-
nars. The Health Education Unit of the MOH will support this orienta-
tion but will require the extension of the WHO health education spe-
cialist's consultancy for six months from the end of his current con-
tract in December 1983; should this not be possible, the project pro-
vides for six months of consultancy.
3.32      To handle the services training needs, technical training cen-
ters will be established at Lilongwe, Zomba and Blantyre hospitals.
Basic teaching equipment will be provided. Residential facilities are
poor in Lilongwe (which will cater for trainers from the Central and
Northern regions) and require upgrading.



- 27 -
3.33      The child spacing program will be directed by the Assistant
Chief Medical Officer (MCH). To provide service staff with the neces-
sary experience, the project makes provision for ten one-month study
tours to visit programs in other African countries such as Kenya and
Zimbabwe. The MOH is now recruiting three doctors, with financial as-
sistance from the UNFPA and the Pathfinder Fund, to be posted to each of
the three regions. Their primary function will be to visit child spa-
cing service points to backstop MOH staff, provide quality control, and
handle referrals and complications.
3.34      Of concern to the Government are the serious effects of fre-
quent pregnancies on mothers and children but data on a family formation
is lacking.  The project, therefore, makes provision for a family forma-
tion study, the results of which will be critical in determining future
priorities in programs for mothers and children. It will also contri-
bute to determining the causes of the high infant mortality rate. Based
on sample survey procedures, the study will be carried out by the Na-
tional Statistical Office under the overall direction of the MOX.   Sur-
vey designs, including draft questionnaires, have been prepared and the
study will be completed by December 1984. A total of 11 months of con-
sultancy is required to support the staff of the National Statistical
Office at various stages of the study.  The sequence of implementation
of child spacing activities is shown in Chart 6.
IV.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
A.   Project Costs
4.01      Total costs of the proposed two-year project are estimated at
US$8.7 million equivalent. Base costs are calculated at US$6.8 million
equivalent (78%) and contingencies at US$1.9 million equivalent (22%).
Taxes and duties are negligible. Foreign exchange costs account for
US$3.6 million equivalent or 41% of total project costs. Project costs
by expenditure category are summarized in the table below and detailed
in Tables 7-9. Capital costs for civil works, equipment and vehicles
account for 68.6% of base costs, consultants for 18.4%, overseas fellow-
ships and training for 9.3% and incremental recurrent costs (salaries,
vehicle and building operation and maintenance costs) for 3.7%.



- 28 -
KUM: Ii= aMxS BY EG M1UW CAYJ1
(In HlUams)
___                USS      _   I of    x
Incal Foreig Total  Iocal Foregn Total  Foreign  Total
.t CAPITAL aX$IS
Civil Works                3.49  0.53  4.02   3.18  0.48  3.66   13      53.6
V4hlcles, Equipcent, and
Supplies                  0.24  0.88  1.12   0.22  0.80  1.02   78      15.0
Comtd tmts                 0.13   1.25  1.38   0.12  1.14  1.26  90      18.4
Fellowshljps                -    0.61  0.61    -   0.55  0.55  100        8.0
local Trainirg             0.10    -    0.10   0.09   -    0.09    -      1.3
Subtotal, Capital Costs    3.96   3.27  7.23   3.61  2.97  6.58   45     96.3
11. tN'\U*xrL RFflERRENr C06TS  0.18  0.10  0.28   0.16  0.09  0.25   36      3.7
Subtotal, Base Costs       4.14  3.37  7.51   3.77  3.06  6.83   45      100.0
III.* CONlTUECES
1nysical Contingencies     0.36  0.08  0.44   0.33  0.07  0.40   18       5.9
Price Contingencies        1.13  0.49  1.62   1.03  0.45  1.48   30      21.7
Subtotal, Ccntingencies    1.49  0.57  2.06   1.36  0.52  1.8B   28      27.5
TUOAL PRaJEcr (XS  _       5.63  3.94  9.57   5.13  3.58  8.71   41     127.5
4.02      Project costs have been estimated at end-1982 prices.  Civil
works costs have been estimated on the basis of the value of current
Ministry of Works and Supplies (MOWS) contracts for comparable buildings
adjusted for locational variations, and for equipment and vehicles on
current CIF costs from manufacturer's lists.  Project costs include 142
months of overseas fellowships at an average cost of US$1,842 equivalent
per month, estimated on the basis of current, comparable costs for
Malawians being trained overseas. Ninety-nine months of consultancy are
also included, the monthly, average costs of US$12,600 being estimated
on the current scales of fees for similar work being performed in Malawi
and expenses at actual end-1982 costs. Incremental salaries, training
costs and operational and maintenance expenses are based on current
government scales and rates.
4.03      The total project costs include an allowance for contingencies
of US$1.9 million equivalent (22%). Physical contingencies have been
assumed at 10% for civil works and 5% for vehicles and equipment, com-
prising US$0.4 million equivalent or 6% of base costs. Price contin-
gencies have been included: (i) on foreign exchange expenditures at 8.0%
in 1983, 7.5% in 1984 and 7.0% in 1985; (ii) on the local cost component
of civil works at 18% annually; and (iii) on other local cost components
at 12% annually. The last two figures reflect available information on
local trends, which have been marked by especially high inflationary
pressure on the construction industry. Price contingencies, account for
US$1.5 million equivalent or 22% of base costs.



- 29 -
4.04      The foreign exchange component of US$3.6 million equivalent,
or 41% of total project costs, is estimated at 13% for civil works, 7i
for vehicles, equipment and supplies, 90% for consultants and 100% fcr
overseas fellowships. The incremental recurrent costs involving foreign
exchange (36%) mainly cover petrol, oils and lubricants.
4.05      Project costs by functional category are shown in the follow-
ing table. Improvements to pharmaceutical procurement and distribution
will absorb 30.7% of base costs, primary health care 28.8%, the commu-
nity health sciences unit 15.4%, child spacing 13.3%, and administration
and planning 11.9%.
MA1'I: IlJECrT awiS BY wwLITumAL CATXXY
__________   _ l   X    of  X    of
Incal Foreign Total  LDcal Fon!ig Tlotal  ForeLgi  Total
Fucclhnge  &Lse Cost
n't   &tidnlistratdxl    0.09  0.80  0.89   0.03  0.73  0.81   90     11.9
Gstinty s lialth 9,Scirtws Unit  0.38  0.77  1.15   0.35  0.70  1.05   67    15.4
1..mu+udtcal SuMly and Distributxcn    1.78  0.53  2.31   1.62  0.48  2.10   23    30.7
Prim"ry hi.alth Care           1.49  0.67  2.16   1.36  0.61  1.97   31    28.8
UI1ldt Sj4wcii                 0.40  0.60  1.00   0.36  0.54  0.90   60      13.3
Sulbtotal                   4.14   3.37  7.51   3.77  3.06  6.83   45    100.0
rAl%t tMvi'ntles
flWIcAII Camtinpencies         0.36  0.08  0.44   0.33  0.07  0.40   18      5.8
Price ContAinencies            1.13  0.49  1.62   1.03  0.45  1.48   30     21.6
Subtotal                    1.49  0.57  2.06   1.36  0.52  1.88   28     27.3
irAl, 1AUFU (O6Th              5.63  3.94  9.57   5.13  3.58  8.71   41
B. Financing
4.06      Of the total project costs, US$0.6 million equivalent (7%)
would be financed by grants from UNDP, WHO and UNICEF. Seventy-Eight
percent of the remaining costs, net of taxes and duties, would be fi-
nanced by an IDA credit. The proposed IDA credit of SDR 6.3 million
(US$6.8 million equivalent) would be on standard terms to the Govern-
ment. Excluding the contributions of the UN agencies, the credit would
finance all the remaining foreign exchange costs (US$3.3 million equiv-
alent) and 73% of local costs. The Government would finance the remain-
der, amounting to US$1.3 million equivalent including taxes and duties.
The financing of project costs by expenditure category would be as
follows:



- 30 -
MALAWI PROPOSED PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ Millions)
Total             U.N.      GOM     IDA      Percentage
Base Costs                                   IDA (less UN)
Expenditure
Categories
1. Civil Works      3.7               -       0.7     3.0          80%
2. Vehicles,
Equipment,
and
Supplies        1.0              0.1     0.1      0.8          90%
3. Consultants      1.3              0.2       -       1.1        100%
4. Overseas
Fellowships    0.5               0.1       -      0.4         100%
5. Local
Training        0.1              0.1       -       -            -
6. Incremental
Recurrent
Costs           0.2               -      0.2       -            -
Total
Base Costs       6.8              0.5      1.0     5.3          84%
Total
Contingencies   1.9               0.1      0.3     1.5          75%
Total
Project Costs   8.7               0.6      1.3     6.8          78%
C.   Procurement
4.07      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that procurement
under the Credit would be in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines (para.
7.01(g)). Specifically:
(a)    orders for equipment and supplies (US$673,0001/),
and vehicles (US$295,000) would be bulked as far as
possible and orders of US$100,000 and above would be
subject to international competitive bidding proce-
dures. The bidding documents would specify that sup-
pliers will maintain or agree to maintain an adequate
after-sales service and inventory of spare parts;
_/ All figures in the paragraph exclude contingencies.



- 31 -
(b)    orders for equipment and vehicles that cannot be bulked
in packages of US$100,000 and above would be procured in
accordance with existing local procedures which are accep-
table to IDA;
(c)    civil works, including pharmacy depots, housing upgrading
of health facilities, refurbishing of stores and offices
(US$3.7 million) would be too small and scattered to at-
tract firms from outside Malawi. The largest items of con-
struction which could be bulked are:
(i)     pharmacy depots and associated housing at
Lilongwe (US$835,000);
(ii)     pharmacy depot and associated housing at
Mzuzu (US$528,000);
(iii)     refurbishing of existing CMS and associated
housing at Blantyre (US$310,000);
(iv)     training block and associated housing at
Mponela in Dowa District (US$214,000);
(v)     training block and associated housing at
Mzimba (US$261,000);
(vi)     training block and associated housing at
Mwanza (US$245,000); and
(vii)     community health sciences unit and associated
housing at Lilongwe (US$394,000).
These contracts would be awarded following competitive bid-
ding advertised locally and in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA. The remaining items of construction (reno-
vations and upgrading of health sub-centers and associated
housing, hospital and nurses home renovations) (US$871,000)
are in scattered, rural locations not easy of access and
procurement would be by force account of the MOWS; and
(d)    consultant services (US$1.3 million) would be procured in ac-
cordance with the Bank guidelines of August 1981 on conditions
mutually acceptable to IDA and the Government.



- 32 -
4.08      Architectural designs, draft tender documents, and master
lists of equipment, and supplies including proposed groupirng wculd i.e
reviewed by IDA.  Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to
encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk procurement. Review of
tender evaluation documents by IDA prior to award would not be required
for construction contracts costing less than US$200,000 equivalenlt each
and for equipment and supplies contracts costing less than US$100,000
equivalent.
4.09      Where international competitive bidding procedures are used,
domestic manufacturers of equipment and supplies would be allowed a
margin of preference of 15% or the existing applicable rate of import
duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign
suppliers.
D.   Disbursements
4.10      Disbursements of the credit would be made for: (a) 80% of
total expenditures on civil works (US$3.0 million); (b) 100% of foreign
expenditures for directly imported goods and 90% for locally procured
vehicles, equipment and supplies not provided by U.N. agencies (US$0.8
million); and (c) 100% of consultant services and overseas fellowships
not provided by U.N. agencies (US$1.5 million). An amount of US$1.5
million would be unallocated. Disbursements would be made against full
documentation except for civil works done on the basis of force account.
It is anticipated that the credit would be fully disbursed by December
31, 1985, six months after project completion. Because of the two-years
implementation period, neither sector nor country disbursement profiles
are applicable. A schedule of disbursements is shown in Table 10.
E.   Accounts and Audit
4.12      Project funds would be channelled from the Ministry of Finance
to the MOH to be budgeted and administered by the Deputy Secretary.
Project financial records would be maintained by the Chief Accountant of
the MOH.  The project would be subject to normal government accounting
and auditing procedures which are considered satisfactory to IDA. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that separate project accounts
would be maintained by the Chief Accountant of the MOH, all project ac-
counts, including statements of expenditure, would be audited by the
Auditor General, or by independent auditors whose qualifications and
experience are acceptable to IDA, and all audited accounts, together
with an auditor's report, would be submitted to IDA not later than six
months following the end of the fiscal year (para. 7.01(h)).



- 33 -
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Organization and Management
5.01      Overall responsibility for project implementation, which is
expected to start on July 1, 1983, and be completed by June 30, 1985,
will rest with the MOH. The implementation of each component will be
the responsibility of the applicable section of the Ministry - the Chief
Health Planner for administration and planning, the Deputy Chief Medical
Officer for the community health sciences unit, the Assistant Chief
Medical Officer (MCH) for the primary health care program, and the Chief
Pharmacist for the pharmaceutical procurement and distribution compo-
nent. Responsible for overall project coordination will be the Principal
Secretary of the Ministry. A coordinating committee, chaired by the
Principal Secretary, will meet quarterly to ensure the smooth progress
of implementation. In addition to the heads of sections in the MOB con-
cerned with the project, the committee will also comprise representa-
tives of the Office of the President and Cabinet, the Ministry of
Finance, the Ministry of Works and Supplies (MOWS) and PHAM. One of the
functions of the committee would be to clear the quarterly progress re-
port for transmission to IDA.
5.02      Construction of the civil works required in the project will
be the responsibility of MOWS. A civil works program, acceptable to
IDA, including sketch plans, site acquisition, specifications and quan-
tities has been prepared by MOWS in collaboration with the MOH.
5.03      The sequence of implementation activities is shown in Charts
2-5. As the project is of short duration, consultants will have to be
identified prior to project implementation. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that consultants, with qualifications and experience
mutually agreeable to IDA and the Government, would be selected in ac-
cordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981) (para.
7.01(i)).
B.   Monitoring and Reporting
5.04      As the project is concerned with improving or establishing
systems, monitoring will be concerned with the satisfactory completion
of processes or activities in conformity with the implementation
schedules (Charts 2-5) and with the activity schedules for the primary
health care program in Annex 2. This will be done by the Deputy
Secretary with the assistance of the planning unit. He will be res-
ponsible for preparing quarterly reports, highlighting major issues for



- 34 -
management decision, to be cleared by the coordinating committee (para.
5.01) before submission to IDA. The report will also describe the ac-
tions taken to resolve major issues and their results. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that a completion report would be prepared
no later than six months after the credit closing date (para. 7.01(j)).
VI.   PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
6.01      Project design is based upon an extensive review of the health
sector and an identification with the Government of the major problems
which the MOH requires to resolve in order to make its existing services
more efficient. It also takes into account the serious financial
situation faced by the Government. The project's objective is to im-
prove existing systems and achieve cost savings where possible. By the
end of the project, the Government will have a ten-year health plan
covering all health activities in Malawi which will ensure the optimum
utilization of scarce financial and human resources and indicate
priority investments needed to ameliorate the presently poor health
status of its population. It will have an improved health planning
capability and a unit capable of providing information and analyses of
major health problems. The Government will have a system of pharma-
ceutical procurement and distribution which will improve the flow of
supplies, be cost-effective and save about 20% of current expenditures
on pharmaceutical products.   It will have developed a system capable
of stimulating communities to take an active interest in their health
problems and so increase the efficiency of its peripheral health ser-
vices, whose growth is bound to be restricted by financial and human
constraints in the foreseeable future. And it will have introduced
child spacing services in all urban and selected rural areas as well as
counselling at MCH clinics throughout the country. During its course,
the project will not directly lead to any amelioration of health prob-
lems or reduce health indicators to acceptable limits; without the pro-
ject interventions, however, the Government would not be able to do this
effectively in the future.  It represents the first stage of a program
to improve the presently low health status of the Malawian people.
6.02      Given Malawi's medium-term economic problems and short-term
productivity and balance-of-payments problems, prospects for substan-
tial increases in real recurrent budgetary allocations to the health
sector in the forseeable future are bleak. Is, therefore, this project
affordable? The project has several distinctive features which suggest
that it wbuld not be unduly burdensome financially, whereas other types
of investments in the health sector clearly would be at present.



- 35 -
(a)   Firstly, the cost is small.  The total project cost
is less than 4% of planned "Development Account"
(i.e., investment) expenditure for the government
as a whole during the two-year life of the project.
The peak year cost, approximately US$4.6 million in
FY 1983/84, is less than 2% of the combined projected
Development and Recurrent Account budgets for that year.
The peak year local contribution, at US$800,000, is less
than three-tenths of 1% of the recurrent account budget;
(b)   Secondly, the incremental recurrent costs that would con-
tinue after completion of the project would also be small.
At US$300,000 annually, they would be under 2.5% of the
MOH's fiscal 1982/83 recurrent account budget, and negli-
gible compared to government spending overall; and
(c)   Thirdly, savings amounting to some US$580,000 per year
in the recurrent account budget should result from the
project component on pharmaceutical supply and distribu-
tion. Since these savings would more than offset the
incremental recurrent costs, the net effect of the project
would be to reduce outlays relative to what they would
have been if the project had not been undertaken. Within
ten years or sooner, the project would have paid for it-
self in the sense of generating budgetary savings exceed-
ing the initial outlays plus incremental recurrent costs.
When available, the results of the WHO supported health financing sur-
vey will form the basis for further discussions between the Bank and the
Government and be used by the consultant financial analyst in carrying
out an analysis of options for easing resource constraints (Annex 1,
para. 9(b)). Without this more detailed investigation, the introduction
of comprehensive cost recovery measures such as general user charges
would be premature. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Government will, however, introduce a scale of fees, acceptable to
IDA, for paying patients at its facilities by April 1, 1984, designed to
maximize the revenue collected for such services, considering both the
full marginal costs and the price elasticities of demand among private
patients (para. 7.01(k)).
6.03      Although the project is affordable, the cost of replicating
the primary health care component nationwide could be substantial.
Estimates suggest that given the current economic and budgetary circum-
stances, the Government would have to proceed very slowly in extending
primary health care to other areas. Reducing the scope of services
provided in the primary health care strategy, as a way of keeping costs
down, is not a viable option programatically, However, adoption of new



- 36 -
policies affecting cost recovery within the sector and cost containment
at existing facilities is both feasible and has potential for enhancing
Government's ability to finance extension of primary health care. The
MOH is now actively exploring such policies.  In view of the importance
of financial issues, the project contains several specific activities
designed to increase efficiency, cut costs and generate additional fi-
nancial resources including:
(a)   reviewing accounting procedures and control mechanisms
to establish an effective system to budget and monitor
expenditures;
(b)   reviewing and developing in detail options for easing
resource constraints, including improved bill collections,
elimination of free food at inpatient facilities, and the
introduction of health insurance and/or maintenance schemes;
(c)   reviewing the implication of alternative schemes to assist
the PHAM financially; and
(d)   establishing  the CMS as a distinct, self accounting under-
taking by April 1, 1984, as a covenant of the credit.
6.04      This small project with a relatively short implementation pe-
riod will probably attract no greater risks than other first projects in
the health sector. A central problem is the current weakness of the MOH
planning unit. The functions and staffing pattern of the unit have re-
cently been agreed with IDA. Two administrative positions, to relieve
the planners of routine tasks, will be filled by September 30, 1983.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that each of the consul-
tants will have a Malawian counterpart (para. 7.01(1)). A program
which seeks to enlist community support for its activities is inevi-
tably attended by risks which cannot be forecast. The use of voluntary
workers without guaranteed remuneration is also risky and examples of
failure in other countries are not hard to find. There are, on the
other hand, outstanding examples of success such as in Indonesia where a
remarkably effective system of family planning and basic health care has
been built upon community structures. In Malawi, the cohesiveness of
the traditional structure and its blend with modern institutions which
reach into the periphery have combined to provide successful examples of
community initiative - in the supply of potable water to villages, for
example. With a carefully prepared program, there is little reason to
doubt similar success with health activities.



- 37 -
VII.   ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)   the revised national health plan will be completed
by December 31, 1984 (para. 3.05);
(b)   four consultants, a health planner, an epidemiologist,
a financial analyst and a manpower planning expert,
would be employed by the Government by September 30, 1983
(para. 3.07);
(c)   two pharmaceutical consultants would be employed by the
Government by September 30, 1983 (para. 3.13);
(d)   the CMS will be established and operated as a distinct,
self-accounting undertaking with appropriate business
practices and an organizational status acceptable to the
Association by April 1, 1984 (para. 3.13);
(e)   all primary health care activities initiated by non-
government entities will first be reviewed by the na-
tional primary health care core group established by the
MOH and representative of all national interests (para.
3.26);
(f)   health centres involved in the primary health care
program will each be staffed with one medical assis-
tant, one health assistant and two enrolled nurse-
midwives, that training units will be staffed with
one clinical officer and one public health nurse, and
district health teams in the selected districts will
comprise one district medical officer, in overall
charge, one public health nurse, one health inspector
and two MCH coordinators (para. 3.27);
(g)   procurement procedures as outlined in paras. 4.07, 4.08
and 4.09 would be followed;
(h)   separate project accounts would be maintained by the
Chief Accountant of the MOH, all project accounts,
including statements of expenditure would be audited
by the Auditor General, or by independent auditors
whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to
IDA, and all audited accounts, together with an
auditor's report, would be submitted to IDA not later
than six months following the end of the fiscal year
(para. 4.11);



- 38 -
(i)   Consultants, with qualifications and experience mutually
agreeable to IDA and the Government selected in accord-
ance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as an Executing
Agency (August 1981) (para. 5.03);
(j)   a completion report would be prepared no later than six
months after the credit closing date (para. 5.04);
(k)   the Government will introduce a scale of fees, acceptable
to IDA, for paying patients at its facilities by April 1,
1984, which is designed to maximize the revenue collected
for such services, considering both the full marginal costs
and the price elasticities of demand among paying patients
(para. 6.02); and
(1)   each of the consultants used by the Government will have
a designated counterpart with whom to work (para. 6.04).
7.02      A condition of Board presentation would be establishment of an
essential drugs list of not more than 300 items which the CMS may pro-
cure, the preparation of standardized dosage regimens, and the taking of
a complete inventory of current CMS stocks with write-off actions where
appropriate (para. 3.18).
7.03      A condition of Board presentation would be preparation by the
MOWS in collaboration with the MOH of a civil works program, acceptable
to IDA, including sketch plans, site acquisition, specifications and
quantities (para. 5.02).
7.04      A condition of Board presentation would be that the staffing
patterns and functions of the MOH planning unit as agreed between IDA
and the Government would have been established (para. 6.04).
7.05      A condition of signing would be the selection in accordance
with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as an Executing Agency (August 1981) of consul-
tants, with qualifications and experience mutually agreeable to IDA and
the Government (para. 5.03).
7.06      Subject to the above assurances and conditions being met, it
is recommended that the proposed project would constitute a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of SDR 6.3 million (US$6.8 million equivalent)
on standArd terms to the Government of Malawi.



- 39 -
ANNEX I
MALAWI: FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
SUMMARY TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANTS
A. Consulting Group
1.        The objective of the consulting group is to assist the
Ministry of Health (MOH) of the Government of Malawi (GOM) in the im-
plementation of the administration and planning and pharmaceutical
procurement and distribution components of a health project.
2.        The consultants would be required to assist in:
a.   The preparation of a comprehensive manpower develop-
ment plan;
b.   The revision of a comprehensive National Health Plan
for the period 1985-89 in detail and 1990-95 in outline;
C.   The introduction of improved systems of budget planning
and financial accounting, and service statistics;
d.   The introduction of an improved pharmaceutical procure-
ment and supply system;
e.   Studies associated with the development of the
health sector, in particular a study of traditional
medical practitioners and also a detailed examination
of the financial implications of developing a medical
school; and
f.   The preparation of a project proposal for possible
World Bank assistance, based on experience gained
during the first project and the comprehensive National
Health Plan.
3.        The consulting group would probably be associated with the
proposed project throughout the implementation period although not all
its members would be in Malawi for the whole period.



- 40 -
ANNEX I
4.        The work program would include, but not necessarily be limited
to, a review and analysis of all available data - demographic, epidemio-
logical, logistical, financial and administrative - and an identifica-
tion of gaps in policy and data needed to update, in detail, the
National Health Plan (1973-88) to reflect current policies, health
problems and priorities, to include specific, quantifiable goals and
objectives, and to contain a detailed plan of action to accomplish its
medium and long term objectives.
5.        This would entail, inter alia, particular reviews of:
a.   National resource allocation in terms of manpower,
facilities, equipment, research, and financing rele-
vant to health care, paying particular attention to
the recurrent cost implications of current and projec-
ted health activities and their cost-effectiveness;
b.   The organization and management of health services at
Central, Regional and District levels, and of the ade-
quacy of the proposed reorganization and decentraliza-
tion aimed at facilitating and enhancing administrative,
financial and logistical support to, and monitoring the
work of, all units in Malawi providing health services;
c.   The training of all cadres of health staff, including
administrative support staff, in respect to both the
adequacy of output, its relevance to the needs of health
services delivery system, and opportunities for career
development; and
d.   Available data to determine the need for and carry out
studies urgently needed to provide planning information.
6.       The leader of the consulting group would be a Health Planning
Specialist who would be responsible to the Deputy Secretary, MOH, for
coordinating the work of the group and ensuring that it was carried out
efficiently, expeditiously within the agreed time, and according to the
highest standards of professional excellence. In professional capacity,
the health planning specialist would be required, inter alia, to:



- 41 -
ANNEX I
a.   Provide the necessary planning technology to assist in
preparing the revised National Health Plan and project
proposal with inputs from a variety of sources includ-
ing the GOM, the World Bank, the WHO and the consulting
group's own work;
b.   Review the organization and administration of all health
activities in Malawi and ensure that any changes which may
be recommended in organizational structure, administrative
practices, logistical support, financial accounting and
monitoring procedures, program monitoring and evaluation
procedures, and staff functions are not only administra-
tively and financially feasible but wholly consistent with
GOM policies;
c.   Make the necessary contacts, with the support of the MOH,
with key officials of the Office of the President and
Cabinet, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture,
Ministry of Defence, the Private Hospitals Association of
Malawi (PHAM), parastatal entities, and other concerned
public and private agencies to obtain their inputs in the
revised National Health Plan, and to discuss possible
alternative and innovative approaches and ideas that are
feasible and acceptable (e.g., cost recovery, incentives,
health insurance);
d.   Assist in the preparation and carrying out, with the
assistance of the University of Malawi Social Research
Center, of a study to investigate the practice of tradi-
tional medical practitioners with the objective of deter-
mining whether and how the traditional and modern sectors
can be linked in ways which will extend modern sector out-
reach without incurring a heavy burden of recurrent costs;
e.   Assist in the development of systematic processes for
health planning, monitoring and evaluation and the produc-
tion of basic manuals to guide staff in the future; and
f.   Ensure that all members of the consulting group realise
their responsibility for on-the-job counterpart training.



- 42 -
ANNEX I
7.        A Health Manpower Planning and Development Specialist will
also be required to provide technical assistance to the GOM in analyzing
the data, from the 1981 Health Manpower Survey undertaken by the MOH, by
personnel category, job description, qualification, actual workload and
type of facility, and to assist in the preparation of a national health
manpower plan and development program and a project proposal. The
specialist would be required, inter alia, to:
a.   Review in detail and update various health manpower
studies in Malawi as referred to in the following
documents: Health Profile of Malawi (WHO); the 1979
Family Health Care/Africare Report; Health Manpower
Review of Malawi contained in the 1981 WHO/UNDP Mission
Report for the Foundation of a Medical School; the 1980
World Bank Health Sector Review (Malawi); project docu-
mentation; and other sources;
b.   Ascertain the present level of manpower distribution
in the existing health services and the currently
projected annual manpower demand and supply by cate-
gory, type of facility, and level of service;
c.   Review the current MOH minimum standard requirements
and allocation of staff by type of facility, services
provided, and population coverage and determine the ex-
tent to which this standard has been implemented;
d.   Review in detail the existing training curricula of the
various health cadres and determine their relevance to
health status, problems and priorities, and job functions;
e.   Determine current and projected financial resources, both
internal and external, from public and private sources,
analyzing the cost-effectiveness of both capital and re-
current funding;
f.   Identify the existing and potential constraints to achiev-
ing the required levels of training output, considering es-
pecially, but not exclusively, recruitment procedures,
availability of trained and qualified teachers/tutors,
training facilities, ratio of staff to trainees, staff and
student accommodation, staff development program of train-
ing institutions, and civil service rules and regulations
affecting career development;



- 43 -
ANNEX I
g.   Determine, based on an analysis of the foregoing:
i.    the annual output of each cadre of health
staff (including administrative cadres sup-
porting the provision of health services)
required to meet the needs of the current
and projected levels of health services;
ii.   the capability of training institutions in
Malawi and the availability of training fa-
cilities outside the country to meet the
projected staff requirements; and
iii.  proposals for the improvement, rationali-
zation and expansion of training institu-
tions needed to meet such requirements, with
particular, but not exclusive, regard to the
availability of qualified candidates, probable
attrition, availability of qualified staff,
administrative constraints and the recurrent
cost implications of such proposals; and
h.  Make recommendations on appropriate and practical studies/
surveys needed for a continuing manpower planning and
development program.
The outcome of the work program, in cooperation with local counterparts,
would be: (i) a health manpower plan and a series of specific recommen-
dations to improve the balance between health manpower supply and de-
mand; and (ii) a detailed proposal for a five-year project designed to
implement the most immediate recommendations, including their capital
and recurrent cost implications.
8.        An Epidemiologist would be required primarily to review exis-
ting epidemiological information on the incidence of mortality and mor-
bidity and evaluate the effectiveness of current health program strate-
gies as one of the inputs needed to draft a comprehensive, revised na-
tional health plan. He would be required, inter alia, to:
a.   Review available demographic data such as the 1970
and 1972 Population Change Survey, the 1977 Census
and the World Bank Report on the demographic charac-
teristics of Malawi referred to in the health sector
review (1980) to describe and discuss the current mor-
bidity, mortality and fertility characteristics of
the population;



- 44 -
ANNEX I
b.   Analyze and evaluate available morbidity and mortality
data for quality and accuracy, with particular but not
exclusive attention to the reported in- and out-patient
case loads of both urban and rural health facilities,
noting discrepancies, if any, between these and other
related data, including the consultant's own fact-finding
investigations during field trips and interviews, and
with morbidity and mortality patterns and trends;
c.   Assess the determinants and incidence levels of the
major infectious and communicable diseases in Malawi,
the causes of morbidity and mortality by age-specific
groups, with special attention to the high levels of
infant and child mortality reported for Malawi, as well
as differences in regional distribution and trends over
the past five years;
d.   Evaluate, on the basis of an analysis of the fore-
going, and of available evaluation studies of health
intervention programs (e.g., MCH/EPI, health education
activities, TBAs training and utilization), the effec-
tiveness of current and proposed health program strate-
gies in lowering morbidity and mortality levels, assess-
ing, to the extent possible, differences in impact between
areas with and without health interventions in rural develop-
ment programs; and
e.   Review the present system of health information retrieval
and analysis to recommend ways and means of integrating a
practical surveillance monitoring scheme within the exis-
ting system in order to evaluate, quickly and effectively,
the progress and impact of health intervention programs on
disease patterns, morbidity and mortality.
He would be required to work closely with the consultant epidemiologist
recruited for the primary health care and community health sciences unit
components. The consultant would also liaise with the National Statis-
tical Office in the analysis by district of infant and child mortality
rates from 1977 census data.
9.        A Financial Analyst will be required to assist the MOH in
strengthening its financial planning, accounting, budgeting and resource
mobilization policies by performing the tasks listed below. Before
starting the specified tasks, a comprehensive review of existing poli-
cies and procedures would be needed.



- 45 -
ANNEX I
a.   Improvement of financial reporting, accounting, budget-
ing and control procedures. The consultant would make
recommendations and formulate detailed specifications,
including implementation steps, for:
i.   making changes in reporting and record keeping
systems, with particular attention to assuring
that top management receives all of the informa-
tion currently provided for (e.g., periodic es-
timates of accrued expenditures for the current
fiscal year, with breakdowns by sub-heads as in
the Government budget documents) on a regular and
timely basis, plus the following additional items:
(a)   actual expenditure for each district, on
a quarterly or other suitable basis, with
breakdown by sub-heads at least once annually;
(b)   actual expenditure for each institution
(hospital centre, sub-centre, etc.) once an-
nually, with sub-head breakdowns;
(c)   the numbers of outpatient attendances, in-
patient admissions and beds for each institu-
tion covering the same time period as the expen-
diture data above, so that estimates can be de-
rived of cost per out-patient, per in-patient,
and per bed for each district and institution;
and
(d)   annual estimates of the future recurrent costs
of each approved but not yet completed develop-
ment project;
ii.   Strengthening financial control mechanisms to
help headquarters and district administrators
to keep expenditures within amounts authorised;
a determination shall be made of who should sign
what and when, to get what funds, and with what
audit trail and possible consequences;
iii.   Reviewing and, if necessary, make recommendations
to revising the process followed in preparing an-
nual budget submissions to the Ministry of Finance,
with particular attention to:



- 46 -
ANNEX I
(a)   what sort of information on projected
financial needs flows upward from peri-
pheral facilities to district hospitals
and from districts to headquarters;
(b)   how the detailed expenditure and utiliza-
tion data called for above should be used;
(c)   how inflation rate projections and other
relevant general statistics should be in-
corporated;
iv.   Revamping of accounting protocols (what ledgers are
kept, in what way, with what reports, etc.) for dis-
trict staff responsible for financial records, and
corresponding changes at headquarters, based on require-
ments of items above as well as general accounting prin-
ciples; and
v.   Assessing whether automated data processing
should be introduced for selected aspects of
financial activities; where automation is re-
commended, detailed specifications shall be
developed for hardware, softw,are, inputs, out-
puts, and integration of automated procedures
and related activities.
b.   Analysis of options for easing resource constraints.  The
consultant shall:
i.   develop and assess the pros and cons of con-
crete policy options involving, singly and in
combination:
(a)   improved efforts to collect bills pay-
able by patients;
(b)   elimination of free food for hospital pa-
tients;
(c)   introduction of a Government health in-
surance program for wage-earners and their
dependents; and



- 47 -
ANNEX I
(d)   modest increases in fees on a selective basis;
with and without provisions to assure adequate
care for those unable to pay; the pros and cons
considered should include, but not necessarily
be limited to possible effects on:
(i)   MOH revenues and costs;
(ii)   utilization, particularly by the lowest
income groups;
(iii)   administration; and
(iv)   equity considerations;
ii.   Devise additional options based on further review
of existing conditions, and assess as above;
iii.   Select the most promising of the options "screened"
above, and prepare detailed specifications for MOH
consideration and approval; identify steps required
to implement;
iv.   Develop, and assess as above, alternative for deal-
ing with problems created by differences in free
practices at Government and non-Government health
facilities;
v.   Analyse the implications of alternative levels of
Government financial assistance to PHAM, with
particular attention to:
(a)   the possible inability of PHAM facili-
ties to continue cooperation without some
Government support; and
(b)   the consequences for MOH facilities if some
PHAM units are discontinued, and recommend
an appropriate level;
vi.   Review the question of the under-utilization of private
health facilities and make recommendations of what should
be done to improve utilization levels;



- 48 -
ANNEX I
c.   Assistance in preparation of a revised National Health Plan.
The consultant shall assist the MOH in taking financial
considerations into account in the preparation of a revised
National Health Plan by:
i.   participating in early discussions leading to
initial drafts, helping to point out the capital
and recurrent cost implications of proposals put
forward; and
ii.   preparing better cost estimates for later versions,
as feedback to aid in refining the plan;
d.   Detailed planning of financial aspects of a reconstituted
Central Medical Stores (CMS). The consultant shall develop
exact specifications for:
i.   what type of legal entity and financial structure
should the reconstituted CMS have, and its formal
relationship to MOH and Government as a whole;
ii.   appropriate changes in financial record keeping and
reporting systems, control mechanisms, budget prepa-
ration, accounting protocols, and the use of automated
data processing for financial data; and
iii.   initial determination and subsequent updating of the
fee that should be added to the base cost of supplies,
in order to assure that sums collected from recipient
health facilities are enough to enable the new entity
to operate on a no-loss, no-profit basis;
e.   Estimation of the capital and recurrent costs of a pro-
posed medical school. The consultant shall estimate all
costs, by year, for one proposed plan for a medical school
to be provided by the MOH.
B.   Pharmaceutical Consultants
10.       The pharmaceutical consultants would be required to assist the
MOH in implementing the pharmaceutical procurement and distribution com-
ponent of the project. One consultant would have experience in logis-
tics and a second in manufacturing pharmacy.



- 49 -
ANNEX I
II.       The logistics consultant would be required to assist in the:
a.   Improvement of procurement procedures and standardiza-
tion of tender specifications, inventory control and
inventory management systems;
b.   Development of peripheral stock accounting and stock
monitoring systems;
c.   Establishment of demand estimation procedures and minimum
stock level parameters;
d.   Development of a reporting system to monitor the shelf-
life of drugs;
e.   Improvement of the distribution system, and the plan-
ning of distribution and delivery cycles to optimize
use of transport at least cost;
f.   Evaluation of the present system of the collection of
accounts and development of an effective system to en-
sure the prompt collection of arrears;
g.   Evaluation of the present computerized program for in-
voicing, stock control and accounting and suggestions
for improvements required; and
h.   Determination of existing manpower needs for training,
and additional manpower requirements for new facilities,
and development of a training manual.
12.       The manufacturing pharmacy expert will be required to assist
in the:
a.   Examination of the present layout of the CMS Manufac-
turing Pharmacy, manufacturing procedures, the status
of the existing equipment, procedure for raw materials
procurement, recording procedures for manufactured items,
quality control procedures and the cost of the operation
versus output;
b.   Development of a proper layout for uniform flow of
operations, identification of additional equipment
required, establishment of procedures for raw mate-
rial procurement, and the preparation of proper lay-
outs and the equipment list required for the new fa-
cilities at Lilongwe and Mzuzu;



- 50 -
ANNEX I
c.   Standardization of a list of items for manufacture,
developing standard manufacturing procedures, train-
ing of technical staff in manufacturing techniques
and preparation of standard manufacturing manual for
the drugs to be manufactured;
d.   Development of a plan for optimum utilization of all
facilities and a volume mix, with a view of minimizing
the cross-country movement of manufactured items;
e.   Identification of manpower needs for the new facili-
ties, training needs, and the extent to which the
pharmacy teaching section attached to Medical Auxiliary
Training School can assist in such training;
f.   Installation of equipment and drawing up of procedures
for periodic equipment maintenance; and
g.   Assessment of the status of hospital pharmacies at cen-
tral and district levels with a view to transferring of
their workload to regional pharmacies.
The consultant will first visit Malawi to assist in drawing up plans and
procedures for manufacturing and will return for a second stage to check
their implementation and advise on any modifications required. Both
consultants would be required to liaise closely with the consulting
group's financial analyst in his responsibilities for advising on the
financial aspects of CMS restructuring. They would also be required to
provide advice on the possibility of providing large-volume, common,
essential drugs on a job-contract basis by local, private pharmaceutical
manufacturing agencies.
C. Epidemiological Consultant
13.       An Epidemiological Consultant will be required to assist in
the implementation of the Community Health Sciences Unit and primary
health care components. The consultant will work closely with the staff
of the Statistical Unit and the field activities section of the
Community Health Services Unit assisting them to:
a.   Design a baseline epidemiological study for the three
primary health care districts;
b.   Train and test field workers to carry out the study;
c.   Set up a framework for the analysis of data;



- 51 -
ANNEX I
d.   Develop process indicators for primary health care;
e.   Train the staff of the field activities section in health
survey methods; and
f.   Assist in the analysis and interpretation of the data
from the baseline study and the process indicators.
The consultant will liaise closely with the consulting group's epidemio-
logical specialist.



- 52 -
ANNEX II
MALAWI: FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PRIMARY HEALTH CARE STRATEGY AND PROGRAM
Introduction
1.        In comparison with other countries in the region, the health
status of Malawi is poor. Infant and child mortality rates are high and
life expectancy is low. Inadequate nutrition, poor hygiene and low
standards of living exacerbate disease patterns. Malaria, diseases of
the respiratory system (including tuberculosis) and gastrointestinal and
diarrheal diseases account for about 57% of morbidity. Measles, pneumo-
nias and malaria are the leading causes of mortality. The major causes
of morbidity and mortality - communicable diseases, childhood diseases
and malnutrition - could be prevented by simple, appropriate techniques.
Rural areas in particular, however, lack easy access to health services.
Where facilities have been provided in rural areas, staff shortages and
a lack of extension services have been major constraints. The Govern-
ment has, therefore, endorsed the concept of primary health care (PHC)
as a way of providing communities with essential health care at an
affordable level.
2.        Following the national seminars on PHC in 1978, an inter-
ministerial health council, to provide a mechanism for inter-agency co-
ordination, and a committee within the Ministry of Health (MOH) respon-
sible for planning and monitoring activities in the country were estab-
lished. Subsequently, one district was chosen from each of the three
regions and pilot PHC programs were established. The pilot programs
were evaluated by a WHO/UNICEF mission in January 1982, and a PHC work
plan was prepared subsequently. The work plan, which provided the basis
for discussions with the appraisal mission, was revised in July 1982.
Objectives
3.        The objectives of the PHC program developed by the MOH are to:
a.   provide essential health care throughout the country so
as to attain a level of health that will permit Malawians
to lead socially and economically productive lives;



- 53 -
ANNEX II
b.   develop the capacity of the MOH to train and support dis-
trict health teams in PHC activities;
c.   develop the capacity of the district health teams to plan,
develop and and initiate PHC programs;
d.   expand the coverage of PHC activities in the three districts
where pilot activities have already been undertaken; and
e.   focus PHC activities on the priority areas of maternal and
child health (MCH), water and sanitation, and the treatment
of simple diseases in order to make the maximum impact on
the health status of the community.
Strategy
4.        The Malawian PHC approach is based on the following prin-
ciples: (i) PHC is not a separate vertical program; (ii) PHC should im-
prove the effectiveness and efficiency of existing programs through com-
munity involvement; (iii) PHC should integrate into other basic services
such as community development, water supply, education and agriculture;
and (iv) PHC will be developed at the district level. Based upon these
principles, the following is the strategy which will be followed to es-
tablish the PHC program:
a.   National Level.   MOH support for those districts plan-
ning PHC activities is crucial. Recognizing this, the
MOH is taking a number of steps to be responsive to the
needs of districts. A PHC coordinator has been appointed
to be responsible for the day-to-day running of PHC sup-
port activities at headquarters and for providing dis-
tricts with the necessary technical and administrative
support. A PHC core group has been established to ensure
the cooperation and participation of various units in the
MOH. This group is responsible for developing and monitor-
ing the implementation of those activities required for
PHC at the national level, such as the development of In-
formation, Education and Communication (IEC) materials, the
development of manuals, and monitoring and evaluation. The
PHC core group is also responsible for reviewing and evalua-
ting PHC activities supported by the Private Hospitals Asso-
ciation of Malawi (PHAM) and voluntary agencies.



- 54 -
ANNEX II
b.   District Level.  The principal focus for the develop-
ment of PHC activities is the administrative district
of which there are 24 in Malawi. The health needs of
the entire population of the district will provide the
starting point for implementing the PHC process. A
capacity to initiate, develop, support and manage PHC
program at district level will be developed. Communi-
ties will be involved in the PHC planning process to
develop a "bottom-up" approach. There will also be need
to strengthen the existing health infrastructure at health
sub-centers which will be the units most closely concerned
with PHC program support at village level. Training and
refresher courses in PHC strategies and programs will be
necessary for all district health services staff. A dis-
trict health management team will be formed and trained to
function effectively by bringing together skills of cura-
tive, promotive and preventive health care, as well as
skills in community mobilization, communication and manage-
ment.  The members of the team will be the District Medi-
cal Officer, the Public Health Nurse, the District Health
Inspectors and the two district MCH coordinators. The Dis-
trict Commissioner and other sector representatives, the
Clerk of the District Council and PHAM representatives will
be coopted as members of the team participating as needs
arise. PHC implementation nationally will be phased with only
three districts involved in the first phase - Mwanza, Mzimba
and Dowa. There may be areas in other districts in which PHC
oriented activities have already started due to the initia-
tive of particular groups such as PHAM units. These will be
identified and supported to provide growth points when these
districts are selected in subsequent phases. First phase
districts are those in which the pilot program was conduc-
ted. The selection of districts for subsequent phases will
be based on the following criteria:
i.    the receptiveness and the commitment of the
District Development Committee; and
ii.    the district health team has shown leadership
skills, high motivation, managerial potential,
possibility for team stability, and good co-
ordination between MOH, PRAM, and the District
Council.



55 -
ANNEX II
c.   Community Level. PHC at community level will be developed
through area (sub-district) and village health committees
which will provide the managerial structure for PHC at this
level. The functions of these health committees will include
the planning and management of MCH and water and sanitation
activities, as well as the treatment of simple diseases. A
major area of program emphasis will be creating awareness of
the types of health problems in the areas of each committee.
One of the major objectives of the PHC program is to reduce
the present high infant and child morbidity and mortality
rates. Activities will, therefore, include the nutritional
surveillance of children who are not brought to child clinics,
the promotion of adequate nutrition in homes, ante-natal
screening, supervision of deliveries, the management of
diarrhea in children, immunization (especially against
measles) and the prophylaxis and treatment of malaria. Each
village health committee will select two PHC workers to sup-
port health programs. The first of these would be a tradi-
tional birth attendant, if available and willing, or perhaps a
retired midwife or woman already trained by the Red Cross.
She would be responsible for ante-natal care, including iron
supplementation, malaria prophylaxis and high risk screening,
the nutritional and health surveillance of children, inclu-
ding identifying which children require immunization for the
next visit of a mobile team, and/or encouraging mothers to
take them to the under-fives clinic on the appropriate day.
A second PHC worker would be responsible for health education,
promotion of sanitation and refuse disposal, monitoring water
sources, the identification of epidemics, and the treatment
of malaria, eye diseases, wounds and diarrhoeas. PHC workers
will not be expected to spend much time on health work and
will be rewarded by the community in cash or kind. Funds
for income generating activities will be available to each
village health committee. If at a later stage the community
needs additional workers, they can be added. The emphasis
from the start will be that the PHC program belongs to the
community and not the MOH, although the MOH will provide
support. The localized concept of village committees and
their health needs means that training will have to be
tailor-made to provide courses for PHC workers covering the
few simple tasks they will be required to carry out. As needs
arise, additional activities will be added and training provi-
ded. Seasonal problems will require specific actions.



- 56 -
ANNEX II
The Community Mobilization Process
5.        Two or three areas in which to start the program in each dis-
trict will be carefully selected and depend on the receptivity of the
community, its level of awareness, existing leadership and organization,
and commitment to improving health. The selection of areas will also be
based on the availability of a health sub-center in the area to support
the program. The selection process will require consultations with many
district officials and visits to proposed areas to evaluate their poten-
tial. The final selection and endorsement of areas will be made by the
District Development Committee.
6.        In the selected areas, the first step will be to draw up a
simple community profile. Information will be collected on the general
characteristics of the community such as its population, geographic
characteristics, leadership characteristics, the strength and activity
of any existing area and village health committees, whether community
schemes have been previously undertaken, and health services available
in the area. This will be collected by a field worker (health surveil-
lance assistant or homecraft worker) already residing in the area, with
some briefing from district health team staff. A check list of what to
collect will be provided.
7.        A process of health problem identification will then be ini-
tiated with the community. To assess both opinions and facts, it will
require a simple community survey, involving interviews and some house
to house visits on a sample basis. Information will be collected on
prevailing health problems, general living conditions, availability of
and water sanitation and nutritional status, etc. The health problems
of children will be a particular feature of the survey. Guidelines on
sampling and check lists for a simple community survey will be drawn up.
Following a series of meetings with the community leaders and the com-
munity at large, it may be decided that this survey can be carried out
by the health committee or some volunteers with the assistance of local
and district health staff. For the first phase of the national program,
special arrangements will be made to establish survey methodologies and
assist local staff. In successive phases, assistance from the staff of
the field activities unit of the community health sciences unit will be
available.
8.        The results of the survey will be analysed by health staff and
discussed with the communities. As a result of these discussions,
priority problems will be identified and activities for dealing with
them planned. This will involve the modification of the general job



- 57 -
ANNEX II
descriptions for PHC workers based on what skills are needed. The con-
cept of a village health committee will then be developed. Following
this, village health committee will select PHC workers and the training
program for PHC workers can be started at the district training unit.
9.        The whole of the process of community preparation will prob-
ably take from three to six months and will require considerable support
and guidance from the MOH core group and of the district health manage-
ment team. Community development officers will also be invited to
assist in this process, but they might not have sufficient time for the
intensive involvement required.
Support Framework
10.       The PHC program will be started among communities meeting the
selection criteria nearest selected health sub-centers. It will be
developed from these focal points. The following diagram illustrates
the basic framework for PHC activities.
Community        MCH                  Water/Sanitation    Treatment of
Simple Disease
Workers           TBA/Retired                   Primary Health Care
Midwife,                               Worker
Red Cross Volunteer
Support Staff    Enrolled Nurse/                  Health Issistant!
Midwife                        Medical Assistant
I  '                                 I
Health Lub-center
District Health Team



- 58 -
ANNEX II
The main unit for supervision, on-going training supply, and referral
for PHC will be the health sub-center. Support would be closely related
to the accessibility of the community to the unit and of health staff to
the community. The main consideration for accessibility is distance and
8-10 km. would be the maximum distance between communities and health
sub-centers with some slight variation for terrain. Increased popula-
tion density would necessitate more workers per unit rather than units
per population. The health sub-center staff will undertake the follow-
ing activities:
One Medical Assistant        -    Management of unit; out-
patient clinics; mobile
clinics (upto 4); occasional
short term admissions to 2-3
beds; support of PHC team;
health committee work
Two Enrolled Nurse/          -    MCH clinics; mobile clinics
Midwives                          (upto 4); maternity deliveries;
support of PHC team; immuniza-
tions
Health Assistant             -    Environmental sanitation;
health education; stimulation
of village committees; support
of PHC team; supervision of
surveillance
11.       District hospitals will usually be selected as locations for
training units but where they are not centrally located and/or easily
accessible throughout the districts, other locations will be chosen to
locate units. There would normally be one training unit in each dis-
trict. The requirement for each unit would be a hostel for 30 students,
a classroom and two additional staff houses. Training units will each
require a Clinical Officer and a Public Health Nurse to conduct training
orientation, and re-training courses.
PHC Training
12.       The main strategy of PHC training would be the development by
the district health team of curricula based on the determined needs of
the communities and local staff. It would use all possible teaching/
learning situations, and all possible teachers from relevant sectors and



- 59 -
ANNEX II
the community to promote learning by doing and experiencing. A train-
ing capacity and skills would be built up within each district promoting
a self-reliance to facilitate continuing education which is a necessity
for a successful programe District training will be supported from the
central level by four trainers, and by the provision of teaching ma-
terials and texts prepared with the advice of the district. Another es-
sential element of the training strategy will be the reorientation of
all health staff, particularly those of the health sub-centers, and the
relevant staff of other ministries.
13.       The following activities will be included in a typical PHC
district training program:
a.   Orientation of the District Commissioner and District
Development Committee in a special one-day session;
b.   Workshops for village leaders and committees;
c.   Management/PHC workshops for district health team and
staff in charge of units;
d.   Reorientation for health sub-center staff;
e.   Training for trainers from health and other sectors; and
f.   Training PHC workers in a sequence determined by the
trainers locally.
Communications Support for PHC
14.       This important activity for PHC development has district,
regional and central level implications. The messages and form of
communications support required will often be determined locally or
regionally, but may have to be prepared or transmitted centrally. The
target groups within a district are political and sectoral leaders,
committees, and health workers, as well as the staff of other
ministries, villagers and various community groups and also the PHC
workers themselves. At regional and national level, the political and
civil service leadership is the main target. Initial suggestions for
communication support required at district level in order to initiate
PHC could be:



- 60 -
ANNEX II
Target                            Method/Media/Message
District Development Committee    PHC with district/regional/national
and District Commissioner           PHC organizers presentation using
film and "PHC communication package"
with case studies, pictures, stories,
etc. Possibly combined with "Dis-
trict Health Week".
Area Committees                     Small workshops using film and "PHC
communication package".
Village Health Committees           Flip charts, pamphlets, seminars es-
pecially on PHC support, selection of
PHC workers and their roles and tasks.
Use of folk media and popular theatre,
possibly with help of community de-
velopment. Radio programs especially
for these committees.
General population and groups       Radio programs, "participatory radio"
e.g., school children, women,       with listening groups.  Pamphlets dis-
party, youth                        tributed through party and schools.
Popular theatre.
School teachers                     Workshops on PHC for children.
Preparation of visual aids, surveys.
Special material prepared with
Ministry of Education.
Health Staff (and relevant          Special radio programs.  MOH magazine
staff in other sectors) and         "Moyo" reoriented towards PHC support
PHC workers                         with more health and technical mate-
rial, and illustrations that can be
used as flip cards. Opportunities for
workers to share experiences. "Moyo"
should become a mechanism for in-
service special training progrm needs.
Flash cards and flip charts. Suitable
texts and pamphlets.



- 61
ANNEX  I
Implementation
15.       The following sections elaborate the activities to be under-
taken by the MOH between 1982-85 - the first phase of the PHC program.
During this period, emphasis will be placed upon developing the capa-
bility of the MOH core group and the district health teams in training,
communications, and monitoring and evaluation. PHC activities will be
carried out in three districts - Mwanza, Dowa and Mzimba. The results
of these activities will provide the basis for modification and expan-
sion of the PHC program in phases throughout the country.
Training
16.       Training activities will be carried out in two phases.  The
first phase will cover the training of the national PHC core group with
the objective of developing the capability of selected members of the
group to train district health teams in the concepts of planning, team-
work, and management, training techniques, evaluation techniques and
concepts of PHC. In the second phase, the district health teams will
carry out the orientation and health committees and PHC workers train-
ing.  The details of the various training programs are described below:
a.   Training of Trainers.  Four members of the PHC core group
will be trained to become the trainers of trainers. This
will be done with the help of two consultants. The consul-
tants will help the PHC core group to develop the curriculum
for district health team training and in preparing materials
required. The consultants will then conduct a training pro-
gram for four core group members. These activities will
take about six weeks. Two consultants (one training spe-
cialist. and one communications specialist) will be required.
The training of trainers will begin in January 1983 and should
be completed by April 1983. Funds for this phase are being
sought from the European Development Fund;
b.   District Health Team Training.  Following the comple-
tion of training at national level, the four trainers
will, together with the two consultants, conduct a two-
week training program for the district health management
team in one district. The course will be conducted again
in the second and third districts with the national trainers
assuming complete responsibility for training and the consul-
tants acting as resource persons only. The national trainers



- 62 -
ANNEX II
will be responsible in due course for training other dis-
trict health teams and for refresher training as required.
The national trainers will also, together with the district
health team, develop the guidelines, course outline and
training curricula for each district;
c.   Training of PHC Coordinator.  The objective of this training
is to provide the PHC coordinator with management skills and
exposure to different PHC programs. He will attend a six-
weeks course on PHC in Nairobi to be given by the Economic
Development Institute.   Following the course, and after
the training of the national and district health teams, two
field trips will be undertaken by the PHC coordinator;
d.   Training of the Government Medical Officers and
Public Health Nurses.   A WHO-sponsored course is held twice
a year in Yaba, Nigeria on the concept and management of PHC.
The MOH will send two candidates for the course which lasts
three months. All expenses are met from WHO's regular budget
for Malawi;
e.   Training for District Development Committee.  This would
be a one-day workshop conducted before the PHC programs
are implemented in the districts. All members of the com-
mittee would participate in the workshop so that: (i) they
are aware of the PHC program; (ii) they encourage the for-
mation of village health committees; and that (iii) cordina-
tion with other sectors can take place regularly. The dis-
trict health team is responsible for the course. A one-day
follow-up workshop will be held about one year later;
f.   Training for Heath Sub-Center Staff.   This course, lasting
for approximately three to five days, will be given shortly
after the training of District Development Committees and
before village level training is started. The district
health team will be responsible for the training. The cen-
tral level trainers and the district health team will jointly
prepare the curriculum for this course. Re-training of health
sub-center staff will be held annually. The following table
shows the numbers of health sub-center staff to be trained
in each district between 1983-85.



- 63 -
ANNEX II
District             1983    1984    1985    Total
Mzimba                 44      63       62       165
Mwanza                 10      10       11        31
Dowa                   16      15       15        46
Because of the large number in Mzimba, two courses will be
given in 1983, two in 1984 and two in 1985.
g.   Training for Village Health Committees.  Each committee
will have ten members and all will be trained at the same
time for one week. The objectives for this training are
to ensure that committees:
i.    understand their role in motivating/educating
the community towards good health;
ii.   are aware of the relationship between behavior/
attitudes and health;
iii.  can identify their community's priority health
problems and their causes;
iv.   begin to identify solutions to priority health
problems;
v.    initiate a continuing dialogue between health sub-
center staff and the community;
vi.   understand the key concepts, programs and processes
of PHC; and
vii.  understand the role of the PHC workers in the com-
munity and their relationship to the village health
committee.
The training will be conducted at the district train-
ing units and the following numbers of committees trained:
Districts          1983    1984    1985    Total
Mzimba              10       20       20      50
Mwanza              10       20       20       50
Dowa                10       20       20      50



- 64 -
ANNEX II
h.   Refresher Training for Village Health Committees.  Commit-
tees will have refresher training for one week each year
starting from 1984. The content of this training will de-
pend upon observations of health staff in the field, as well
as the results of monitoring and evaluation studies. The
following number of committees will have refresher training:
Districts                   1984    1985    Total
Mzimba                       10       30       40
Mwanza                       10       30      40
Dowa                         10       30      40
i.   Training for PHC Workers.  This training program will be
carried out in two phases. In the first phase, lasting
two weeks, PHC workers will be taught PHC concepts and
community participation. At the end of two weeks the PHC
workers will return to their communities and attempt to
identify the major disease problems. A further two-weeks
training based upon the disease patterns will be then
given. The following numbers of PHC workers will be
trained:
Districts          1983      1984      1985     Total
Mzimba               10       20        20        50
Mwanza              10        20        20        50
Dowa                10        20        20        50
j.   Refresher Training for PHC Workers.   They will receive re-
fresher training for a period of one week each year. The
curriculum of the refresher training will be determined by
evaluations and observations of health center staff. The
number requiring refresher training in the first program
phase will be:



- 65 -
ANNEX II
Districts                    1984      1985     Total
Mzimba                        10        30        40
Mwanza                        10        30        40
Dowa                          10        30        40
k.   Training for Traditional Birth Attendants.  This type of
training has already begun in different parts of the coun-
try. The objective of the program is to identify women who
have been doing deliveries at village level and to provide
them with suitable training, so that they can improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of MCH programs at the village
level.  This training program would be the responsibility
of the Public Health Nurses at the training units who would
already have been trained. Training will take place for
four weeks and cover the following numbers:
Districts         1983      1984      1985     Total
Mzimba             10        20        20        50
Mwanza             10        20        20        50
Dowa               10        20        20       50
1.   Retraining of Traditional Birth Attendants.   Retraining will
be done annually for one to two weeks and cover the following
numbers:
Districts                   1984      1985     Total
Mzimba                       10        20        30
Mwanza                       10        20        30
Dowa                         10        20        30



- 66 -
ANNEX II
Communications
17.       An effective communications strategy is necessary for success-
ful PHC implementation. Health sub-center staff and PHC workers will
need to be supported with appropriate materials, such as posters and
leaflets, to be able to function effectively. The development of a
comprehensive strategy based on a review of the present methods of com-
munication and an evaluation of their effectiveness will take some con-
siderable time. To wait for such an evaluation will only delay and make
less effective the PHC program. A start will be made by concentrating
on inter-personal communications. A limited number of support materials
for MCH, water sanitation and the treatment of common diseases will be
developed, tested and produced for the three districts. The effective-
ness of the materials will be evaluated before larger quantities are
produced for national use. Similarly, a handbook for PHC workers will
be developed, tested and produced for use in the three districts. After
evaluation it will be modified for national use.
18.       The MOH's health education unit will be responsible for pro-
ducing the support materials and the handbook. Their development and
testing will be completed by July 1983. Production of materials will be
undertaken shortly thereafter. Two local graphic artists will be hired
for 12 months as additional support for the health education unit. One
member of the health education unit will be sent overseas for training
in inter-personal communications.
Targets for the production of support materials are:
1983    1984      1985
Posters
Sanitation                            3,600   7,200    7,200
Maternal and Child Health             3,600   7,200    7,200
Treatment of Common Diseases          3,600   7,200    7,200
Leaflets
Sanitation                            4,000   4,000    8,000
Maternal and Child Health              4,000   4,000    8,000
Treatment of Common Disease           4,000   4,000    8,000
PHC Handbook                         10,000      --        --



- 67 -
ANNEX II
Drugs
19.       Commonly used drugs for PHC consist of Aspirin, Chloroquine,
Tetracycline eye ointment, oral rehydration salts, iron tablets, cough
syrup, antiseptics and dressings. They will be provided by UNICEF be-
tween 1983 and 1985. Tables have been compiled by MOH showing the
incidence of common diseases, drug regimens, drug requirements, and
costs for a typical village health committee area.
Equipment and Supplies
20.       Equipment and supplies will be provided for PHC workers and
health sub-center staff to enable them to carry out their tasks effec-
tively. Bicycles will be used for support staff from the health sub-
center to increase mobility. Nutritional surveillance activities and
"those-at-risk" approach for MCR are emphasized and equipment and sup-
plies provided.
Monitoring and Evaluation
21.       In the first phase, the PEC program will cover only three dis-
tricts and close monitoring and evaluation will be required to ensure
its successful expansion. A framework for routine evaluation will be
prepared and a baseline epidemiological study made in the three dis-
tricts by MOH staff to enable measurement of impact over time. A con-
sultant will be recruited to help to design the framework for routine
monitoring and identification of process indicators, and train statis-
tical unit and field work staff to carry out the study. The consultant
will return after approximatelv one year to help to evaluate and analyze
the data collected. In due time, these functions will be assumed by the
Community Health Sciences Unit.
Infrastructural Development
22.       PHC training will usually be carried out at district hospitals
but where it is not possible to use a district hospital, because of in-
accessibility, training units will be sited at other suitably located
health facilities. In Mzimba and Mwanza Districts, training units will



- 68 -
ANNEX II
be located at the district hospital, but in Dowa District the training
unit will be located at Mponela Health Center because the district
hospital is on the edge of the district. Two houses will be provided
at each unit, one for a clinical officer and one for a public health
nurse.
23.       One of the criteria for the selection of PHC program areas is
the adequacy of existing health sub-centers. In most areas of Malawi,
however, they are not adequate and up-grading will be necessary. The
scheme for upgrading in the first-phase districts is as follows:
Present              Upgrade To
Dowa
Dzoole*           Dispensary           Health sub-center plus
four houses
Chisepo*          Dispensary           Health sub-center plus
four houses
Nalunga           Dispensary/          Renovations
Maternity
Mbingwa*                               New health sub-center
plus four houses
Mzimba
Jenda             Dispensary           Health sub-center plus
four houses
Emfeni            Dispensary           Health sub-center plus
four houses
Luwerezi          Maternity            Health sub-center plus
two houses
Euthini           Dispensary/          Two houses
Maternity
Kafukule          Dispensary           Health sub-center plus
two houses
Mwanza                                       No upgrading required
* To be covered under IFAD project.



- 69 -
TABLE 1
MALAWI: HEALTH PROJECT
TEN LEADING CAUSES OF MORBIDITY OF FIRST VISIT OUT-PATIENTS
(ALL FACILITIES) 1978 AND 1979
1978      %       1979        %
1.  Malaria                                      2,518,109  26.0   2,570,971  26.1
2.  Symptoms referable to respiratory system  1,562,611  16.2   1,566,264  15.9
3.  Diarrhoeal diseases other than cholera          735,125   7.6      735,608   7.5
4. Symptoms referable to abdomen and gastro-
intestinal tract                               690,140   7.1       747,237   7.6
5.  Conditions of the skin                          609,925   6.3      604,615   6.1
6.  Inflammatory diseases of the eye                534,466   5.5      591,791   6.0
7.  Traumatic conditions                            571,677   5.9      581,677   5.9
8.  Symptoms referable to limbs and joints          264,395   2.7      294,365   3.0
9.  Measles                                         246,511   2.5      195,644   Z.0
10. Hookworm and other helminthiasis                183,047   1.9      192,121   1.9
Other Causes                                 1,753,624  18.1   1,762,732  17.9
Total                                             9,669,630  99.8   9,843,025  99.9
Source:  Statistical Reference Tables for the MOH, 1979 and 1980



- 70 -
TABLE 2
MALAWI: HEALTH PROJECT
ELEVEN LEADING CAUSES OF MORTALITY OF
ALL IN-PATIENTS OF ALL AGES, 1978 AND 1979
1978     %        1979       %
1.  Measles                                  2,171    23.7       1,521    18.4
2.  Pneumonia                                1,113    12.1         856    10.3
3.  Malaria                                    861      9.4        715     8.6
4. Avitominosis and Other
Nutritional Deficiencies                   769      8.4        647     7.8
5. Enteritis and Other
Diarrheal Diseases                         502      5.6        523     6.3
6.  Anaemias                                   578      6.3        455      5.5
7.  Other Unspecified Diseases                 301      3.3        310     3.7
8.  Malignant Neoplasms                        182      2.0        233      2.8
9.  Tuberculosis                               269      2.9        222      2.7
10. Tetanus                                    216      2.3        213     2.6
11. Other                                    2,213    24.0       2,575    31.1
Total                                        9,175   100.0       8,270    99.9
SueSttaRen Tbt    M_
Source: Statistical Reference Tables for the MOH, 1979 and 1980



- 71 -
TABLE 3
MALAWI: HEALTH PROJECT
ADMINISTRATION OF HEALTH SUB-CENTERS,
MATERNITIES AND DISPENSARIES
Organization              Health Sub-Centers          Maternities   Dispensaries
Number  Maternity  General  Total  Number  Beds  Number  Beds
Beds       Beds      Beds
Ministry of
Health               59        477         83      560     5      38      69    38
Private
Hospitals Asso-
ciation of Malawi   56        546         283      829    11    140       18    12
Local Government      7         51         11       62     4      27     114    30
Other                15        107         71      178    71    578       18      2
Total               137     1,181         448   1,629    91    783       219    82
=r: asc Ref                                   -=      =     -
Source: Statistical Reference Tables for MOH, 1980.



- 72 -
TABLE 4
MALAWI: HEALTH PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF EXPENDITURE IN THE HEALTH SECTOR
1980/81
K'000           %
Ministry of Health Revenue Budget                             14,500          28
Ministry of Health Development Budget
- Local                                                          50
- Foreign                                                     5,200          10
Other Ministries and Statutory Bodies                          1,700           3
Private Hospitals Association of Malawi Units                 11,500          22
Local Authorities                                              2,100           4
UN and Miscellaneous Official Aid                              2,900           6
Local Charities and Self-Help                                  1,300           3
Industry                                                         600           1
Insurance Payments by Individuals                              1,200           2
Direct Private Payments                                       11,700          22
Total                                                         52,600         100
Source: Malawi Government approved Estimates of Expenditure, 1980-81;
Budget of Cities of Lilongwe and Blantyre and MOH Files;
UN program documents;.and Health Sector Mission estimates.



- 73 -
TABLE 5
MALAWI: HEALTH PROJECT
MOH SHARE OF GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE ON REVENUE ACCOUNT1/
Total Expenditure      MOH Expenditure
Fiscal                  on Revenue Account   on Revenue Account  MOH Share
Year                          (K'000)               (K'000)             (%)
1982/83 (estimate)                274,306                 12,640            4.6
1981/82 (revised estimate)        268,990                 16,056            6.0
1980/81                           207,642                 14,980            7.2
1979/80                           173,048                 12,083            7.0
1978/79                           140,433                 10,326            7.3
1977/78                           108,277                  7,761            7.2
1976/77                            93,643                 7,083             7.6
1975/76                            84,422                 6,379             7.6
/  These figures are gross amounts.  The budget estimates also show "net"
figures after deduction of appropriations-in-aid, which are actually
revenues from departmental activities. These revenues are very small
in the case of MOH, and in any case they revert to the general revenue
fund without affecting a department's total resources.
Source: Malawi Government Approved Estimates of Expenditure.



- 74 
TABLE 6
MALAWI: HEALTH PROJECT
PERCENTAGE DISTRIBUTION OF MOH REVENUE ACCOUNT
1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83
Expenditure         Actual    Actual   Actual    Estimate  Estimate
Category                                            Revised
Salaries and Wages                 28         26         24         33        54
Medical Equipment and Drugs         22        21         21         21        12
91ant and Vehicle Charges           17        20         22         14        10
M:.scellaneous Other Charges        10         11        11          9         5
zrant to Private Hospitals
iussociations of Malawi             9         9          7          9         8
Retions and Provisions               5         6          6          6         4
sTospitality, Postage,
External Travelling                 2         2          2          3         2
2 nor Works and Special
Expenditures                       2          2          6          6         4
C-her Grants and Reimburse-
-ment for Curative Measures
at N n-Government Institu-
.ions                              2          2          2          1         1
100       100        100        100       100
Jdministrative and General,
Including Training                10         12         11         11       12
`revention and Control               6         7          9          9         9
C-urative Institutions             84         82         80         80        79
100       100        100        100       100
. ee  Malawi Government Approved Estimates of Expenditure.



- 75 -
TABLE 7
MAIAWI: HEALTH PRDJECT
ESTIMAIED COSTS BY CCMPONENT AND YEAR
Base Cost  (K'000)                 Total
FYi           PY2             K'000   (US$'000)
A.   Pharmaceutical Supply and Distribution               2,090.0        216.0          2,306.0   2,098.3
B.   Comnmity Health Sciences                               790.0        364.0          1,154.0   1,050.0
C.   Planning and Administration                            733.0        161.0           894.0      813.5
D.   Primary fealth Care                                  1,559.0        605.0          2,164.0   1,969.1
E.   Child Spacing Component                                997.7            -           997.7      907.8
Total Baseline Costs                                      6,169.7      1,346.0         7,515.7   6,838.7
Physical Contingencies                                401.1         36.2           437.3      397.9
Price Contingencies                                 1,273.3        349.4          1,622.7    1,476.5
Total Project Costs                                       7,844.2      1,731.5          9,575.7   8,713.1
Foreign Exchange                                   (2,907.6)    (1,035.2)        (3,942.8)  (3,587.7)



- 76 -
TA.EZ 8
HALI: Er  FIDJH=
ESII19TED CR6S BY EBiM CAE5! AND YEUR
BDe Ccsts
Bo  osts                  & Pridc   ,rt.   Fore4  n 8 i  e
PF         R           Toial       an Bae Cbsts      %      Am
I. tNVESThQT CCIST
A. CIVIL WCXS                         3,400.0       259.3     3,659.3         4,116.2       13.2       483.0
Physical Contingencies              340.0        25.9       3565.9             -        13.2        48.3
Price Contingenies                 861.2        89.6        950.9             -         7.1        67.7
Sub-Total Ilauding Co nArodes         4,601.2       374.9     4,976.1        4,116.2        12.0      599.1
Foreign Erhare                      (556.1)     (43.0)     (599.1)             -        (0.0)       (0.0)
B. VEDCIES, EqMT, 9IPHElS               655.9       224.7       880.6          930.8        75.8      667.9
Physical Cortirgncies                20.6         7.0        27.6              -        77.3        21.3
Price Contingenries                  94.1        52.8       146.8              -        68.1       100.0
9Sb-Total Ilwuding (botiogoies          770.6       284.5     1,055.1          930.8        74.8      789.3
Foreign E-barge                     (559.3)    (230.0)      (789.3)            -        (0.0)       (0.0)
C. F2tAIr8E ANfD 83                      87.1          -         87.1           88.9       100.0       87.1
Physical C'ontingeies                 4.4          -          4.4              -       100.0         4.4
Price Contingerries                  11.1           -         11.1             -       100.0        11.1
Sub-Total B-biding Contingncies         102.6          -        102.6           88.9       100.0       102.6
Foreign Bbharge                     (102.6)         -       (102.6)            -        (0.0)       (0.0)
D. VEO1CJES/UNICEF                       50.0          -         50.0           51.4        90.9       45.5
Price Contingenies                    6.4          -          6.4              -        86.7         5.5
Sub-Total 7Inclung Contingeies           56.4          -         56.4           51.4        90.4       51.0
Foreign Thai                        (51.0)         -         (51.0)            -        (0.0)       (0.0)
E. CnZxLAs                             916.4       165.6      1,082.0        1,125.2       89.0       963.5
Price Cortngeities                  118.2        36.4       154.6              -        83.9       129.8
Sub-Total I-luding Contingencis       1,034.6      D2.0       1,236.6         1,125.2       88.4     1,093.2
Foreign ftclunge                    (915.9)    (177.3)    (1,093.2)            -        (0.0)       (0.0)
F. 0CU13ANruY                              -        173.6       173.8           190.7      100.0       173.8
Price Gx=ngcies                         -        35.8        35.8              -       100.0        35.8
Sub-Total ITruding Cotingeries             -       209.6        209.6          100.7       100.0      209.6
Foreiga  Fb.e                           -      (209.6)      (209.6)            -        (0.0)       (0.0)
G. FEU1I5EEPS                           349.8       141.9       491.7          512.8       100.0      491.7
Price Contingnies                    42.6        29.2        71.8              -        100.0       71.8
Sub-Toal InctriUng Contirencis          392.4      171.2        563.6          512.8       100.0      563.6
Foreign   luree                     (392.4)    (171.2)      (563.6)            -        (0.0)       (0.0)
El. FEB1I PS/MW                          30.0       30.0         60.1           63.6       100.0       60.1
Price Ccxti-genseB                    3.7         6.2         9.8              -        100.0        9.8
Sub-tal I-ruding Cantinnrcies            33.7       36.2         69.9           63.6       100.0       69.9
Foreign 33iw                        (33.7)      (36.2)      (69.9)             -        (0.0)       (0.0)
I  TRAINI/CIF                            32.8       40.0         72.8           83.8         0.0        0.0
Price Contingetis                     6.1        13.2        19.3              -         0.0         0.0
Sub-Total I-uding Contingnas             3B.9       53.2         92.1           83.8         0.0        0.0
J  TRADM1IWHO -    A                      9.1       14.6         23.7           27.4         0.0        0.0
Price Catingenries                    1.7         4.8         6.5              -         0.0         0.0
Sub-Total STixding Contingnces           10.8       19.4         30.2           27.4         0.0        0.0
Total INVEST CS10TS                   5,531.0    l,OX.O       6,581.1        7,190.9        45.2     2,972.5
8tyaical Contingmies                365.0        32.9       397.9              -        18.6        74.0
Price Cntingncies                  1,145.1      260        1,413.1             -        30.5       431.7
Total IN=l0I: C31t1E8EB              7,041.2     1,350.9     8,392.1        7,190.9        41.4     3,478.2
Foreign  Fxckw                    (2,611.0)    (867.2)    (3,478.2)            -        (0.0)       (0.0)
U FiREhT COSTS
A.  RB                                   42.9       174.7       217.6          250.0        33.5       72.9
Price Contingencies                   7.3        49.9        57.2              -        24.6        14.1
Sub-Total Itriling COotIARMnCteS         50.2      224.6        274.8          250.0        31.7       87.0
Foreign Fmhe                        (12.2)      (74.Sp       (87.0)            -        (0.0)       (0.0)
B. (ETRON AND 9Ut                        40.0          -         40.0           42.1        50.0       20.0
Price C0ntirocies                     6.2          -          6.2              -        39.4         2.4
Sub-Toal Icluiing Caxinagies             46.2          -         46.2           42.1        48.6       22.5
Foreign  Fdurg                      (22.5)          -        (22.5)            -        (0.0)       (0.0)
Total RlFIIRRE  COST                     82.9       174.7       257.6          292.1        36.1       92.9
Price Comingencies                   13.5        49.9        63.4              -        26.1        16.5
Total. lEIIJDII 02;8ENS                  96.4       224.6       321.0          292.1        34.1       109.5
Foreign E-ih-                       (34.7)      (74.8)      (109.5)            -        (0.0)       (0.0)
Total BAS3.5 CDS1                     5,613.9     1,224.7     6,85.7          7,483.0       44.8     3,065.5
PRsical CDOxingnri                  365.0        32.9       397.9              -        18.6        74.0
Prim Contingencies                 1,158.6      317.9      1,476.5             -        30.4       448.2
Total FRMT G26IS                      7,137.5     1,5756      8,713.1         7,463.0       41.2     3,587.7
Foreign                           (2,645.7)    (942.0)    (3,587.7)            -        (0.0)       (0.0)



7 77 -
25817 9
MAIAl: H23Id PRIlC,7
ESTDaE   OSTS BY EXPENDTU3E CBiXY AND OIENT
(US$ CO^O)
-   har,a eutical   Connaity    Planning          Prirary       Child                        Physical
Supply ard       health        anid                ealth        Stacirg                     Wotingencies
_______ _st__  Dtribution  Sciences     AMddistraticn      Care         CO n nt Total              %         Ancent
I IOMESIT CGSTS
A. CIVIL WClKS                          1,674.2          394.0             -           1,234.8         i56.3       3,659.3      10.0       365.9
Physical Contingencies                167.4            39.4             -             123.5          35.6         355.9       0.0         0.0
Price Continge-nies                   489.3            75.8             -             2351.7         l'4..I       950.9       9.1        86.4
Sub-Total Including Contingencies      2,330.9           509.1             -           1,640.0         496.1       4,976.1       9.1       452.4
Foreign Exchange                     (258.3)          (92.4)            -            (193.5)         55.0)       (599.1)     (9.1)      (54.5)
B. VEUCIES, EO11Pt, SIPPLEES             317.6           216.6             -             328.5          18.1'        883.6       3.1        27.6
Physical Contingencies                 15.9            10.8             -                -            0.9          27.6       0.0         0.0
Prime Contingenties                    63.8            27.7             -              53.0           2.3         146.8       3.0         4.5
Sub-Total Including Contingencies        397.3           255.1             -             381.5          21.2       1,055.1       3.0        32.1
Foreign Exchange                     (235.4)         (255.1)            -            (277.5)        121.: )      (789.3)     (3.1)      (24.4)
C. F08NITUEI  AND EQ1TPI                     -               -             -                 -          07.1          87.1       5.0         4.4
Physical Contingencies                    -               -             -                -            4.4           4.4       0.0         0.0
Prime Contingencies                       -               -             -                 -          11.1          11.1       4.8         0.5
Sub-Total Including ConitiTgencie            -               -             -                -          102.'.        102.6       4.8         4.9
Foreign Exchange                          -               -             -                 -        (102.6)       (102.6)     (4.8)       (4.9)
D. VEHICIES/UNICEF                           -               -             -              50.0             -          50.0       0.0         0.0
Price Contingencies                       -               -             -               6.4             -           6.4       0.0         0.0
Sub-Total Including Contingencies            -              -              -              56.4             -          56.4       0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                          -               -             -             (51.0)                      (51.0)     (0.0)       (0.0)
E. CGNRLTANrS                             82.8               -         743.4              34.6         221.2       1,082.0       0.0         0.0
Price Contiogerries                    14.8               -          106.1              5.2          28.5         154.6       0.0         0.0
Sub-Total Iwluding Contiogencies          97.6               -         849.5              39.8         249.7       1,236.6       0.0         0.0
Fnreign Echange                       (81.9)              -        (750.6)            (39.8)       (21)    (1,093.2)        (0.0)       (0.0)
F. OOIEULTANT/llN                            -           173.8             -                 -                       173.8       0.0         0.0
Price Contingencien                       -            35.8             -                 -                        35.8       0.0         0.0
Sub-Total ncLtding Gbntingencies             -           209.6             -                -                        209.6       0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                          -          (209.6)            -                 -             -        (249.6)     (0.0)       (0.0)
G. FELUD1SI                                  -           215.7          70.1              31.8         174.:         491.7       0.0         0.0
Price Cortingencies                       -            35.3           11.4              3.9          21.1          71.8       0.0         0.0
Sub-Total Lcluding Contingencies             -           251.0          81.5              35.7         195.'         563.6       0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                          -          (251.0)         (81.5)           (35.7)       (195.4)       (563.6)      (0.0)      (0.0)
H. FEI.1I4UPS/WH8                            -               -             -              60.1                        60.1       0.0         0.0
Price Contingencies                       -               -             -               9.8             -           9.8       0.0         0.0
Sub-Total Including Contingenies            -               -             -              69.9             -          69.9       0.0         0.0
Foreign Exhnge                            -               -             -             (69.9)            -         (69.9)      (0.0)      (0.0)
I. IAtNI0/NICMT                              -               -             -              72.8                        72.8       0.0         0.0
Price Contingencies                       -               -             -              19.3             -          19.3       0.0         0.0
Sub-Total Including Contingencies            -               -             -              92.1                        92.1       0.0         0.0
J. T[JNlWI/WHGh-iUTPA                        -               -             -              23.7             -          23.7       0.0         0.0
Price Contiugetries                       -               -             -               6.5                         6.5       0.0         0.0
Sub-Total IloLudirg Elontingen-es            -              -              -              30.2             -          30.2       0.0         0.0
Total 1lNES24M G08T8                    2,074.6        1,000.0         813.5           1,836.2         856.8       6,581.1       6.0       397.9
Physical Cootingencies                 183.3           50.2             -             123.5          40.9         397.9       0.0         0.0
Friwe Cootingencies                   567.9           174.5         117.5             385.9         147.-       1,413.1       6.5        91.4
Total Including Contingencies          2,825.8         1,224.8         931.0           2,345.6        1,OtS.C      8,392.1        5.8      489.3
Foreign Exchange                      (575.6)        (80 8.0)       (832.1)          (667.4)        (59'.t)    (3,478.2)  (2.4)         (83.7)
A. F81URRENT                              23.7            50.0             -             132.8           1.(         217.6       0.0         0.0
Price Contingencies                     5.7            14.1             -              35.3           2.1          57.2       0.0         0.0
Sub-Total Irelinling contingenies         29.4            64.2             -             168.2          13.1         274.8       0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                        (8.9)         (23.0)            -             (55.0)                      (87.0)      (0.0)      (0.0)
B. OPERATICN AM M4INlEQE                     -               -                                          40.(.         40.0       0.0         0.0
Price Cbntingencies-                              -              -                        -            .6           6.2       0.0         0.0
Sub-Total Including Contingencies            -               -                               -          46.           46.2       0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                          -               -             -                 -         (22.5)        (22.5)      (0.0)      (0.0)
Total 8EUR    GOSS                        23.7            50.0             -             132.8           51.),       257.6        0.0        0.0
Price Contingencies                     5.7            14.1             -              35.3           8.2          63.4        0.0        0.0
Total Iccludirg Cbntirgencies             29.4            64.2             -             168.2           59.3        321.0       0.0         0.0
Foreign Echange                        (8.9)          (23.0)            -             (55.0)         (22.5)      (148.3)      (0.0)      (0.0)
Total a4SEL0  0%7S0                    2,098.3         1,050.0         813.5           1,969.1         937.8       6,838.7        5.8      397.9
Physical Contingencies                 183.3           50.2             -             123.5           411.9       397.9        0.0        0.0
Price Contingencies                   573.6           188.7          117.5            421.2          175.6      1,476.5        6.2       91.4
Total PRA21Cr O1283                     2,855.2        1,288.9         931.0           2,513.7        1,124.3      8,713.1        5.6      489.3
Foreign Exchlnge                     (584.6)         (831.0)        (932.1)          (722.5)       (617.5)    (3,567.7)      (2.3)      (83.7)



- 78 -
TABLE 10
MALAWI: HEALTH PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ '000)
IDA                   Quarter Ending               Quarterly          Cumulative
Fiscal Year                                         Disbursements    Disbursements
198-3-84          September 30, 1983                   200                200
December 31, 1983                   400                600
March 31, 1984                      600              1,200
June 30, 1984                       600              1,800
1984-85           September 30, 1984                   600             2,400
December 31, 1984                   800              3,200
March 31, 1985                    1,000              4,200
June 30, 1985                     1,000              5,200
1985-86           September 30, 1985                   900             6,100
December 31, 1985                   700              6,800



MALAWI
HEALTH PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Ministry of Health
Minister
Principal Secretary
Deputy Secretary                                                                                                            Chief Medical Offirer
Administrative                                                                                                              Technical Branch
B ranch                                                                                                                 T
Deputy Chief
Medical Officer
Principal  Principal  Senior  Chief~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ricia
| Accoenteant            Admi1nistrative|            Personnel              Healt Planning  lJnit                              Assstntr Che                                                                                            Principal >
ControlrOfficer                                                                                                                  Officer                 Pharmacist              Superintendent
Revenue  Ge.eral                              Unit                     (MCH)                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Health Services)
Field Servicer  Services             ~~Child Hlealth                                       Education                   Cr
World Bank-24353



- 80 -
CHART 2
MALAVVI
HEALTH PROJECT
Administration and Planning Implementation Schedule
1        2     {3           4         1    12                      4
T   -   - '  ~~Redraft                      Impleme,
National Health Plan-                 Backgroud Prep.  IDraft  Consider I cder, Financing                ntation
Investigate
Financial Systems                   & Recommend. Consider.    Implementation  Check           Implementation
Financial Systems                          7=nr            r                   m       mm_        -         m
Financing Options                      Investigate  Recoin        Define Seiec. Opt.
Financg O      sRecom                                    Preparation       I
Central Medical Stores             Investigate    Consider.       mplement     _       Check
Medical School Feasibility                                         Review
Manpower Plan                           Plan and Draft                      Review
Planning Manuals                                                             Draft          Check
Epidemiological Studies               Review and Draft
Infant and Child Mortality Analysis   Analysis
Traditional Practitioners Study            Impilementation
CONSU LTANTS
Health Planner
Epidemiologist
Financial Analyst                       -         -         -        -         -
Manpower Planner                        -         -         -
Training
World Bank-24354



- 81 -
CHART 3
MALAWI
HEALTH PROJECT
Community Health Sciences Unit
Implementation Chart
PY I                               py .   YI 
1   2        3        4        1        2        3        4_
TRAINING
1. Lab Technology
2. Epidemiology
3. Microbiology
4. Biochemistry
5. Health Study Methodology
EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES
1. Finalize Lists
2. Tenders
3. Equipment Arrives
CONSTRUCTION
1  Renovation and Upgrading
Facilities
World Ban k-24355



82 -
CHART 4
NI AL AV Il
HEALTH PROJECT
Pi aimaeitic    Procurement and Distribution
innpmemantation Chart
tImpleientation Schedule
Ouarters                                   PY I                                   PY if
1         2                   4         1         2         3         4
a2) -' eparatiGll cf S'ac,cec         
NPar,s etc.i-in
*on slIob: ptriod |
a), Specificadion ami|
Teridering a                       j                  I 
I bC, P rourernenm Time                                                                          -         -         -         -       -
i   c, Installation                                                                                                                             _
dl Production Start-up
CONJSU LTA ANTS
a! T_ndering and Pre-
s melectictuKn
<-  b) CWnsultantoVisdl 
ilciistrburion                                I         iD                                         
q1 iimanufacturing t|!_
World Bank-24356



- 83 -
CRART 5
MALAWI
HEALTH PROJECT
Primary Health Care
Implementation Chart
PYI                                 PYII
1        2        3        4 4 -2                     3        4
A. TRAINING
1. Training of PHN Coordinator
2. Training of GMO and PHI
3. Training of DDC in PHN
4. Retraining of DDC
5. Training Health Center
Staff
6. Retraining of Health
Center Staff
7. Training Village Health
Committees
8. Retraining VHC                                                          -                 -        -
9. Training PHHW
10. Retraining RHW                                                          -       -         -
11. Training TBA
12. Retraining TBA
B. COMMUNICATIONS
1. Production of Posters and
Leaf I ets
2. Production of PHC Manual
3. Training IEC Specialist                              -
C. DRUGS                                            PROCURED BY UNICEF
D. EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES
1. Finalize Lists
2. Tender
3. Supplies Arrive
E. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
1. Initial Consultant Visit
2. Data Collection
3. Consultant Visit for Analysis
and Report Writing
F. HEALTH INFRASTRUCTURE
DEVELOPMENT
1. Training Units                     -                      -
2. Health Centers                              -
G. INCOME GENERATING
ACTIVITIES
1. Implementation                                                 -                         -
2. Evaluation                                                                       -        -   ,    -
World Bank-24357



- 84-                                             CHART  6
MALAWI
HEALTH PROJECT
CHILD SPACING
Implementation Chart
Py         I                        pyll 
1        2        3        4        1         2        3        4
PROVISION OF CHILD SPACING SERVICES
1. Renovation of 16 Hospitals                                    _      -
2. Order Equipment for Child Spacing
STUDY OF FAMILY LIFE FORMATION
1. Preparation, Translation &
Pretesting & Printing
Questionnaire
2. Sample Preparation, Recruitment &
.  Training of Interviewers
3. Preparation of Computer Programs
4. Field Work
5. Data Processing
6. Analysis, Report Writing & Printing                                                     -
TRAINING
1. Training of Trainers
Order Ttaining Equipment
Identification of 10 Nurse Trainers
Renovation of Nurses Home
Recruitment of Consultant
Training of Trainers &
Curriculum Development
2. Training of Tutors
3. Technical Training                                                            -
4. General Orientation of Health Staff                                              _                      _
INFORMATION EDUCATION, COMMUNICATIONS
1. Consultant to Develop Child Spacing Strategy
2. Community Leader Seminars
World Bank-24849



I BRD 16734
ZAMBIA 
.   =     j           1                   -                A       $ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B'TSWANA            o 
NAMIB A                (AZBrBABM
ATA                                    .A CA r  J-LA         o
(N3TNA KE
~~~/                                                       /FCI'M{SP- lU
_ N kl:g;a k~~~~~~~Nkoak   )                          X 9
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a0,0A 00 i0 AO,t0a tbO
Chip0      0      0      0       0 'DG
34  E#xf ;~~~~D -    --;N  i\<
M\ A L A W  I                                              \D          i
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                                   -t     S 
HEALTH PROJECT                                 L-.-                                a\LCh
khftiude  over 2140  -netres                   Swn             aZma            5
1530-2 140                   , x                /
E     1l    l~~~220-1530                /    -        iec   MBEPhlns
_ ~~~~915-1l220 /g3 TP-t  
_     "    ~below    9 5                 \ChLa)                                                            0
Roads                                               (\                           ,
Existing Railways                                \, Ng.)6u\
s tRailway Under Cons,ruc ion  ihrm
--RegionalI Bounda ries                                                                .   .P.....; Of;thcuskR
--International Boundaries                           >          ){N-1.                  ^edOOwtoh5dfDh
-- District boundaries -  o r0n bDMt
o,    20     40    610      80     1 30         
M LES               ,T. BNIRIA                                                              _



