Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3 46 8-MAI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$6.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A
HEALTH PROJECT
March 28, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =   Malawi Kwacha (K)
SDR 1.00              =   US$1.08995
US$ 1.00              =   K 1.10
K   1.00              =   US$ 0.91
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 metre               =   39.37 inches
1 kilometer (1,000   =    0.62 miles
meters)
1 kilometer           -    0.39 sq. miles
ACRONYMS
CMS     -         Central Medical Stores
MCH     -         Maternal and Child Health
MOH     -         Ministry of Health
MOWS    -         Ministry of Works and Supplies
PHAM    -         Private Hospitals Association of Malawi
PHC     -         Primary Health Care
UNFPA   -         United Nations Fund for Population Activities
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
HEALTH PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                  Republic of Malawi
BENEFICIARY:              Ministry of Health (MOH)
AMOUNT:                    SDR 6.3 million (US$6.8 million equivalent)
TERMS:                     Standard
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:       The proposed IDA Credit would assist the
Government in improving the efficiency and
effectiveness of its health delivery system.
Specifically, it would: (a) improve the MOH's
ability to plan, monitor and evaluate health
programs and policies; (b) strengthen the MOH's
capacity to carry out epidemiological studies with
supporting laboratory services; (c) improve the
system for procuring and distributing
pharmaceuticals; (d) extend prinary health care
services to selected districts; and (e) introduce
child spacing services as an element of the MOH's
maternal and child health program. MOH would have
overall responsibility for project
implementation. The project is expected to
significantly reduce recurrent account budgetary
outlays for pharmaceuticals and extend primary
health care services to 120,000 people.
Successful implementation of the project and
preparation of an updated ten-year national health
plan will set the stage for reductions in
mortality and fertility. The national health plan
also will provide the basis for future investments
from both local and foreign sources. There are no
major risks to the project, although planning in
the sector is weak. The project will, however,
greatly strengthen the MOH's planning and
evaluation capacity.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
ESTIMATED COST:                            Local         Foreign          Total
…US$ million----------
Planning and Administration                 0.1             0.7            0.8
Community Health Sciences Unit              0.3             0.7            1.0
Pharmaceutical Procurement and
Distribution                              1.6            0.5             2.1
Primary Health Care                         1.4             0.6            2.0
Child Spacing                               0.4             0.5            0.9
Base Costs                       3.8            3.0             6.8
Physical Contingencies                      0.3             0.1            0.4
Price Contingencies                         1.0             0.5            1.5
Total Project Costs              5.1            3.6             8.7
(Taxes and duties are negligible)
FINANCING PLAN:
Local         Foreign          Total
------------US$ million----------
IDA                                         3.5            3.3             6.8
Government                                  1.3              -             1.3
UN                                          0.3             0.3            0.6
Total                            5.1             3.6            8.7
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
-----------US$ million------------
1984           1985            1986
Annual                                      1.8             3.4             1.6
Cumulative                                  1.8             5.2            6.8
RATE OF RETURN:                             Not applicable.
APPRAISAL REPORT:                           Report No.4342 dated March 24, 1983



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A HEALTH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Malawi for SDR 6.3 million (US$6.8 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Health Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Malawi: Growth and Structural Change, A Basic
Report" (Report No. 3082a-MAI) dated February 8, 1982, was circulated to
the Executive Directors on March 9, 1982. Annexes to the report were
distributed on June 26, 1981. Annex I contains the basic country data.
3.        Malawi is a small (118,500 sq km), densely-populated (about six
million people in 1981) landlocked country in southeastern Africa. Its
main assets are moderately fertile soils, good water resources and a cli-
mate favorable to crop production. Unlike its neighbors, Malawi has no
known substantial mineral resources.
4.        Although Malawi has a GNP per capita of only US$200 and has been
identified by the United Nations as one of the world's poorest countries,
its progress since independence, measured against its natural resources,
has been significant. GDP at constant prices grew at an average annual
rate of 6 percent between 1964 and 1979. During the same period, real
growth of estate agriculture and manufacturing exceeded 10 percent per
annum and export volume grew at 4.5 percent per annum. A steadily
increasing investment rate (rising from 9 percent of GDP at independence to
33 percent in 1979) has been supported by heavy inflows of official and
private external capital as well as by a significant increase in domestic
savings (from virtually nil in 1964 to 14 percent of GDP in 1979).
5.        Malawi's development success has been due largely to the realis-
tic and purposeful policies of the Government. Public investment has been
intended primarily to support private initiative in the directly productive
sectors by providing infrastructure, public utilities and support ser-
vices. The Government has emphasized smallholder agriculture, as about
90 percent of the population lives in the rural areas and depends on agri-
culture for its livelihood. The Government has thus undertaken a number of
integrated- rural development projects and, more recently, has embarked on
the National Rural Development Program (NRDP), an ambitious 20-year program
for extending services to smallholders countrywide. The Government's
decision to emphasize directly productive sectors and infrastructure has
resulted in relatively slower development of social services.



- 2 -
6J        Under the Government's current five-year investment program,
22 percent of total public investment has been allocated for agriculture,
36 percent for transport, 10 percent for education, 11 percent for water
and health, and 22 percent for miscellaneous investments. These
allocations are appropriate and reflect the Government's continued emphasis
on smallholder development and transport, and the increased importance of
manpower development.
7.        Malawi's economic performance during the past 15 years was
impressive. However, its economy is heavily dependent on three primary
commodity exports (tea, sugar and tobacco) and is highly vulnerable to
international price fluctuations. Since 1974, there has been periodic
balance of payments problems of increasing severity due primarily to (a)
rapid escalation in import prices, particularly of fuel and intermediate
and capital goods; (b) cyclical swings in export prices of tobacco, sugar
and tea; and (c) significantly higher costs of transport for exports and
imports owing to rising ocean freight charges, port congestion in
Mozambique, and disruptions of overland transport.
8.        While the Government successfully steered the economy through
balance of payments crises in the past, the deterioration in the balance of
payments since 1978 has been less manageable. For reasons outside Malawi's
control, the deficits in both the trade and non-factor services grew
rapidly. Between 1977-80 Malawi's terms of trade fell by 40 percent.
While export prices declined by 16 percent (due mainly to falling tea and
tobacco prices),, import prices rose by 39 percent, partly because of the
steep increase in prices of petroleum products. The petroleum import bill
more than doubled, raising its share in total imports from 8.5 percent in
1977 to almost 11 percent in 1980. In more recent years (1980, 1981),
agriculture production suffered from the recurring drought and reducing
export volumes, necessitating large imports of maize, a commodity in which
Malawi had been self-sufficient during most of the 1970s. Finally,
during 1979 Malawi lost its principal access to the sea following sabotage
acts on rail lines in Mozambique. Disruptions of the transport system
through Mozambique have continued. Malawi's only alternative has been to
use air freight and road haulage as principal means of transport for
exports and imports, both of which are much more costly than rail
transport.  As a result of these developments which started in 1978,
Malawi's current account deficit deteriorated sharply. From an annual
average of about 8-9 percent of GDP in the mid 1970s, it rose to 18 percent
in 1978 and 24 percent in 1979 before falling to 8 percent in 1980 and an
estimated 12 percent in 1981. Capital inflows did not cover current
accounts deficits and foreign exchange reserves fell from the equivalent of
over five months of imports to less than two months between 1977-81.
9.        Malawi's fiscal position has also seriously deteriorated.  From
independence through 1977/78, government expenditures and revenues expanded
roughly in line with the increases in GDP, and deficits rarely exceeded
8-9 percent of GDP. In the past four years, expenditure growth has
outstripped the increase in revenues and the share of government deficits
in GDP averaged 15.6 percent in 1978/79-81/82. The underlying cause of
these deficits was the increase in government expenditure to around
35 percent of GDP compared to an average 26 percent for the previous six



- 3 -
years. Increases in domestic borrowing, mainly from the monetary system,
and in foreign borrowing, partly on commercial terms, were required to
finance the rising budget deficits. Inflationary pressures grew and prices
rose at an average rate of almost 14 percent per annum between 1979 and
1981.
10.       Because of the Government's limited ability to mobilize
resources, the appreciable expansion of Malawi's development program over
the past decade has been financed in large part by increased public capital
inflows.  The net contribution from foreign official sources to the
financing of public investment increased from US$17 million in FY68, to
about US$105 million in FY82, of which about US$48 million were grants.
However, borrowing on commercial terms now accounts for about 50 percent of
total borrowing.
11.       By the end of 1981, Malawi's external public debt outstanding and
disbursed totalled US$687 million. Debt service in 1981 (including
repayments to the IMF) amounted to over US$100 million, equivalent to
almost 30 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services (or
26 percent excluding repayments to the IMF). This compares to a level of
about 10 percent in the mid-1970s. As commercial borrowing increased,
average terms of borrowing has hardened in recent years. The average grant
element of external loans is now 40 percent compared with 80 percent during
1971-75.
12.       The Government and the IMF agreed to a new standby program for
SDR 22 million in August 1982. A first phase of a multi-year stabilization
effort, the program aims at reducing both the balance of payments current
account deficit and the budgetary deficit. As part of the program, the
Government devalued the kwacha against the SDR by 15 percent in April
1982. The other performance criteria involve phased ceilings on net
domestic assets of the banking system and on net credit to the Government
and a limit on Government external commercial borrowing. Implementation of
the standby is proceeding satisfactorily.
13.       These short-term measures are complemented by a medium-term
structural adjustment program on which the Government embarked in 1981.
The program's principal objectives are to diversify Malawi's export base,
encourage efficient import substitution, adjust income policies, improve
the public sector's financial performance and strengthen economic planning
and monitoring. The Bank's first structural adjustment loan for
US$45 million was made in June 1981. Nonetheless, despite substantial
international support for Malawi, the country's creditworthiness will
continue to deteriorate in the immediate future. On the basis of loans
committed by mid-1981 and of additional capital requirements for the period
1982-83, Malawi's debt service is projected to reach over 40 percent in
1982 (including repayments to the IMF). To reduce the hump in payments due
in 1982-84 and to keep debt servicing within reasonable bounds, Malawi has
recently rescheduled most of its commercial and official debt. Malawi's
creditworthiness is, however, expected to improve in the medium term if the
structural adjustment program is implemented successfully. While external
borrowing is expected to remain high to make up for the shortages in



- 4 -
domestic funds to finance Malawi's development program (in FY82, e.g.
domestic contribution to capital expenditures was only 27 percent), export
growth is expected to average about 14 percent a year in nominal terms
during the next five years. This would reduce the debt service ratio to an
average of 25 percent over the period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
14.       Over the past 17 years, Malawi has received 26 IDA credits
totalling around US$309 million and seven Bank loans totalling
US$75 million, of which two were on Third Window terms.  Of the Bank Group
assistance, some US$105.5 million (27 percent) was for agriculture,
US$45 million (12 percent) for structural adjustment, US$107.5 million
(28 percent) for human resources development, US$65 million (17 percent)
for highways, US$38 million (11 percent) for power development,
US$3 million (one percent) for a development finance company (INDEBANK),
and the balance of US$13 million (four percent) for water supply, technical
assistance and to finance feasibility studies for wood industries project.
The first Bank loan to Malawi was made on Third Window terms in June 1976,
and the first standard Bank loan in April 1977. The most recent operation,
a US$10.6 million equivalent credit for the proposed Fourth Phase of the
National Rural Development Project was scheduled for presentation to the
Board of Executive Directors on April 5, 1983.
15.       IFC's investments in Malawi consist of a loan of US$10.8 million
for a textile mill, another of US$9.9 million for thie Dwangwa sugar mill, a
US$0.6 million equity investment in INDEBANK, and a US$2.0 million loan to
Malawi Hotels Limited for tourism. A US$262,000 equity investment and a
loan of US$1.7 million for the production of ethanol from molasses were
approved in July 1980; another loan of US$0.5 million for ethanol
production was approved in February 1982. Project implementation has been
generally satisfactory. However, due to depressed world sugar prices, the
Dwangwa Sugar Corporation is experiencing financial difficulties and has
approached IFC and other project lenders for rescheduling. A summary
statement of Bank Group operations and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects are provided in Annex II.
16.       During the next five years, Bank Group assistance to Malawi will
continue to be closely tailored to help Malawi restructure its economy,
especially to improve agricultural productivity and the efficiency and
effectiveness of public and private enterprises. Towards this end, a
second structural adjustment operation is planned for FY84. It is expected
to continue to improve the incentives for smallholders, increase efficiency
in the productive sectors, better mobilize and manage resources and improve
institutions. Further investments in transport, human resource
development, health and housing are contemplated as well as a wood
processing project and a second line of credit to the INDEBANK. The Bank
Group's economic and sector work will build on the previous studies (basic
economic report, sector work on energy, health and NRDP, etc.) by focusing
on five high priority areas which will, over the medium term, help Malawi
improve its economic performance: (a) agricultural productivity; (b) public



- 5 -
sector management; (c) external transport; (d) population; and (e) the cost
effectiveness of the social sectors.
17.       At the end of 1981, the Bank accounted for 7.6 percent, and IDA
and the Bank combined, for 29.6 percent of Malawi's outstanding and
disbursed medium- and long-term public debt. Service on the Bank Group
debt accounted for 5.0 percent of the total debt service. In 1985, the
IDA/Bank share is projected to be about 15 percent of the total debt
service. Major multilateral creditors, in addition to the Bank Group, are
e           the African Development Fund and the European Investment Bank.  Other
lenders include syndicated groups of commercial banks and South African
suppliers. Bilateral lending has mainly been from Canada, the United
Kingdom, the Federal Republic of Germany and the United States.
Disbursements
18.       Disbursements of Bank Group loans and credits in Malawi
generally have kept close to schedule. As of December 31, 1982, disbursed
funds equalled 76 percent of the total amount of effective loans and
credits. Nine of the 11 Bank and IDA-financed projects yet to be completed
were within 6 months of achieving the disbursement levels scheduled at
appraisal. Of the two remaining projects, only one -- the US$7.0 million
Blantyre Water Supply Project -- is likely to remain appreciably behind
schedule. As of December 31, 1982, disbursements totalled US$4.5 million
although they were scheduled at appraisal to be virtually complete.
However, all the contracts being financed by IDA now have been awarded and
the improvement in disbursements over the past several months should
continue.
PART III - THE HEALTH AND POPULATION SECTOR
Demographic Background
19.       Malawi's demography is characterized by a very high fertility
rate, high levels of infant and child mortality and low urbanization. The
population is very youthful, 46 percent being aged 14 years and under,
compared with 40 percent in most developing countries.  Only 35 percent of
the land area is suitable for cultivation and the available land is almost
fully utilized. Despite the relatively high pressure on agricultural land,
only about 9 percent of the population resides in urban areas, compared
with an average of 15 percent for the East African Region as a whole. An
estimated 85 percent of the population is employed in agricultural and
related activities. Some 80 percent of agricultural output is derived from
smallholders, the majority of whom cultivate on average about 1.7 hectares
of land,. mostly held under customary (i.e., non-titled) tenure.
Consequently, income and consumption levels of this part of the population
are extremely low.
20.       The population of Malawi was estimated to be about 6.1 million



in mid-1981.  As measured by the 1977 census, the rate of natural increase
of the population was about 2.9 percent, the product of a crude birth rate
of about 56 and a crude death rate of around 27, both of these rates being
higher than in neighboring Zambia, Zimbabwe and Mozambique. Accurate data
on migration are not available, but it was estimated that in 1977 about
150,000 Malawian males were working outside the country. It is difficult,
therefore, to make an accurate estimate of the population growth rate.
Nevertheless, with the total fertility rate holding steady at 7.5 and
limited opportunities for Malawian workers outside the country, the
population is expected to more than double in the next 18 years.  This has
important implications for the labor/land ratio, as Malawi's population
density, about 140 persons per sq km of agricultural land, and already
among the highest in Africa, is projected to rise to around 265 persons per
sq km by the year 2000.
Health Status
21.       With an expectation of life at birth of only 41 years and high
infant and child mortality rates as its characteristics, the health status
of the Malawian people is poor, even by regional standards. Although
census analysis indicates that infant mortality fell from about 200/1000 to
190/1000 between the mid-1960s and mid-1970s and may have fallen marginally
since, it is still one of the highest in the world. In the early 1970s,
about 33 percent of children died during the first five years of life.
Malaria, respiratory and diarrheal diseases account for nearly 60 percent
of the causes of morbidity reported at first out-patient visits. Among
in-patients, about 38 percent of all deaths is the result of measles,
pneumonia and malaria. Gastro-intestinal and diarrheal diseases were
responsible for about 60 percent of morbidity in children aged four years
and under.
22.       Disease patterns are exacerbated by low standards of living
characterized by poor hygiene and inadequate nutrition. Malnutrition --
caused primarily by "lean-season" shortages, lack of adequate
breast-feeding supplements and poor intra-familial food distribution -- is
an important contributory factor to morbidity and mortality, particularly
among children under five years of age. Nearly 70 percent of the small
urban population, but only 30 percent of those living in rural areas, have
access to safe water.  Waterborne sewerage systems are available to only
about 15 percent of the inhabitants of Lilongwe, Blantyre and Zomba, the
remainder using septic tanks or pit lavatories, most of which are
inadequately treated for disease control. While data are not available for
the remaining 90 percent of the population, it seems probable that their
facilities do not meet even these marginal standards. Health status is
clearly lowest in rural areas where a shortage of services, particularly
extension services and health education, exists in an environment conducive
to the growth of infectious and parasitic diseases, the principal causes of
morbidity and mortality. Available evidence suggests that the poor health
status of Malawians can be improved considerably by strengthening and
extending preventive health services.



Health and Population Policy and Planning
23.       The Government's health objective is to "raise the level of
health of its people through a sound health services delivery system
capable of promoting health, preventing, reducing and curing diseases,
protecting life and promoting general well being and increasing pro-
ductivity." Since independence in 1964, the Government has pursued these
objectives by focusing on health manpower development in the 1960s and in
the 1970s, and seeking to strengthen and expand the basic health services
network while controlling communicable diseases.   The 1973-88 national
health plan provided the basis for developing a network of facilities
without which, it was assumed, proper health coverage could not be
achieved. The plan called for a comprehensive health care system to be
developed comprising primary health centers, health sub-centers and health
posts, together with the provision of health services at the community
level. Financial constraints, however, have largely prevented the
development of such a system. In 1980, less than half the primary health
centers were in place, only one-third of the sub-centers had been
completed, and of 1,760 health posts planned, only 53 had been built and 17
staffed.
24.       In 1975, the Government initiated a successful maternal and child
health (MCH) program. MCH services provided by health staff at
"under-fives" clinics, either at static units or through mobile clinics,
carry out health education and screening, provide oral rehydration,
immunizations for childhood and infectious diseases and offer chloroquine
as a malaria suppressant. In addition, special nutrition clinics are
organized for underweight and potentially malnourished children. In
December 1980, there were 373 static and 594 mobile clinics throughout the
country, the Ministry of Health (MOH) being responsible for running 60
percent of the total number and the remainder being operated by the Private
Hospitals Association of Malawi (PHAM). These clinics provide basic
treatment for the minor ailments; more serious ailments are referred to the
nearest health unit.
25.       In addition to limiting the expansion of peripheral service
points, financial constraints have contributed to staff shortages, as well
as inadequate staff training and transport difficulties. Consequently,
despite impressive achievements, MCH coverage has declined as a proportion
of the rapidly growing number of mothers and children.  In response to this
situation, the Government developed a primary health care program in 1978
to supplement its existing rural and MCH health programs by mobilizing
community participation and introduced, with WHO/UNICEF assistance, a pilot
program in the districts of Mwanza, Mzimba and Dowa to test the concept.
WHO/UNICEF consultants evaluating the program in January 1982 endorsed the
community participation approach and provided guidelines for future program
development. tased on this evaluation, the MOH formulated a strategy and
work program for introducing the first phase of the national primary health
care program. Emphasis is placed on communities and primary health care
workers identifying and resolving their own preventable health problems,
utilizing the existing health delivery system for medical and logistical
support. Primary health care is integrated with other village level
development activities (e.g., community development, water supply,
education and agriculture) (paras. 47-49).



- 8 -
26.       Traditionally, the Malawi Government has been pronatalist.
Recently however, the Government, recognizing the health risks of repeated
pregnancies, has decided that birth spacing services, including counselling
and distribution of modern contraceptives, will be offered by properly
trained health staff. The MOH has prepared a detailed child spacing plan
which IDA has reviewed and strongly endorsed. It is a major step forward
in permitting contraceptive services to be provided at district hospitals,
rural health facilities and in primary health care areas. The plan also
includes the training of all categories of medical and paramedical staff;
information and education activities; and research on child spacing
practices and fertility and infertility. While this move will facilitate
wider distribution of contraceptives, family planning and population
control remain very sensitive issues in Malawi.
Ministry of Health Services, Organization and Staffing
27.       The MOH has responsibility for developing the strategies and
programs for health care in Malawi and for the quality of that care. It is
divided into administrative and technical branches, with divisions for
major activities such as training, MCH, communicable diseases, etc. With
the exception of the health inspectorate and the MCH program, the Ministry
has no organization at the regional level. At the district level, the
District Medical Officer reports directly to the Chief Medical Officer who
heads the technical branch of the Ministry. Two of the regions, Central
and Southern, have regional hospitals and there is also a general hospital
at Zomba, the old capital, in the southern region. Each district has a
local hospital and a variety of other facilities, theoretically tiered in
descending order viz Primary Health Centers, Health Sub-Centers, and Health
Posts servicing 50,000, 10,000 and 2,000 people, respectively. In
practice, however, they mostly comprise an assortment of maternities and/or
dispensaries.
28.       In common with other Ministries, the MOHI has a small planning
division of six staff. These staff have had little training and limited
experience in health planning, monitoring and evaluation. Their functions
have been mainly restricted to preparing submissions for capital projects
to potential donors and subsequent implementation. The unit has thus
little time or capacity for developing strategies and operational plans,
program evaluation or statistical analyses, although health statistics are
routinely collected and assembled by the unit. In this regard,
epidemiological surveys should be routinely carried out to provide a basis
for policy planning. However, since 1979, no epidemiological work has been
undertaken except for specialized programs, eg. bilharzia (para. 43).
29.       Although no overall health staffing analysis has yet been
undertaken in Malawi, it is apparent that there are serious shortages in
most cadres. Half of the technical posts in the Ministry are vacant and 12
of the 24 districts do not have a medical officer. Malawian doctors are
trained abroad but the return rate is low (perhaps 20 percent) because of
the higher monetary and other attractions of practice in Western Europe and



- 9 -
North America. Although large numbers of expatriates have been licensed to
practice in Malawi, there is still an acute shortage of doctors. As a
result, the para-professional cadres of clinical officer and medical
assistant assume considerable importance in service delivery, particularly
in district hospitals and primary health centers. There are severe
shortages in these cadres as well, however, even though they are trained in
Malawi. State Registered and Enrolled Nurse-Midwives are also trained in
Malawi, the former filling senior posts (such as matrons and tutors) and
the latter being the main service providers. Here again, there are serious
shortages, particularly in the district hospitals and peripheral
facilities. These chronic staffing shortages have aggravated the imbalance
of staff between hospitals and peripheral facilities, an imbalance
exacerbated by the lack of staff housing in rural areas. Moreover, because
there has never been a staff development plan, training outputs, despite
the high quality of training, are inconsistent in terms of both quantity
and relevance to the country's needs (para. 42).
Other Service Providers
30.       An important provider of health services is the Private Hospital
Association of Malawi (PHAAM), a group of 15 Protestant and Catholic
missionary societies. Of the country's 44 hospitals (excluding the two
regional hospitals), 20 are run by PHAM members, representing 38 percent of
all hospital beds and covering 35 percent of all in-patients. PHAM
hospitals also have subsidiary facilities but they cover only 18 percent of
the country's outpatients. The Government assists PHAM financially to the
extent of some K 1.0 million annually, even though in contrast to
government services (maternity cases excepted), PHAM facilties charge
fees. Coordination between the two delivery systems is not very strong.
There is no commonality of staffing patterns or staff emoluments, and PHAM
facilities are significantly underutilized probably because of the fees
charged. Some District Councils run small health facilities, as do private
estates, and there is a small number of private practitioners in the three
principal urban areas -- Lilongwe, Blantyre and Zomba. Also, a 1979 report
estimated that there were some 5,000 traditional practitioners in Malawi,
including herbalists, about 400 of whom belong to the Herbalists
Association. Their association with the formal sector is slight but their
contribution, particularly to primary health care, could be made
*            significant.  Studies are required to determine how best this could be
done. To a large extent, the role of the private sector as a provider of
health services has been ignored in sectoral planning (paras. 42 and 48).
Medical Supplies
31.       The local pharmaceutical industry is not well developed in Malawi
and most of the country's pharmaceutical needs, for both public and private
sectors, .are imported. A formalized drug registration system for the
import of drugs and pharmaceuticals has yet to be instituted, and importers
are free to bring any new drug into the country. There is no national
laboratory for testing drugs and no system to check regularly the quality
of pharmaceutical products produced in or imported into Malawi (para. 45).



- 10 -
32.        The Central Medical Stores (CMS) procures drugs and medical
supplies primarily from foreign sources using international tenders. In
FY80-81, it handled drugs and ancillary medical supplies totalling around
K 3.8 million (US$3.5 million equivalent). Procurement is cumbersome and
has resulted in supplies with a limited shelf-life, piecemeal deliveries,
and often critical shortages at peripheral service points.  Because of this
situation, up to around 20 percent of all drugs locally procured are at
costs 50-300 percent higher than average international tender prices. CMS
also makes up a few compounds, such as medication for coughs and diarrhea,
in its small manufacturing pharmacies, the facilities and practices of
which are of a very low standard. Government health facilities are
virtually obliged to order from CMS; PHAM, army and district council health
units may also do so.
33.        The financing of the CMS is unsound.  It is dependent on a
capital fund of K 0.4 million sanctioned in 1964 by the Treasury and is
clearly under-capitalized in view of the steep rise in pharmaceutical
prices, particularly in the last four years. As a result, the CMS relies
on an overdraft from the Reserve Bank which in 1980-81 had reached
K 1.5 million. The mark-up of 3 percent to Government facilities and
5 percent to private and parastatal facilities were set in 1964 and are
unrealistically low. Administrative costs and operational expenses are met
from the MOH's recurrent budget.
Financing and Cost of Health Services
34.        Total expenditure on health services, both public and private, is
about US$9 per capita annually or about four percent of GNP per capita in
FY81. This is above average for low-income countries in Africa. Slightly
over half the total expenditure is by government institutions, PHAM being
responsible for about one quarter.  Although public spending on health (of
which the MOH is responsible for more than 80 percent) increased by
25 percent in real terms between FY76 and FY81, it did not keep pace with
other government spending, particularly on debt service, and in FY81 was
only 3.9 percent of all government spending. To maintain the same level of
public services by FY87 that prevailed in FY81 will require increasing the
MOH's budget by 25 percent in real terms. To avoid the deterioration in
health status that could occur if this funding gap is not closed, the
Government has decided to revise its national health plan to ensure optimum
utilization of scarce financial and human resources.  With the exception of
a small fee for deliveries, the only revenue derived from public sector
health services comes from the seven percent or so of patients who elect to
pay and receive a higher standard of care than those who do not. Concerned
with the funding gap, the Government is considerirLg options to raise
revenue and contain costs. These options, which include eliminating free
food at inpatient facilities, improving bill collection, and introducing a
government health insurance scheme, will be reviewed by consultants to be
employed under the proposed project. A health financing survey, funded by
WHO and designed with the assistance of Bank staff, should be completed by
mid-1983; the results will provide an important contribution to preparation
for the national health plan (para. 42).
35.        Since independence, Malawi has received substantial multilateral
and bilateral assistance in the health sector. UNICEF allocated
US$3.3 million in the period 1981-83 to support primary health care, water



- 11 -
and sanitation, nutrition and primary education. WHO provides technical
assistance and fellowship support. The European Development Fund has
financed the replacement of two old district hospitals and is planning on
replacing two more. The African Development Bank is rehabilitating two
district hospitals and building two new sub-centers. In an ongoing rural
development program in Dowa district, assisted by the International Fund
for Agricultural Development, peripheral health facilities are being
rehabilitated. Bilateral assistance has been provided by some ten
governments including the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, the United
Kingdom and the United States. Members of PHAM receive most of their
support from overseas missionary societies. In FY81, about one-third of
all estimated expenditures on health came from external assistance.
External assistance to the sector has been largely uncoordinated and
tended to perpetuate the uneven balance of financial allocations in favor
of curative services.  The formulation of a revised national health plan
is needed to provide a framework for investments from external as well as
local resources (para. 57).
Bank Group Involvement in the Health and Population Sectors
36.       Population.  Discussion on population issues started in 1981
when the Basic Economic Report, which contains substantial demographic
analysis, was reviewed with the Government. The report concluded that the
continual rapid growth of population was probably the single largest
obstacle to an improvement in incomes and welfare of the majority of
Malawians. It drew attention to the consequences of unchecked population
growth on already scarce land resources and the steadily increasing claims
on government resources for social services in education and health. It
recommended the Government begin to address the problem as soon as
possible. The population issue was further discussed at the highest
levels of Government in late 1981 and 1982. While the new child spacing
policy does not represent a shift towards active support of population
control, it does provide a sound basis on which to develop a child spacing
program in the Malawian cultural context. The Bank is assisting the
Government in its new initiative by including a child spacing component in
this health project and, through sector work and discussions, will
continue to explore solutions to Malawi's population problems.
37.       Health.  Since 1971, eight Bank Group financed
agricultural/national rural development projects have included health
components with a total investment of about US$4 million. Inputs have
ranged from enlarging and modernizing the Karonga Hospital to bilharzia
control programs and the development sub-centers and health posts.  Health
facilities were built but in some cases, particularly for health posts,
were underutilized due to inadequate staff and supplies. To better
utilize existing resources and ensure sufficient funding, the Bank's 1981
National Rural Development Program Review recommended the MOH strengthen
its administrative capacity to operate a network of health facilities and
develop a national plan with realistic priorities, including geographical
ones, for health care. It further suggested that the Government improve
its health delivery system through a national health project rather than
continuing to fund components as integral parts of the National Rural
Development Program.



- 12 -
38.       Concerned at the slow progress in health improveTient, the Bank,
at the Government's invitation, reviewed the health sector in late 1980.
The review pointed to the lack of an up-to-date national health plan as
contributory to many problems, including inadequately defined and
coordinated policies and strategies, poor manpower planning, a bias towards
hospital-based curative services, and lack of criteria for guiding health
sector investments. The review also highlighted the Government's failure
to coordinate adequately private sector's extensive health activities with
those of the Government, and noted that inadequate planning had aggravated
administrative weaknesses, particularly in financial management and the
procurement and distribution of pharmaceuticals. The review was accepted
by Government and provided the basis for developing the proposed project
and formulating a strategy for the sector.
Bank Group Strategy
39.       The Bank Group, through its economic and sector work and lending
for health projects, intends to continue supporting the Government's
program to improve the health status of its people and to address, over the
long run, Malawi's population problems. A second health project would be
designed to deal with the problems of staff shortages, inadequate
facilities, coordination of public and private health services, expanding
the outreach of preventive health activities, and health financing. It
would also be expected, based on the results of the fertility determinants
study, to tackle more systematically the problem of rapid population
growth. However, future support would depend on the successful development
of a sound, financially viable, national health plan and the achievement of
the institution-building objectives of the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The Government first approached the Bank concerning possible
financial and technical assistance to the health sector in September 1981
during discussion of the findings of the Health Sector Review mission. The
project was jointly identified in January 1982 and appraised in July 1982.
Negotiations were held in Lilongwe on March 14, 1983. The Government
delegation was led by Mr. John Phiri, Under Secretary, Ministry of
Finance.  A Staff Appraisal Report is being circulated separately.                        f
Annex III provides supplementary project data.
Project Objectives and Description
41.       The proposed project would improve the effectiveness and
efficiency of Malawi's health delivery systems in responding to its health
needs. Specifically it would, over a two-year period, help the Government
reach these objectives by:
(i) improving the MOH's ability to plan, monitor and evaluate
health programs and policies and develop a comprehensive
national health plan;



- 13 -
(ii) strengthening the MOH's ability to carry out epidemiological
studies with supporting laboratory services;
(iii) instituting an efficient, cost effective pharmaceutical
procurement and distribution system; and
(iv) introducing the first phase of a national primary health
care program; and
(v) introducing a child spacing program.
Detailed Features
42.       Planning and Administration.  Technical assistance and overseas
fellowship support would be provided to assist the MOH to produce a
comprehensive ten year national health plan for 1985-95 and to improve its
planning and evaluation capability. A group of consultants (health
planner, epidemiologist, manpower planner and financial analyst) would work
with the Health Planning Unit. Commencing work in mid-1983, they would
assess the infrastructural staffing, organizational and financial
requiremeats of Government health services as well as those provided by the
private sector, particularly PHAM. The consultants would each have a
designated counterpart and provide in-service training. This would be
supplemented by short-term overseas fellowships in health planning. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government would complete the
national health plan by December 31, 1984 (Section 4.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The project makes provision for two studies
to provide information for plan preparation. One, to be carried out by the
National Statistical Office, would analyze 1977 census data to provide
district level information on infant and child mortality. A second, to be
undertaken by the University of Malawi, would investigate the role of
traditional medical practitioners in delivering health services. Such
information is needed to determine the most appropriate strategy for
reducing the high rates of infant and maternal mortality and how to best
link the traditional and modern sectors. The consultant group would be
required to assist in examining ways of improving the presently low
utilization of PRAM facilities including reviewing its fee structure. The
results of the WHO health financing survey would form the basis for
continuing discussions between IDA and the Government on cost recovery
measures and would also be used by the financial analyst in reviewing the
Government's options for easing its resource constraints. The Government
has, however, agreed that, as a first step, it would, not later than April
1, 1984, introduce a scale of fees, acceptable to the Association, for
paying patients at its facilities, designed to maximize the revenue
collected for such services, taking into account the full marginal costs
and price elasticities of demand among paying patients (Section 4.03 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
43.       Community Health Sciences Unit. The project would rehabilitate an
old hospital in Lilongwe, build a new wing for a laboratory as well as
provide staff housing, equipment and vehicles, overseas fellowships and
technical assistance to establish a unit to collect and analyze
epidemiological data derived from surveys on a regular basis. The Deputy
Chief Medical Officer for Communicable Disease Control and Epidemiology in



- 14 -
the MOH would be the director of the new unit which would have a field
services section, headed by an epidemiologist, and a laboratory services
section, headed by a pathologist. Staff would be largely drawn from
existing programs. They would receive in-service training in survey
methodology, etc., or overseas training to obtain specialized skills in
microbiology, biochemistry, etc. Four WHO consultants funded by UNDP, an
epidemiologist, microbiologist, biochemist and laboratory technologist,
would be available from January 1985 to assist in establishing the unit,
providing in-service training and help to set up the laboratory services
section.
44.       Pharmaceutical Procurement and Distribtuion.  The project would
renovate existing buildings in Blantyre and construct new facilities in
Lilongwe and Mzuzu to serve as regional depots, arid provide consultant
support to improve the procurement and management of the pharmaceutical
system and its associated manufacturing capability. The regional depots
will improve stock flows, cut transport costs and provide safe storage.
Since 60 percent of medical supplies are transported by air, the Central
Medical Store (CMS) will be transferred to Lilongwe once the new
international airport becomes operational. To improve standards and cut
costs, each regional facility will have a manufacturing pharmacy capable of
compounding commonly used tinctures, mixtures and ointments. The project
would provide the manufacturing and quality control equipment. Two
consultants would be hired, one with expertise in procurement and inventory
control, and the other to assist with the improvement of pharmaceutical
manufacturing. In addition, the health planning groups' financial analyst
will be required to make recommendations to establish CMS as a commercial
entity and advise on its organizational status. I'he Government has agreed
that it would, by April 1, 1984, establish and operate the CMS as a
distinct, self-accounting undertaking, with appropriate business practices
and an organizational structure acceptable to IDA (Section 4.04 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
45.       The pharmaceutical consultants would visit Malawi twice, first to
help establish the new procurement system and manufacturing pharmacies and
later on to ensure their proper functioning. As an essential preliminary
the MOH has established an essential drugs list of not more than 300 items,
together with standardized dosage regimens and has taken an inventory of
current stocks. The consultants would also review the possibility of
utilizing the spare capacity of the private sector to provide large volumes
of essential drugs on contract. Although the local pharmaceutical industry
is not well developed, there is one firm, capable of doubling its output.
This possibility will be explored by Government on the basis of the
consultants' findings.
46.       The project would provide new equipment for the Medical Auxiliary
Training School at Lilongwe to enable it to produce pharmacy technicians in
addition to pharmacy assistants. The new cost-effective pharmaceutical
system is expectied to save about 20 percent of MOH recurrent expenditures
on pharmaceutical products, by limiting local purchases, improving
manufacturing procedures, and rationalising procurement.



- 15 -
47.       Primary Health Care.  The project would assist the Government in
developing the first phase of a national primary health care program
designed to involve communities in solving their health problems. It will
provide for essential upgrading of rural facilities, equipment, vehicles,
information and evaluation activities, and training (with contributions
from UNICEF and WHO), to develop a program covering some 150 villages in
Mwanza, Dowa and Mzimba districts. To coordinate the implementation of the
primary health care program, a core group representing the public and
private setors has been established and separate coordinators appointed by
the MOH and PHAM to oversee primary health care activites. After receiving
in-service training by EDF-funded consultants, the NOH members of the core
group will, in turn, train members of district health teams. This should
be completed by June 1983. District health teams will be responsible for
the training and retraining of some 250 peripheral health staff, district
development and village health committees and important community groups.
The process of identifying and addressing health problems will be initiated
through village health committees. The village committees will each select
two primary health care workers; one of these, probably a traditional birth
attendant, would be responsible for MCH and nutrition work, and the other
would be concerned with the treatment of the four most serious community
health problems - eye diseases, malaria, accidents and diarrhoeas. Both
would be part-time workers and supplement the work of health committee
members in supporting MOH activities such as immunization campaigns, MCH
and child spacing programs, and environmental programs. A training unit
established in each of the three districts will be staffed by a clinical
officer and a public health nurse who will be supported by central and
district level trainers. To provide committees and workers with adequate
information and materials, the MOH's Health Education Unit will produce
materials and a simple handbook for primary health care workers. The
project includes a 12 months overseas fellowship to train a member of the
Health Education Unit in communications planning with emphasis on
interpersonal communications.
48.       To ensure that peripheral health centers are adequate to support
community involvement and cope with an anticipated increase in work load,
the project would upgrade six existing facilities in Dowa and Mzimba
districts and provide staff houses, bicycles and motorcycles for health
staff and voluntary workers. Training facilities, including a classroom
for 30 participants, will be built at the district hospitals or other nodal
9         points if the district hospital is peripherally situated in the district as
it is in Dowa District. The number of staff required for the upgraded
health centers and training units is small and no problems with postings
-         are anticipated.  Nevertheless, the Government has given assurances on the
staffing of the health centers (one medical assistant, one health
assistant, and two enrolled nurse-midwives), the training units (one
clinical officer and one public health nurse), and the district health
teams (one medical officer, in overall charge, one public health nurse, one
health inspector, and two MCH coordinators) (Section 4.06 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). To ensure close coordination between
Government and PHAM, the Government has agreed that all primary health care
activities initiated by non-government entities will be reviewed by the
national primary health care core group (Section 4.05 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Implementation of the primary health care
program would be carefully monitored and changes made as necessary.



- 16 -
49.       Several organizations which have historically been associated
with primary health care in Malawi will participate in project activities.
WHO, through its regular budget, will continue to sponsor candidates for a
primary health training course in Nigeria, the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities will assist in training of traditional birth
attendants, and UNICEF will fund the local training courses, handbooks,
kits and drugs for primary health care workers. Altogether, this
assistance will amount to some US$0.6 million. The various executing
agencies have been kept fully apprised of the project and its status.
The Goverment has reconfirmed the intentions of these UN agencies to
participate in the project.
50.       Child Spacing.  The project will assist the Government to
integrate child spacing services and counselling into its maternity and
child health program. It provides for the rehabilitation of inadequate
antenatal facilities at 16 hospitals, commodity support, equipment,
technical assistance and study tours. In the first year of the project,
family planning and MCH services will be provided at the two central
hospitals at Lilongwe and Blantyre, Zomba General Hospital and at each of
the remaining 21 district hospitals.  Services will be extended to rural
areas in the second year when one health center will be selected in each
district.
51.       To provide effective services and informal counselling, a
training program will be established. Ten experienced nurse-midwives will
be selected and trained by senior staff of the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in
Blantyre supported by a consultant. They will in turn train the tutors of
nursing schools and the Lilongwe School for Health Sciences, staff who will
provide services, and staff at non-service facilities who will provide
counselling. Technical training centers will be established at Zomba,
Blantyre and Lilongwe. Facilities are generally adequate, but an old
nurses home at Lilongwe will require rehabilitaticon to house trainees from
the Central and Northern Regions. Training support will be provided by the
MOH's Health Education Unit and a six months extension of the present WHO
consultant's contract will be required. To help senior MOH staff to
develop an understanding of this field, provision is made for ten one-month
study tours to visit other African programs such as those in Zimbabwe and
Kenya. In addition to the 2000 staff of the MOH who will receive
orientation, selected groups of community leaders will be invited to
two-day courses to acquaint them with child spacing concepts. Curricula of
health staff trained in Malawi will be formally revised during the project
to include child spacing techniques and concepts. A consultant will assist
in training and advising on course programming. To backstop MOH staff,
handle referrals and supervise the child spacing program, the MOH is
currently recruiting three doctors, with financial assistance from UNFPA
and the Pathfinder Fund, to be posted in the Northern, Central and Southern
Regions. -To provide information on family formation in Malawi, needed to
expand the child spacing program in subsequent years, the project makes
provision for a family formation study. Carried out by the National
Statistical Office with the support of 11 months of consultancy, the study
will, inter alia, contribute to a better understanding of the causes of the
presently high infant mortality and fertility rates. It is expected to be
completed by December 1984.



- 17 -
Project Implementation
52.       The project would be administered by the Principal Secretary of
the MOH. Day-to-day responsibility would be assumed by the heads of the
various sections of the Ministry concerned (e.g., Planning, Community
Health Sciences, Primary Health Care, etc.). A coordinating committee,
chaired by the Principal Secretary, will meet quarterly to review
implementation progress. The committee will include representatives of the
MOH, the Economic Planning Division of the Office of the President and
Cabinet, the Ministries of Finance, Works and Supplies, and PHAM. The
Health Planning Unit, suitably staffed, will take the lead in developing
the national health plan assisted by the health planning consultants.
Proposals to strengthen the unit and clarify its functions have been agreed
with IDA. The child spacing program will be directed by the Assistant
Chief Medical Officer for MCH. Construction of the civil works required in
the proposed project will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Works
and Suppies: a civil works program, acceptable to IDA, including sketch
plans, site acquisition, specifications and quantities, has been agreed on.
Project Costs and Financing
53.       Total project costs, in end-1982 prices, are estimated at
US$8.7 million equivalent, of which US$3.6 million, or 41 percent, would be
foreign costs. Taxes and duties are negligible. Details are included in
the Credit and Project Summary. Of the total project cost, US$0.6 million
(seven percent) would be financed by grants from UNDP, WHO and UNICEF.
Eighty percent of the remaining costs, would be financed by an IDA credit
of SDR 6.3 million (US$6.8 million equivalent). Excluding the contribution
of the UN agencies, the proposed credit would finance the foreign exchange
component (US$3.3 million) and 73 percent of local costs. This level of
financing is justified because of Malawi's low per capita income, difficult
budgetary situation and their better than average implementation record.
The Government would finance the remaining local costs, including taxes and
duties, of US$1.3 million equivalent (15 percent). Physical contingencies
of 10 percent were added to the costs of civil works and five percent for
vehicles and equipment. Price contingencies for foreign costs allow for an
eight percent rise in 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984 and seven percent in 1985.
Price contingencies for the local costs of civil works are 18 percent each
year and for vehicles and equipment 12 percent annually. The cost
estimates include 99 man-months of consultancy services for planners,
epidemiologists and financial analysts (US$1.3 million) at an average cost
of around US$12,600 per man-month for salaries, international travel and
subsistence.  They also include 142 man-months for overseas fellowships at
an average cost of around US$1,840.
Procurement
54.       Contracts for equipment, vehicles and supplies (US$0.9 million)
would be awarded by international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines, excepting contracts of less than US$100,000 each.
Such contracts would be awarded following competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank Group.
Review of tender documents prior to award would not be required. Civil
works contracts (estimated at US$3.7 million) would also be awarded



- 18 -
following competitive bidding advertised locally (with foreign firms able
to participate) and under procedures acceptable to IDA. These contracts
(US$0.2 - US$0.8 million each) would be too small and widely dispersed to
attract foreign interest. Review of tender documents prior to award would
not be required for contracts costing less than US$200,000. For those
civil works items (US$0.9 million) involving rehabilitation and upgrading
mostly in remote rural areas, construction would be by force account of the
Ministry of Works and Supplies. Consultants' would be selected in
accordance with the August 1981 Bank Group guidelines. During negotiations
the Government agreed to employ consultants and experts on terms and
conditions of employment acceptable to the Association and to designate a
Malawian counterpart to work with each consultant. It was further agreed
that the Government would, not later than September 30, 1983, employ a
health planner, an epidemiologist, a financial analyst, a manpower planning
expert, and two pharmaceutical consultants (Section 3.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Mutually acceptab:Le terms of reference have
already been developed.
55.       Architectural designs, draft tender documents and master lists of
equipment and furniture, including proposed groupings, would be reviewed by
the Association and items grouped to encourage competive bidding and permit
bulk procurement. In international competition bidding, domestic
manufacturers of furniture and equipment would enjoy a preference of
15 percent or the existing applied rate of import duties, whichever is
lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers.
Disbursements and Audits
56.       Proceeds from the proposed Credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 80 percent of local expenditures for civil works; (b) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for directly imported goods and 90 percent of local
expenditures for vehicles, equipment, and supplies; and (c) 100 percent of
expenditures for consultant services and external fellowships. All
disbursements would be fully documented, except for civil works done under
force account, in which case disbursements would be made against statements
of expenditures. Accounts would be audited by the Auditor General or by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association not later than six
months after the end of the fiscal year (Section 4.01 (c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The Government would monitor progress of
the project and, not later than six months after the closing date, would
prepare and submit to the Association, a full report evaluating the project
(Section 3.04 (d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Monitoring
will be concerned with satisfactory completion of activities highlighted in
the implementation schedules of the staff appraisal report. Quarterly
progress reports on the project would be submitted to the Bank. They would
be prepared by the Deputy Secretary of the MOH, with assistance from the
Planning Unit, and would be reviewed by the coordinating committee before
submission to IDA.
Benefits and Risks
57.       The project would improve the efficiency of the health delivery
system while preparing a revised cost-effective national health plan to



- 19 -
ensure the optimum utilization of scarce human and financial resources. By
the end of the project period, an improved pharmaceutical system will be in
place (one which will actually reduce expenditure for drugs), some 120,000
low income persons will be directly involved in ameliorating their own
health problems, and child spacing services will have been introduced in
urban and rural areas. It represents the first institution-building phase
of a program designed to greatly improve health status in Malawi. In this
respect, the project will set the stage for future development of the
sector, for the mobilization and better coordination of local financial
resources and external assistance, and for systematically tackling Malawi's
health problems in the 1980s and mid-1990s. Although there are no special
risks associated with the project, the MOH's planning, is weak. The
project will, however, greatly strengthen the MOH's planning, monitoring
and evaluation capacity.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Republic of Malawi and the
Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
59.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 5, 1983



-20 -                                          ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAWI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MAIAWI                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE2GES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KH.)                                                              M- NST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            118.5                                   MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTIRAL      41.4                 1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OP SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     60.0        90.0     200.0                 250.8                  1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           ..        48.0      67.2                  66.5                   610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    3419.0       4513.0   6050.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    4.4          6.4       9.6                  17.8                    28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         11.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           42.9
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          28.9        38.1      49.5                  27.7                    54.7
PER SQ. 104. AGRICULTURAL LAND       90.0       114.3    141.7                   86.7                   129.9                              A
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            45.5        46.8      47.3                  44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                            52.1        50.8      48.9                  52.3                    51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.4         2.4       3.8                   2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.4         2.8       2.9                   2.7                     2.8
URBAN                                 4.5         6.6       7.0                   6.2                     5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        53.0        51.6       56.1                 47.3                    47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        27.2        23.2       22.4                 19.5                    15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.4         3.4       3.8                   3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)       ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             90.0        91.0      96.0                  88.7                    90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      95.2        99.7      96.9/c                90.2                   93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             65.5        71.6       68.2-1               53.1                   54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          13.6        19.0       18.6/c               18.4                   17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        49.3        45.4       39.1                 26.7                   23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)       37.2        41.6      44.2                  45.6                   51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             206.8       193.6      171.9                129.9                  118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  *-           *-      33.0/d               23.9
URBAN                                  ..          ..       70.0/d               54.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..       29.0/1               18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..         ..                 25.8
URBAN                                  ..          ..       15.0/d               63.1
RURAL                             ...               ..       ..                  20.2                     ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            35247.4     38429.8  41007.0                32097.3                14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       12917.6/e   9051.7   3833.7/c                3264.6                 2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               866.0       649.3      743.8               1225.0                 1036.4
URBAN                               115.0/e     155.7       82.2/c              249.5                  430.8
RURAL                              1312.O/e     895.7    1484.4/c              1712.1                 3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..        32.1      39.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                  ..         3.4/f
RURAL                                  ..          o.07       *
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                  *-         1.7/        *
RURAL                                   ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..         ..
URBAN                                  *.         16.0/f
RUEAL                                   ..         ..



- 21-                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAWI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAWI                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- OST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                    ..         35.0      62. 0                  63.2                    83.3
MALE                    ..         45.0      73.0                   72.7                     96.1
FEMALE                  ..         26.0      51.0                   50.3                    80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   1.0         2.0        4.0                   10.2                    15.3
MALE                   1.0          3.0        5.0                  13.2                     19.4
FEMALE                 0.3          1.0       2.0                    6.6                     11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  23.6            2.9       4.9                    7.9                      4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             40.9         43.8     65.0                    47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                           13.7         16.2     21.0                    26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..         22.1/i    25.0                   34.0                     35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.9          2.2       1.9/d                  3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.8/e      23.5       42.6                   34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.7           ..        ..                    1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POP/LATION                     ..           ..       5.3                    2.9                    19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.3             ..       0.3/h                  1.1                     0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1570.3       1981.5    2527.6
FEK,ALE (PERCENT)                   38.7        38.1       36.7                  34.1                     36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               92.0         89.0      86.0                   78.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.0         4.0        5.0                    9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 45.9         43.9      41.8                   41.4                     37.0
MALE                                  57.5         55.3       53.6                  53.9                     46.9
FEMALE                                34.8         32.9      30.3                   29.1                     27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1        1.2                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         32.6/i
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           50.67T
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         10.4/i
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         21.57        .
PUVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
(                            URBAN                                  ..          ..      123.0                 134.3                    507.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      99.0                   82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
-                            URBAN                                  ..          ..       65.0                  96.4                    523.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      52.0                   60.4                   203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      25.0                   39.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..      85.0                   69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977;  /d 1976;  /e 1962; /f 1967; /g 1972; /h 1975; /i 1966; /1 1968.
Kay, 1982



- 22 -                                                                                   ANNEX II
DEUT OPSO  SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                                        Page    3   of    5
Mete.:Although the dataar  draw  fromtutc  generally judged the meet auhrtaieed reliable.  it should alec be .totd than they say ou                              -itr-
-etasely  r             bpesi   _eae  of the lack of sn-drdited definirin   and o....epsa used.by diffter-eoro..nrir fu o-lle-iog rho data,  Tie da  re,vae
thebes.asful no describe arder  at sagi-ado. i.dinene trends, and thracterie. oetir IIaJr differencee                             .. htru tr,ie..
The reernc  grour  ore (1  ho sae    onygru  of rho auh.Jecn  -outry sod (2) a  eur  groop  irih  -as-a  highe or                      -9teg  jocos  tier rho country erro
of vieaci)-toocnryl fe.c.p   fur   "High Income   Oil Eupoeters" group whre 'Middle I.oo-   ar th Afrio- and Middle East" Lschosev hbcusa of strng-
one indicatr at    -n-eIn rho contY sodreference grouPs.
AgEA (nhausad sqim'.)                                                                                1tirr1
Tonal - Tonal surfers area coprising lud area sad ioleod w-tra; 1979 dons,                       crir,co  ruw)diie  b   hir rePective.. nuber of hospitl1 bedo
Agr.Icutua  - fetimane of agricalnurl ser  asad romoraily or persrtiy                            sviiohle  in pblifo so  pri-rere genra  and spe-iaier    opta   n   e
fer- orop. panure..   -kt-e and kitchen gardoa or no ILe fallow   199dns                       aiinsu    enes    aaiesoesa_shsn    eraety   rf
by atI.. Iaa  ... PihYtui-er. tsblciaest  pro-idiog principally  -asto-
Gff?POtCPT   IS      N   e           oaetmtsa   crs    aktpie,tl                                   dialrareare err included.  JuaX         opr ai1 .  on-roe  inclIde hisih
eatd by saeccvrio    ehod as-1drl  fauk Atlas (1978420 heal): 1960.                          and  eLoeL  eenrs one ItPorm-o1y ateffed hy a Iysca               htby.
1970. sod 1980 deta.                                                                            medinal es Itro, or    miwfe n. ) which offerIs-pa s    _nr__
uti  so -provide   lmlidrage of medical faoilirina    Porcrne
Enact CCISUN(PTlfN PER _CAPITA - IeolcsomtoTf oena  eeg                       Ica                  ti-1  rpaeoe  anon hoapiteas fairafe SHIn priscipal/9eonel hospitals.
aed ILgeint, petrolu,  aualgoso   yto.sol-odhgotera  elm-                                        an  rra  hopitals,  Zlrl or rural hespitsle-sd medical and maternity
te iciy) in kilograo of coa I.ia -n yscPita; 1960. 1970, and 1979                               cetr,SpeIalid hoptl  are Onlde4d oly cde  retrul.
frmhospitlsl divided by tie number of heat.
POPUllATIOI  AND  VTTAL STATISTICS                                                             HU:
Torl  op1    sio.  id-Teor (thousads) - do of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1980                   OtRNG
data.                                                                                       Averuse flee cf  a-sheld (prsnsre              h.oeb'd  -        -tta,   o, and rrl
Urban inulri-n  (ecnof nona1l - Ratic uf arb    no nasal populeIon;                             A hosashld  conaeo      roupofidividuals) e    harelining qorer..
differu  defliniois of urban aeen sy affect namparebiliiy of dote                             and the ir male melt.  A b-ad-f orldger may orma  ru  h  ia-lodd Le
-w cuties; l960, 1970,..ad 1960 de.                                                       the household for  -taiseicalpupn.
Pouainpro JectLong                                                                      Ave- e   uero  pter   e 'Iu-tt',  rias, and -ruco   -.e..age   n
Pouaion iny-  000 -_ Cu_rrn  populaniou prjetiuns ure base.d on 1980                    her of pesn  prromi   l  urban, nd caro  -c_p id o                   tvrioa
total population by age sod se  and thie   merna1iry end fertilinyrna                       d-Illgo, eesp-ctive1y.   -eligenldene-yerso.n ....                 rresen
Pooj-ctio  paramters foe_ roiy rate  cmrsof  irhee level  -su                                necpied p--ca
log life eupeonery en  il Lrn  inre..lo LI rbcooy'prapine iLrown                          Acean  fetily  )pscthn of. drelling)-  oelEric  adrus
me.ter  forferiiy rt   loh  ecoelenl  assmin  declin  nof nuna1, urban, sod rura  deell log   onpceY.
fernitiyec-nvding no income 1ene  en'd postf fsly pla...ing promne
tac  ccory Ls trn ass igod one of thesenir  osl          osof mertality             EDUCAXTIOs
sodferility  -reds for projecion purposes.                                              MdIuted    -1olmn  tuna
foan    ...c ...urn   _oualn-owsio..aroycylsin her  La no grosh sinc                    Prior ,nnuI - cra,   al  aud female - Crone tonal, salt end fesale
,h.ebirthira-  Lse-Ial,onhedesthirote ,andaaoonthesgnsnrtourere1                                - 1-encl Irnfsiluoeaonnr ho rrl ryleeluye-             enge   frsotv
meln cnstnt   Thn i  ahieed  ol  ater  terlfe   vne  declinen                           omr   roloepplnao   omlyioue  cidre   ge -11
nfwmnrplaces .ar10 anooly.  Tin  nsfionary population sine eecatiewth anvra  edunalo   esole    a                                                    lned 100 peroet
.stimard on tie basis of nit proJecoed char-rrietic- uf the Population                        sice          . puils ar  ile orhon  the officia  stie   age.
Intshe yea.r 2000. sad the rat  of decine of fertilIty etst to replace-                     i      r   col-ttal. saleanod female - Go.puned as ahon; sen...dary
mrlee.1                                                                                   educaton ee'oire  t  l..a  ..You .yar  of approve  prIMayasrti;
Yer. roi.,   r  onua ion   .o.coahd -Tlb  y-o  ehen unot inoy populationpree  gonc-l, o-caloa..  or teerhr nrailiog inrtructnone for pupils
Per so. kn.- Mid-yea  popu1ation pr ksus   ilomenr (log h-c-r) of                          PVcatio       nrollmen  .r.r... olf  .e..ndory) - Pocenisoal inaninoniass
tnlae;1960. 1970 and 1979 dan.                                                        icIndr  -ehical,  narra,o  ohrprgroa wichoprt  indeped-
Per so.  '.9arIcicu -url land - iCupu-d oabove foragnoltru  lnd                               enl   r as department of..e.ondoryintuis.
ony   960. 1971 end 199dt.'i-erhrrto-piay  andiocedu-                                                                                y -.Tre tra der, naeu1oild i
Pupulslton dAn. Sn_nture frernun) - Cildre  (0-14 years). cokn-ge(5                              rimary enIYodrlvl   iir   byctrs ofrebrsiib
6  years,  an6.d grlired (h5 yese  end ove) as percentages of mid-year ppa-                    ..rr......iI. levels
isriJ.;' 16,970, and log0 date.                                                             Adult lireray rote (portent) - Literanedulto  (able no read sod edge.)
plpu~lati   Oron   ate(es -en)q -.tota  - Annual groah esns of itatl mid-                         sper nretge  ofrota  adult population aged 15 pears and over.
yerppltion  for 150-6. ;196_70,e 17-0
PornisnianGrowh Rate (per-te) -u s-Ana groch rants of urban prpn-                           CONSSIITION
latien   tr 195-60, 1961-700,ed17-                                                          Pas....eR- Curt (per th-unad e...uLano)-   Passsger oars coprisemeo
Crude Rini IRate (per theusan d) - Annual ILice birtha par thu..s..d of sid-year                oars sea ringTlo       neiht p.%arsn; esc1udesablars  heas.-
poulnos   ;96_1970. and 1980 data-                                                          milits-y vehicles
Crude leach late, pe .t ..ssd) - du... Ideaths per thnuasd  of mid-year                       Radio  eceivers (pre  rhonsand proo1anie   - All type  o f reciver  for radio
pplnc;16,1970, and 18  dora.bracsstgnrl publi  pert ii ud of population; s-rldosan
Grows  Oerd -oir ,RneAveaenume   f daughers a onsa  will bear LIn                                iesdrciesi ioito   ad.cyar.o                           rgsneiodf- rsd
ir _oma  erdurtiv  p~eridif- she toprie.... preenaeseii   e-                            esesiefc;dtafrrc                        er   a n I.he cit'areblsic
vilify rates; usualy  ine-yev averge .eding in 1960, 1970.  rd 1900fona  orntien. abolishdlc ig
Puio   lona-ccopnra. Ans  crsn    - Ascl   nubr            tfaoenr                   TV tecei-r  (per ihesad  oeiaio- TV recevrfoirdatr
of1 bsri-hontr   d-nius Ilden syieof -sn-on  familypaon  program                               genera -public Per chousadppuei;rnuduscnnd Prcivs
Pamily   lona-lsern  (-rer   f sridZmenos  - Pernentsge of maried                               'in_ctrira and in peors ebrregitration ufT   et   e  in effect
one   f chd-bearing ae (15-Zdyas   i  w  birth-cra ter-  devices or                     N-wpepe  Cirouluciac  (per thoasund  eurleic) - Show  ntt. avrage  ir-
almried  -n   LIn nae- g g. rou.                                                            uleio          "diY ge..v_l iter_e  newpaper", defined asa riodical
pbialednted primarily ne recording genol  es   It, La canidered
POOr ADE fNUTRITIOfN                                                                              to ho "deiiy' if L  appears at 1an  four time rk
Coder of Pod Prodctio  pee Capita  (1919-71-180) -  ode  of per capita  -ssa                  Cisem   A-no   ttedanSe per CarO   per fearY  -Bused tushb  nuee of
perdurtian  f Jr fon   _-nd ities.   Podcio  sods  ed med feed sod                            tiobs-  ..Id danin  tie Year. iscludiag admisian  not driv-in  mamas
is so calendar pest basin.  Co-nditles covr pri-ary goods (e.g  onacaead   ebilr anita.
iveind of augur) which are edible sod  -tsrisorier  (.. ofe  and
naiAn aerg  podcr pricePw=igir; 1961-60.  970, ad 1000 dai.tTona  Labor Perot (theo-anda) - Ecroomlrally relive person, ilerlding
Par capita anpely of caloies (pectte  rf eqcom)-Computed from                                   ormd force  adi.utemployrd.hut  -nclding houseive,itdnser,
enry  qiva~      .-'len   fnnmd cup~plrs a_iblse in coutry peer -pinecnro    ouoro   falae.    Defnitonsintarius  uwirie   s
PerCy.A vililt ouIpp Len cprins domestic11  production, LmPorts lea                           non cmparsble; 1960. 1970 and 1960 dn.-
snpeen, en   fhne  in snuck_.  et suppliec enclud  animal ferd, serds,                        Femal  (perceon) - PFmlslabor force a  puragof  t.tl labor force
qanfite   utinfd I        proceSIng  ed lunsIn dintribunrnL.   Require-                       Agricu1turt (pr-cnt  - bi    frc  ivfamig  frrtstry, hnting and
met roe oe   -an uand by PAO buse.d on physioloical nerds f- normal eni-                        fishing us pe--nas  of rood1 lahbr force; 196g. 1970 and i980 dan.
city.and h-alc  conidering  -ni- -1ol  epear               b. bdy soightn. age                Industry (percet)   main  forceimnngcorrrormauctig
andse   diniuno f PoPulation, and aloig10 prceno I feratea                                     an d elenicitry,etrad gssPercEntg  cfove  lbor fLr_
hnushiod leve; 191-5190sd971  aa                                                                1960. 1970 and 1900 dana.
Par caoina suppl  of orocein  (aroa ore day) - Proein conreot of prcupine  Pariuptic rnI,  Con  (percet  -             _nnl  sl. and fe_ue _ Partic'~pania   o
.e,suply of foo  pee- dap'. fe  sup1pl!y of ford isidefine'd asaoeIe ciiyrtsatcmuu   uitl   ae   n   eaelbor fore u
qulv-mni  Ifor all c-tnrirs  - osbisbhd by 0U0  pr-cido forsn-         mpeorue  oftna,ol  and fonel 1.Poplrv f all ages yespetiv-ly; 
tllona_esIf if gras  fi r.cl protein per iay and 20 gree  ofsiml nod                          1960. 1970 . ad 1980nt-T w   r  b=sd on1.01's partinipena   rti
pulne protei, of such  00grana ohoul  h  anImal potein.  Ti rt etad-        raflncmoL oftso    anurr   ftepplro,sd long tIme ir td
edo aa bon  niathinse  f P  grs   f  oa  protin nod 23 g-sm  if                          fescarsrrfoamnaionlsucs
aima  poni  an Lcoroee  the erld.  rpadb   A   nteTr                                       Economic  Ipner  team   - Conic of cpl nader 11 sod hi aed ovr
W-r1d Pond nurce; 191-hi,. 197  nud lO  data.                                                 to the total Iubor for-r
Per _rita crotein  sanely fro  uniaEnd I    .s  - P.t.m  -upel  of toed de-
rbivei,d iro  -nimal and pu1..a in gren- e  day; 196-65. 1970 and 1977 data.               INOMEtf  DIST,IOUTTOf
Chl _ar  1-)  ruih Con  (per ohianad) - Aaaos1 deah  P-ths he ....osd Ln               Perc-scge oFPrivat  Inme (inch In cash and kind) - He-el-r  by rihest 
agegrupl-4feac, tn childrn lohsg    ru.                                                                              _msdnlpncot4~cn.lhs2prenpces    fpretudncs  lenr
oriao dans dr-iv-d from life teblen; 1960, 1970 and 1900 data.                                of ho....boldo.
ooAo.m                                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Life Inpeclcac  an    'hm 'Y'sro  - Average enbte  of yours of life ermaiiag                  Th.e foloi"g'nniat  are  -ry apprunim-ne maueof povrty lws
an bloth; 190,170ad 1900 data                                                                 sod should be -trpr-cd wihn  csdere cannon.l
Isfena gcrraliy gene (per vbhsoend) - Annul dasnhs of luger. is d-r nonTer                     st edabsolute Pe.rery Incu    Lve  (Ef  penria  -arias and meal -
ofo  r e  thsso   ie   ira;16,  9fso   90aa                                               abolte poverty  incom  leve  is n=   incom  irve  bl1w  sinh a minimal
Aces  ohfW sense(erooF        fp--   nmn      oa,uhe,adrrl-rm                               stris -io ly odqotdiaf Piues rlal sosfod rqu-ts-  In Oat
her  Ig people (toral. urban, amA rural ) winh rnonble           ..es  to safe                affordable.
weerep   ,incldes treated surf aceter  or       __teedboo   - -auoimead             ttiad R    slniePner  In-weinlft  per caita       rbnad  ae
eater suh as then ten. pr--nid b-rehae. apripugs.da eotr  wells) as-se l reltive povety Lnoem  level i   n-rie   o   veae  e    pr
paooo   f tihirr-p-tive populations.  In so oKbeo ses  a            rpersonl incom   of she roownry.  Crime leve  is derived frum  the rural
fooano   teapast Il...ned en  mer  then 000 meters tram  a  osom    he                  ee  eih adjustmet fur higho  cot of licieg iurban. areas.
=osidr-d as_beig  lthin  -esoble access of thtiae.C   ealaeslaiar  PplsosBlwAbsolut  Porety  mos   ee   ese~                                                            rban
-sa bshi  Iceamud  tmlyabt the h...-Itfe.rmtr  of t2-h he=ehod                        d          real -. Percent~ ofpopolatias (urba  .andrrl   h   r   msi
go met hov  to sped adsrpeto sPars of rho day  in f-thimg the
Aeeces to berets Bipa.lI ferret of sotalatio)d- it-l.other, a-d rurl
f.luter  f people frtatl, uea, sod rura)sevdbyrraadiap-u  as
PerrssgI  o..f their ronpeciv -      plei E. Erete dinpeme  may felode
eh. solnissd diposal, sigh Ie wight tesmt.t eC hiWn  -eag
adasewtrby eater-hors   ysre  or rho ass of pit p,ire  . ad aii-
P'al     h'w   a  Pbrsis  - Papoarir Aided hy stber at pransfalg phyci-                                                     Oc-ri. etd Senial Beta Dinaim
rins  qsoliflad P ma   iral ecoe  as si-rity leve.                                                                           Ec-soia Aelysia ea  Pejeosisos Bspaert
Prewlatgeg ear Isim   Pm .o-Pprw1atiso dividedb hr etea  ef pr...laing                                                                           May 1982
mACad fsml   edstamns    elarsr - mr., pemetieal   -wn  asd
Tnsageelke.,L-



-23-                               ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
MAT AWI
ECONCNIC INDICATORS
GRDSS NATIONAL PRDOUCr IN 1981                                 ANNUAL RATE OF GRQWTH
(%, constant prices)
U$ 141n.    %                       1973-1980          1981
GNP at Market Prices           1,257.5   100.0                        5.1            -1.3
Gross Domestic Tnvestment        255.3    20.3                        8.1           -25.9
Gross National Saving             89.0     7.1                       -2.8           -10.8
Current Account Balance        -166.3   -13.2                          -               -
Exports of Goods, NFS            341.7    27.2                        6.0            -2.5
Imports of Goods, NFS            433.6    34.5                        0.5           -16.2
CYrU-=, EbWVLO-     AND
PRODUCTTVrrY IN 1981
Value Added             Labor Force             V.A. Per Wbrker
IJ$ Mln.       %        Thousand      %              US      % of Ave.
Agriculture                      477.1      39.5       2,798.7      93.3           170.5      42.2
Industry                        221.9       18.4          85.8       2.9         2,586.3    642.7
Services                        508.4       42.1         116.1       3.9         4,378.9  1,088.2
Total                       1,207.4     100.0       3,000.6    100.0            402.4    100.0
(nVENPIM  FINANCE                                                    Central Government
( KMn.)                % of GDP
1980/81     1980/81   1977/78-1979/80
Current Receipts                                                199.2        16.8          17.0
Current Expenditure                                             183.7        15.5          14.8
Current Surplus                                                  15.5         1.3          2.2
Capital Expenditures                                            174.9        14.7          12.0
External Assistance (net)                                        83.3         7.0           9.5
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                                     1977       1978       1979        1980      1981
(Million K outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Mbney                                     122.7      133.2      144.7       177.9     218.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector                              44.2        61.9       96.4       128.3     206.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector                             87.7       122.3      170.8       182.4     191.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money a % of GDP                           17.0       16.9       16.6        17.9      18.4
Implicit GDP deflator (1978&100) Annual Percentage
cnanges in:                                      99.9       100.0      102.7      114.9      137.6
Implicit GDP deflator                                      12.8        0.1        2.7        11.9      19.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                               6.1         7.9       11.0        12.9      17.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                              12.2       15.6       19.6        18.3      16.1
NCTE: All conversions to dollars in this Annex are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
May 1982



- 24 -
ANNE( I
Page 5 of 5
MAI
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPrIAL FLWS
RALAINE OF PAMIENTS                                                              MERCHANDISE EXPOCRS (AVERAGE 1979-1981)
1977    1978    1979    1980   1981                               U$ Mn.    %
(7lrnions U$ )
Tobacco                 123.0      45.5
Exports of Goods, NFS             241.8   220.1   256.7   341.3  341.8        Tea                      36.4      13.5
Imports of Goods, NFS             279.1   387.5  465.5   508.2  433.6        Groundnuts                14.2       5.3
Resource Balance                  -37.3 -167.4 -208.8 -166.9 -91.8            Sugar                    46.1      17.1
All Other Cbmmodities    50.6      18.7
Total                   270.3    100.0
Factor Payments (net)             -25.5    -4.7   -42.6   -52.1  -70.4
Net Current Transfers Private       5.5      5.9   -0.4    -6.4   -4.1        EXIERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Balance on Current Account        -57.3 -166.2  -251.8  -225.3 -166.3
U$ Mln.)
Direct Private Foreign                                                        Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    687.0
Investrent                        5.5     9.7    13.5      5.9     6.0a    Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Net MLT Borrowlrg                                                                Total outstandirg & Disbursed  687.0
Disbursenents                    99.7   135.7   125.4   159.9   124.1
Amortizations                     15.3    18.7    19.3    32.9    36.2      NET DEBT SERVICE RATIOC  for 1981
Subtotal                         84.4   117.0   106.1   127.0    87.9
Capital Grants                     19.9    38.9   46.6    50.0    49.9                                             %
Other Capital (net)                -6.9   -29.4    44.3    35.8  -17.4
Other Items n.i.e.                  12.3    11.9    29.9    15.8    19.2      Public Debt, Incl. guaranteed      26.1
Increase in Reserves (+)          +57.9  -18.1   -11.4    +9.2  -20.7        Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed      26.1
Gross Reserves (end year)          84.4    72.2    63.2    72.8   55.8b
IBRD/IDA lending, Dec. 31, 1981
Petroleun Imports                  23.7    30.1    46.8    55.0    47.2a    (A4n U$)
Petroleum Re-exports                 -        -       -      -        -                                 IBRM      IDA
(Inc. Third
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                      Window)
U$ - K                              .9029   .8437   .8169   .8121   .8953    Outstandirg & Disbursed  52.3    145.1
K 1 - U1 1.1075  1.1853  1.2241  1.2314  1.1169    Undisbursed                                         22.9   109.1
Outstanding irncluding)
UTndisbursed           75.2    254.2
a  Estimate.
b  Through September 1981.
c  Ratio of debt service payments to exports of goods and non-factor services excluding  repayments to  IMF.
Not available
Not applicable                                                                   Yay 1982



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of December 31, 1982)
Bank
incl.
Loan or                                                        Third              Un-
Credit No.  Year      Borrower   Purpose                       Window    IDA disbursed
Five loans and 16 credits have been fully disbursed              71.20  120.93    -
711-MAI    1978      Malawi      Water Supply                            7.00    2.48
823-MAI    1978        "         Shire Valley
Consolidation                         10.70      .32
1610-MAI    1978      INDEBNANK  First DFC                       3.00              1.14
857-MAI    1979      Republic   National Rural Development
of Malawi   Program I                              22.00    8.64
910-MAI    1979        "         Education III                          14.50    5.64
992-MAI    1980                  National Rural Development
Program II                            13.80    8.89
1099-MAI    1981                  Highway IV                             33.00a  16.13
1123-MAI    1981        "         Education IV                           41.00b  31.15
2027-MAI    1981                  Technical Assistance            1.00              .81
1183-MAI    1981                  National Rural Development
Program III                            7.30c   7.06
1272-MAI    1982                  Lilongwe Water Supply Eng.
Project                               o400d   4.00
TOTAL                                               75.20  274.23   86.26
of which has been repaid                              .77    3.39
(amount sold)
(of which repaid)
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA1                     74.43  270.84
TOTAL undisbursed                                    1.95   84.31   86.26
a Credit of SDR 25.9 million.
b Credit of SDR 32.2 million.
c Credit of SDR  6.5 million.
d Credit of SDR  3.6 million (not yet effective).



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. IFC INVESTMENT IN MALAWI
December 31, 1982
Investment
Number      Year      Obligor
326-MAI    1976/    David Whitehead        Textiles      -     10.8  10.8   7.4   1.7
618-MAI    1982      & Sons (Malawi)
Limited
362-MAI    1977      Dwangwa               Sugar         -      9.9   9.9   8.8   -
Sugar Corporation
Limited
434-MAI    1978      Investment and        Development  0.6    -       0.6   0.6   -
Development Bank    Finance
of Malawi            Company
502-MAI    1979      Malawi                Tourism       -      2.0   2.0   2.0   1.6
Hotels Limited
543-MAI    1981/    Ethanol Company        Manufactur-
614-MAI    1982      Limited of            ing Alcohol
Malawi               from
Molasses      0.2    2.2   2.4   2.4   -
TOTALS     0.8   24.9  25.7  21.2   3.3
_~~~~~



- 97 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.  STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
December 31, 1982
Credit No. 711-MAI            Blantyre Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million
Credit of June 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
April 18, 1978; Closing Date:  September 30, 1983
Initial delays in project implementation occurred due to revision of
the project's scope, but implementation is now proceeding reasonably well.
Detailed engineering is complete and awards have been made on all the contracts
being financed by the Association.   However, due to the initial delay, the Bank
has agreed to a postponement of the closing date to September 30, 1983.   BWB has
also, with the help of the Bank, reassessed its financial position and agreed on a
revision of the covenanted rates of return because of slower-than-anticipated
growth in water demand, a reduced need for debt service, and higher rates of
revaluation of fixed assets than used at appraisal.
Credit No. 758-MAI            Third Highway Project; US$10.5 Million Credit of
January 18, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 29,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of constructing the 52-mile Kasungu-Jenda road to
two-lane bituminous surfaced standard; strengthening three short sections of the
Zomba-Lilongwe road (parallel financed by the OPEC Special Fund); and providing
consultant services for the supervision of the road, construction, and for the
feasibility and engineering studies of the Jenda-Mzuzu road. Construction works
on the Kasungu-Jenda road, strengthening works on the Zomba-Lilongwe, and the
studies for the Jenda-Mzuzu road are complete. Final disbursement is underway and
the Credit will be closed shortly.
Credit No. 823-MAI            Shire Valley Agricultural Consolidation Project;
US$10.7 Million Credit of July 7, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: September 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is the consolidation phase of the Shire Valley Agricultural
Development Program and includes extension services to support increased cotton
and foodcrop production, seed multiplication and afforestation programs,
production credit, livestock and fisheries development, health and potable water
supply facilities, a smallholder irrigation development study and some rural
roads.  It has provided social and infrastructure services to about 70,000
families.  The Valley attained self-sufficiency in food crops for the first time
in its history in 1977/78.  Crop production targets, with the exception of guar
beans, have not yet been reached.  Ongoing project works have been recently
completed.  An adequate extension ratio has been reached. The Credit will be closed
shortly.



- 28 -
ANNEX TI
Page 4 of 6
Loan No. 1610-MAI             Investment and Development Bank of Malawi Limited;
US$3.0 Million Loan of July 7, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: November 1, 1978; Closing Date:
July 1, 1983
The project provides foreign exchange for financing medium- to
large-scale projects in industry and agro-industry and agriculture and is helping
INDEBANK consolidate its policies and strengthen its capabilities in project
promotion, appraisal, implementation and follow-up. The line of credit is now
fully committed; and as of April 20, 1982, disbursements amounted to US 1.23
million and are expected to be completed shortly.
Credit No. 857-MAI            National Rural Development Program,
Phase I; US$22.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: April 5, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
The project is assisting the Government in implementing the first phase
of Malawi's National Rural Development Program. Over a five-year period it aims
to increase output of maize, groundnuts, fire-cured tobacco and rice, and expand
milk and meat production. The project has also improved basic services (water
supplies, roads and health facilities). It is strengthening the Ministry of
Agriculture's Central Service and four existing Management Units and has
established eight new development project areas. It is also completing the
consolidation phase of the Lilongwe Land Development Program. The project is
cofinanced by CIDA, DEG, EDF, and ODA. It is proceeding satisfactorily except for
recurrent financing problems which have been addressed by the First Structural
Adjustment Loan. The entire NRDP program was jointly reviewed by IDA and
Government in FY1982 and recommended changes are being introduced to improve its
cost-effectiveness.
Credit No. 910-MAI            Third Education Project; US$14.5 Million Credit of
EEC Credit No. 12-MAI         June 19, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:  September 4,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is assisting the Government in improving and expanding
primary and secondary education and management of education.  Its major components
include self-help constructing of primary schools, improving and expanding primary
and secondary teacher training schools, providing primary school textbooks;
expanding technical education; establishing an Institute of Education; assisting
school inspectorates; and providing for educational studies. An EEC Special
Action Credit of US$7.5 million was made available to the project. Implementation
is proceeding well and on time, although some delays have been experienced in the
components for commercial education, primary school construction and educational
studies. The Institute of Education has begun to function. A large number of
textbooks have been delivered to schools. Vehicles have been delivered to school
inspectorates. A specialist has initiated the educational studies. The EEC
Credit has been fully disbursed.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Credit No. 992-MAI            National Rural Development Program,
Phase II (Wood Energy); US$13.8 Million Credit of
April 25, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is assisting the Government in its long-term energy
development program aimed at increasing forest resources. It has established a
national network of about 80 nurseries to produce seedlings for sale to
smallholders, who are being encouraged to establish their own woodlots; fuelwood
and pole plantations to help meet increasing demands from the commercial and
industrial sectors, as well as from urban dwellers; and an Energy unit in the
Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources. Seedling sales to farmers, which has
been going more slowly than expected, have now picked up. Overall, the project is
proceeding on schedule.
Credit No. 1099-MAI           Fourth Highway Project; US$33.0 Million Equivalent
(SDR 25.9 million) Credit of February 20, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: July 16, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is assisting the Government in developing the economic
potential of the northern region by constructing and improving the only remaining
sections of the principal north-south road. In addition, the project will promote
the maintenance of the main, secondary and district road networks and provide
consultant services and training. The construction of the major paved road
sections plus improvements of the existing road between Luwawa Turnoff and Mbowe
to a low gravel standard is progressing satisfactorily and implementation of other
components is well underway; the maintenance study and the DRIMP extension study
are about to be completed.
Credit No. 1123-MAI           Fourth Education Project; US$41.0 Million Equivalent
(SDR 32.2 million) Credit of March 26, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness:  October 2, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
The project is assisting the Government in improving and expanding secondary
education and the training of secondary school teachers. Five new secondary
schools are being constructed and equipped, and six existing secondary schools
expanded. Additional boarding and teaching facilities of Chancellor College are
being built and equipped. In addition, the project is assisting the Government in
the preparation of a national education plan to provide the basis for future
development of the education system. The study is underway and expected to be
finished in September 1983. Satisfactory progress is being made in constructing
the secondary schools and at Chancellor College.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan No. 2027-MAI            Technical Assistance Project; US$1.0 Million
Equivalent Loan of June 25, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness. September 30, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
The project, which complements the Structural Adjustment Loan, is
helping finance consultant services for studies of the livestock, meat and dairy
industries. The Malawi Development Corporation's financial position and export
marketing capabilities is also being examined and strengthened. Other studies
are being carried out as needed to support the Structural Adjustment Program.
After initial delays, the MDC and livestock studies have been completed and the
results will be available for Bank review and comment in March. In addition, the
Government has carried out a study of the Agricultural Development and Marketing
Corporation to address the major organizational, financial and managerial
constraints hindering its performance. It has also employed a firm of consultants
to help develop a restructuring package for the major private enterprise. A plan
of action is being developed which is expected to be available for Bank review and
comment in April.
Credit No. 1183              National Rural Development Program (NRDP) Phase III
Project; US$7.3 Million Credit (SDR 6.5 million) of
October 13, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: May 28,1982;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The project constitutes a third phase of the Karonga-Chitipa Rural
Development Project as part of the activities of the National Rural Development
Program. As such it will benefit from the experience and lessons of previous
years. The project will, over a four-year period (1981/82-1984/85), strengthen
project management capabilities, continue to support the development of the
agricultural production potential of the Karonga and Chitipa districts and
strengthen agricultural extension, training, research and credit and marketing
facilities. It also contains provision for improving water supply and for
improved management and evaluation of project activities. The project has
experienced start-up implementation difficulties with regard to management, input
supplies (fertilizer) and staffing shortfalls. To improve the situation,
Government has recently appointed a new management team and is addressing fully
the fertilizer requirement for the FY83/84 and subsequent crop seasons.
Credit No. 1272              Lilongwe Water Supply and Engineering Credit;
US$4.0 million Credit (SDR 3.6 million) of
June 24, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: February 3,
1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The three-year project is financing master plan studies to determine
the optimum long-term program for water supply and sewerage/sanitation development
in Lilongwe and identify a water supply project that would form the program's
first phase. The latter project is the subject of the feasibility study, detailed
engineering design and the preparation of contract documents. The project is
preceeding satisfactorily. The Lilongwe Water Board has appointed an
engineer/manager and is in the process of recruiting a chief accountant.
Engineering consultants have been selected to carry out the master plan,
feasibility studies and engineering designs; contract negotiations are underway.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page I of 2
MALAWI: HEALTH PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
I.        Timetable of Key Events
(a)    Time taken to prepare                       Six months
(b)    Prepared by                                 Government with
assistance from IDA
(c)    Initial project discussions with IDA        September 1981
(d)    First IDA mission                           September 1981
(e)    Appraisal mission departure                 July 1982
(f)    Negotiations                                March 14-18, 1983
(g)    Planned date of effectiveness               July 1, 1983
II.       Special IDA Implementation Action
None
III.      Special Conditions of the Credit
(a) The Government would, by December 31, 1984 complete the
revised national health plan (para. 42);
(b) The Government would, by April 1, 1984, introduce a scale
of fees, which is acceptable to IDA, for paying patients at
its facilities, which is designed to maximize the revenue
collected for such services, considering both the full
marginal costs and the price elasticities of demand among
paying patients (para. 42);
(c) The Government would, not later than April 1, 1984,
ensure that the CMS is established and operated as a distinct,
self-accounting undertaking, with appropriate business
practices and an organizational accounting status, acceptable
to IDA (para. 44);
(d) The Government would ensure that all primary health care
activities initiated by non-government entities would first be
reviewed by the national primary health care core group
established by the MOH (para. 48);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) The Government would ensure that Health centers involved
in the primary health care programs will each be staffed with
one medical assistant, one health assistant and two enrolled
nurse-midwives; the training units with one clinical officer
and one public health nurse; and the district health teams
with one district medical officer, one public health nurse,
one health inspector and two MCH Coordinators (para. 48); and
(f) The Government would select, in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines, consultants with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA, and would employ a health
planner, an epidemiologist, a financial analyst, a manpower
planning expert, and two pharmaceutical consultants not later
than September 30, 1983 (para. 54).



IBRD 16734
'I E
ANGOLA     r
_  U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZMBIA                                  C  /LSOH
KARONGA   Q                                     9-' '        >  v5.
t  \ -   t        V   \e                    &~~~ ~~~~~~~~-'      COBB
-            NT/ L            -J              /V                                  OA Z 
17'' fi,r>9&:¢l' ' 
ILU BA                                            -WAZILANOA i .
1 NkSOUNd AFRICA  -' AZ6AN
'I.,, -0  i- ESOCBTHO
Ch,ATSTU      / \NGSTONIAl~-sA         ,                  J .
_(;:p,%e\Q't   \0  t       ;        XC                                                               48~:~t 
R- k   ,, ;   cce                              \\
Nkhotokot. 
ChpNo'
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                                               z+,<
HEALTH PROJECT                                >       dU               ;h\-bK
j     Altitude  over 214C  metres                 IV S          Z    m     -5
_14               1220-140   '                    -.     !         rCd 
TeteN  ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~  K
,M A L A  W  I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~    ~W
STF APPRAISALn REPORT9gCku\ ; 
++ AltitUnder Coveruto 214   met,eso
District boundaries                                V    \;                       u9:notee7sauo
0     2c     40     60    80   P1-b00-
4MLES              ,,,             To BE16A  t                    3eB



