OFFICIAL
'     IT NUMBER 1351 MAI
DOCnIENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                           , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1351 MAI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    W, 1983, between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to six million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (.SDR 6,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit


﻿-2-
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date -shall be December 31, 1985 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1993, and ending April 15,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministries of Health, and Works and Supplies with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public health prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, such consultants to be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. To
this end, the Borrower shall employ a Health Planner, an Epide-
miologist, a Financial Analyst, a Manpower Planning expert and
two Pharmaceutical Consultants not later than September 30, 1983;
and (b) designate a Malawian counterpart to work with each
consultant so employed.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause all goods and        services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project


﻿-4-
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the pros*.ceds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any releva t
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Bor-
rower and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance


﻿with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Pro-
ject, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower's
Ministry of Health shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained
separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure; and (iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(c)  The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association sholl from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all necessary
measures to produce a comprehensive revised national health plan
for the period 1985-1995 not later than December 31, 1984.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, not later than April 1,
1984, introduce a scale of fees, acceptable to the Association,
for paying patients at its health facilities, designed to
maximize the revenue collected for such services taking into
account the full marginal costs and price elasticities of demand
among paying patients.


﻿-6-
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to ensure that the Central Medical Stores under Part C of the
Project is established and operated as a district self al.ounting
undertaking, with appropriate business practice and an organiza-
tional structure acceptable to the Association, not later than
April 1, 1984.
Section 4.05. In order to better coordinate the health
activities of the Borrower and those initiated by non-government
entities in the Borrower's territories, the Borrower shall ensure
that activities of non-government -entities shall be reviewed
firstly by the national primary health care core group esta-
blished in its Ministry of Health and comprising representatives
of said Ministry and other interested parties in the health
sector.
Section 4.06. In order to improve the staffing of the health
ceLLters in its primary health care program, each health center
shall be staffed with one medical assistant, one health assistant
and two enrolled nurse-midwives; each training unit shall be
staffed with one clinical officer and one public health nurse;
and each district health team, in the districts included in the
Project, shall be staffed with one medical officer, one public
health nurse, one health inspector and two maternal and child
health coordinators.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date                  )          is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under
Article IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date 10 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 7 -
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049
Lilongwe 3, Malawi
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINANCE                             4407 MI
Lilongwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                2,780,000        80%
(2) Vehicles, equip-             740,000         100% of foreign
ment and supplies                           expenditures and
supplies                                   90% of local
expenditures
(3) Consultants'               1,390,000         100% of foreign
services and                                expenditures
overseas training
(4) Unallocated                1,390,000
TOTAL                 6,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Disbursement under Category 1 (force account only) may be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure which shall be in
the form and shall contain information satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿-9-
4.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance w-;t-h the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or sup-
ply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
6.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will
be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expendi-
tures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of
the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Cate-
gory may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower to strengthen
its public health system by making it more effective in respond-
ing to the Borrower's health needs, and consists of the following
part3:
Part A:   Planning and Administration
Preparation of a comprehensive revised national health plan
and  associated   studies,  strengthening  of  the   planning  and
budgeting capability of the Ministry of Health and overseas
training fellowships.
Part B:   Community Health Sciences Unit
1.   Renovations and additions to the old "Top Hospital"
buildings in Lilongwe and provision of equipment,
furniture and vehicles.
2.   Local training of field service section staff and over-
seas training fellowships for laboratory services
staff.
Part C:   Pharmaceutical Procurement and Distribution
1.   Renovation, equipping and furnishing of the old Central
Medical Stores' buildings in Blantyre.
2.   Construction, equipping   and   furnishing  of  the new
Central   Medical   Stores'   buildings   in  Lilongwe,
including facilities for a regional depot, and of a
regional depot in Mzuzu.
3.   Provision of essential housing and vehicles for the
facilities in Blantyre, Lilongwe and Mzuzu.
4.   Rehabilitation   of   pharmaceutical    logistics,   and
pharmaceutical manufacturing.
5.   Provision   of   equipment  for   pharmacy   technicians
training at the Lilongwe School for Health Sciences.


﻿- 11 -
Part D:   Primary Health Care
1.   Upgrading  of   six  facilities  to  health   sub-center
standards in Mzimba and Dowa districts, construction of
training units at Mzimba, Mwanza and Mponela together
with housing and provision of equipment and furniture.
2.   Training and orientation of the Borrower's Ministry of
Health staff, as well as District Development Commit-
tees,   Village  Health   Committees,   Village   Health
Workers, and Traditional Birth Attendants in the
selected  communities   of  Dowa, Mzimba    and   Mwanza
Districts.
3.   Provision  of  epidemiological   surveys  and   overseas
training for a national primary health care coordinator
and a health education specialist.
4.   Provision   of  vehicles, including    motorcycles   and
bicycles, for Ministry of Health staff and Village
Health Workers.
Part E:   Child Spacing
1.   Local  training  and   orientation  of  the  Borrower's
Ministry of Health Staff in child spacing practices,
including overseas study tours.
2.   Renovation and furnishing of the old nurses' home at
Lilongwe, and the antenatal units of Zomba General
Hospital and at 15 selected district hospitals.
3.   Provision of child spacing equipment and supplies.
4.   The carrying of an out-family formation study.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Parts D and F hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the current edition of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.     For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.    To the extent practicable and consistent with appropriate
technical standards and procurement practices, contracts for
equipment and vehicles shall be grouped for purposes of bidding
so as to permit international procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight


﻿- 13 -
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place -f their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Malawi may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering  goods manufactured    in
Malawi if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Malawi equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this


﻿- 14 -
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the ci.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid  shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment and vehicles which cannot be grouped
in packages of $100,000 equivalent or more and all contracts for
civil works estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more shall
be procured locally following competitive bidding advertised in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   To the extent practicable and consistent with appropriate
technical standards. and procurement practices, contracts for
civil works, including pharmacy depots, housing upgrading of
health facilities and refurbishing of stores offers shall be
grouped.
3.    Civil works contracts estimated to cost less than $200,000
equivalent may be carried out by force account.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and for civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 15 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shjll, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association shall,
if it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of         ,
198 3.
FOR SECRETARY


