Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6841-BIH
TECHNICAL ANNEX
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
WAR VICTIMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
APRIL 22, 1996
Human Resources Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 1. 1996)
Unit of currency: Bosnia and Herzegovina Dinar (BHD)
100 BHD = US$0.67
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BH       Bosnia and Herzegovina
CBR        Comimunity-Based Rehabilitation
CEE        Central and Eastern European
CY        Calendar Year
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
DC        Direct Contracting
EBRD        European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERP       Emergency Recovery Program
ESDF        Council of Europe's Social Development Fund
EU       European Union
FY       Fiscal Year (of the World Bank)
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GSP       Gross Social Product
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA       International Development Association
IMF       International Monetary Fund
IS      International Shopping
MOH         Ministry of Health
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
NS       National Shopping
OT       Occupational Tlherapy
PA       Procurement Agent
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PT       Physical Therapy
PTSD        Post-Traumatic Stress Disorders
RS       Republika Srpska
SNCB        Simplified National Competitive Bidding
SOE        Statement of Expenditures
TA       Technical Assistance
TFBH        Trust Fund for Reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina
UNHCR         United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
WHO/EURO          World Health Organization European Office
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
War Victims Rehabilitation Project
Technical Annex
Table of Contents
A.  BACKGROUND                    ......................                   1
The Health Care System and Health Status Prior to The War ....... . 1
Impact of The War on Health Status on the Health Care System  .. . 2
Physical Disabilities ................ .                           3
Psycho-Social Disabilities .................                       3
Infrastructure and Services for Rehabilitation ..................5 
B.      GOVERNMENT STRATEGY: FROM EMERGENCY
TO DEVELOPMENT .............................. 7
Developing a Medium-Term Strategy               ..                 7
Immediate Interventions to Reduce the Burden of Disability .........   7
C.   BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ..............                               8
Health Sector Recovery Program      ................. .            9
Bank-Supported Priority Interventions  .............               9
D.     THE PROJECT ................................... 12
Project Objectives and Components ........ ..      ............. 12
Detailed Project Description  ............     ............... 13
Community-Based Rehabilitation Component ............... 13
Prostheses and Orthoses Production Component ..... ........ 19
Orthopedic and Reconstructive Surgery Component .... ....... 21
Project Implementation Support Component ....... ......... 22
Project Cost and Financing Plan ...........      .............. 24
Environmental Aspects  ............. ................. 27
E.     INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION    . . 28
Project Organization .        .           ..  28
Project Implementation Arrangements  .....................  28
Project Implementation Schedule .     .        ..  32
Procurement Arrangements .         .         ..  32
Disbursements . . .. 35
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting .     .       ..  35
Supervision Plan . . ..  35



(Table of Contents, continued)
F.      PROJECT BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS                     36
Project Benefits and Economic Justification ........      .......... 36
Project Risks    ................ .................... 37
TABLES
Table 1: Three-Year Assistance Program for Health Sector Recovery  ...     ..... 9
Table 2: Priority Health Services and Levels of Service Delivery ...   ....... 11
Table 3: Community-Based Physical Rehabilitation Sub-Component
Cost Summary .................................. 16
Table 4: Community-Based Psycho-Social Rehabilitation Sub-Component
Cost Summary    ..................................   18
Table 5: Prostheses and Orthoses Production Component Cost Summary  ..... 21
Table 6: Orthopedic and Reconstructive Surgery Component Cost Summary  . .. 22
Table 7: Project Implementation Support Component Cost Summary ...       ..... 24
Table 8: Total Project Cost ................................. 25
Table 9: Financing Plan ................................... 27
APPENDICES
1.      The Status of Orthopedic and Reconstructive Surgical Units
2.      The Status of Prostheses Production and Maintenance Units
3.      Organization of Rehabilitation Services
4.      Cost Estimates and Disbursement Schedule
5.      Project Procurement Arrangements and Plan
6.      Project Implementation Schedule
7.      General Procurement Notice
8.      Summary Technical Specifications
9.      List of Supporting Volumes and Documents in Project File
MAP
IBRD 27716



Technical Annex Page 1 of 37
A. BACKGROUND
The Health Care System and Health Status Prior to the War
1.     By the end of the 1980s, the contrast between the development of health care
services and the uneven achievements in health status suggested that systemic problems were
limiting further progress in health outcomes in Bosnia-Herzegovina. On the one hand, the
system had achieved remarkable coverage and the use of high technology; on the other hand,
some key health status indicators still showed low achievements.
2.      Like most other formerly socialist economies in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE),
Bosnia-Herzegovina had a well developed health system. The population enjoyed reasonable
access to a large network of clinics, hospitals and public health facilities, financed largely
through payroll taxes and general revenues. There were 5.8 beds per 1,000 population and
2.6 doctors per 1,000 population. Although these figures were average for CEE, they were
higher than those of most other developing countries at similar income levels. Total health
expenditure was around 6.5% of GDP in 1990, which was on the high side of the range
encountered in the region.
3.      Although substantial gains had been achieved in health outcomes during the two
decades preceding the war, the indicators of health status showed a mixed picture. The
infant mortality rate had declined from 56 per 1,000 live births in 1970 to 21 per 1,000 live
births in 1991. But, partially due to the weak primary care network, the percentage of
infants immunized against childhood illnesses in 1991 was less than in other European
socialist economies, with the exception of the former USSR. While the age-standardized
mortality rate for communicable diseases, maternal and perinatal causes (87 per 100,000
population) was worse than the average of 52 per 100,000 for other European socialist
countries, the life expectancy of 73 years at birth was at the higher end of the range observed
in the region.
4.      The pre-war health system suffered from a number of problems. A supply-
dominated approach to centralized planning had led to the proliferation of large hospitals and
heavy reliance on specialized polyclinics, with relatively little attention to primary health care
or family practice. The centralized decision-making process did not encourage strategic
planning to achieve the most efficient use of resources. Instead, decisions were most often
the result of bureaucratic bargaining, rather than a rational assessment of needs and available
resources. Clinical decisions were not based on considerations of the effectiveness or costs
of the desired interventions. Mental health services were concentrated in large hospitals,
with prolonged admissions and few, if any, efforts to reintegrate patients into the community.
Some patients, women in particular, were abandoned in hospitals by their families, on
account of the social stigma associated with mental illnesses.



Technical Annex Page 2 of 37
Impact of The War on Health Status and the Health Care Delivery System
5.      The armed conflict has put an enormous toll on the health status of the population.
Not only have the common indicators of health status showed a dramatic quantitative
deterioration, placing BH at a level comparable to low-middle income economies, such as
Tunisia, Paraguay or the Philippines, but the mix of diseases has changed significantly. This
implies that the future health care interventions will have to respond not only to the increased
size of the problem but also to the unusual blend of the current burden of disease.
6.      The deterioration in living conditions, malnutrition, intense psychological stress and
loss of access to basic health services have caused dramatic declines in the overall health
status of the population, which are likely to be more severe in rural areas and isolated
enclaves. Based on information from Sarajevo, the infant mortality rate is estimated to have
doubled, reaching an average of 30 to 40 per 1,000 live births in urban areas. The incidence
of serious congenital malformations rose from 0.7% to 2.1% of births during the war.
Almost 25% of these malformations were anencephalus (absence of a brain) or hydrocephalus
(excessive water in the brain), which could have been detected during the pre-natal period
and managed appropriately, if access to, and functions of, diagnostic and treatment services
had not been severely interrupted during the war. Similarly, premature births have doubled,
while the average birth weight has dropped by more than 20%. The rate of perinatal
mortality rose from about 15.3 per 1,000 live births before the war to 38.6 per thousand
diring the conflict. Available data on morbidity show a two- to five-fold increase in the
number of people affected by epidemics and communicable diseases (influenza, tuberculosis,
hemorrhagic fever), with a surge in the number of fatal cases.
7.      In the area of reproductive health, family planning, as reflected by contraceptive
use, had never been given a high priority within the health care system of former
Yugoslavia'. As a result, the incidence of induced abortion was traditionally high. With the
onset of the war, the number of induced abortions increased significantly. Pre- and intra-
war data for Sarajevo indicate that abortions increased from a ratio of one for every birth to
at least two for every birth. The high rate of abortions, especially given the constrained
medical resources, and the reduced capacity to sterilize equipment, have created the condition
for subsequent low-grade infections and infertility. With the end of the conflict, particular
attention will need to be given to primary prevention of unwanted pregnancies with
contraceptives, as opposed to the dependency on abortion as a secondary prevention
technique, as well to infertility counselling and clinical services.
8.      Of particular importance to the choice and design of interventions, the war in BH
has induced an unusual mix in the burden of disease. For the Federation alone, in addition
to the estimated 250,000 persons killed, the total number of war-injured persons in BH is
'International Center for Migration and Health. ReDroductive Health and Pregnancv Outcomes Among
Displaced Women. Report of the Technical Working Group. October 1995.



Technical Annex Page 3 of 37
reported to be about 175,000, of which over 50% are seriously injured. Moreover, the
incidence of stress disorders has increased dramatically on account of the war. The resulting
disabilities will place a heavy long-term burden on health and social services in BH, because
many of the injured and disabled will need long-term care, with physical and mental
rehabilitation, in addition to their initial acute medical care.
Physical Disabilities
9.      Estimates and Consequences of Physical Disabilities. As of December 1995,
12,296 disabled persons were registered and estimates of persons requiring physical
rehabilitation due to war injuries ranged from 40,000 to 70,000. The major causes of
injuries are bullet and shrapnel wounds resulting in the following major impairment and
disability groups (WHO/MOH, 1994): 3,000 to 5,000 amputations, 750 spinal cord injuries,
3,000 peripheral nerve injuries, 1,200 craniocerebral injuries, and an unspecified number of
soft tissue injuries and fractures. The burden on children is enormous. It is estimated that
more than 50,000 children have been wounded, half of them seriously. In the absence of
effective rehabilitation, physically disabled persons will be unable to resume or commence
economically productive activities and will constitute a substantial burden on the social
support system.
10.     Managing Physical Disabilities: Basic Principles.  Physically disabled persons
require one or more of the following, depending on the site and severity of their injuries and
disabilities: (i) surgery to remove irreversibly damaged parts, to limit continued damage and
to reconstruct parts of the body that remain viable; (ii) short-term hospital-based
rehabilitation following surgery; (iii) alleviation of pain with medications; (iv) artificial limbs
and devices to enable them to walk, use their arms and hands, as well as maintain healthy
physical postures (prostheses and orthoses); and (v) non-hospital based rehabilitation to ease
them into normal economic and social life. In addition, efforts will have to be made to
ensure that major public buildings and facilities, as well as workplaces, are accessible to the
physically disabled.
Psycho-Social Disabilities
11.    Increased Incidence of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). The war has also
taken its toll on the mental health of the population, with an estimated five-fold increase in
the incidence of PTSD, affecting both adults and children. PTSD is a collection of short-
term and long-term illnesses and disabilities caused by extremely distressing experiences such
as physical violence, war, rape and torture. Patients may suffer from severely altered and
labile moods, anxiety, depression, irritability and inability to function in seemingly normal
situations -- in sum, incapacitation at the individual, family and social levels. PTSD is
particularly severe when the victim perceives human malevolence as a cause of the stressful
experience. Persons suffering from PTSD may persistently reexperience the distressing
event, including recollections, dreams and acting as if the event were recurring. They may
persistently avoid situations even remotely associated with the event. Causes and



Technical Annex Page 4 of 37
consequences of PTSD are well documented, including studies following the Second World
War and the Vietnam War, and are clearly relevant to the recent history of BH. Persistent
reexperiences of war-related events are incompatible with a willingness to reconciliate with a
former enemy.
12.     Although it is difficult to gauge the extent of PTSD in BH, expert opinion suggests
that at least 15% of the population may experience mental distress severe enough to require
treatment. According to the Psychiatry Department of the Clinical Center in Sarajevo, the
incidence of stress disorders is highest among adult males aged between 25 and 44 years.
Some indication of the likely magnitude of PTSD in children is suggested by data from the
area of Srebrenica, where 545 children were orphaned and 10,000 were left with only one
parent. In addition to the soldiers who should soon return to civil life, initial surveys show
that large proportions of women and children (70% to 80% in some areas) have witnessed
war acts and atrocities, and have suffered psychological trauma likely to deeply imprint their
future behavior.
13.     Consequences of PTSD. The emphasis on rehabilitation of war victims is fully
justifiable. PTSD severely impairs the victims' capacity to function normally, dramatically
reducing their contribution to economic and social life. Its consequences include:
(i) markedly diminished interest in, and ability to perform, significant activities (in young
children, this results in impaired aptitude to learn and loss of acquired developmental skills
such as language); and (ii) irritability and inability to concentrate in individuals who were
apparently successful prior to the stressful event (diminishing adults' capacity to work
productively). To prevent and/or limit the duration of these states of impaired function,
PTSD can be successfully treated through combinations of medications, individual
counselling and psychotherapy, group therapy and assistance with re-entry into normal life.
14.      Other Disabilities. In addition to the war-injured population, there are those with
mental and physical disabilities due to non-war related acute and chronic diseases, including
developmental disabilities, neurological, musculoskeletal and cardiorespiratory disease and
degenerative disease processes. Children, women, refugees and the elderly are particularly
vulnerable members of the population due to isolation and breakdown of families and
community support systems. The limited availability of health services, poor nutrition and
limited rehabilitation services during the war have compounded these adverse effects.
15.     Since 1992, the infrastructure of the health sector has been severely affected by
war, resulting in major and persistent damage. The direct (damage or destruction due to
shelling) and indirect (absence of maintenance and repair due to lack of resources) effects of
the war have led to a collapse or loss of functionality of a significant part of hospitals, clinics
and other health care facilities. The destruction of hospital buildings has led to the
elimination of about 35% of beds and a loss of functionality of many others. Currently only
about 7,700 hospital beds remain "active" throughout the Federation (three beds per 1,000
inhabitants, about half of the pre-war total). It is estimated that more than US$300 million



Technical Annex Page 5 of 37
worth of medical equipment has been destroyed, in addition to the equipment transferred
from civilian institutions to military hospitals during the conflict.
Infrastructure and Services for Rehabilitation
16.    Facilities for both physical and psycho-social rehabilitation, orthopedic surgery and
prosthetics in BH are very limited in what they can offer to victims of the war. Most
hospitals and primary health centers are unable to offer adequate services due to destruction
of physical infrastructure, lack of water and electricity, absence of maintenance and repair,
and (at best) intermittent supplies of drugs and consumables. Rehabilitative services are
severely compromised by the lack of an explicit conceptual framework that could be
modified in response to local variations among cantons, the limited availability of community
rehabilitation resources, the lack of occupational therapy services, limited availability of
equipment suitable for community and home use, and the absence of a reliable database on
disability incidence and prevalence.
17.    Physical Rehabilitation. Although the marked increase in the number of surgical
patients resulted in overutilization of available equipment and instruments, the necessary
maintenance could not be done due to a lack of supplies, spare parts and servicing. Most of
the instrumentation needs replacement, much of the equipment needs repairs and all
equipment needs regular service in the future. Additional instruments and equipment are
needed to enable the hospitals to cope with the current and anticipated high demand for
orthopedic and reconstructive surgery by war victims. The MOH's Working Group
identified 10 hospitals which are expected to support the centers for community-based
rehabilitation. Three of these hospitals have only general surgical departments while the
other seven (the Clinical Centers in Sarajevo, Mostar and Tuzla, the State Hospital in
Sarajevo, and the hospitals in Zenica, Bihac and Livno) already have orthopedic surgical
departments.
18.    Prior to the war, physical rehabilitation services, required on a relatively limited
scale compared to current needs, were based in hospitals and specialized rehabilitation
centers. Some of the hospitals with orthopedic and reconstructive surgical facilities also
provided physical rehabilitation services. In addition, during the war, community-based
rehabilitation (CBR) centers were established with the support of international humanitarian
aid organizations. In Sarajevo there are five CBR centers; one CBR center is located in the
dom zdravlja in Srebrenik, near Tuzia, and one center is located in Nemila, near Zenica. All
but one of these centers have been supported with equipment, minor structural alterations
and, importantly, education of personnel by Queen's University, Canada, with funding from
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and a private donor. WHO is also
currently supporting the operation of one CBR center in Mostar and plans to support seven
additional centers throughout BH. Appendix 1 details the current situation of rehabilitation
services. The specialized Institute of Rehabilitation at Ilidza, which was a clinical and
educational center serving the Sarajevo area, was heavily damaged during the war and is no
longer functional.



Technical Annex Page 6 of 37
19.     There is a shortage of social workers and prosthetics technicians, and occupational
therapy is not available. Allied health personnel, including physical therapists and nurses,
are trained at secondary school level from the age of 14 years. Some students go on to a
higher level three-year program at medical high school. Programs for physical therapy are
offered at the University Rehabilitation Institutes in Tuzla and Sarajevo. Education and
training have been severely disrupted by damage to physical facilities, loss of and/or outdated
equipment, lack of learning resources, textbooks and scientific journals and loss of teaching
staff. There are no training programs for occupational therapists, and none for prosthetic
and orthotic technicians.
20.     Psycho-social Rehabilitation. Several organizations, including WHO, have
developed projects in the major centers throughout BH for psycho-social support to the
population affected by the war. The institution-based rehabilitation services have been
insufficient to meet the needs of persons with disabilities, largely due to inaccessibility, now
compounded by damage during the war. For example, the Neuropsychiatric Clinic
(Hospital) in Sarajevo was shelled about 40 times and has suffered major damage. Many
people live at a distance from the hospitals and transportation is inadequate. For those
unable to get to outpatient facilities, minimal home visiting services are available in a few
locations. In the absence of rehabilitation services in the communities to which patients can
be referred for ongoing care, the pre-war and current institutional systems call for longer
periods of inpatient treatment than necessary. In addition, institution-based care does not
address the many social and functional aspects of reintegration into the community, including
family life and employment. These issues are recognized by BH experts in psycho-social
rehabilitation who have decided to de-emphasize the institution-based approach in favor of a
community-based approach.
21.     Psycho-social rehabilitation services are also severely compromised by a lack of
staff through war casualties, migration, lack of sufficient training programs and lack of
remuneration. Rehabilitation services are provided primarily by psychiatrists, physical
therapists, and psychologists.
22.     Production Capabilities for Prostheses and Orthoses. There are currently seven
prostheses and orthoses production/maintenance units with different mandates, sizes and
quality. These units have been established and are managed by different governmental and
non-governmental organizations. With at least four production systems within BH (German,
Italian, Russian and French), standardization has become a priority. Beyond improved
coordination and standardization of systems, these production units require civil works
(repairs, rehabilitation and partial reconstruction of existing premises), equipment and
supplies to produce the needed quantity and quality of prostheses and orthoses, and skills
development for their personnel to improve productivity and quality of output. The status of
individual prosthetic/orthotic units is presented in detail in Appendix 2.



Technical Annex Page 7 of 37
B. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY: FROM EMERGENCY TO DEVELOPMENT
23.     With the end of the war, the health sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina faces a triple
challenge: to continue to function on an emergency basis for the short- to medium-term; to
undertake its recovery; and the transition to a modern efficient system. First, and for some
time to come, the sector professionals will continue to live and work under emergency-type
conditions. With still precarious living conditions, controllable epidemics will continue to
break out, and health services will still handle larger proportions of emergency cases and war
related injuries than any average country. Second, the reconstruction will have to start
without delay. Especially in light of severe resource constraints, this puts an enormous
pressure on sector authorities to prioritize activities and quickly plan large investments, in
many cases without access to all relevant information. Third, and highly critical, the
reconstruction effort must avoid rebuilding the unwieldy pre-war health system. This requires
that much attention be given to the right balance between modern primary health care
services and high quality but slimmer hospital services.
Developing a Medium-Term Strategy
24.     Initiating its response to the above-mentioned challenges, with the assistance of
WHO/EURO, the Government of BH has outlined the guiding principles for the development
of a national masterplan for the country's health sector recovery2. This document covers
both the short-term reconstruction needs, and the future structure and functions of the health
sector that could be achieved in the medium term.
25.     Five pillars have been identified in the masterplan: (i) health system design (sector
profile, health financing, administrative and organizational structures); (ii) human resources
development; (iii) development of the infrastructure and basic essentials (physical
reconstruction, medical equipment and supplies, pharmaceuticals, information systems); (iv)
public health programs (communicable diseases and epidemics, non-communicable diseases,
nutrition and health promotion, maternal and child health/ family planning, environmental
health; and (v) rehabilitation (physical and psycho-social/mental). These also constitute the
framework for the Task Forces that the Ministry has established or intends to establish for
specifying the reconstruction and reform masterplan.
lnmnediate Interventions to Reduce the Burden of Disability
26.     A complete reform of the physical and psycho-social rehabilitation services
constitutes one of the top priorities of the MOH strategy for the medium term. It is
recognized, however, that immediate interventions to reduce the enormous burden of
2Federation Health Progran. Health Reform and Reconstruction Program of the Federation of Bosnia
and Herzegovina. Ministry of Health. January 1996.



Technical Annex Page 8 of 37
disability associated with the war require the formulation of a conceptually sound and
implementable national program. Accordingly, in early February 1996, the MOH established
a Technical Working Group of national experts in physical and psycho-social rehabilitation
with the mandate to develop a comprehensive National War Victims Rehabilitation Program.
The program, which is fully consistent with WHO's approach to community-based
rehabilitation, was prepared with the assistance of the World Bank and the technical support
of the Center for the Advancement of Community-Based Rehabilitation of Queen's
University3, which has implemented community-based rehabilitation services during the war
in BH. During the Bank's mission in February 1996, the Program was thoroughly assessed.
It constitutes a rational, comprehensive and cost-effective plan of actions for addressing
rehabilitation needs in BH.
27.     Further, the preparation of such a program carries a lot of promise for the future
development of the health care system in BH. First, the concept on which the program is
based constitutes a clear departure from the pre-war system. Physical and psycho-social
rehabilitation services are de-institutionalized. Hospital services are not excluded from the
program, they are an integral part of it. Although they are no longer the centerpiece, they
are the natural continuation of the community-based rehabilitation services, their natural
complement within a well thought-out referral system. Second, through the community-
based services, a modem concept of primary health care is being promoted, and it offers a
natural platform for the implementation of the medium-term reform objectives of the MOH.
In addition to its health, economic and social benefits, the CBR approach provides a timely
opportunity to initiate the transition of the health system from the pre-war reliance on
cumbersome and expensive hospitals to a prudent combination of sub-hospital level basic
health care and a high quality, streamlined hospital level. The investments in limited civil
works (remodelling/repairs of existing structures), training of personnel and supply of
equipment would, upon reductions in the needs for rehabilitative services, be readily
adaptable to other primary care services, the specifications of which would be determined
during implementation of the National War Victims Rehabilitation Program. The
investments in orthopedic and reconstructive surgical units are integral parts of essential
hospital services, which would be further developed as part of the national reconstruction
and reform efforts.
C. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
28.     The Bank's assistance strategy parallels and supports the Government's efforts. The
first step has been to gather the needed information in order to articulate, together with the
authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, an overall sector recovery program. Within the broad
framework of the recovery program, the second step in Bank assistance has been and remains
3Supported by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA).



Technical Annex Page 9 of 37
to help the Federation MOH develop its policies and specific priority programs for
reconstruction. Finally, the Bank, together with the international donor community, is
committed to supporting the financing and implementation of these programs through a series
of operations that are presented below.
Health Sector Recovery Program
29.     A Recovery Program for the Health Sector of the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, estimated at US$540 million has been submitted for consideration to the
international donor community. This program is part of the US$5.1 billion reconstruction
program that the Bank has been jointly developing with the Government and the donor
community. Out of this, estimates for the health sector recovery program for the Federation
of Bosnia and Herzegovina amount to US$440 million. The program encompasses all
priority areas that require immediate attention and support, in order to stop further
deterioration in the health status of the BH population and progressively rehabilitate the
health services delivery system. The Recovery Program also supports the efforts needed to
initiate structural reforms, thus guaranteeing the sector's sustainability in the recovering
economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Table 1: Three-Year Assistance Program for Health Sector Recovery
(commitments in US$ million)
Category                      3-Year      First Year Requirements
Program
Budget Support for Recurrent expenditures      200                   120
of which * salaries                           (50)                  (30)
* drugs and supplies                  (150)                  (90)
Public Health Interventions                    17                     8
Rehabilitation Programs for War Victims        20                    10
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation              275                   130
of which * Physical Rehabilitation            (150)                  (75)
* Equipment                           (125)                  (55)
Sector Reforms                                  8                     4
Program Management                             20                     8
TOTAL                                          540                   280
Bank-Supported Priority Interventions
30.    In the short term, the Bank will support a series of operations that cost-effectively
address the most relevant and pressing health issues with which BH is confronted. The
overall objective will be to minimize lost productivity and to alleviate suffering by reducing
the burden of disease on the most at-risk segments of the population, namely the direct



Technical Annex Page 10 of 37
victims of the war, and the women and children of BH. Improvements in the areas presented
in Table 2 below will, however, extend much beyond these target groups. The entire
population of BH will benefit from the cost-effective health services the proposed operations
are intended to support, as they constitute the initial vehicles to carry out the fundamental
changes required by the BH health care system. The overall health sector recovery program
includes the entire State of Bosnia-Herzegovina. Contacts have been established with the
health authorities in the Republika Srpska (RS). Exchange of documentation has also
occurred and it is expected that further dialogue will be established and project preparation
initiated. Nevertheless, this first operation concerns only the Federation because it was not
possible at the time of appraisal to assess reconstruction needs, health programs and
institutional capacity in the Republika Srpska. The appraisal was based upon information
contained in the National War Victims Rehabilitation Program which was prepared by the
Federation Ministry of Health (MOH). Officials of the Republika Srpska have expressed
interest in the project approach, and are preparing information and proposals on needs for
war victims rehabilitation, in the expectation that future projects could support these actions.



Technical Annex Page 11 of 37
Table 2: Priority Health Services and Levels of Service Delivery
Level(s) of                                          Priority Services
Health Care
System            Rehabilitation of   Accident and      Reproductive   Child Health    Public Health
War Victims       Emergency          Health
Tertiary Care     Orthopedic and    Treatment of all    Specialized    Neonatal and   Health promotion
Institutions      reconstructive     traumatized,       obstetrics and   pediatric
(Clinical Centers)  surgery (referrals  including referrals  gynecology.    intensive care
from cantons)     of trauma          (referrals     (referrals
complications     from cantons)  from cantons)
Short-term post-   cases from
operative         cantonal hospitals
physical
rehabilitation
Secondary         Orthopedic and    Essential           Obstetrics &    Neonatal care   Health promotion
Facilities        reconstructive     diagnostic and     gynecology:
Cantonal/ General  surgery          treatment services  (referrals     Pediatric in-
Hospitals                                               from sub-      patient and
Short-term post-                     hospital level)  out-patient
operative                                           services
physical                                            (referrals
rehabilitation and                                  from sub-
cases which                                         hospital level)
cannot be treated
on an out-patient
basis
Acute care
psychiatry
Sub-Hospital      Community-         First aid          Normal         Pediatric out-  Immunization.
Level             based              General practice    deliveries    patient
- Polyclinics     rehabilitation     Communication      Prenatal care   services       Health
- Ambulanta       - physical         Health promotion   Family                         promotion
- mental                             Planning



Technical Annex Page 12 of 37
31.     Three Bank-supported operations are envisioned in the early stages of assistance to
the health sector of BH. First in the series is the proposed War Victims Rehabilitation
Project which is detailed below. The rationale for beginning with this Project has several
elements, among which are the desirability of: (i) selecting an intervention which could be
prepared rapidly and be ready for Board Presentation during the second quarter of 1996; (ii)
focussing on a self-contained, targeted set of activities; (iii) selecting a set of activities with
obvious and direct links to the conflict and which could unambiguously be considered as
urgent both politically and economically; (iv) selecting a set of activities whose rapid
implementation would not, on the one hand, require major prior policy decisions and on the
other impose rigidity on the system which might impair future reforms; and (v) starting with
a rather modest operation (US$30 million) in light of uncertainties concerning inputs from
other donors.
32.     Subsequent operations would address the other priority service needs presented in
Table 2, at the cantonal hospital and sub-hospital levels, respectively; these projects would
either include RS, or separate parallel operations would be developed. It is first envisioned
to develop an Essential Hospital Services Project that would focus on the needs of the
hospital sub-sector. The rationale is based on several factors, including: (i) the need to
address quickly the most pressing hospital issues within a rational framework, thereby
reducing the risk that uncoordinated, expensive and possibly unneeded investments in the
hospital sub-sector would jeopardize the overall sector sustainability; (ii) the need for more
time to resolve basic questions about the future conception and organization of sub-hospital
services; and (iii) the assumption that direct donor assistance would continue to be available
for some time for basic health services, as has been the case during the war, while the
strategic options for the reconstruction of a modem basic health care system were being
considered. The Essential Hospital Services Project would be ready for Board presentation
during the third trimester of 1996.
33.     The third operation, for which preparation would begin during the third quarter of
1996, would be the Basic Health Services Development Project, focussing on the sub-hospital
level. It would also tentatively support implementation of the most urgent Health Financing
Reforms that would initially be developed under the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC), as
well as the early steps for developing a critically needed pharmaceutical policy in BH.
D. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Components
34.     The ultimate objectives of the War Victims Rehabilitation Proiect are to facilitate
the reintegration of war victims into economically productive activities and normal social
life, and to avoid the heavy costs of lost productivity and sustained disruption of the social
fabric of BH. Specifically, the Project is aimed at reducing the burden of physical and



Technical Annex Page 13 of 37
psycho-social disabilities through targeted and cost-effective rehabilitation services. In
pursuit of these objectives, the Project will include the following components:
a.      Community-Based Rehabilitation (estimated base cost US$12.6 million). This
component will address the rehabilitation needs of physically injured and
psychologically disabled war victims.
b.      Prostheses and Orthoses Production (estimated base cost US$6.0 million). This
component will support the production and maintenance of quality of prostheses and
orthoses in three production units and five maintenance units.
c.      Orthopedic and Reconstructive Surgery (estimated base cost US$8.5 million). This
component will improve the availability and quality of essential orthopedic and
reconstructive surgical services in three Clinical Centers and four Cantonal
hospitals.
d.      Project Implementation Support (estimated base cost US$1.8 million). The Project
will support the establishment and functions of a Project Implementation Unit to
manage the Project's activities.
35.     One of the most pressing issues faced by health authorities at the Federation and
cantonal levels is the need to restore salaries for health service professionals. However,
financing constraints prevented inclusion of salaries for health service professionals under the
proposed Project. If the current low level of remuneration of health professionals and the
irregularity of payments remain unaddressed, there is a substantial risk that the rate of
attrition of health professionals, especially the best qualified, could increase sharply, and/or
that professional commitment could erode. This could have serious negative effects on the
quality of health services delivered in general, and on the project-supported activities in
particular. Additional donor financing devoted to supporting/complementing health
professionals' salaries could help alleviate this problem. Mechanisms to effectively allocate
and manage these potential resources are under preparation, but sources of such financial
assistance are yet to be identified.
Detailed Project Description
Community-Based Rehabilitation Component (estimated base cost US$12.6 million)
36.     Conceptual framework. The community-based rehabilitation (CBR) center will form
the core of this component. The location will depend on the demographics of each area, but
CBR centers will be located within existing health centers (dom zdravlias) and/or
ambulantas. The Project will not support the construction of new structures, but will instead
adapt existing structures to perform new functions. This approach is based on a conceptual



Technical Annex Page 14 of 37
framework of a continuum of essential diagnostic and treatment services provided at various
levels of the health care system. Injured or disabled persons live in the community, hence
the CBR center is particularly suited to serve as the entry point for patients entering the
rehabilitation system. The continuum of services, whose main features are illustrated in
Appendix 3, is organized as follows: (i) the patient enters the system at the CBR center; (ii)
diagnostic and curative services are delivered at the CBR center; (iii) if necessary, the patient
is referred from the CBR center to the orthopedic department or the psychiatric department
of the hospital, and/or the prostheses and orthoses production and maintenance units; (iv)
diagnostic and curative services are delivered in hospitals and prostheses/orthoses production
and maintenance units; (v) the patient returns to the CBR center and then back home; and
(vi) the patient is followed up, according to need, by means of home visits. The CBR
approach is strikingly different from the pre-war emphasis on prolonged hospital admissions
for persons with mental illness and physical disabilities. It focuses on delivering effective
services and achieving demonstrable outcomes using cost-effective interventions to facilitate
reintegration of patients into economically active and socially viable lives. Although the
project design specifies the conceptual framework and the functions of CBR centers, context-
specific modifications are required to operationalize the CBRs in the diverse cantons of the
Federation. The Project will support the implementation of regional networks of community-
physical rehabilitation services throughout BH.
Community-Based Physical Rehabilitation Sub-Component
37.      Design and Functions. The Project will provide priority rehabilitative physical
therapy and occupational therapy for an estimated 40,000 to 70,000 war-injured persons and
an estimated 2% to 3 % of the BH population who are physically disabled from non-war
related causes. Accordingly, the Project will improve rehabilitative services in the three
Clinical Centers existing in BH and five Cantonal Hospitals, and will support the
development and operation of a network of 30 CBR centers. These include the eight existing
centers (that will be further reinforced and supported) and three additional centers (possibly
Tuzla, Gorazde, Tomislavgrad/Mostar cantons) planned by the MOH with the support of
Queen's University/CIDA. Also included are the seven additional centers that WHO plans
to provide with technical support. Plans and decisions regarding the locations of new centers
and the amount of upgrading required by existing centers will be coordinated by the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) to avoid duplication and to integrate NGO inputs.
38.     Civil Works. Equipment and Supplies. The Project will provide civil works for
repairs/remodelling, furniture, equipment and supplies to establish 22 CBR centers, upgrade
the eight existing ones and support incremental operational expenditures in all of them.
Equipment and supplies will include those required for exercise therapy/kinesiotherapy;
electrotherapy equipment which may be used at the beneficiary's home; essential
pharmaceuticals; educational literature for patients and families; and filing cabinets,
computers, fax modems and printers for data collection, information presentation, record
keeping and communications. Funds will be provided to cover incremental recurrent
operating needs including electricity, water, gas supply; telecommunications services;



Technical Annex Page 15 of 37
maintenance of physical space and transportation costs for the team in charge of outreach
activities (fuel for personal vehicle or taxi fares). The Project will provide limited civil
works, equipment and essential pharmaceuticals and supplies in the three Clinical Centers
and five Cantonal Hospitals to provide acute rehabilitative care following surgical
intervention.
39.     Personnel and Training. The Project will support training in the principles and
practice of community-based rehabilitation and enhancement of clinical skills for
approximately 240 professionals involved in physical rehabilitation. Training will be
delivered at the university, hospital and CBR center levels. Learning resources will be
provided at all levels, for professionals delivering services and for persons with disabilities,
their families and volunteer social workers. Optimally, each CBR clinic/outreach service
should be staffed with one physician, four physiotherapists, one occupational therapist, one
nurse and one receptionist (both part time). The current shortage of clinicians, particularly
in smaller locations at a distance from the training centers, could initially create some
difficulties in finding appropriate numbers of qualified personnel to staff the CBR clinics.
This should progressively be offset through the training and retraining of additional
personnel.



Technical Annex Page 16 of 37
Table 3: Community-Based Physical Rehabilitation Sub-Component Cost Summary
Unit cost   Total Base
Item                            Unit        Quantity  (US$)       Cost (US$)
Investment Costs
Rehabilitation of Physical
CBR centers                 per unit          22      45,000         990,000
Rehabilitation of Physical
Rehab. Dept. of hospitals     per unit           8      15,000        120,000
Essential equipment for Physical
CBR centers                   per unit          22      47,500       1,045,000
Essential equipment for
Phy. Rehab. Dept. of hospitals   per unit       8       42,500        340,000
OT/PT Equipment for
Sarajevo, Tuzla & Mostar Univ.  per unit        3       68,813        206,440
Office equipment for Physical
CBR centers                  per unit          22       7,500         165,000
Office equip. for Phy. Rehab.
Dept. of hospitals              per unit           8       4,500          36,000
Learning resources for Physical
CBR centers                   per unit          30       4,000        120,000
Learning resources for
Sarajevo, Tuzla & Mostar Univ.  per unit        3       25,333         76,000
Furniture for Physical CBR centers  per unit      30       8,000         240,000
Furniture for Sarajevo, Tuzla and
Mostar Univ.                  per unit           3       5,000          15,000
International TA                 m/m              50       15,000        750,000
Health Promotion Study          lump sum                                 300,000
Local TA                        m/m               18        1,000         18,000
Local training                  m/days           450         100          45,000
Overseas training               m/m               12       7,500          90,000
Recurrent costs
Operational cost of CBR centers  per unit         30      38,000       1,140,000
Pharmaceutical for CBR centers  per unit          30      30,000         900,000
Supplies & consumables for CBR
center                          per unit          30       15,000        450,000
Pharmaceuticals for
Phy. Rehab. Dept. of Hospitals  per unit           8       18,000        144,000
Total Base Cost                                                        7,190,440
m/rn = man months



Technical Annex Page 17 of 37
Community-Based Psycho-Social Rehabilitation Sub-Component
40.      Design and Functions. A priority for this sub-component is to support the delivery
of services to those suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and other less
serious psychological illnesses, thus preventing chronic disability as well as promoting social
and professional reintegration. The Project will support the development and operation of a
network of 30 CBR centers for treatment of PTSD. It will provide acute psychiatric care in
hospitals and technical support to the network of CBR centers by upgrading rehabilitative
services in 14 hospitals. This sub-component will provide diagnostic services and treatment,
including individual psychotherapy, family counselling and family psychotherapy, home
visits, behavioral and conditioning techniques, medications, psycho-social support systems
and group therapy with others who have shared similar traumatic experiences.
41.     Civil Works. Equipment and Supplies. The Project will provide civil works for
repairs/remodelling, equipment, technical assistance, training, audiovisual equipment for
private and group counselling, as well as incremental recurrent costs to establish a network
of 30 CBR centers. It will provide limited civil works for repairs/remodelling, equipment,
supplies and essential pharmaceuticals to strengthen acute psychiatric care in 14 hospitals.
42.     Personnel and Training. The Project will support the training of 240 professionals
in the principles and practice of community-based psycho-social rehabilitation and skill
development for personnel. The proposed approach to service delivery is a major departure
from the pre-war situation, and it is clearly one with which the workers are not familiar. As
a result, external technical assistance will be required to train workers in: (i) the subject
matter of community-based psycho-social rehabilitation; (ii) the organization of service
delivery in the new system; (iii) effective techniques for communicating with patients; (iv)
the management of individual and group counselling sessions; and (v) self-assessment
methods for improving service delivery. Each center delivering psycho-social rehabilitation
services would be staffed with one psychiatrist, four nurses, one social worker, one
occupational therapist, and one case worker.



Technical Annex Page 18 of 37
Table 4: Community-Based Psycho-Social Rehabilitation Sub-Component Cost
Summary
Unit       Quantity  Unit      Total Base
Item                                                          cost      Cost(US$)
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (U S $ )
Investment Costs
Rehabilitation of Psycho-social CBR centers  per unit    30    45,000   1,350,000
Rehabilitation of Rehab. Dep. of hospitals   per unit    14    15,000    210,000
Equipment for Psycho-social CBR centers   per unit       30     8,500    255,000
Equipment for Psycho-social. Rehab.
Dept. of hospitals                   per unit          14    15,000    210,000
Equipment for Psycho-social CBR centers   per unit       30    20,000    600,000
Equipment for Psycho-social Rehab.
Dept. of hospitals                   per unit          14    7,500      105,000
Learning resources for Psycho-social
CBR centers                          per unit         30      4,000    120,000
Furniture for Psycho-social CBR centers  per unit        30     5,500     165,000
International TA                        m/m              30    15,000    450,000
Local TA                                m/m              18      1,000     18,000
Local training                         mr/day           450       100      45,000
Recurrent costs
Operational cost of CBR centers         per unit         30    32,000    960,000
Pharmaceutical for CBR centers          per unit         30    18,000    540,000
Supply & consumables for CBR centers    per unit         30     5,000     150,000
Pharmaceuticals for Psycho-social Rehab.    per unit     14    18,000    252,000
Dept. of hospitals
Total Base Cost                                                         5,430,000
m/m   = man months
m/day = man days
43.     Selection criteria for beneficiary health facilities under the Community-Based
Rehabilitation Component. The criteria for selection of the CBR centers providing physical
and psycho-social rehabilitation under the Project will be as follows: (i) each CBR will be
located in an existing health facility, preferably a dom zdravlja (although physical CBR
centers and psycho-social CBR centers may be located in the same building, they will not be
in the same physical space); (ii) one CBR center will serve a population of approximately
70,000 to 90,000 people; (iii) the CBR centers will be located in the largest municipalities of
the canton, unless there are compelling and transparent reasons to locate them elsewhere; (iv)



Technical Annex Page 19 of 37
no municipality will have more than one CBR center, except on the basis of populations in
excess of 90,000; and (v) the canton and/or municipality must be in support of the location.
44.     Appropriate clinical practice requires that the locations of post-surgical short-term
therapy be the same as the locations of the surgical facilities. The criteria for selection of
hospitals to provide acute care rehabilitation are as follows: (i) the hospitals must have
remained active throughout the war (this criterion is intended to prevent indiscriminate
reconstruction of facilities that were eliminated by the war; (ii) each hospital will serve a
population of approximately 300,000 to 350,000 people; (iii) the hospitals must have had
physical rehabilitation facilities before the war; (iv) each hospital's location must be such that
it can support a network of three or four CBR centers; and (v) no municipality will have
more than one project-supported hospital with physical rehabilitation facility.
45.     As for the hospitals supporting psycho-social rehabilitation activities, criteria for
selection are as follows: (i) the hospitals must have remained active throughout the war (this
criterion is intended to prevent indiscriminate rehabilitation of facilities that were destroyed
during the war); (ii) each hospital will serve a population of approximately 180,000 people;
(iii) each hospital must have delivered acute psychiatric services before the war; (iv) each
hospital's location must be such that it can support a network of three or four CBR centers;
(v) no municipality will have more than one project-supported hospital with acute psychiatric
care facility.
Prostheses and Orthoses Production Component (estimated base cost US$6.0 million)
46.     The Project will support the production of good quality prostheses and orthoses in
three production units related to the three Clinical Centers orthopedic departments. In
addition, five maintenance/service units will also receive support. The production and
maintenance units currently function under a variety of ownerships (government and NGOs),
receive material and technical support from various sources, and use a variety of
uncoordinated production techniques and standards. The criteria for selecting the units to be
supported by the Project are the following: (i) ownership by the municipal, canton or
Federation Government, or official collaboration with, and recognition by, one of these
levels of government; (ii) the unit must be established; (iii) the location of the unit must be
such that it is within the same municipality or canton as a project-supported orthopedic and
reconstructive surgical unit and its associated network of CBR centers; (iv) the unit must sign
a commitment to upgrade and or/change to standardized production methods; (v) the unit's
selection must be formally approved by the MOH; (vi) no municipality or canton will have
more than one project-supported prostheses and orthoses production unit; and (vii) no
municipality or canton will have more than one project-supported prostheses and orthoses
maintenance unit. The estimated target population is 3,000-5,000 known amputees, plus new
cases anticipated due to injuries from land mines and non-war related accidents.
47.     Civil Works. Equipment and Supplies. The Project will provide limited civil
works, machinery and raw materials to the specified production units. In one of the



Technical Annex Page 20 of 37
production units (to be selected by the Ministry of Health with review by the Bank), the
Project will provide equipment and supplies to develop a capacity for the production of upper
limb prostheses.
48.     Capacity building. The Project will provide in-service training for approximately 75
workers through external technical assistance. Training will emphasize practical skills,
coordination and standardization of production systems. Following detailed assessments of
each production/ maintenance unit to be upgraded, the Project would provide technical
assistance for the introduction of modem production techniques. In Neretva, for example,
the production process currently has up to six persons involved in the making of one
prosthesis. This means that no one can take full responsibility in the rehabilitation process of
a particular patient and the patient has no direct "partner" to address in this important part of
the physical rehabilitation process. There is, therefore, an urgent need for training and
introduction of modem production techniques. External technical assistance is required and
will be provided to facilitate implementation of this component, focussing on: (i) the use of
efficient production techniques; (ii) improvements in the quality of prostheses and orthoses;
and (iii) the standardization of production systems by the MOH and the Professional Team
(para. 59). A major reduction of the existing personnel and concurrent recruitment of
enthusiastic young technicians should be done in order to increase productivity.



Technical Annex Page 21 of 37
Table 5: Prostheses and Orthoses Production Component Cost Summary
Unit cost   Total Base
Item                                Unit         Quantity    (US$)   Cost (US$)
Investment Costs
Rehabilitation of P&O Production units  lump sum                         830,000
Rehabilitation of Maintenance units  per unit          5    25,000       125,000
Essential Equip. for P&O Produc units  lump sum                          345,000
Essential Equip. for Maintenance units   per unit      5    70,000       350,000
Protheses&Raw materials for P&O units  lump sum                        2,156,000
Protheses&Raw materials for
maintenance units                per unit           5    35,000      175,000
PC and Printer for P&O production and
maintenance units and MOH           piece             15      4,500      67,500
Photocopy machine for MOH           piece              1      3,000        3,000
Wheel-chair accessible minivans     piece              3    25,000       75,000
International TA                    m/m               30    15,000      450,000
Local TA                            m/m               12      2,500      30,000
Local training                      lump sum                             52,000
Recurrent costs
Operational cost of P&O units       lump sum                             115,000
Operational cost of maintenance units    per unit      5      5,000      25,000
Supply and materials P&O units      lump sum                           1,056,000
Supply & materials for              per unit           5    35,000       175,000
maintenance units
Total Base Cost                     ________________ 6,029,500
& 0 = Prostheses and Orthoses
Orthopedic and Reconstructive Surgery Component (estimated base cost US$8.5 million)
49.     This component will upgrade essential orthopedic and reconstructive surgical
services in the three Clinical Centers and four Cantonal Hospitals, to be selected according to
the following criteria: (i) the hospitals must have remained active throughout the war (this
criterion is intended to prevent indiscriminate rehabilitation of facilities that were destroyed
by the conflict; (ii) each hospital will serve a population of approximately 300,000 to
500,000 people; (iii) the hospitals must have had orthopedic and reconstructive surgical
facilities before the war; (iv) each hospital's location must be such that it can support a
network of three of four CBR centers; and (v) no municipality or canton will have more than
one project-supported hospital with an orthopedic and reconstructive surgical facility.
50.     Civil works. Equipment and Supplies. The Project will provide limited civil works,
surgical instruments, supplies and pharmaceuticals to enable the selected orthopedic and
reconstructive surgical units to function effectively.



Technical Annex Page 22 of 37
51.     Personnel and Training. The Project will provide training for approximately 56
professionals providing orthopedic and reconstructive surgical services. From each of the
hospitals, a team of two orthopedic surgeons, one anesthetist and one theater nurse will
receive in-service training in centers of excellence abroad during the Project. The training
would be of a duration of about three months. By this means the entire team would learn the
modern surgical, anesthetic, post-operative and intensive care techniques which they would
apply in their hospitals after their return and which they would then teach to the rest of the
hospital staff using the new instruments and equipment to be provided by the Project.
Table 6: Orthopedic and Reconstructive Surgery Component Cost Summary
Unit cost  Total Base
Item                            Unit       Quantity  (US$)      Cost (US$)
Investment Costs
Rehabilitation of O&R Units    lump sum                              1,300,000
Essential Equipment for O&R     lump sum                             4,400,000
units
Wheel-chair accessible minivans  piece             7    25,000         175,000
Overseas training (short-term)  m/m              168     3,000        504,000
Recurrent costs
Surgical supplies for 7 O&R units   lump sum                         2,100,000
Total Base Cost                                                      8,479,000
rn= Man months
Project Implementation Support Component (estimated base cost US$1.8 million)
52.     Given the very tight fiscal position of BH during the initial period of recovery from
the war, support would be provided to cover all required foreign and local costs of project
management as set out in the table below. This would include all needed investments (civil
works, office equipment, technical assistance and training) as well as recurrent expenditures
for two years of operation. Since the required management capacity is currently not
available in the MOH, a strong and dedicated Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be
created within the MOH. Necessary salary cost and other related operational expenditures
will be covered under the Project to facilitate the functioning of PIU.
53.     Experiences in a number of other CEE countries have shown weak implementation
capacities in ministries of health. This is equally true of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the
MOH has no history of implementing Bank-supported projects and is poorly equipped to
fulfill the responsibilities for managing a quick-disbursing operation. In light of these
considerations, the PIU will be adequately staffed and supported to enable it to function



Technical Annex Page 23 of 37
effectively and efficiently (specific needs and arrangements for technical assistance to support
the PIU are described in Section E, "Institutional Arrangements and Implementation"). The
PIU will consist of a project director to manage and coordinate the implementation of the
Project; a procurement specialist to supervise tendering, purchasing and delivery of goods;
an accountant to maintain project financial records; an architect to coordinate and supervise
civil work activities; and administrative support staff, secretaries and translators. This core
staff will constitute the PIU "Technical Team" which will establish linkages between the
Federation MOH and Canton Administrations to ensure the timely implementation of the
Project. This approach would contribute to the development of an effective management
capacity in the MOH. A team of experts, comprised of members of working groups who
prepared the project proposals, will constitute the "Professional Team". Further details
regarding project organization are provided in paras. 58 - 59.
Table 7: Project Implementation Support Component Cost Summary
Unit cost  Total Base
Item                                Unit        Quantity    (US$)  Cost(US$)
Investment Costs
Upgrading of Project Office        lump sum                             115,000
Office Equipment for PIU
PC and printer                  piece              4      4,500       18,000
fax, telephone line             piece              1      1,500        1,500
photocopy machine               piece              1      3,000        3,000
Car for PIU                         piece              1    18,000       18,000
Furniture                          lump sum                              20,000
Local and International TA
- Civil works management        lump sum                            252,000
- Procurement services          lump sum                             867,220
- Local management staff        mi/m             193                354,000
Overseas training                   m/m               3      7,500       22,500
Local training                      days            225        100       22,500
Recurrent costs
Operational cost of PIU             monthly          24      2,000       48,000
Office supplies and materials for PIU  monthly       24      3,000       72,000
Total Base Cost                                                       1,813,720
in/in = man months



Technical Annex Page 24 of 37
Project Cost and Financing Plan
54.     Project Cost. The estimated total cost of the Project is US$30 million equivalent,
including physical contingencies of 3% on goods, technical assistance, training and recurrent
costs, and 7% on civil works. No price contingencies have been included given the expected
short disbursement period of this emergency Project. Investment costs (US$20.4 million
base cost) covering civil works, essential medical and production equipment and prostheses,
office equipment, furniture, vehicles, technical assistance, overseas and local training
constitute 70% of the total base cost. Recurrent costs (US$8.1 million base cost), including
medical supplies and materials, office supplies and materials, operating costs of facilities
(including electricity, heating, transportation, travel and accommodation expenses) constitute
30% of the total base cost. Detailed cost tables are found in Appendix 4.



Technical Annex Page 25 of 37
Table 8: Total Project Cost (US$ thousand)
Expenditure Category     CBR        Prostheses   Orthopedic  Project
Program   &Orthoses  & Reconst.  Implem.    Total
Production  Surgery    Support
Investment Costs
Civil Works               2,670.00     955.00   1,300.00     115.00    5,040.00
Equipment & Materials
Essential Equipment   2,056.00    695.00   4,400.00               7,151.00
Prostheses&Raw                   2,331.00                         2,331.00
Materials.             906.00
Office Equipment       316.00      71.00                 23.00      999.00
Learning Resources     420.00                                       316.00
Furniture                                                    20.00      440.00
Vehicles                                75.00     175.00     18.00      268.00
Technical Assistance
International         1,200.00     480.00               252.00     1,932.00
Local                    36.00                         1,221.00    1,257.00
Educ. & Promotion       300.00                                       300.00
Training
Overseas Training        90.00                504.00     23.00       616.00
Local Training           90.00      52.00                23.00       165.00
Recurrent Costs
Operational Expenses      2,100.00    140.00                 48.00    2,288.00
Supply and Materials      2,436.00    1,231.00   2,100.00    72.00    5,839.00
Total Base Cost          12,621.00   6,029.00   8,479.00   1,814.00    28,942.00
Physical Contingencies      485.00     220.00    306.00      58.00     1,069.00
Total Project Cost       13,106.00   6,249.00   8,785.00   1,872.00    30,011.00
55.    Financing Plan. The Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina would be the recipient
of the funds to be provided by various donors. To proceed quickly with implementation, a
phased financing formula is proposed. Grant financing of US$5.0 million from the Trust
Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina would be used to support initial project implementation
prior to Bank Group membership. Under the same documentation, Board approval will be
sought on a no-objection basis for additional financing of US$5.0 million on IDA terms, as
soon as IDA lending to Bosnia and Herzegovina commences. Co-financing in the amount of
US$20.0 million equivalent is being sought from the donor community. The Government of



Technical Annex Page 26 of 37
Italy has announced its intention to co-finance the Project in the amount of US$3.2 million
equivalent. Discussions are far advanced and agreement in principle has been reached with
the Council of Europe's Social Development Fund (ESDF), for co-financing of the Project in
the amount of US$5.0 million. In both cases, the details of the agreements will be finalized
after the Second Donors' Conference for Bosnia and Herzegovina in Brussels in April, 1996.
The Governments of Canada and of several European countries, as well as the European
Union have also expressed strong interest in co-financing the Project, and these co-financing
prospects should be firmed up following the Brussels Conference. If the mobilized resources
exceed US$20 million, it would be highly desirable to increase the scope of the Project to
include supplemental salary payments for health professionals. Provision for these payments
would be added to this Project or to the subsequent Essential Hospital Services Project if the
necessary donor financing -- amounting to about US$10 million over a twelve-month period -
- becomes available, and if the MOH develops a feasible plan, acceptable to both partners of
the Federation, for making these payments. If IDA financing and/or other needed
co-financing were not available for any reason following approval of the initial grant, the
project scope would be scaled down, with priority given to the Community Based
Rehabilitation services and the most urgent of the other planned activities. Such a reduction
would have an impact on the overall availability of rehabilitation services throughout the
country, but would not affect the Project's overall viability. The predominance of Bank
financing for Project Implementation Support is in recognition of the importance of this
component for ensuring successful implementation (see Project Risks, para. 93), and the fact
that there has been no pledge of assistance for this component from non-Bank sources.



Technical Annex Page 27 of 37
Table 9: Financing Plan* (US$ million)
CBR        Prostheses &    Orthopedic &      Project     Total Cost
Program* *      Orthoses       Reconst.    Implementation
Production      Surgery         Support
Trust Fund for       4.0             0.0           0.0             1.0          5.0
Bosnia &
Herzegovina                                                                            l
IDA                  1.0             2.0           1.9             0.1          5.0
Government of        1.0             1.5           0.7             0.0          3.2
Italy
ESDF                 2.0             1.0           2.0            0.0           5.0
EU                   0.0             0.0           0.0            0.8           0.8
Donors to be         5.1             1.7           4.2            0.0          11.0
identified
Total Project       13.1             6.2           8.8             1.9         30.0
Cost
The proposed allocations among project components are only tentative since donor co-
financing has not been confirmed.
* * CBR Program: Community-Based Rehabilitation Program.
56.    Taxes and Retroactive Financing. World Bank funds will be used to procure
specified project inputs net of taxes. Retroactive financing of up to 10% of the Grant will be
included for urgent purchases of project development and site preparation activities before
project effectiveness, incurred after January 31, 1996. To advance delivery/completion
further, advance contracting will be used to the maximum extent possible, subject to approval
and effectiveness of financing.
Environmental Aspects
57.    The Project will follow accepted Bank procedures and as an emergency operation,
the Project has not been assigned an environmental category. However, the Project is not
expected to have any adverse environmental impact. All hospital-based and health center-
based services will incorporate appropriate and safe disposal of wastes. Upgrading of
prosthetic production facilities will ensure compliance with modern and safe waste disposal
standards.



Technical Annex Page 28 of 37
E. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project Organization
58.    The Project will be implemented by the Federation MOH in close coordination and
collaboration with the related health authorities at the national and local levels: cantons,
municipalities, universities, NGOs, and other volunteer and donor agencies. To undertake its
Health Reform and Reconstruction Program (para. 24), the MOH has proposed the
establishment of a specific organization, including an Executive Office under the direct
authority of the Minister and Deputy Minister, with two main responsibilities: (i) the design
and implementation of the overall health sector recovery program, i.e., the five "pillars"
described in para. 25; and (ii) the coordination of donor activities.
59.     A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established under the authority of the
MOH Executive Office. The PIU will be responsible for: (i) day-to-day management,
coordination and monitoring of project activities; and (ii) coordination of all other activities
in physical and psycho-social rehabilitation being funded by other donor agencies in addition
to those carried out through this Project. The Unit will be headed by a project director and
will be supported in its work by two core groups: a full-time technical team and a part-time
professional team. The technical team will be responsible for the more traditional
implementation activities: civil works, procurement, accounting, etc. The professional team
(comprised of members of the MOH working group which prepared the National War
Victims Rehabilitation Program), will participate in implementation from the perspective of
experts in physical and psycho-social rehabilitation, providing technical advice and expertise
to the PIU. This type of support is important since MOH staff lack the skills and experience
with the CBR approach adopted under the Project. This Professional Team will be employed
on a part-time basis (estimated 1/3 time).
Project Implementation Arrangements
60.     Project activities will take place in selected health facilities throughout the country.
On the basis of agreed criteria defined by the MOH/PIU (design and implementation plan
finalized by the PIU Professional Team), local authorities will select the sites of the facilities,
finalize equipment lists and recipient institutions, and agree on operational and administrative
procedures. The PIU will provide assistance in these tasks. Since ownership, participation
and commitment of the local health authorities are critical for the successful implementation
of the Project, much attention will be given to this process. The objective will be to reach a
"contractual agreement" between local authorities and the MOH, under which the local
authorities commit to undertake the agreed activities, and the MOH (through the PIU) would
provide the needed resources to implement the said activities. Such a "contractual
agreement" does not constitute an on-lending instrument: all resources will remain under the
control of the MOH/PIU that will make them available to local authorities according to the
implementation schedule. The implementation arrangements for major activity areas are
described below.



Technical Annex Page 29 of 37
61.     As soon as possible after Grant effectiveness, if not before, a Project Launch
Workshop will be organized by the PIU. In addition to the authorities of the MOH and the
PIU, this workshop will involve all responsible staff at the national, cantonal and municipal
levels and responsible staff in the health facilities supported under the Project. The purpose
of the workshop will be to: (i) review the project concept and activities; (ii) confirm the role
and responsibilities of each level of authority and implementation; (iii) confirm and/or select
the location of facilities to be supported under the Project in accordance with the agreed
criteria; and (iv) finalize and agree on the implementation schedule. Within 30 days
following the launch workshop, a procurement workshop involving all persons concerned
with procurement, including the PIU, the Procurement Agent and the members of the
Procurement Review Committee, will be organized by the PIU to review, explain and assign
responsibilities for the procurement procedures set forth under the Project.
Civil Works
62.     Given the very limited implementation capacity of the MOH and the short duration
of the Project, technical assistance from a civil works management firm will be needed by
the PIU for: (i) assessing the needs for upgrading/remodelling of hospital departments,
prosthesis production units and CBR centers; (ii) preparing civil works design and tender
documents; (iii) carrying out tendering and selection procedures; and (iv) supervising civil
works. It is proposed that this civil work management support be provided by the
International Management Group (IMG) which is financed by the EU4. IMG has extensive
prior experience in the required functions, and is currently organized and staffed in all parts
of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The PIU (specifically, the PIU architect with the Professional
Team) will be responsible for defining functional requirements and standards, for approving
all documentation prepared by IMG, and for authorizing payments based on the reports and
invoices received regularly from the contractors through IMG. Given the dispersed nature
and small size of the packages of works (mainly renovation), civil works will be tendered
through Simplified National Competitive Bidding (SNCB) (para. 81).
Procurement of Goods and Supplies
63.     The lists of equipment, materials, supplies, and furniture to be procured and their
allocation to beneficiaries will be finalized by the PIU/MOH in consultation with the local
health authorities, as part of the "contractual agreement". The procurement of equipment
and medical supplies will be handled by a Procurement Agent (PA) to be contracted
following a competitive process. Recruitment of the PA should be completed within 30 days
following the establishment of the PIU. The PA will be responsible for: (i) preparing
technical specifications and tender documents; (ii) carrying out tendering procedures and
developing evaluation and selection criteria; and (iii) evaluating proposals on behalf of, and
41n the unlikely event that the European Union would not finance IMG for this Project, a civil work
management firm would be selected on a competitive basis.



Technical Annex Page 30 of 37
in coordination with, the PIU/MOH. The PA will also be responsible for inspecting the
delivery and installation of the equipment, certifying payments in accordance with contract
conditions and supervising the in-service training programs to be provided by the suppliers
that will then be authorized by the PIU. To ensure that the procurement of works, goods
and services is carried out in accordance with the procedures set for that purpose, a
Procurement Review Committee will be established and will be responsible for the approval
of final recommendations of contract award (ref. para. 82).
64.    Considering the expected size of procurement packages, the medical equipment,
pharmaceutical, medical materials and supplies will be procured through International
Shopping (IS) (para. 77). Vehicles, furniture and office supplies will be procured through
National Shopping (NS) (para. 78). Depending on the final size of the procurement
packages, office equipment including PCs and printers, photocopy and fax machines will be
procured either through IS or NS. Details of procurement packages are given in Appendix
5.
Implementation of Community-Based Rehabilitation (CBR) Component
65.    The CBR component will be implemented in the cantonal health facilities with the
technical assistance provided by the PIU Professional Team and international assistance
procured through the PIU. This international TA will be provided at two levels: (i) for the
overall program design, development and management at the central level (PIU); and (ii) for
operational and logistic support for the implementation of the on-site training at the local
(facility) level. The criteria for the selection of the agency(ies) to provide technical
assistance at the central and/or local levels will include skills and prior experience in: (a) the
development and implementation of community-based strategies in the field of physical and
psycho-social rehabilitation; (b) curriculum design; and (c) providing logistics for
multifaceted projects to be implemented in several locations.
66.     One of the first steps in the implementation of the CBR component is the
organization of a series of workshops following the "contractual agreement" reached with the
local health authorities. The purpose of the workshops, to be developed by the PIU/MOH
with the support of the TA agency(ies), is to present the conceptual framework of the federal
program and to assist in developing local implementation strategies and a detailed program
for each canton. The local implementation programs will include: (i) the implementation
schedule; (ii) the location of each CBR center; (iii) a staffing plan; and (iv) the lists of
equipment to be procured for each CBR center. With the completion of each workshop, and
once the various inputs will have been procured by the PIU, the local health authorities will
be in a position to proceed with the implementation of the CBR program activities.
67.    The on-site training under this component will begin with the establishment of the
CBR centers by the local health authorities with support of the PIU/MOH. Technical
assistance and logistic support will be provided at the local level in implementing on-site
training programs. Technical assistance will include at least one trained occupational and



Technical Annex Page 31 of 37
physical therapist working at each CBR for a period of six to eight weeks. Such assistance
will be procured through short-listing (SL) or sole-sourcing (SS) where and when
appropriate.
68.     The development of an Occupational and Physiotherapy Program (OT/PT) will be
supported through the Project. The University OT/PT program will be implemented by the
Medical Faculties of Universities of Sarajevo, Tuzla and Mostar. Technical assistance
(through the PIU at the central level), overseas training in rehabilitation for the educators
specialized in occupational and physiotherapy, and limited equipment and learning resources
will be provided under the Project for this purpose. Short-term overseas training programs
for the educators of these Universities will be organized by the PIU with the support of the
TA agency(ies). The technical assistance packages will be procured through short-listing
(SL) procedures or sole-sourcing (SS) if justified. Considering the specificity of such
services, training services will likely be procured through sole-sourcing.
69.     The Public Education and Health Promotion activities will be contracted out to an
organization, likely to be an association acting as a support group for disabled and very
likely through sole-sourcing (SS). This organization will be supported by the (central)
international technical assistance. This activity will include training and employment of war
disabled persons in the production, management and marketing of promotional materials,
with emphasis on disability prevention and health promotion.
Implementation of Orthopedic and Reconstructive (O&R) Surgery Component
70.     The activities under this component include: (i) rehabilitating facilities and providing
essential equipment and medical supplies for the Orthopedic and Reconstructive Surgical
units of seven selected hospitals (three Clinical Centers and four cantonal hospitals); and (ii)
short-term overseas training for the staff of these units. The implementation arrangements
for the civil works and procurement of equipment are described earlier (paras. 61-63).
During each year of the Project, short-term overseas training will be provided for a group of
two orthopedic surgeons, one anaesthetist and one theater nurse from each of the selected
hospital facilities. Such overseas training will be procured through short-listing (SL) or sole-
sourcing (SS) where and when appropriate. The teams will apply modern surgical,
anesthesiological and postoperative/intensive-care techniques in their "home-hospital" upon
their return.
Implementation of Prostheses and Orthoses (P&O) Production Component
71.     The activities under this component include: (i) rehabilitating facilities and providing
essential equipment, raw material and supplies for the production of prostheses and orthoses
to the selected P&O production and maintenance units; (ii) in-service training for the staff of
these units; and (iii) establishment of a database unit in the MOH. The implementation
arrangements for the civil works and procurement of equipment are described earlier (paras.



Technical Annex Page 32 of 37
61-63). International technical assistance will be procured to provide in-service training
programs which are to be implemented in these units.
72.    Technical assistance will be provided for creating a standardized Federation-wide
Data Base to collect and collate the information on amputees and disabled. Considering this
standardization and the proprietary nature of the production equipment procured under the
Project, such technical assistance may have to be procured through sole-sourcing (SS). All
prostheses and orthoses production units and the corresponding hospitals will be provided
with computers, each with printer and fax-modem and the suitable software. National
technical assistance will also be provided for software training. All units included in the
Project will provide monthly updates to the PIU/MOH.
Project Implementation Schedule
73.    The Project will be implemented over a two-year period. To allow for swift
implementation of this emergency-type operation, procedures for project implementation will
be kept simple. To secure the timely implementation of the Project, implementation
schedules have been developed for each component (Appendix 6).
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement of Goods
74.    The goods, including medical and essential equipment and supplies, office
equipment and supplies, furniture, vehicles and learning resources will be procured using
specified procedures. Pursuant to the decisions of the Bosnia Ad Hoc Advisory Committee
and given the size of the procurement packages (Appendix 5) packages will be procured
mainly through Limited International bidding (LIB), International Shopping (IS), National
Shopping (NS) and Direct Contracting (DC).
75.    Advertising. A General Procurement Notice (GPN, Appendix 7) will be published
in the Development Business in May/June 1996. The notice will include information about
the nature of the goods, works and services to be procured and invite interested and eligible
suppliers, contractors and consultants to send their expression of interest to the PIU. The
GPN will also be published in the local press. The GPN will be followed by specific
advertisements for individual contracts in the local press. Bidding documents will be sent to
suppliers who respond to the GPN and the specific advertisement. Expression of interest will
also be used to prepare Limited International Bidding lists.
76.    Limited International Bidding (LIB). LIB, tendering by invitation, will be used
for procurement packages estimated to cost over US$2.0 million and up to US$5.0 million
each. Exceptions to this threshold will be the cases where there will be only a limited
number of suppliers. It is unlikely that LIB will be used at all under this Project. As



Technical Annex Page 33 of 37
presented in Appendix 6, it is expected that all procurement packages will be under the
US$2.0 million threshold, therefore being procured, through International or National
Shopping (IS, NS) or Direct Contracting (DC) (see below).
(a) List of LIB Bidders. The list of suppliers will be compiled based on the
expressions of interest received in response to the General Procurement Notice as
well as other sources, such as the Procurement Agent's own experience. The list
will be as broad as possible. List of suppliers for LIB packages will be subject to
the Bank's prior approval.
(b) Bidding Documents for LIB. The Bank's Standard Bidding documents will be
used. In order to expedite the process, LIB bidding documents will be sent by fax.
77.    International Shopping (IS). Procedures for IS will be used for equipment and
materials or standard specification commodities estimated to cost between US$200,000 and
US$ 2.0 million per contract. IS will be based on comparing price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers from two eligible countries in accordance with Bank guidelines.
78.    National Shopping (NS). NS will be used for contracts for goods available in
Bosnia Herzegovina up to an estimated cost US$ 200,000 per contract with at least three
quotations.
79.    Direct Contracting (DC). DC will be used for proprietary items, for reasons of
compatibility and standardization, and in any other justified case. Any direct contracting
during project implementation will need prior Bank approval.
80.    Recurrent Costs/Incremental Operating Costs. Recurrent Costs/Incremental
Operating Costs will be procured as follows: PIU staffing will be procured under
procurement procedures for consultants' services, and mostly on a sole source basis. Office
supplies, pharmaceuticals, medical supplies, rental and other services will be procured
through NS or IS, according to the availability of required items in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
and the size of the procurement packages, and will follow the provisions set for NS and IS.
Proprietary items such as gas and electricity will be procured through DC with local
companies.
Procurement of Works
81.    Given the nature of the works, mainly rehabilitation of existing facilities, Simplified
National Competitive Bidding (SNCB) will be used for contracts estimated to cost up to
US$ 1.0 million per contract. These works will be procured under lump sum, fixed price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified contractors in
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of works,
including basic specifications, the required completion period, a basic form of agreement
acceptable to the Association and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be



Technical Annex Page 34 of 37
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work and who
has the experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
Procurement Review Committee
82.    As stated above in para. 63, to ensure that the procurement of works, goods and
services is carried out in accordance with the procedures set for that purpose, a Procurement
Review Committee will be established and will be responsible for the approval of final
recommendations of contract award. The Procurement Review Committee will be constituted
of a representative from the MOH, a representative from the PIU and two representatives
from the Clinical Centers and cantonal hospitals supported under the Project, and (for review
of contracts other than for civil works) a member of IMG. The establishment of this
Procurement Review Committee will be a condition of Grant effectiveness.
Procurement of Services
83.    Services will be procured through competition (short-listing) and sole-sourcing
where and when appropriate. Qualified institutions and firms will be invited to submit
proposals for comprehensive packages of consultant services and management of fellowships
and training in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981). Local staff for the
PIU will be procured through short-listing (SL) or, considering the fact that the Project
should contribute strengthening of the MOH, through sole-sourcing (SS) of staff currently
seconded to the MOH. To keep the evaluation process manageable, no more than six (but at
least three) proposals will be invited following a short listing acceptable to the Bank.
Prior and Post Bank Review of Procurement Documents
84.    The Bank has prepared the invitation to quote and contract documents for
International Shopping, Simplified Bidding documents for NCB and a National Shopping
document for civil works. These documents would be used under the Project. Prior review
will be required for all contracts procured through Limited International Bidding (LIB) and
Direct Contracting (DC). Also, the first three contracts awarded through International
Shopping (IS) and through UN Agencies, will require prior review from the Bank. For
consultants' contracts, the Bank's standard form for consultants contracts will be used and
prior review for consultants contracts conducted as required. Post review of procurement
actions on a sample basis will be carried out during supervision missions.



Technical Annex Page 35 of 37
Disbursements
85.    Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, the State Ministry of
Finance will establish under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US
dollars in a commercial bank. The authorized allocation of the Special Account will be
limited to US$1.0 million, representing about four months of estimated average expenditures
expected to be paid from the Special Account. Replenishment applications will be forwarded
to the Bank at least every three months and must include reconciled bank statements as well
as other appropriate documents. For large contracts, such as medical equipment, the Bank
will make direct payments to suppliers.
86.     Statement of Expenditures. Disbursements will be made against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) for contracts for goods and works up to US$1.0 million equivalent,
except for the first three contracts procured under international shopping and through UN
Agencies. Statements of Expenditures will also be allowed for expenditures for incremental
operating costs, training, contracts with consultant's firms below US$100,000 and individuals
below US$50,000. Disbursements for contracts exceeding US$3.0 million equivalent will be
made against presentation to the Bank of full contract documentation. The Project
completion date will be June 30, 1998.
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting
87.     Accounts. Separate and auditable accounts would be established with the PIU
within MOH. These accounts would include: (i) a record of withdrawals with copies of all
disbursement requests and underlying documentation; and (ii) a record of transactions on the
special account and the copies of the bank statements on this account.
88.    Audits. The project accounts will be audited annually by independent auditors and
under terms and references acceptable to the Bank. Separate audit statements will be
prepared for the Special Account and for Statements of Expenditures. All audit reports will
be made available to the Bank, at the latest, six months after the end of the fiscal year.
Project accounts will be maintained for one year after they have been audited.
89.    Reporting. The PIU will prepare and furnish to the Bank a quarterly progress report
showing the status of implementation of the Project as well as a financial report in a format
acceptable to the Bank. The PIU will collect data from the Canton Administrations which
will compile short quarterly progress reports.
Supervision Plan
90.    Project implementation will incorporate a large degree of flexibility in order to
adapt to local implementation arrangements and rapidly changing circumstances in the
country. Implementation progress will be formally evaluated at mid-term, i.e., approximately
12 months after effectiveness. In addition, during the first 6 to 12 months of



Technical Annex Page 36 of 37
implementation, the Bank's Project Team (EC1/2HR staff in Budapest and Washington),
jointly with the Social Sectors Operations Officer of the Bank's Resident Mission in
Sarajevo, will continuously supervise all initial project implementation steps, and will assist
closely on matters requiring advice and rapid decision by the Bank. In particular,
procurement and disbursements will require intensive supervision, given the flexibility built
into implementation.
F. PROJECT BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Project Benefits and Economic Justification
91.     Benefits expected from the successful implementation of the Project fall into four
categories. First, the Project will contribute significantly to reducing human suffering, an
outcome that is impossible to quantify in and of itself. Beyond the numbers of physically
disabled (the amputees and paraplegics, but also all those who have been injured and are left
with some degree of disability) and of psychologically traumatized persons, there remains a
lot of suffering that could significantly influence the vision and hopes for the future of the
people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Second, and related to the first point, the reduction of
political instability is contingent upon the healing of the wounds associated with the war. On
all sides, injuries and trauma have been caused by neighbors, relations or friends. Relevant
therapy and care that the Project is intended to bring should facilitate progressive attainment
of a reasonable degree of social and political reconciliation. These are pre-conditions for
establishing a viable state. Finally, the Project constitutes the first opportunity given to the
Bosnian health sector to develop cost-effective organization and functions. The strong
emphasis on investments at the lower level of care (community-based) will pave the way for
developing future activities clearly departing from the pre-war reliance on institutionalized
care to a continuum of services anchored in the community. Moreover, through the
establishment of a strong PIU, the Project should enable the Federation MOH to
progressively resume its normal responsibilities in a rational way, enhancing its capacity for
planning and implementing needs-based service delivery.
92.     Economic Justification. On economic grounds, the Project will help reduce the lost
productivity that would otherwise continue to result from the enormous burden of disease and
disability due to physical and psycho-social trauma. By rehabilitating the victims of war, the
Project will help meet a precondition for their re-integration into the economically active
segment of society. The economic loss attributable to war inflicted physical disability and
trauma is extremely difficult to measure. However, based on the 1990 prevalence of these
conditions (intentional injuries and post traumatic stress disorders) and assuming that the
conflict has considerably increased their incidence (three to five times), the loss of national
production associated with the disabilities left untreated in the adult productive population
(male and female ages 15 - 59), the segment of the population producing the national wealth,
would range between 1 % and 2% of post-war GDP. Using 1.5 % and under the assumptions
that: (i) employment opportunities are available; and (ii) the Project would result in the



Technical Annex Page 37 of 37
restoration of 30% (a conservative assumption) of the lost ability to perform economic
activities, it is estimated that the net annual gain in GDP would range between US$8.0
million and US$16.0 million. using a GDP per capita of US$500 or US$1.000. respectively.
In any of these scenarios, this represents an unusually high return, fully justifying the
investments planned under the Project.
Project Risks
93.     The main risk associated with the Project is that limited implementation capacity
could delay its implementation. This risk will be mitigated through the setting up of a strong
Project Implementation Unit supported by qualified technical assistance and reliance on
professionals with the capacity for managing civil works and procurement. Turn-key
contracts will be used where and when appropriate. Project implementation could also suffer
from a shortage of co-financing. Active involvement of potential donors during project
preparation and effective communication from the Government could help to secure the
required co-financing. Finally, if the current low level of remuneration of health
professionals and irregularity of payments is not addressed, there is a substantial risk of
attrition of health professionals, especially the best qualified, and/or erosion of their
commitment. This would have serious negative effects on the quality of health services
delivered in general, and on the project-supported activities in particular. Additional donor
financing could help alleviate this risk by temporarily complementing salaries of health
professionals. Mechanisms to effectively allocate and manage these potential resources are
being prepared. Sources of such financial assistance are yet to be identified.






Appendix 1, Page 1 of 2
Appendix 1: The Status of Orthopedic and Reconstructive Surgical Units
State Hospital, Sarajevo: Out of 420 previously available beds this hospital now has
250, 60 of which are for the traumatology/orthopedic department. It functions as a regional
hospital. Out of a total of 7 operating theaters, one was destroyed during the war and 6 are
in good condition, and 2 of these belong to the traumatology/orthopedic department. These 2
require minor repairs. One intensive care unit was destroyed as well, but there is another
one with 20 beds, out of which 10 are allocated to the surgical departments. Some minor
repairs and replacement of broken glasses are required.
University Clinical Center Kosevo. Sarajevo: Out of more than 4,000 beds before the
war, the University Clinic now has 1,850. Apart from the traumatology/orthopedic
department there are 12 other surgical departments. To meet the demands of the large influx
of the war wounded, it was necessary to reorganize the health care system in the clinical
center. Orthopedics and traumatology became one combined department in the same building
with 5 theaters. Of these 5 theaters, 4 are in good condition and one needs replacement of
the floor covering. Some in-patient rooms need new windows. The intensive care unit is in
good condition. The access road from the entrance of the Clinical Center compound to the
clinic of traumatology/orthopedics is in very poor condition and unsuitable for seriously
injured patients.
Tuzla Hospital: According to the MOH, this hospital shall be the location of the
second medical faculty of the Federation. The traumatology/orthopedic department has 120
beds.
Zenica Hospital: This was one of the larger cantonal hospitals with tertiary-level
services. During the war it was developed through the help of the Danish government into a
big 1,200-bed rehabilitation clinic of high standard in which 40 to 50 beds are allocated to
the orthopedic department.
Mostar Hospital: This is a huge concrete building erected just before the outbreak of
the war, with almost all civil works already done. Assessments of the extent of damage due
to the war, the repairs needed and resources required for its completion need to be done by a
civil engineer. Mostar, according to the MOH, shall become the third major center of
university level health care in the Federation. The orthopedic/traumatology department has
a capacity of about 75 beds, located in temporary premises.
Livno Hospital: Located between Mostar and Bihac, this small cantonal hospital
offers tertiary-level services in its department of traumatology and orthopedics which has 30
to 40 beds.
Bihac Hospital: This is also a cantonal hospital, with a 40-bed orthopedic/
traumatology department.



Appendix 1, Page 2 of 2
Orthopedic and Reconstructive Surgical Units in Bosnia-Herzegovina, February, 1996
Hospital                Rehabilitation Department   Community Based Rehabilitation
Clinic CBR
Sarajevo
Kosevo *                Yes                        5 CBR Clinics: Dobrinja,
State Hospital *        Yes                        Alipasino Poije, Novo Sarajevo,
Praxis, Neretva
plus 2 prosthetics units
pp
Tuzla * p               Yes: Polyclinic, plus      1 CBR: Srebrenica
Rehabilitation
Institute/Center for spinal
cord injuries                                            l
Zenica * p              Yes, plus Rehabilitation   1 CBR: Nemila
Institute
Mostar * _p              Yes                       1 CBR
rLivno *                No
Bihac * p               No
Gorazde (war hospital,    No
future uncertain) **
Travnik **               Yes
Jajce (destroyed in the
war)
*     Orthopedic surgery
**    General surgery
p      Prosthetics unit



Appendix 2, Page 1 of 3
Appendix 2: The Status of Prostheses Production and Maintenance Units
Central Prosthetics and Rehabilitation Unit in Sarajevo (Neretva). This unit was
expected to take substantial responsibilities for program design, monitoring and
implementation of the physical rehabilitation programs in the Sarajevo area, while the
regional centers would be created to implement the assistance to war victims in their
respective zones of activity. Allocation of the program resources from the center to the
periphery was supposed to be linked to regional plans of action. Neretva is currently not in
a position to fulfil these responsibilities. There are urgent needs for major changes in this
institution:
Work Methods: The work process needs altering, notably the present arrangement whereby
up to six persons are involved in the making of one prosthesis. This means that no one can
take full responsibility in the rehabilitating process of a particular patient and the patient has
no direct "partner" in this important part of the physical rehabilitation process. There is
therefore an urgent need for training and introduction of modern production techniques. It
will be important to appoint also an expatriate workshop manager who has the skills needed
for applying modern methods and for training others (minimum duration of assignment, 3
months).
Capacity Building: A major reduction of the existing personnel and concurrent recruitment
of enthusiastic young technicians should be the next step in the process of achieving
increased productivity. In-service management training through external technical assistance
should be a priority. The expatriate and his/her local counterpart could coordinate the
Federation-wide prosthetic and rehabilitation plan. As managers they should be situated in
Neretva, and as coordinators they should be attached to the Ministry of Health to coordinate
the implementation of the plan.
Supplies: For some time Neretva produced no prostheses because it had run out of raw
materials. Finally it received supplies in 1995 but still lacks other materials and sufficient
equipment to become the center for the whole Federation.
Civil Works: The Neretva workshops are still in two different buildings. The major
production unit is on the hill in church premisses where it occupies about 1700 m2. The
major rehabilitation unit is still in the Neretva owned building in the center of the town (on a
plot of about 800 m2) but major parts of the infrastructure are completely destroyed. For
this a complete reconstruction would be less expensive than rehabilitation and/or repairs of
the existing buildings. A new construction would also enable the construction of a 3-floor
building to accommodate Neretva again, with approximately 2,500 M2 in total. For the time
being it is planned that Neretva will move soon to a building behind (and belonging to) the
State Hospital.



Appendix 2, Page 2 of 3
Center for the Production of Orthopedic Appliances. The small workshop in the
center of Sarajevo is run under the umbrella of the local NGO "Merhamet". The workshop
was equipped through funds from different national Caritas organizations through CRS. The
difference between the workshop of e.g. Neretva and this small unit is striking as one finds
here the most recent Otto Bock machines, rawlings and all other needed supplies for one
year, tools and physical rehabilitation equipment in renovated small building. Even more
impressive are the prostheses they fabricate. The two technicians produce prostheses of high
technical and aesthetic quality. This workshop could provide some competition for Neretva,
and it could be developed into the national center for upper limb prostheses, of which there
is none in the country. In-service training of about 3 months in the initial phase and
refresher courses would be required. No investments are required for civil works.
Tuzla Workshop. This workshop, which is managed by Handicap International,
produces only temporary prostheses for the initial phase after operation. As there are not
enough facilities for permanent prostheses the amputees use their temporary prostheses often
too long (several months, up to even 3 years). The fitting of a permanent prosthesis after
such a long time is very difficult and often reamputation is required. There are urgent needs
to "upgrade" this workshop into a unit which can produce good prosthesis as described
above. New machines, tools, equipment and operational supplies for at least 2 years will be
as needed, as well as training for the technicians. Major investments in civil works are not
expected as it would be wise to use the existing premisses of handicap international.
Zenica Workshop. This is an excellent workshop with very good equipment for 5
technicians. By the end of 1995, it had registered 944 patients, out of which 83 % had
lower limb amputations of different kinds. 379 of these prostheses are finished (40%).
Unfortunately the workshop "lost" all their skilled technicians which resulted in serious
degradation of the quality of work. In addition, the most recent rawlings delivered were of
poor quality, and the prostheses do not meet the required standard. They have to be replaced
after 3 to 4 years, whereas a good prosthesis should last at least 6 and can last up to 10
years. Minor repairs are required in the workshop, some equipment have to be replaced,
others added. There are urgent needs for supplies, consumables and very urgent in-service
training, which should be carried out together with the delivery and installation of the new
equipment.
Foinica. Fojnica is the site of the large national rehabilitation center. Some
responsible people in the Ministry of Health as well as the management of Neretva wanted
very much to establish a branch of Neretva near to the clinic to serve the patients of the
center, which should then become enlarged up to 700 beds capacity. In the context of the
now agreed community based approach it would be much more reasonable to do the
opposite, reducing the capacity of the rehabilitation center and putting more emphasis into
the community based structures (see below).



Appendix 2, Page 3 of 3
Mostar. The unfinished building requires civil work investments for completion. It
also requires equipment to become operational. Currently there is only a small service
workshop, without major equipment, proper tools, consumables and supplies. In-service
training for at least 3 month would be required.
Bihac. Although Bihac was chosen already in the beginning of 1995 to be a
administrative as well as medical, orthopedic and traumatology/ reconstructive surgery
center, the new prosthetic workshop was just recently set up in Cazin, 26 km north of Bihac.
The German NGO "Johanniter Unfallhilfe" has equipped the small unit with Otto Bock
equipment and all necessary supplies which should last up to the end of the year. There are
no costs for civil works expected. Supplies should be planned for a period of about 2 years,
training will be as essential as for the other units.
Livno. Livno has no facilities at all for prosthesis production or servicing. The
decision to set up completely new workshop, including infrastructure, equipment and supplies
should be postponed until the final data from the planned screening are available. It might
be appropriate regarding future sustainability and self financing requirements to make Livno
a very small prosthesis servicing center. This small workshop could be accommodated in the
existing premisses of the hospital and much less equipment and supplies would be needed.
The technician could be trained together with colleagues in Cazin or in Mostar.



Appendix 3: Organization of Rehabilitation Services
Prostheses &-       Hospitals:                        Hospitals:
Orthoses:           Physical Rehabilitation           Psycho-Social
-Production    "*'0_ -Orthopedic & Reconstructive surgery Rehabilitation
-Maintenance        -Short-Stay Rehabilitation        -Acute Care Psychiatry
Orthoses:                                     -Chronic Psychoses
Community-B3ased Physical     PyCommunity-Based
Rehability-ation  Phscl       Psycho-Social Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation                -Medication
-Ohsccptoal Therapy           -Individual Psychotherapy
-Occupational Therapy         -Group Therapy
-Counselling                  -Counselling
-Occupational Therapy
-Home Visits
Homes     ~Homes          Homes       Homes



COST ESTIMATES                                             Appendix 4
Page 1 of 8
Coat Summary by Project Components (USS 000)
CBR       Prosthesis  Orthopedic  Project
Expenditure Category           Program   Units      Surgical    Implementation    TOTAL  %
INVESTMENT COSTS
CIVIL WORKS                       2,670.00    955.00    1,300.00         115.00   5,040.00    16.8
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS           3,278.44   3,096.50    4,400.00         22.50  10,797.44    36.0
Essential Equipment             2,056.44     695.00    4,400.00                 7,151.44
Prothesis and Raw Materials                2,331.00                             2,331.00
Office Equipment                  906.00      70.50                      22.50    999.00
Learning Resources                316.00                                          316.00
FURNITURE                          420.00       0.00        0.00          20.00    440.00       1.5
VEHICLES                             0.00      75.00      175.00          18.00    268.00      0.9
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              1,536.00    480.00        0.00        1,473.22   3,489.22    11.6
Intemational                    1,200.00    480.00                     252.00   1,932.00
Local                             36.00                               1,221.22   1,257.22
Education & Promotion            300.00                                          300.00
TRAINING                            180.00     52.00      504.00          45.00    781.00      2.6
Overseas Training                 90.00                 504.00          22.50    616.50
Local Training                    90.00      52.00                      22.50     164.50
Total Investment Costs            9,084.44   4,658.50    6,379.00       1,693.72  20,375.66   67.9
RECURRENT COSTS
Operational Costs               2,100.00     140.00                      48.00   2,288.00
Supply and materials            2,436.00   1,231.00    2,100.00          72.00   5,839.00
Total Recurrent Costs             4,536.00   1,371.00    2,100.00        120.00   8,127.00    27.1
TOTAL BASE COST                  12,620.44   6,029.50    8,479.00       1,813.72  28,942.66
CONTINGENCIES                      485.41     219.09      306.37          59.01   1,069.88     3.6
TOTAL COST                       13,105.85   6,248.59    8,785.37       1,872.73  30,012.54    100.0
_  %    43.7       20.8       29.3             6.2     100.0



COST ESTIMATES                                  Appendix 4
Page 2 of 8
ESTIMATES AND DISBURSEMENT SCH                               Prosthesis
Disbursement Schedule
Component                     FY96      FY97     FY97      FY98     FY98    TOTAL
Component________________ IQ4           Q1/2     Q3/4      Q1/2      Q3
Community-Based Rehabilitation  Amount    0.917    3.275    6.288     1.965     0.655      13.1
Percent      7%       25%      48%       15%        5%     100%
Prostheses and Orthoses
Production                    Amount      0.31       3.1      1.24     0.93      0.62      6.2
Percent      5%       50%      20%       15%       10%     100%
Orthopedic and Reconstructive
Surgery                       Amount      0.44      2.64    4.136      1.32    0.264        8.8
Percent      5%       30%      47%       15%        3%     100%
Project Implementation Support  Amount    0.285    0.532    0.475     0.475     0.133       1.9
Percent     15%       28%      25%       25%       7%      100%
Total            Amount    1.952    9.547    12.139        4.69    1.672      30.0
Percent      7%       32%      40%       16%        6%     100%



COST ESTIMATES                                 Appendix 4
Page 3 of 8
Component: Orthopedic&Reconstructive (O&R) Surg Prosthesis
Unit    Total    Physical
Expenditure Category                     Unit  Quantity  Cost  Base Cost Contingency TOTAL
INVESTMENT COSTS
CIVIL WORKS
Rehabilitation of 3 O&R clinics  lump sum            750.00       52.50  802.50
Rehabilitation of 4 cantonal O&R units  lumpsum            550.00       38.50  588.50
Subtotal Civil Works lump sum                1300.00       91.00 1391.00
ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT                    lump sum
For 3 O&R clinics  lump sum               2800.00       84.00 2884.00
For 4 cantonal O&R units  lump sum              1600.00      48.00 1648.00
Subtotal Equipment                          4400.00      132.00 4532.00
VEHICLES
Wheelchair accessible minivans  piece    7  25.00   175.00        5.25  180.25
Subtotal Vehicles                          175.00       5.25  180.25
TRAINING
Overseas Training/ i                  m/m         168   3.00   504.00       15.12  519.12
Subtotal Training                          504.00       15.12  519.12
Total Investment Costs                                           6379.00     243.37 6622.37
RECURRENT COSTS
Surgical supplies for O&R units      per unit      7 300.00  2100.00       63.00 2163.00
Total Recurrent Costs                                            2100.00       63.00 2163.00
TOTAL COST                                                       8479.00     306.37 8785.37
notes
1/ short-term training for 2 surgeons, 1 anesthesist and 1 theatre nurse per unit for 3 months
(first and second year)



COST ESTIMATES                                           Appendix 4
Page 4 of 8
Component: Prostheses and Orthoses (P&O) Production     Cost Summary (US$ 000)
Prosthesis Unit     Total      Physical
Expenditure Category                    Unit  Quantity  Cost      Base Cost  Contingency  TOTAL
INVESTMENT COSTS
CIVIL WORKS
Central P&O Prod unit in Sarejevo  per unit  1   650.00    650.00        45.50   695.50
Regional P&O Production units / I per unit   2    90.00    180.00         12.6   192.60
maintenance centers  per unit     5    25.00    125.00         8.75   133.75
Subtotal Civil Works per unit                     955.00        66.85  1021.85
EQUIPNENT AND MATERIALS               per unit
Essential Production Equipment      per unit                      695.00        20.85   715.85
Central P&O Prod unit in Sarejevo  per unit  1   175.00    175.00         5.25   180.25
Regional P&O Production units  per unit    2    85.00    170.00         5.10   175.10
maintenance centers  per unit     5    70.00    350.00        10.50   360.50
Protheses and Production Materials  per unit                     2331.00        69.93  2400.93
Central P&O Prod unit in Sarejevo  per unit  1  1800.00   1800.00        54.00  1854.00
Regional P&O Production units  per unit    2   178.00    356.00        10.68   366.68
maintenance centers  per unit     5    35.00    175.00         5.25   180.25
Office Equipment                                                    70.50        2.12    72.62
PC,faxmodem, printer/ 2  piece      15      4.50     67.50       2.025    69.53
photocopymachine   piece        1     3.00      3.00         0.09     3.09
Subtotal Equipment and Materials                              3096.50       92.90  3189.40
VEHICLES
Wheel accesible minivans / 3  piece    3    25.00      75.00        2.25    77.25
Subtotal Vehicles                               75.00         2.25    77.25
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
International                                                     450.00       13.50   463.50
In-service trainer /4   n/rm    30    15.00    450.00          13.5  463.50
Local                                                             30.00          0.9    30.90
Software trainer  mWm        12     2.50     30.00          0.9    30.90
Subtotal TA                               480.00        14.40   494.40
TRAINING
Local training / 5                  lump sum                       52.00         1.56    53.56
Subtotal Training                               52.00         1.56    53.56
Total Investment Costs                                             4658.50       177.96  4836.46
RECURRENT COSTS
Operational Costs                                                 140.00         4.20   144.20
Central P&O Prod unit in Sarejevo  per unit  1    75.00     75.00         2.25    77.25
Regional P&O Production units  per unit    2    20.00     40.00         1.20    41.20
maintenance centers  per unit     5     5.00     25.00         0.75    25.75
Supply and materials                                               1231.00        36.93  1267.93
Central P&O Prod. unit in Sarejevo  per unit  1   700.00    700.00       21.00   721.00
Regional P&O Production units  per unit    2   178.00    356.00        10.68   366.68
maintenance centers  per unit     5    35.00    175.00         5.25   180.25
Total Recurrent Costs                                              1371.00        41.13  1412.13
TOTAL COST                                                         6029.50       219.09  6248.59
notes:
I/ In Tuzla, Mostar.
2/ One for each P&O Production and maintenance unit, and 7 for MOH.
3/ One for each P&O Production unit.
4/ 3 months for each P&O Production and maintenance units
and 6 month for upperlimb production techniques.
5/ During the first year; 6 workshops for for each P&O Production unit for 15 persons and for 5 days
in the second year refresher training; 2 workshops for 15 persons for 5 days.



COST ESTIMATES                                              Appendix 4
Page 5 of 8
Subcomponent:  Community-Based Physical Rehabilitation   Cost Summary (US$ 000)
Unit       Total      Physical
Expenditure Category                        Unit  Prosthesis    Cost   Base Cost   contingency   TOTAL
INVESTMENT COSTS
CIVIL WORKS
Physical CBR centers  per unit   22     45.00       990.00        69.3       1059.30
Hospital Dep. ofPhysicalRehab.  per unit   8     15.00       120.00        8.40        128.40
Subtotal Civil Works  per unit                      1,110.00       77.70      1,187.70
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                   per unit
Essential Equipment                     per unit                        1591.44        47.74      1639.18
Physical CBR                        per unit                         1385.00       41.55       1426.55
Equipmentfor CBR physicians  per unit   30      2.50       75.00         2.25        77.25
OT&PTEquipment  per unit        22     45.00      990.00        29.70      1019.70
Hospital Dep. ofPhysicalRehab.  per unit   8     40.00       320.00        9.60        329.60
OT/PT Equipment/i                    per unit        3    68.81       206.44         6.19       212.63
Office Equipment                                                          201.00         6.03       207.03
Physical CBR centers   piece     22       7.50      165.00        4.95        169.95
Hospital Dep. ofPhysicalRehab.   piece     8      4.50        36.00         1.08        37.08
Leaming Resources                                                         196.00        5.88       201.88
Physical CBR centers  per unit   30      4.00      120.00          3.6       123.60
OTIPT program   per unit      3     25.33        76.00        2.28         78.28
Subtotal Equipment and materials                                 1988.44       69.66       2048.09
FURNITURE
Physical CBRs  per unit     30      8.00      240.00         7.20       247.20
0TTIPT program/I  per unit     2       7.50       15.00         0.45        15.45
Subtotal Furniture                                  266.00        7.65        262.66
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Intemational                                                             750.00       22.50        772.50
OTIPTprogram developmentl 2   m/m        20     15.00       300.00        9.00        309.00
CBR Specialistsfor onsite training /3   n/m n30     15.00      450.00        13.50       463.50
Local                                                                    18.00         0.54        18.54
Translator   m1rm        18      1.00        18.00        0.54         18.54
Health Promotion Study                  per unit                        300.00         9.00       309.00
Subtotal TA                                 1,068.00       32.04      1,100.04
TRAINING
Overseas Training /4                   per unit       12      7.50       90.00         2.70        92.70
Local Training /5                      per unit      450      0.10       45.00         1.35        46.35
Subtotal Training                                  135.00        4.06        139.06
Total Investment Costs                    per unit                        4656.44       181.09      4737.63
RECURRENT COSTS
Operational Cost &Transportation                                         1140.00       34.20       1174.20
Physical CBR centers  per unit   30     38.00     1140.00         34.2      1174.20
Notes:                                                                    1494.00        44.82      1538.82
1/ Fulltime trainers for 12 months                                        1350.00       40.50       1390.50
2/ 3 workshopsfor 50 personsfor 3 days  per unit  30    30.00      900.00          27        927.00
Medical Supplies   per unit   30       7.00      210.00          6.3       216.30
Consumables and office supplies  per unit  30    8.00       240.00          7.2       247.20
Hospital Physical Rehab. Dept.                                          144.00        4.32        148.32
Pharmaceuticals   per unit      8     18.00      144.00         4.32       148.32
Total Recurrent Costs                                                     2634.00        79.02      2713.02
TOTAL BASE COST                                                           7190.44       260.11      7450.66
Notes:
1/ For Universities of Tuzla, Sarajevo and Mostar.
2/ 5 specialists for 4 months for curriculum and learning resomrces developmnent
3/ Full-time trainers for 12 montas.
4/ 4 faculty staff from each university for 3 months.
5/ 3 workshops for 50 persons for 3 days.



COST ESTIMATES                                  Appendix 4
Page 6 of 8
Subcomponent: Community Based Pscyho-social Rehabilitation   Cost Summary (US$ 000)
Unit   Total     Physical
Expenditure Category                      Unit Prosthesis  Cost  Base Cost  contingency   TOTAL
INVESTMENT COSTS
CIVIL WORKS
Psycho-social CBR centers per unit  30  45.00   1350.00      94.50  1444.50
HospitalDep.ofPsycho-socialRehab. per unit  14  15.00   210.00       14.70   224.70
Subtotal Civil Works                        1560.00      109.20  1669.20
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
Essential Equipment                                             465.00        13.95   478.95
Rehabilitation equipmentfor CBR centers per unit  30   8.50   255.00     7.65   262.65
Hospitals&Dep.ofPsycho-socialRehab per unit  14  15.00   210.00        6.30   216.30
Office Equipment                                                 705.00        21.15   726.15
Psycho-social CBR centers per unit  30  20.00   600.00       18.00   618.00
Hospital Dep.of Psycho-social Rehab. per unit  14   7.50    105.00    3.15   108.15
Learning Resources                                               120.00         3.60   123.60
Psycho-social CBR centers per unit  30   4.00    120.00       3.60   123.60
Subtotal Equipment and materials                       1290.00        38.70  1328.70
FURNITURE
Psycho-social CBRs per unit   30   5.50    165.00        4.95   169.95
Subtotal Furniture                         165.00        4.95   169.95
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
International                                                   450.00       13.50   463.50
CBR Specialists for onsite training/I  m/m  30  15.00   450.00      13.50   463.50
Local                                                            18.00        0.54    18.54
Translator  r/rm       18  1.00      18.00        0.54    18.54
Subtotal TA                          468.00        14.04   482.04
TRAINING
Local Training /2                     m/day       450   0.10    45.00         1.35    46.35
Subtotal Training                          45.00        1.35    46.35
Total Investment Costs                                           3528.00       168.24  3696.24
RECURRENT COSTS
Operational Cost &Transportation       per unit     30  32.00    960.00        28.8  988.80
Medical Supply and Consumables                                   942.00       28.26   970.26
Psycho-social CBR centers                                      690.00       20.70   710.70
pharmaceuticals per unit   30  18.00   540.00         16.2  556.20
Consumables and office supplies per unit  30   5.00    150.00      4.5  154.50
Hospital Psycho-social Rehab. Dept.                            252.00         7.56   259.56
Pharmaceuticals  per unit   14  18.00   252.00         7.56   259.56
Total Recurrent Costs                                            1902.00        57.06  1959.06
TOTAL BASE COST                                                  5430.00       225.30  5655.30
Notes:
1/ Fulltime trainers for 12 months.
2/ 3 workshops for 50 persons for 3 days.



COST ESTIMATES                                                                 Appendix 4
Page9, 7d
Component: CBR Program   Cost Summay (UJSS 000)
Unit    Total     Physical
Expenditure Category                        Unit  Prosthasu  Cost  Base Cost  contigrency   TOTAL
INVESTMENT COSTS
CIVIL WORKS
Physical CBR                                                       1,110 00       77.70  1,187.70
PhysalCBR centerR   per unit     22  45.00    990.00          693   1059.30
HospitalDep of PhysicalRehab.  per unit    8   15.00    120.00         8.40    128.40
Psycho-social CBR                                                   1580.00      109.20   1869.20
Psycho-social CBR cenhers  peru-i1    30  45.00   135000         94.50   1444.50
Hospil.lDepofPsycho-socialRehab.  per wii     14  1500    210.00          14.70    224.70
Subtotal Civil Works                            2670.00       186.90   2856.90
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
Essential Equipment                                                2056.44        61.69   2118.13
Physical CBR                                                    1385.00       41.55   1428.55
Equ ip.enfor CBRphysicians  perunit     30   2.50      75.00         2.25     77.25
OT&PTEquip.ent  per unit        22  45.00    990.00        29.70   1019.70
Hospital Dep. ofPhysscalRehab.  perunit    8  40.00    320.00          9.60    329 60
Psycho-social CBR                                                465.00        13.95    478.95
Reho.bihiatio equipment per unit    30   8.50    255.00          7.85    262.65
Hjsospnoh&Dep.ofPsyrho-.oia/Rehab  paruni      14  1500    210.00           630    216.30
OT/PTEquipment/i                     p  -unit        3  68.81    206.44          6.19    212.63
Office Equipment                                                      908.00       27.18    93318
Physical CBR                                                      201.00         6.03    207.03
Physical CBR centers   piece     22    7.50    165.00         4.95    169.95
HospitalDep. of PhysicalRehab.   piece      8   4.50     36.00         1.08     37.08
Psycho-social CBR                                                 705.00        21.15    72615
Psycho-socialCRRcente,r  per unit     30  20.00    600.00        18.00    618.00
l1ospiiolDep.ofPsycho-.ocialRehab.  per unit  14   7.50    105.00         3.15    108.15
Leaming Resources                                                    316.00         9.48    325.48
Physial CAR en ers  per unil     30   4.00    120.00          3.6   123.60
Psycho-social CAR centers  per unit   30   4.00    120.00         3 60    123.60
OT/PTprogra-   per unit       2  38.00      76.00         2.28     78.28
Subtotal Equipment and materials                            3278.44        98.35   3376.79
FURNITURE
PhysicalCBRR  peru-it       30   8.00    24000           72    247.20
Psycho-social CBRs  perunit     30   5.50    165.00          4.95    16995
7T/PT pro,raf/l  per unit       2    7.50    15.00         0.45     15.45
Subtotal Furniture                             420.00        12.60    432.60
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
International                                                      1,200.00       36.00  1,236.00
OTPT program development/ 2   mW/        20   15.00    300.00         9.00    309.00
CBR Specialistfor onsite raining /I    m/m    60  15.00    900.00        27.00    927.00
Local                                                                36 00        1.08     37.08
Translator   m/m          36   1.00     36.00         1.08     3708
Health Promotion Study                 lump sum                    300.00         9.00   309.00
Subtotal TA                            1,536.00        46.06  1,582.08
TRAINING
OverseasTrainuig /4                      m/m          12   7.50      90.00        2.70     92.70
Local Training /s                       r/day        900   0.10    9000           2.70     92.70
Subtotal Training                             180.00         5.40    185.40
Total Inveatinent Costs                                               ODS4.44      349.33   S433.77
RECURRENT COSTS
Operational Cost &Transportation                                    2100.00        83.00   2183.00
Physical CBR centers per unit    30  38.00   1140.00         34.2  1174.20
Psycho-social CAR cent  ers pwmit     30  32.00                   28.8   988.80
Medical Supply and Consumables                                      2436.00        73.08   2509.08
Physical CBR centers                                             1350.00        40.50   1390.50
Phmnaceuticale   per unit      30  30.00    900.00           27    927.00
MedicalSupplies   perunit      30    7.00    210.00         6.3   216.30
Consumables and office upplies  per unit  30   8.00    240.00          72    24720
Hospital Physical Rehab. Dept.                                     144.00         4.32    148.32
Pharmaceuticale   per unit      8   18.00    144.00        4.32    148.32
Psycho-social CBR centers                                          890.00        20.70    710.70
pharmaceuticalt  per unit    30   18.00    540.00         16.2   556.20
Consumables and office spplies  per unlt  30   5.00    150.00          4 5    154.50
Hospital Psycho-social Rehab. Dept.                                 252.00        7.58    259.56
Pharraaeutlcat   per unit      14  18.00    252.00         7.56    259.56
Total lecurrent Cosb                                                  4536.00      136.06   4672.08
TOTAL BASE COST                                                      12620.44      485A1  13105.85
notes:
U For UnUversities ofTuzJa. Sarajevo and Mostar.
2/ 5 specialists for 4 months for cuiciulumn and leaming resources developmnt.
3/ 5 fuDtume trainrs for 12 nionths.
4v 4 faculty staff from each university for 3 months.
5/ 6 workshops for 50 persons for 3 days.



COST ESTIMATES                                             Appendx 4
Page 8 of 8
Component: Project Implementation Support    Cost Summary (USS 000)
Prosthesis Unit   Total     Physical
Expenditure Category                 Unit   Quantity  Cost   Base Cost contingency  TOTAL
11VESTMENT COSTS
CIVIL WORKS
Office Renovation  lump sum                   115.00        8.05   123.05
Subtotal Civil Works                              115.00        8.05   123.05
EQUIPMENT
Office Equipment
PC,fax modem andprinter   piece         4   4.50      18.00        0.54    18.54
communication(fax+telephone)   piece        1   1.50      1.50        0.05      1.55
photocopy machine   piece         1   3.00       3.00        0.09     3.09
Subtotal Equipment                                22.50        0.68    23.18
FURNITURE                          lump sum                      20.00        0.60    20.60
Subtotal Furniture                               20.00        0.60    20.60
VEHICLES
car   piece          1  18.00     18.00        0.54    18.54
Subtotal Vehicles                              18.00         0.54    18.54
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
International                                                252.00         7.56   259.56
Civil Works Management Services  lump sum                 252.00         7.56   259.56
Local                                                       1,221.22       36.64  1,257.86
Procurement Services  lump sum                   867.22       26.02   893.24
project director    n/M       24   2.50     60.00         1.80    61.80
architect    n/im        9   2.00      18.00        0.54    18.54
procurement specialist    m/m       24   2.00     48.00         1.44    49.44
accountant   m/m          24   1.50     36.00         1.08    37.08
support staff    m/m        72   1.00     72.00         2.16    74.16
technical experts/I   n/M        40   3.00    120.00        3.60   123.60
Subtotal TA                             1,473.22       44.20 1,517.42
5. TRAINING
Overseas Training / 2            m/m            3   7.50     22.50         0.68    23.18
Local /3                         days         225   0.10     22.50        0.68    23.18
Subtotal Training                               45.00        1.35    46.35
Total Investment Costs                                        1,693.72       55.41  1,749.13
RECURRENT COSTS
Operational cost                per month       24   2.00     48.00        1.44    49.44
Office supplies and materials   per month       24   3.00     72.00        2.16    74.16
Total Recurrent Costs                                           120.00        3.60   123.60
TOTAL COST                                                    1,813.72       59.01  1,872.73
notes:
1/  5 experts (working group members) on part-time basis.
2/ Study tours for 6 persons for 2 weeks.
3/ 3 workshops for 15 persons for 5 days.



Appendix 5
Page I of 3
Bosnia and Herzegovina
War Victims Rehabilitation Project
Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million )
Procurement Methods
Project Element                          IS"   SNCB'        NSA'      DCO    OTHER    TOTAL
1.   WORKS5'
1.1  Rehabilitation of CBR centers             2.86                                     2.86
(2.00)                                   (2.00)
1.2  Rehabilitation of O&R clinics             1.39                                      1.39
(0.75)                                   (0.75)
1.3  Rehabilitation of P&O production          1.02                                      1.02
units and maintenance units              (0.65)                                    (0.65)
1.4  PIU office renovation                     0.12                                     0.12
(0.12)                                   (0.12)
Subtotal            5.39                                     5.39
(3.52)                                   (3.52)
2.   GOODS
2.1  OT/PT Equipment for Physical     1.64                                               1.64
CBR centers hospital departments  (0.90)                                           (0.90)
and Universities
2.2  Equipment for Psycho-social CBR   0.48                                              0.48
centers and hospital departments   (0.20)                                          (0.20)
2.3  Equipment for O&R clinics and   4.53                                                4.53
unitsO                         (0.75)                                              (0.75)
2.4  Essential Production Equipment  0.72                                                0.72
for P&O and maintenance units    (0.20)                                            (0.20)
2.5  Protheses and raw Materials for  2.40                                               2.40
P&O and maintenance units7'     (0.40)                                             (0.40)
2.6  Office Equipment                 1.03                                               1.03
(0.47)                                             (0.47)
2.7  Learning Resources                                           0.33                   0.33
(0.15)                (0.15)
2.8  Fumiture                                            0.45                            0.45
(0.17)                          (0.17)
2.9  Vehicles'                       0.28                                                0.28
Subtotal                11.08               0.45     0.33                  11.86
(2.92)             (0.17)    (0.15)                (3.24)
3. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE9'                                                     3.59        3.59
(0.92)     (0.92)
4. TRAINING SERVICES'0'                                                       0.80        0.80
(0.80)     (0.80)
5 RECURRENT COST
5.1  Operating Cost"'                                                        2.36        2.36
(0.40)     (0.40)
5.2  Supply and Materials'2'                                                 6.01        6.01
(1.12)     (1.12)
TOTAL PROJECT COST              11.08     5.39      0.45      0.33      12.76      30.01
(2.92)   (3.52)    (0.17)    (0.15)    (3.24)     (10.00)
* Numbers may not add to total because of rounding.
* Figures in parentheses represent the World Bank contribution through the TFBH Grant and IDA Credit



Appendix 5
Page 2 of 3
Notes:
1/  International Shopping.
2/   Simplified National Competitive Bidding.
3/   National Shopping.
4/   Direct Contracting.
5/   To be procured under several packages by canton and/or unit.
6/   To be procured under several packages according to the type of the equipment and instruments.
7/   To be procured under two packages for first and seond year.
8/   To be procured under two packages according to the type of vehicle.
9/   Technical assistance services consist of both TA packages and individual consultants. TA
packages would be procured either through LIB or DC where and when justified. The services
of individual consultants would be engaged through comparison of two or three CVs or Direct
Contracting in case of a lack of more than one qualified candidate.
10/ Local training services will be engaged through NS or DC in case of lack of qualified local
service providers overseas training services will be engaged through IS or DC where and when
justified.
11/ Operating cost including expenditures for heating, electricity, transportation, etc. will be
reimbursed based on statements of expenditures.
12/ Supplies and materials will be purchased through NS or IS depending on the availability of
local suppliers and the value of the package.



Appendix 5
Page 3 of 3
Bosnia and Herzegovina
War Victims Rehabilitation Project
Project Procurement Plan
Component                      Total Cost    Likely         Invitation to Bid    Contract Award    Work/Delivery   All Work/Delivery
US$ million    Procurement                                       Begins            Complete
Methods
Rehabilitation of CBR Centers  2.00          SNCB           5/96              6/96               6-7/96            10-12/96
Rehabilitation of 0 & R Clinics    0.75      SNCB           5-6/96            6-7/96            6-7/96             11-12/96
Rehabilitation of P & 0 Units  0.65          SNCB           5-6/96            7/96              6-7/96             11/96
PIU Office Renovation          0.12          SNCB           5/96              5-6/96             6/96              9/96
OT/PT Equipment                0.90           IS            5-6/96            7/96               10/96             12/96-3/97
Equipment for Psycho-Social    0.20          Is             5-6/96            7/96               10/96             12/96-3/97
CBR
Equipment for 0 & R Units      0.75          IS             7/96              8-9/96             11/96             12/96-3/97
Production Equipment for P & 0   0.20        IS             7/96              8-9/96             11/96             12/96-3/97
Units
Prostheses and Raw Materials   0.40          IS             7/96-7/97         8196-8/97          11/96             12/96-12/97
for P & 0 Units
Office Equipment               0.47           IS            5-6/96            7/96               10/96             12/96-3197
Learning Resources             0.15          DC               ---              10/96-3/97        12/96             6/97
Furniture                      0.17           LS            5/96              8/96               10/96             3/97
Technical Assistance:          0.92           LIB/DC        6-10/96           8-12/96            8/96              6/98
TA for PIU                0.35           DC             --                5/96              5/96              6/98
TA for Program Devt. for   0.49          LIB/DC         5/96              7/96              8/96              6/97
P&O Units
TA for Health             0.08           DC             9/96              10/96             11/96             5/97
Training Services              0.80           IS/DC         6-10/96            8-12/96           8/96              6/98
Recurrent Expenditures         1.52           IS/LS         5/96              6/96-3198          6/96              6/98
(Supplies. Materials, Operational
Expenditures)



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                              Appendix 6
Page 1 of 7
Component               | Activity                             i Start Date |End Date |Responsibility
Project Implementation
Support
Establishment of PIU    Minister of Health to appoint PIU director
and staff, assign office space, authorize
PIU budget, establish project accounts
and records                                       15-May-96 MOH
Develop Cantonal        Develop National Implementation
Implementation          Strategies and Program                  I-Mar-96  30-Mar-96 MOH
Programs
Organize series of workshops to introduce
and discuss National Implementation
Program and Strategy and to develop                         PIU/MOH
Cantonal Implementation Programs       I-May-96  20-May-96 CHA
Make 'contractual agreements" with                          PIU/MOH
CHAs to define responsibilities        22-May-96 30-May-96 CHA
Engage IMG to undertake   Develop TOR for the management of
management of civil     civil works                             15-May-96 25-May-96 PIU/MOH
works
Make contract with the IMG                       30-May-96 PIU/MOH
Contract out            Prepare TOR, receive and evaluate
procurement services    proposals and contract award            15-May-96 15-Jul-96  PIU/MOH
CHA: Cantonal Health Authorities; IMG: International Management Group; MOH: Ministry of Health; PA: Procurement
Agency; PIU: Project Implementation Unit



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                              Appendix 6
Page 2 of 7
Component               |Activity                              IStart Date |End Date |Responsibility
CBR Program
Rehabilite CBR           Select site for each CBR centers
facilities               standards                              22-May-96 30-May-96 CHA
Determine functional requirements and
standards                              10-May-96 27-May-96 PIU
Determine rehabilitation needs for each
CBR center                             25-May-96 11-Jun-96  IMG/CHA
Prepare technical specifications
and evaluation criteria, select firms, send
invitation to bid, obtain approval of MOH
and no objection from the Bank         1-Jun-96   15-Jul-96  IMG/PIU
Award contract                         16-Jul-96  20-Jul-96  PIUIMOH
Renovate CBR centers                   24-Jul-96  10-Sep-96 contractors
Supervise rehabilitation works
make progress payments to contractors  24-Jul-96  10-Sep-96 IMG/PIU
Procure equipment       Finalize lists of equipment and supplies to be
and supplies for CBRs   procured for each CBR center            15-May-96 30-May-96 PIU/CHA
Prepare technical specifications & evaluation
criteria, select firms, send invitation to bid,
obtain approval of MOH and no objection
from the Bank                          20-May-96 8-Jun-96   PA/PIU
Carry out IS procedures                10-Jun-96  29-Jun-96  PA/PIU
Obtain no objection from the Bank
and award contract                     1-Jul-96   5-Jul-96   PIU/MOH
Delivery and installation              5-Sep-96   15-Oct-96 PA/suppliers/CHA
CHA: Cantonal Health Authorities; IMG: International Management Group; MOH: Ministry of Health; PA: Procurement
Agency; PIU: Project Implementation Unit



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                               Appendix 6
Page 3 of 7
Component                Activity                                Start Date End Date  Responsibility
Select TA agency(ies)    Prepare TOR, and determine shortlist
of firm/agencies, send RFP, receive
and evaluate proposals, obtain approval
of the MOH and no objection from the
Bank                                    6-May-96  26-Jun-96  PIU
Award contract                          27-Jun-96  6-Jul-96   PIU/MOH
On-site training program    Develop training program and learning
resources for CB physical and psycho-social                 TA agency/
rehabilitation programs                 8-Jul-96   30-Sep-96 PIU/CHA
Deliver on-site training programs       I-Oct-96   5-Jul-97   TA agency/
PIU/CHA
OT/PT program support    Develop OT/PT curriculum and short-term
overseas training program for faculty staff    8-Jul-96   30-Oct-96  TA agency/PlU/
Select faculty staff to go abroad,
select training institutions and make
necessary arrangements                  I-Aug-96  15-Sep-96 faculties/PIU
Short-term overseas training            I-Oct-96   25-Dec-96 TA agency/PIU/
-training institutions
CHA: Cantonal Health Authorities; IMG: International Management Group; MOH: Ministry of Health; PA: Procurement
Agency; PIU: Project Implementation Unit



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                              Appendix 6
Page 4 of 7
Component               |Activity                              I Start Date |End Date |Responsibility
Prostheses and Orthoses (P&O) Production
Rehabilitation of P&O   Determine facilities to be rehabilitated  22-Apr-96 30-Apr-96 MOH/CHA
Production & maintenance  Determine functional requirements and
units                   standards                               10-Apr-96 27-Apr-96 PIU
Determine rehabilitation needs for each
unit                                   25-Apr-96  I -May-96 IMG/CHA
Prepare technical specifications
and evaluation criteria, select firms, send
invitation to bid, obtain approval of MOH
and no objection from the Bank         10-May-96 30-Jun-96  IMG/PIU
Award contract                         1-Jul-96   5-Jul-96   PIU/MOH
Renovate facilities                    6-Jul-96   30-Aug-96 contractors
Supervise rehabilitation works
make progress payments to contractors  6-Jul-96   30-Aug-96 IMG/PIU
CHA: Cantonal Health Authorities; IMG: International Management Group; MOH: Ministry of Health; PA: Procurement
Agency; PIm: Project Implementation Unit



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                              Appendix 6
Page 5 of 7
Component               Activity                                Start Date End Date  Responsibility
Procure equipment       Finalize lists of equipment and supplies to be
and supplies for P&O    procured for each unit                  20-Apr-96 5-May-96  PIU/CHA
units
Prepare technical specifications
and evaluation criteria, select firms, send
invitation to bid, obtain approval of MOH
and no objection from the Bank         10-May-96 1-Jun-96   PA/PIU
Carry out IS procedures                5-Jun-96   5-Aug-96  PA/PlU
Obtain no objection from the Bank
and award contract                     6-Aug-96  10-Aug-96 PIU/MOH
Delivery and installation              15-Sep-96 30-Sep-96 PA/suppliers/CHA
Carry out IS procedures for the second lot
of raw materials and supplies          I-Mar-97  15-Apr-97 PA/PIU
Obtain no objection from the Bank
and award contract                     16-Apr-97 25-Apr-97 PIU/MOH
Delivery and installation              I-Jun-97   15-Aug-97 PA/suppliers/CHA
Select TA agency(ies)   Prepare TOR, and determine short-list
to develop and deliver   of firm/agencies, send RFP, receive
in-service training program  and evaluate proposals, obtain approval
of the MOH and no objection from the
Bank                                   15-May-96 12-Jul-96  PIU
Award contract                         15-Jul-96  20-Jul-96  PIU/MOH
Develop and deliver     Develop training program and learning                        TA agency/
in-service training program  resources                          I-Aug-96  30-Sep-96 PIU/CHA
Deliver in-service training programs   I-Oct-96   30-Jun-97  TA agency/
PIU/CHA
CHA: Cantonal Health Authorities; IMG: International Management Group; MOH: Ministry of Health; PA: Procurement
Agency; PIU: Project Implementation Unit



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                               Appendix 6
Page 6 of 7
Component               |Activity                               IStart Date |End Date |Responsibility
Orthopedic and Reconstructive (O&R) Surgery
Rehabilitation of O&R    Determine facilities to be rehabilitated  22-Apr-96 30-Apr-96 MOH/CHA
units
Determine functional requirements and
standards                               10-Apr-96 27-Apr-96 PIU
Determine rehabilitation needs for each
unit                                    25-Apr-96 11-May-96 IMG/CHA
Prepare technical specifications
and evaluation criteria, select firms, send
invitation to bid, obtain approval of MOH
and no objection from the Bank          I-May-96  15-Jun-96  IMG/PIU
Award contract                          16-Jun-96  20-Jun-96  PIU/MOH
Renovate facilities                    24-Jun-96  10-Aug-96 contractors
Supervise rehabilitation works
make progress payments to contractors  24-Jun-96  10-Aug-96 IMG/PIU
Procure equipment        Finalize lists of equipment and supplies to be
and supplies for O&R units  procured for each unit               15-Apr-96 30-Apr-96 PIU/CHA
Prepare technical specifications
and evaluation criteria, select firms, send
invitation to bid, obtain approval of MOH
and no objection from the Bank         20-May-96 8-Jun-96   PA/PIU
Carry out IS procedures                 10-Jun-96  29-Jun-96  PA/PIU
Obtain no objection from the Bank
and award contract                      I-Aug-96  10-Aug-96 PIU/MOH
Delivery and installation               15-Sep-96  15-Oct-96 PA/suppliers/CHA
CHA: Cantonal Health Authorities; 1MG: International Management Group; MOH: Ministry of Health; PA: Procurement
Agency; PIU: Project Implementation Unit



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                             Appendix 6
Page 7 of 7
Component               Activity                               Start Date End Date Responsibility
Short-term overseas training Select O&R staff to go abroad
select training institutions and make
necessary arrangements                 1-Aug-96  15-Sep-96 faculties/PIm
Short-term overseas training           1-Oct-96  25-Dec-96 PIU/hospitals/
1 -Mar-97  31-May-97 training institutions
CHA: Cantonal Health Authorities; IMG: International Management Group; MOH: Ministry of Health; PA: Procurement
Agency; PIU: Project Implementation Unit



Appendix 7, Page 1 of 1
Bosnia and Herzegovina
War Victims Rehabilitation Project
GENERAL PROCUREMENT NOTICE
The Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina is expected to receive a credit from the
World Bank Trust Fund established for supporting the emergency reconstruction program for
the country. The proceeds of the credit would be used for a proposed War Victims
Rehabilitation Project. The Government is also expected to receive loans and grants from
other multilateral sources, such as the European Union, and from several bilateral sources.
The loans and grants mentioned above are intended to be used for emergency
recovery of the health system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is intended that the loans and
grants would finance the cost of the following procurement:
1.   Import of medical equipment, spare parts, supplies, pharmaceuticals and
vehicles for physical and psycho-social rehabilitation centers, rehabilitation and
mental health hospital departments, and orthopedic and reconstructive surgery
hospital departments
2.    Import of production equipment, materials and supplies for prostheses and
orthoses production and maintenance units.
3.    Import of office equipment, furniture, supplies and pedagogical materials.
4.    Consultant services (community-based rehabilitation specialists,
occupational/physical therapy specialists, prostheses/orthoses production in-
service trainers)
Given the emergency nature of the project, the above mentioned goods and consultant
services will be procured through accelerated procurement procedures within the framework
of the procurement guidelines and regulations of the World Bank, European Union, and other
possible participating financing agencies and donors.
Interested suppliers and manufactures and consulting firms are invited to send their
expression of interest to the address specified below. As eligibility requirements of the
World Bank, the European Union and other financing agencies and donors vary for
participation in bidding, the Purchaser will prepare a list of interested suppliers,
manufacturers and consulting firms according to their eligibility. As and when the Purchaser
will be ready with bidding documents or with invitations to quote, these will be sent to those
who will respond to this notice.
Name:       Dr. Bozo Ljubic
Minister of Health
Address:    Ministry of Health
Alipasina 41, Sarajevo 7100
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Phone:      +387 71 618 735
Fax:        +387 71 618 735



Sumn)ary of Technical Specifications                      Appendix 8
Page 1 of 3
Prostheses and Orthoses Production Units
List of most urgent needs for the production of orthopaedic and orthotic appliances
item/material            quantity    specification
I Working table for taking measure             I        piece
2 Sterilisator                                  1
3 Screen                                        I1
4 Bed                                           I
5 Water basin for POP                          4
6 Electrical hand tools for mechanic            1        set
7 Workbench for lamination                     1        piece
8 Workbench for prosthetic                     I
9 Vice for lamination                           I
11 Vacuum apparatus                             1
12 Electronic scale                             1
13 Socket rooter                                1
14 Belt sander                                  I
15 Band saw                                     1
16 Fixed/standing vertical drilling machine     1
17 Different hand tools for prostheses          I         set
18 Cupboard for tools                           5        pieces
19 Cupboard for materials                       5
20 Heater                                        1
21 Chairs                                      12
22 Sewing machine for leather                    1
23 Mill/rooter                                   I
24 Vice for mechanic and bandagist               3
25 Tuming-lathe                                  1
26 Electrical welding apparatus                  1
27 Different hand tools for bandagist            I        set
28 Iron sheet cutter                             1       piece
29 Combined finisher and trimmer                 I 1
30 Different hand tools for shoemaker            I        set
31 Anvil for shoemaker                           1       piece
32 Cupboard for models                           1         "
33 Officefumiture                                1        set



Summary of Technical Specifications                          Appendix 8
Page 2 of 3
List of essential equipment for the orthopedic and reconstructive surgical units
number of hospitals
which need this      number of 'items"
No.                 item                         "item"          needed per hospital
1.  Instruments
Instruments for 7 hospitals                    7                   1 "set"
Additional instr. for 3 hospitals              3                   1 "set"
2.  Sterilisation                                  4                   1 "set"
3.  Mobile x-ray with TV                           5                   1 'set'
4.  Theatre equipment
Mobile furniture                               7                   1 "set"
Orthopedic theatre table                       2                      1
High frequency app. for el. surg.              7                      1
Monitoring system for theatre                  7                      1
Compressor for air                             4                     1
Electrical theatre aspirator                   7                      1
5.  Anesthesia equipment
Anestesia apparatus                            7                      1
Mobile resucitation-unit                       7                     1
Perfusor                                       7                     3
Pump for syringes                              7                     2
6.  Intensive care unit equipment
Monitors for postoperative care unit           7                     2



Summary of Technical Specifications                     Appendix 8
Page 3 of 3
List of Instruments for orthopedic and reconstructive surgery units
No.         item / container with        units needed
1 Basic instruments                        1
2 Supplement bones                          I
3 Bending instruments                       1
4 Supplement amputation                     1
5 Supplement (AO) screw-up set              1
6 Supplement minifragment                   1
7 Flexible pipe support                    1
8 Supplement shoulder                       1
9 Drilling machine (AO)                     I
10 Mini drilling machine                    1
12 Hand set                                 1
13 Scalpels                                 2
14 Clamp set                                2
15 Supplement for tendons                   1
16 Chisels                                  I
17 Supplement for cerclage                  I
18 Set of keys                              1
19 Supplement for removal of implants       1
20 "Emergency vessel" set                    1
21 Reserve instruments                       1
22 DHS & DCS instruments                     1
23 Skingrafting (meschgraft) set             1
24 Unreamed nail set tibia                   1
25 Unreamed nail set femur                   1
26 Instruments for POP                       1
27 Fixateur externe, "SARAFIX"              4



Appendix 9
List of Supporting Volumes and Documents in Project File
Academy of Sciences and Arts of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Psycho-Social Aspects of The War in The
Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Special Publications Volume CII. Sarajevo, 1995.
Federation Health Program. Health Reform and Reconstruction Program of the Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. Ministry of Health. January, 1996.
International Center for Migration and Health. Reproductive Health and Pregnancy Outcomes Among
Displaced Women. Report of the Technical Working Group. October, 1995.
Office of the United Nations Special Coordinator for Sarajevo. Plan for the restoration of essential public
services in Saraievo: Health Working Group Action Plan. Prepared by the WHO in consultation with
the Ministry of Health, Bosnia-Herzegovina and other national and international organizations. July,
1994.
Preker, A., Feachem, R. Health and Health Care. In Barr, N. (Ed.). Labor Markets and Social Policy
in Central and Southern Europe. Oxford University Press. New York. 1994.
UNICEF. Draft situation analysis. Office of the Special Representative, UNICEF Emergency Operations
in Former Yugoslavia. October, 1993.
World Health Organization. WHO contribution to Special Coordinator for Saraievo Report. July, 1995.
World Bank. World Development Report 1993. Investing in Health. Oxford University Press. New
York. 1993.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 27716
kTr TaZogreb                          18           To Osijek
To Zagreb              To Zagreb       C  R 0  A T I A                  To Vinkovci
To Osijeks
, --.NaToGIino   - lin
CROATIA  Novi ,)                                                                             To Belgrade
Kn-,                                          r                                                  g nsh                     4
2Cozin 0             (           r.o
-       .0
Bi Pao                                     ILEER
<  <<L-                     9           ( ~~~~~~~~~~~Podgorico I/eWREdBniGoP,UnBLICnen
nski Most  Luka                                                                h l  statUs o  n terrI  o
rlb ~ ~    ~       ~      ~     ~     ~     ,             tiz  bca    ionc
BOSNIA  AND  HERZEGOVINA                                                                                     any enrsemenst uofr ccetanerr orfo
-    MAJORAROADS                   ELEVATION IN METERS:                 ;4.> ti C                         H-+CTLA N  znc 5 0
KiuE        <100                                                     ZEH>  OLND             URAN
RIVERS                              500                                     z / GER AANY\ --. -   , P z             >
69 NATIOaNAL CAPITAL                      10_                   \,1jJ                           a       HUMNGAY / 
42C      -T -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES         T_ -  0                                                                  LEDk PE R_
ITALY      Bw5scSLvA  ULGARIA
ovo-~~~~nciSovu
A41~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~A
40 L'c                                       ziceALNtA--  40'
lo                                 17O                                  18         10                   20Y              TURKEY U
TOURY19









IMAGING
Report No:-    6841 BIH
Type: MOP



