Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20578-BIH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(28960; 24075; 24035)
ON AN
IDA CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10 MILLION
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR A
WAR VICTIMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
June 28, 2000
Human Development Sector Unit
Bosnia and Herzegovina Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 26, 2000)
Currency Unit = Konvertible Mark (KM)
KM 1.00 = US$ 0.7995
US$ 1.00 = KM 2.08355
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
CIMIC    Combined Joint Civilian Military Task Force
CBR       Community Based Rehabilitation
ECHO      European Community Humanitarian Office
IDA       International Development Association
MoH       Ministry of Health
NGO       Non-governmental organization
OECD      Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
SIDA      Swedish International Development Agency
SFOR      Stabilization Force
TOR       Terms of Reference
UNDP    United Nations Development Programme
WHO       World Health Organization
Vice President:    Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:    Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Manager:    Armin Fidler
Task Team Leader:    Nedim Jaganjac



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
WAR VICTIMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 2896 BOS
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                               1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                              2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry    2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                       4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                         7
6. Sustainability                                                             8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                              9
8. Lessons Learned                                                           10
9. Partner Comments                                                          11
10. Additional Information                                                    11
Annexes:
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                      12
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                      13
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                      15
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                      16
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components      18
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                         19
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                     20
Annex 8. Borrower Contribution to the ICR                                 21
MAP 28578R
iii
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P044424                               Project Name: WAR VICTIMS
Team Leader: Philip B. O'Keefe                    TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                Report Date: June 28, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: WAR VICTIMS REHABILITATION                   L/C/TF  28960; 24075;
Number: 24035
Coitntty/Department: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                    Region: Europe and
Central Asia
Region
Sector/subsector: HY - Other Population, Health &
Nutrition
KEY DATES
Original         Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/20/95                         Effeclive:  08/22/96        08/22/96
Appraisal:  02/05/96                           MTR:                     02/09/98
Approval:  06/28/96                         Closing:  12/31/98         12/31/99
Borrower/-lrnplementing GOVERNMENT OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA/
Agency:  FEDERATION MOH
Other Partners:  Canadian International Development Agency; World Health
Organization
STAFF             Current                              At Appraisal
Vice President:    Joharnes F. Linn                    Kemal Dervis
Comntry MVanager:  Christiaan J. Poortman              Christine Wallich
Sector M1anager.    Armin H. Fidler                    Ralph Harbison
Team Leader at    Philip B. O'Keefe                    Guy Ellena
ICR:
ICR Primary       Elisabeth Sherwood
Author:



2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikelv,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Ouitcome:  S
Sustainability:  L
Instit utional Development  M
Impact:
Bank Performance:  S
Borrowver Performance.   S
QAG (if available)      ICR
Quality at Entry':                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective.
The project was prepared in the immediate aftermath of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, during which
an estimated 250,000 people were killed and 175,000 injured. As many as 5,000 people lost limbs and
required prostheses. The project was designed as an emergency response to postwar medical needs, and
as initial support to health sector reform in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which had
inherited the former Yugoslavia's centralized and hierarchical health care system.
In this context, the project had the principal objective of helping to reintegrate people with war-related
disabilities into productive life. Secondary objectives were to introduce a more cost-effective approach
for dealing with disabilities, and to support the development of local and regional capacity to manage and
deliver rehabilitation services. Key indicators set for the project were (i) the establishment of a network
of 76 Community-Based Rehabilitation centers (CBRs) and related hospital services; (ii) the provision to
approximately 3,000 amputees with permanent prostheses; (iii) the production of prostheses and orthoses
in six centers; and (iv) the availability of orthopedic and reconstructive surgical services in seven clinical
centers and cantonal hospitals.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable
3.3 Original Components:
The project was structured into four components. The largest component was Community-Based
Rehabilitation, which provided for the establishment of locally based physical and psycho-social
rehabilitation centers within or appended to existing health centers (dom zdravljas). The CBRs were
designed to provide a continuum of essential diagnostic and treatment services for the physically
handicapped, mentally handicapped, and those traumatized by the war. Prior to the war, services for the
physically and mentally handicapped had been provided only at centralized facilities, which would
require that patients reside in or near facilities for the course of treatment (which, for the mentally
handicapped, generally meant institutionalization). Local CBRs, in contrast, would enable rehabilitation
patients to continue to live and work in their homes and business places, without the disruptions that
would occur in the previously existing system. The project planned to fund the development and
2



operation of a network of 30 CBRs for physical rehabilitation. In addition, the project planned to fund the
development and operation of 30 CBRs for the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder and other
psycho-social disorders, as well as professional training in community-based psycho-social rehabilitation.
Parallel financing would establish an additional 8 CBRs for physical rehabilitation and 8 for psycho-
social rehabilitation, for a total network of 76 CBRs.
The project also included a Prostheses and Orthoses Production component, which was to support three
main production units and five maintenance/service units. Through the component, training was also to
be provided to approximately 75 existing and new technicians in prosthetic manufacture.
A third component - Orthopedic and Reconstructive Surgery - planned to upgrade essential orthopedic
and reconstructive surgical services in three Clinical Centers (in Sarajevo, Tuzla, and Mostar) and in four
Cantonal hospitals (in Zenica, Travnik, Livno, and Bihac). This component planned to provide limited
civil works, surgical instruments, supplies and pharmaceuticals to enable the effective functioning of the
selected surgical units. The component planned also to provide training abroad to approximately 50
professionals involved in orthopedic and reconstructive surgery.
Finally, the project provided support for Project Implementation, including establishment of a project
implementation unit (PIU) and salaries and operations expenses, and the provision of a full-time
implementation advisor for two years to the Ministry of Health.
A summary of the projected costs of the project components are provided in the table below.
Rating                      Component                         Sector         Cost
S    COMMUNITY-BASED REHABILITATION                          HY           13,100,000.00
S    PROSTHESES & ORTHOSES PRODUCTION                        HY            6,200,000.00
S    ORTHOPEDIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY                     HY            8,800,000.00
S    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT                          MX            1,900,000.00
World Bank financing of US$5 million from the Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina (TF024035
dated May 20, 1996) and US$5 million equivalent in the form of an International Development
Association (IDA) Credit (Credit 2896-BOS dated July 22, 1996) was used in support of all components.
Italian co-financing in the form of a trust fund managed by IDA was provided in an amount of US$3.29
million (TF024075 dated January 25, 1997), and was used primarily for the support of the Prostheses
component. The European Fund for Social Development provided a soft loan in the amount of US$5
million. The funds were used in support of all components.
Parallel financing was provided by: the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), through
Queen's University, Kingston, Canada, which funded training in community-based rehabilitation practices
and occupational therapy; the European Community Humanitarian Office (ECHO), through NGOs, which
provided grants for physical and mental health CBRs; the Government of Iceland, which funded provision
of below-knee prostheses and related training; the Swedish Intemational Development Agency (SIDA),
through SwcBiH, and Healthnet International, through ECHO, which provided training in psycho-social
services and community mental health; the Government of the Netherlands, which donated x-ray
equipment; the World Health Organization (WHO), which provided some equipment and implementation
support for CBRs; and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), which provided funds for
civil works rehabilitation (assessment and design) and other assistance.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable
3



3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated as Satisfactory. Even disregarding the short time period within which the project
was prepared, the project documents and post-review show a remarkably high level of preparation, both
in terms of level of detail provided for individual components, and of communications with co-financiers.
Project preparation was undertaken in coordination with other donors, in particular with CIDA, which had
begun building CBRs in Bosnia and Herzegovina prior to World Bank participation, and with UNDP,
which funded feasibility assessments and project design for all facilities. The project's assessment of
needs was accurate, and there is no indication that the project's objectives or components were
misdirected.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall achievement of the project's objectives -- to reintegrate people with war-related injuries into
productive life and to introduce a more cost-effective approach for dealing with disabilities and support
the development of local and regional capacity to manage and deliver rehabilitation services -- is rated as
Satisfactory.
The achievement of the primary objective of the project - to reintegrate people with war-related injuries
into productive life - is rated Satisfactory. This rating is based on discussions with World Bank and PIU
staff and reports contributed by other donors involved in the development of CBRs. Due to the
emergency nature of the project, the poor condition of the overall health care system immediately after
the war, and inconsistent registration of patients, it was not possible to obtain conclusive quantitative
information on the achievement of this objective. In addition, PIU staff were reassigned immediately on
project completion and were therefore unable to gather information on the number of war-injury-related
surgeries undertaken, the number of rehabilitative treatments performed at the CBRs, or on post-treatment
integration of patients. The PIU did report that over 400,000 therapeutic procedures have been provided
to date through the CBR system, although this figure could not be broken down by type of injury or
illness, treatment, or patient. In addition, the project enabled the physical rehabilitation of war victims --
of amputees, in particular -- through increasing the surgical quality and capacity of hospitals and clinical
centers throughout the Federation, and through increasing the capacity for local follow-up, and the project
did have a direct effect on the surgical capacity of the Federation. For example, the orthopedic surgery
department at the Kosevo clinical center in Sarajevo undertook approximately 1,300 surgeries, many of
which were due to war-related injuries. Increased surgical capacity has been sustained -- in 1999,
approximately 1,000 surgeries took place in the Tuzla center, 15 percent of which were related to war
injuries, while approximately 500 surgeries took place in the Mostar center.
The CBRs have recently established consistent methodology for tracking patients and patient services.
Detailed evaluation undertaken in mid 1998 of five sample clinics indicated that a total of 41,100 patients
had registered with the clinics -- from 370 in the newly opened clinics to 14,850 in the better established
clinics. In three of the five sample clinics, physical therapists saw an average of 10 patients per day,
while physiatrists saw an average of 16 patients per day. A 1999 evaluation of the physical rehabilitation
CBRs throughout the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina noted that approximately 250 professionals
were employed in the 38 physical rehabilitation CBR, and that an average of 50 patients per CBR were
seen daily for particular treatments, while between 50 and 70 patients came weekly for physical exams
and diagnosis. Information for 1999 collected from CBRs in Sarajevo indicated that the CBRs have
largely transitioned from providing rehabilitation services to war victims to providing general physical
rehabilitation services for bone-, muscle-, and nerve-related injuries to the population, as would be
expected given the time elapsed since the end of the war. In addition, CBRs have begun community
outreach services, such as health exams in schools and coordination with physical education teachers,
cementing their position in local health services.
4



Because of the lack of data on pre-war expenditure on physical rehabilitation and psychiatric care, and
because CBRs are funded through various -- primarily local -- mechanisms, cost-effectiveness at the
system level cannot be judged. It should be noted, however, that 80 percent of patient diagnoses result in
local treatment, rather than referral to centralized facilities for further diagnosis or treatment (which
before the war was the only possible follow-up), indicating that local services have been able to take on
the services formerly provided at centralized locations. This likely corresponds to a significant decrease
in costs at the household level. The Ministry reports that despite the increase in the total number of
patients and the need for rehabilitative services, lower costs associated with centralized care -- bed space
and other accommodations, food, etc. -- have reduced overall health care costs.
The development of local and regional capacity to manage and deliver services -- particularly for physical
rehabilitation -- has been successful, and the centralized provision of mental health care -- as measured by
the number of beds in psychiatric hospitals -- has decreased by nearly two thirds (1,500 to 600),
presumably due to the increase in locally provided services. In addition, few centralized physical
rehabilitation centers are still in operation (the largest was destroyed during the war), and no new ones
have been built. A comprehensive report prepared by the United Nations' SFOR CIMIC Task Force
found that CBRs for physical rehabilitation -- although varying in staffing and expertise -- were accepted
as part of the local care system, were integrated with other services in the community, and provided
referrals to and received referrals from centralized rehabilitative services.
However, the SFOR report from 1998 noted that 80 percent of the mental health CBRs were not
operational at that time due to the lack of trained psychiatrists or specialized professionals, and that
equipment provided for psychiatric therapy was not being used as intended. Two years later, 70 percent
of mental health CBRs are operating as intended. This issue continues to be addressed through work
funded by a World Bank post-conflict grant, which is training primary care physicians to recognize
mental illnesses and to refer patients to CBRs. A pilot program is being implemented in Central Bosnia.
Despite problems in the operation of the mental health CBRs, the achievement of this objective is
Satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The Community-Based Rehabilitation component funded investments -- largely civil works -- for a
total of 64 CBRs (32 CBRs for physical rehabilitation and 32 CBRs for mental health rehabilitation. Six
additional CBRs for physical rehabilitation and 6 for mental health rehabilitation were also established
through parallel financing for a total of 76 CBRs, largely by NGOs funded by ECHO. CIDA also largely
funded training for approximately 600 CBR staff members in physical rehabilitation and for instructors at
the University of Sarajevo to improve physiotherapy teaching skills. It was envisioned that each CBR for
physical rehabilitation would be staffed with six professionals -- ranging from medical doctors, technical
physical therapists, and occupational therapists -- but there is effectively a wide range of staffing based on
local needs and funding arrangements. In some understaffed CBRs, doctors come from other CBRs or
from other facilities. In many locations, mental health professionals split their time among several local
mental health CBRs and the dom zdravlja to which they are appended. Operational guidelines for the
CBRs were prepared by the MoH and have been distributed recently to CBR personnel, which will likely
increase standardization of services.
Operations of CBRs for mental health was delayed due to lack of local expertise in community mental
health and multidisciplinary services. Psycho-social training lagged behind that for physical
rehabilitation for several reasons: donor support was not initially identified, no agreement had been made
regarding its importance or pursuit, and TORs for mental health CBRs and for mental health professionals
were slow to be prepared. MoH has subsequently established an expert working group for mental
rehabilitation that meets regularly, and SweBiH and Healthnet International have undertaken a nationwide
training program on community mental health and therapeutic approaches for the multidisciplinary teams
5



of all the CBRs (approximately 270 professionals). This training program is ongoing. The University of
Sarajevo is also developing, with assistance from the Soros Foundation, a curriculum for the treatment of
post-traumatic stress syndrome. Commitment to community mental health services appears to be more
difficult to achieve than commitment for local physical rehabilitation. This is likely due to a combination
of factors: continued lack of acceptance of psychiatric problems, lack of clinical expertise, and local
preferences for funding physical health care. There are also indications that, at an institutional level, there
does not seem to be a consensus on where community-based mental health expertise should be developed
-- i.e., within CBRs, within the dom zdravljes, or with primary care physicians. Until such consensus is
reached, there is likely to be gaps and inconsistencies in training and funding for mental health care.
The Prostheses and Orthoses Production component funded civil works and equipment (including
prostheses) for six prosthetic centers for prosthesis manufacture, fitting, provision, and maintenance. This
was two less than envisaged at appraisal. Training to prosthetic technicians abroad and locally was
provided by parallel financing from the Government of Iceland, the Government of Italy, and the Italian
local government of Emilia-Romagna. Additional training for technicians was provided in the operations
of prosthetic machines by the supplier. The output indicator for the component was set early during
implementation -- at 3,000 permanent prostheses provided to amputees. Approximately 2,100 prostheses
were purchased through the project, and an additional 600 donated by the Government of Iceland. All
have been applied to patients. MoH reports that all patients identified as needing prostheses have been
fitted and supplied with such over the past three years. Based on those figures, the output indicator was
met. Prosthetic fitting has declined by approximately 25 percent each year, but given an average life of a
prosthetic device of three to four years, demand for prostheses is predicted to rise in the next two years.
The Government has not indicated what future prosthetic needs may be, but replacement needs will likely
ensure the medium term sustainability of the workshops. Over the long term (of 20 or more years), the
need for prostheses for war victims will decline, and although prostheses demand for other reasons --
diabetes, accidents, etc -- will remain, the centers will need to be downsized.
The Orthopedic and Reconstructive Surgery component funded civil works and equipment in the three
Clinical Centers (Sarajevo, Tuzla, and Mostar) and four Cantonal hospitals (Zenica, Travnik, Livno, and
Bihac) planned at appraisal. The surgical departments at all sites were renovated and outfitted, and use of
the departments began in 1998. Surgeries since Project intervention at the Sarajevo center alone totaled
approximately 1,300, and at the Tuzla center approximately 1,000 in 1999 alone. The Government
informed the Bank that Project investments resulted in a greatly increased capacity for and quality of
surgical procedures, and decreased waiting times, but detailed information on the number and types of
surgeries undertaken was not available.
4.3 NVet Present Vacilue/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financiall rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Because of the emergency response nature of the War Victims Rehabilitation Project, institutional
development was not a major focus. Instead, the project provided a base of facilities that later projects --
the Essential Hospital Services Project and the Basic Health Project -- could build on in terms of
institutional development. The Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been pursuing fundamental
changes in health system funding -- through the simultaneous development of Cantonal funds that remain
dedicated to the local health systems, and of Federal health insurance.
It should be noted that despite the three years of implementation of the War Victims Rehabilitation
Project, the Federation Ministry of Health and the PIU have not made a concerted effort to track the scope
6



and costs of services provided by the CBRs, despite requests by the Bank. There has only recently been
progress in establishing a system to track patients and services, through the development and installation
of management information software. This should become a prominent aspect in the continued
development of the rehabilitation system. The first attempt to cost health services in Bosnia and
Herzegovina has been initiated through Essential Hospitals Services Project. Operational standards or
guidelines were not developed in a timely manner for the CBRs; however, these have recently been
completed and distributed to the CBRs. Despite these shortcomings, the project was successful in
strengthening local capacity to provide rehabilitative services and, therefore, in decentralizing the health
care system. This needs to be followed up by the setting of standards and ensuring consistency of
services across localities.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Facltors outside the control of government or inmplementing cagency:
The War Victims Rehabilitation Project was the first project implemented immediately after the peace
agreement. Delays rooted in political and ethnic problems did occur over the course of implementation,
affecting all levels of the project, from the siting of some investments, to the ability to adequately staff the
PIU. Staff involved in the project believe strongly that these constraints were beyond the control of the
Government due to the ethnically rooted nature of the conflicts. These problems -- explained in greater
detail below -- delayed implementation, but did not final achievement of project objectives.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Delays rooted in political or ethnic problems did occur over the course of implementation -- such as
decision-making regarding the location of investments in some cities -- but did not significantly delay the
project or affect the end achievement of objectives. For example, the decision on a location for the
prosthetic center in Mostar -- an ethnically divided city -- took several years to make, but other, less time-
consuming delays were caused by reluctance on the part of or disagreement among local health officials
to adopt the CBR concept. The Bank made a strategic decision not to force early decision-making in such
cases, but rather to allow stakeholders to come to agreements and compromises at their own pace.
Although it took more time, this approach appears to be successful.
In addition, there were disbursement delays due to slow Ministerial approval of contracts and payments,
but not beyond the range of normal delays in similar projects, and perhaps even less serious than countries
at the initial stages of undertaking Bank-funded investment projects. Finally, staffing within the PIU was
a consistent problem throughout project implementation. The MoH did not successfully address this
issue, i.e., hiring decisions were not made that would have alleviated the problems. Bank and PIU staff
reiterate that staffing problems were rooted in hiring policies based on ethnicity rather than on
qualifications, and that these hiring policies were impossible to circumvent. Inadequate staffing resulted
in implementation delays, but, more seriously, it affected the ability of the PIU to consider or to
communicate to the MoH strategic issues related to CBRs, such as local commitment to their operation,
coordination with other primary care facilities, and their long-term role in the. health care system.
5.3 Factors generally subject to inmplementing agency control:
General inexperience in Bosnia and Herzegovina with World Bank procedures and requirements, and
underestimation of the amount of time required to manage projects, contributed to slower-than-anticipated
project implementation. These issues became particularly important due to a large number of small
procurement contracts in the project. Procurement was initially undertaken largely under Simplified
National Competitive Bidding procedures, but slow procurement - and a heavy burden on World Bank
staff regarding review and non-objections - led to a change in procurement procedures and the grouping
of small contracts into larger ones to be bid under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures.
The issue of counterpart capacity in procurement was never adequately dealt with in the context of this
7



project alone, however, the PlUs of three separate health-related projects (including War Victims
Rehabilitation) were merged into a single Project Management Unit (PMU) in late 1999, in order to create
economies of scale in terms of project expertise.
The general inexperience in procurement resulted in over-cautiousness on the part of the PIU, which
regularly submitted all procurement contracts -- even those not subject to prior-review requirements -- to
the World Bank for its no-objection. While this added to the transparency of the procurement process and
supported the capacity building of the PIU, it did cause delays in the approval of contracts and the
delivery of goods, works, and equipment. The World Bank requested in late 1998 that the PIU limit its
requests for prior review and no-objection as provided in the Development Credit Agreement, but
informal and formal requests for review continued in an overcautious effort to ensure transparency and to
minimize potential charges of impropriety.
5.4 Costs and financing:
No problems have been identified regarding the costing or financing of project investments. Despite
multiple donors and parallel investments and training, PIU and World Bank staff remained well informed
on all aspects of project and project-related investments and training. Audits of the project's financial
statements and procurement and disbursement were issued without qualification.
6. Sustainability
6. 1 Rationale for sustainah ility rating:
Sustainability of the project is rated as Likely. The development of CBRs was fully supported by the
Federation government, but full integration into local health care delivery is still underway. As funding
of the CBRs is now the responsibility of the Cantons, local commitment to the concept will be key to
medium- and long-term sustainability. The project team reports that all Cantons have made executive
decisions and issued regulations and bylaws and have committed funding as part of the current primary
health care system, for which the Cantons are responsible (as agreed as part of the Dayton peace accords).
In the short term, a combination of funding availability, commitment of local health officials, and
managerial talents of CBR directors will decide what roles the CBRs will take in the provision of primary
health care services. In the long term, the sustainability of the CBRs will depend on the results of the
restructuring and decentralization of the health care system. Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the process of
such restructuring; the widely reported general acceptance of the CBRs and the continued involvement of
the World Bank in the restructuring make sustainability of the physical CBRs Highly Likely. In addition,
CBRs have been included in the Government's Strategic Plan for Health Reform and in the Health
Protection Law, which is being further amended to define the role of CBRs in more detail. Sustainability
of the mental health CBRs is less certain, and will depend on the gradual professional and general
recognition of psychiatric disorders. A pilot program currently being implemented in Central Bosnia will
provide a better basis for judgement.
The sustainability of the orthopedic surgery investment is rated as Likely. Orthopedic services were
upgraded in major teaching hospitals, increasing the probability of a permanent improvement in surgical
procedures, and investments were made only to previously existing centers, resulting in no net increases
in recurrent costs. These factors contribute to the component's likely sustainability.
The sustainability of the prostheses and orthoses production component is rated as Likely in the medium
term, as the capacity of the workshops reflects the needs of amputees in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The
component both sought to fill an immediate need in the country -- the emergency supply of needed
prostheses -- and the improvement of internal capacity to produce and maintain quality prostheses. The
latter objective should be possible to sustain. In the long term (20+ years), demand for prostheses will
decline and production and maintenance units will need to downsize and/or merge.
8



6.2 Transition arrangement to regildar operations:
The CBRs -- the keystone of the project -- were intended to be and are part of the local health care
system, which by agreement under the Dayton peace accords are funded by the individual Cantons. The
PIU reports that the Cantons have provided funding for the CBRs for two years, and Bank staff confirm
that Cantons have committed themselves through legislation to continued funding. This funding
mechanisms may change over the next several years, however, as decisions are made regarding overall
health care reform. In order to develop regular federal level monitoring and evaluation of CBR
operations there has been some initiative at the project level to track patients and services -- for example,
software has been developed for the physical rehabilitation CBRs (and is being developed for the mental
health CBRs). Continued funding and operations of prosthetic centers and orthopedic surgical units are
directed through cantonal health insurance funds.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.I Lending:
Bank performance during project preparation is rated as Highly Satisfactory. The project was prepared in
an extremely short time period -- two months -- to meet emergency needs in the immediate post civil-war
period. The project's primary objective was well defined, and project components fit well with that
objective and responded to the needs visible at the time. The project's secondary objectives were
adequately defined and could reasonably be expected to be met by the project's components; however,
implementation and monitoring and evaluation arrangements established at appraisal and negotiations did
not ensure that their achievement could be tracked. This is understandable given the emergency nature of
the project.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during project supervision is rated as Satisfactory. The project was supervised by
Bank staff and consultants located at Headquarters, in the Budapest office and in the Sarajevo Resident
Mission, as well as by staff based in other resident missions. Bank staff, particularly in the Resident
Mission, were in nearly constant contact with the PIU, and provided close support for many aspects of
project implementation, most particularly for procurement issues. Communications appear to have been
strong and open. Support to the PIU may perhaps have been too strong, with the PIU coming to rely on
the Bank's judgment rather than its own. Bank resources were well leveraged during supervision -- day-
to-day issues were dealt with by the Resident Mission, while periodic missions from Headquarters and/or
the Budapest office reviewed implementation progress and addressed more sensitive implementation and
project management issues. Bank staff coordinated well with co- and parallel donors, and the project
provided an opportunity for real coordination in a comprehensive way. This compares favorably to the
wartime balkanization of assistance. One area where improvements could have been made was in
tracking of project outcomes; project monitoring was heavily oriented towards tracking implementation
progress, i.e., the delivery of civil works and equipment. However, although objective indicators were set
early in project implementation, and although recommendations were made at the mid-term review to
track the services of the CBRs, the prosthetics centers, and the surgical units, this was not done. Such
information is necessary to judge the success of the CBR concept and to place the CBRs in the overall
health care system of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
7.3 (herall Bank perfornmance:
Overall Bank performance is rated as Satisfactory. The project was designed to respond to urgent needs
and to simultaneously open dialogue with the Government on larger health care reform issues, and
through it the Bank earned credibility as a development partner in the Bosnian health sector and was able
to play an important role in the discussion of more difficult and divisive issues such as health finance
9



reform. Through this and other health-sector projects, critical investments have been made in
rehabilitating primary and secondary health care facilities, while discussions continue on designing a
sustainable and equitable health care financing system. Bank performance could have been strengthened
by ensuring that the PIU and the MoH had the capacity to track local health services.
Borrower
7. 4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is rated as Satisfactory, particularly given the post-conflict
situation. Project preparation began with the assistance of CIDA, after which the Borrower requested the
financing and assistance of the Bank. Site identification for CBR investment was made based on clear
criteria and in a participatory manner.
7.5 Government implementation per/brniance:
The Government's implementation performance was Satisfactory, with the caveat that efforts toward
tracking the effect of project investments and local capacity were weak. Efforts would have been
strengthened by increasing the number of staff in the PIU and dedicating personnel to monitoring and
evaluation tasks. In the immediate post conflict situation, the Ministry of Health was not able to establish
adequate patient tracking or to develop a comprehensive sector strategy. There is also indication that
Government initiative in coordinating donor involvement in the health sector could have been improved.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The PIU's performance in implementation was Satisfactory. The PIU focused on project implementation
-- on coordinating investments, bidding and contracting, and payments. In addition, the PIU was highly
successful in coordinating donor involvement in this project. Had additional staff been available or had
selection of staff been made on an objective basis, more effort could have been made to monitor project
outcomes, which was recommended by Bank missions but not pursued.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. The Borrower faced significant challenges due to the
nature of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the post-conflict situation, and for that reason was not
able to quickly resolve certain implementation issues. However, communications among the PIU, the
Bank, and the Borrower remained open and candid throughout implementation, and allowed simultaneous
discussions on specific investments and overall health system reform issues. The current discussion on
health system reform includes ways to strengthen Cantonal management, to establish uniform standards
of care, and to develop a sustainable health financing system that includes mobilizing local funding.
These discussions are consistent with the investments and objectives of the War Victims Rehabilitation
project.
8. Lessons Learned
Sufficient staff to undertake implementation, monitoring and evaluation: Chronic staffing problems
were the most obvious constraint to project implementation and to long-term integration of project
investments into the health care system. This is not a revelation -- project implementing units clearly
need to have sufficient staff -- with appropriate skills -- to undertake the necessary procurement,
disbursement, and supervision tasks. Additional or more appropriate staff could also have improved the
integration of project investments into overall sector strategy development. Monitoring and evaluation,
including development of a patient- and service-tracking system, is required even in a difficult post-
conflict situation.
Strengthening procurement capacity in immediate post conflict situation is essential to overcome
delays in implementation. In an immediate post-conflict situation, where the Borrower does not have
10



sufficient skills to implement projects, it is essential to strengthen the procurement capacity or to engage a
procurement agent that would act on behalf of the Implementation Unit. In such a way, the delays in
implementation caused by lack of capacity and internal political constraints could be avoided.
Matching of post-conflict objectives to long-term objectives: In the larger scheme of things, community-
based rehabilitation seeks to decentralize the care of the physically disabled and mentally traumatized and
handicapped and to reduce institutionalization. In most OECD countries, this implies the dispersion of
physical therapy skills and psychiatric care, combined with other societal supports. This project took the
opportunity of the post-conflict situation to meet immediate needs and to introduce a new model of care
that, while now widely accepted as standard in OECD and some developing countries, was a radical shift
for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The introduction of this new paradigm may not have been possible in
Bosnia and Herzegovina under any other circumstances. By most accounts, the model has worked well to
address the short-term needs of the country. In the context of supervision and larger discussions of the
health care system, the conversion of facilities and expertise to address long-term community needs is
being discussed.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The PIU and the Ministry of Health received and read the draft ICR for the project, which was discussed
with project team members in the Sarajevo Resident Mission. The PIU submitted several technical
corrections to the ICR, but on the whole had no objections to its conclusions. In addition, the PIU
prepared and submitted a completion report for the subject project. This contribution is attached to this
ICR as Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers.
The project team submitted the draft ICR to the project's cofinanciers, parallel financiers, and their
implementing agencies. Responses were received from Queen's University (funded by CIDA), the
Finnish Red Cross, and HealthNet International. The responses indicated general approval with the
conclusions of the ICR. In addition, Queen's University noted the great progress made by the Bank and
other donors in advancing the concept of CBRs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and stressed that the World
Bank use the Bosnia CBRs as a model for its health sector restructuring efforts elsewhere.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
11






Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
tndicatorlMatrix           Projected in last PSR'      Actallatst Estimate
Help re-integrate people with war-           S                           S
related disabilities into productive
life
Support the development of local             S                           S
and national capacity to manage
and deliver cost-effective
rehabilitation services
Output Indicators:
iator/Matrix               Protd in last PSR I         Actuall/Latest Estimate
Physical and psycho-social      Establishment of a network of       Indicator met.
rehabilitation services available    76 Community-Based
throughout the country          Rehabilitation centers and
related hospital services
Local production of prostheses  Establishment of 6 centers for      Indicator met.
and orthoses                    production of prostheses and
orthoses
Provision of quality permanent  Provision of prostheses to          Indicator met.
prostheses                      approximately 3,000
amputees
Availability of orthopedic and  Establishment/reconstruction        Indicator met.
reconstructive surgical services    of services in 7 clinical centers
and cantonal hospitals
End of project
12



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component
(in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActallLa"tes    Perce4tage of~
Projt Co st By  om         nt    r       stmate            stimatX
Comm uinity-Based Rehabilitation               12.60               5.49
Prostheses and Orthoses                         6.00               4.42
Orthopedic and Reconstructive Surgery           8.50               6.74
Project Implementation Support                  1.80               0.95
Total Baseline Cost                            28.90              17.60
Total Project Costs             28.90               17.60
Total Financing Required              28.90              17.60
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)       _et_o_ 
Exedtr Catgoy             S1G          14B*the2                    'BF        Tt'alStV; Cot0; ft
1. Works                     0.00         5.39        0.00          0.00            5.39
(0.00)      (3.52)       (0.00)       (0.00)          (3.52)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00       11.86          0.00           11.86
(0.00)      (0.00)       (3.24)       (0.00)          (3.24)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00        3.59          0.00            3.59
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.92)       (0.00)          (0.92)
4. Training                  0.00         0.00        0.80          0.00            0.80
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.80)       (0.00)          (0.80)
5. Recurrent Costs           0.00         0.00        8.37          0.00            8.37
(0.00)      (0.00)       (1.52)       (0.00)          (1.52)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00        0.00          0.00            0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                      0.00        5.39        24.62         0.00           30.01
(0.00)      (3.52)       (6.48)       (0.00)         10.00)
13



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category
ICB            NCB            Other2          N.B.F.        Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00            5.15            0.00            0.00           5.15
(0.00)         (3.19)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (3.19)
2. Goods                           11.56            0.00            0.00            0.00          11.56
(5.49)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (5.49)
3. Services                         0.00            0.02            0.00            0.00           0.02
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
4. Training                         0.03            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.03
(0.03)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.03)
5. Recurrent Costs                  0.00            0.00            0.00            0.95           0.95
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.95)          (0.95)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                           11.59            5.17           0.00            0.95           17.71
(5.52)         (3.19)          (0.00)          (0.95)          (9.66)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through nationial shopping. consulting services, services of contracted staff of
the project management office, training, technical assistance scrvices, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing
the project. and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component
(in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of
Component               ApRraisal Estimate             ActualLatest Estimate               Aj,raisal
Bank       Govt.      CoF.       Bank       Govt       COF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Community-Based            5.00                  8.10       4.40                   1.05     88.0    0.0    13.0
Rehabilitation
Prostheses and             2.00                  4.20       0.33                  4.07      16.5    0.0    96.9
Orthoses
Orthopedic and             1.90                  6.90       3.95                  2.93    207.9   0.0    42.5
Reconstructive
Surgery
Implementation             1.10                  0.80       0.95                            86.4    0.0    0.0
Support                            _______                                                ____1
14



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
15



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle         No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g 2 Economists, I EMS, etc.)
Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count             Specialty             Progress        Obiective
IdentificationlPreparation
02/96                      2    Health Specialist
I    Senior Health Economist
I    Project Officer
1    Equipment Specialist
1    Implementation Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
03/96                      1    Sr. Health Economist
1    Operations Officer
1   Project Officer
Supervision
12/96                      1   Sr. Health Economist              S               S
I   Operations Officer
07/97                      1   Health Specialist                 S                S
I   Operations Officer
12/97                      1   Health Specialist                 S               S
1   Implementation Specialist
1   Project Officer
02/98                      1   Health Specialist                 S                S
I   Operations Officer
1   Implementation Specialist
I   Project Officer
09/98                      2   Health Specialists                S                S
1   Implementation Specialist
I   Project Officer
03/99                      1   Implementation Specialist         S                S
I   Project Officer
06/99                      1   Health Specialist                 S                S
I   Implementation Specialist
1   Project Officer
09/99                      1   Operations Officer
1   Implementation Specialist
ICR
12/00                     1    Operations Analyst                S               S
16



(b) Staff:
t  fis;oP**   et  0 000000000000000Actual/Latest Estimate
No staff wees            US$ (OOO)
Identification/Preparation        9.1                    46.6
Appraisal/Negotiation            22.6                    58.4
Supervision                    140.24                 273.26
ICR                              1.77                     7.1
Total                          173.71                  385.36
17



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial. M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          NA
Sector Policies                         M
Physical                                SU
Financial                               NA
Institutional Development               M
Environmental                           NA
Social
Poverty Reduction                  NA
Gender                             NA
Private sector development              NA
Public sector management                NA
18



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                           Rating
Lending                                        HS
Supervision                                    S
Overall                                        S
6.2 Borrowerperformance                        Rating
Preparation                                    S
Government implementation performance          S
Implementation agency performance              S
Overall                                        S
19



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
World Bank Documents:
War Victims Rehabilitation Project, Memorandum and Recommendation of the President, April, 1996.
War Victims Rehabilitation Project, Technical Annex, April, 1996.
War Victims Rehabilitation Project, Aide-Memoires, Form 590s, and Project Supervision Reports.
War Victims Rehabilitation Project, Audited Project Financial Statements, 1997, 1998, 1999.
Miscellaneous disbursement and procurement information.
Project Implementation Unit Documents:
Progress Report, Community Based Rehabilitation Centers, SFOR CIMIC Task Force, December, 1999.
Miscellaneous disbursement and procurement information.
Co- and Parallel Financier Documents:
Training Program in Community Mental Health, Final Report, HealthNet Intemational et al., June, 1999.
Abstracts from the Training Program in Community Mental Health, Intemational Conference, Mental
Health Reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina, HealthNet Intemational et al., October, 1999.
Bosnia and Herzegovina War Victims Rehabilitation Project Community-Based Rehabilitation Work
Plan, Queen's University, December, 1996.
War Victims Rehabilitation Program, Mid-Project Report, Queen's University, February, 1998.
War Victims Rehabilitation Program, Evaluation, Queen's University, April, 1999.
Community-Based Mental Health Services in Middle Bosnia Canton (Travnik), Harvard Medical School,
August, 1999.
20



Annex 8. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
IMPLEMENTATION COMIPLETION REPORT
Bosnia and Herzegovina
WAR VICTIMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
I.   INTRODUCTION
The Project was designed as an emergency recovery assistance to the health sector. It was prepared in the
immediate aftermath of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina during which an estimated 250,000 people
were killed and 175,000 injured.
The Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina has outlined priorities for reconstruction and recovery of the
health sector. One of the top priorities of the Federal Ministry of Health is to initiate a reform of the
physical and psycho-social rehabilitation services. It is recognized that immediate interventions to reduce
the enormous burden of disability associated with the war require the formulation of conceptually sound
and implementable national program. Accordingly, in early February 1996, the Federal Ministry of
Health established a Technical Working Group of experts in physical and psycho-social rehabilitation to
develop a comprehensive War Victims Rehabilitation Program. The program was prepared with the
assistance of the World Bank. It constitutes a rational, comprehensive and cost-effective plan of actions
for addressing rehabilitation needs in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Such a program carries
a lot of promise for the future development of the health care system in the Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. The concept on which the program is based on is a clear shift from the pre-war system.
Physical and psycho-social rehabilitation services are de-institutionalized. Hospital services are not
excluded from the program; they are an integral part of it. In fact, they are the natural continuation of the
community-based rehabilitation services, their natural complement with a well thought-out referral
system. Through the community-based services, a modern concept of primary health care is being
promoted, and it offers a platform for the implementation of the health reform objectives of the Federal
Ministry of Health. In addition to its health, economic and social benefits, the CBR - Community-Based
Rehabilitation approach provides a timely opportunity to initiate the transition of the health system from
pre-war reliance on cumbersome and expensive hospitals to the cost-effective primary health care level.
The investments in orthopedic and reconstructive surgery and prosthetic units are essential and constitute
integral parts of hospital services.
II. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
The Bank's assistance strategy parallels and supports the government's efforts. The first step was to
gather the needed information in order to articulate, together with authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
an overall sector recovery program. With the broad framework of the recovery program, the second step
in Bank's assistance was and remained to help the Federal Ministry of Health to develop its policies and
specific priority programs for reconstruction. Finally, the Bank together with the international donor
community is committed to supporting the financing and implementation of these programs through a
series of operations. First one the series of those programs is the War Victims Rehabilitation Project.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
The overall project objectives are to facilitate the reintegration of war victims into economically
productive activities and normal social life and to avoid the heavy costs of lost productivity and sustained
21



disruption of the social fabric in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Specifically, the Project is
aimed at reducing the burden of physical and psycho-social disabilities through targeted and cost-
effective rehabilitation services.
Project Components
a)   Community-Based Rehabilitation (CBR). This component addresses the rehabilitation needs of
physically injured and psycho-socially disabled war victims.
b)   Prostheses and Orthoses Production. This component supports the production and maintenance
of prostheses and Orthoses quality in production and maintenance units.
c)   Orthopedic and Reconstructive Surgery. This component supports the improvement of essential
orthopedic and reconstructive surgical services in Clinical Centers and Cantonal Hospitals.
d)   Project Implementation Support. The Project supports the establishment and functions of a
Project Implementation Unit to manage the Project's activities.
IV. FINANCING
The World Bank financing toward the Project consisted of US$5 million from the Trust Fund for Bosnia
and Herzegovina (TF024035) and US$5 million equivalent in the form of an International Development
Association (IDA) Credit (Credit 2896-BOS), Italian co-financing in the form of a trust fund managed by
IDA in the amount of US$3.29 million (TF024075) and the European Fund for Social Development co-
financing in the amount of US$5 million, Government of Iceland in the amount of US$ 0.7 million,
UNDP through IMG, SIDA through SweBiH, CIDA through Queens University, and ECHO through
HealthNet International.
V. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Component 1: Community-Based rehabilitation (CBR)
This is a core component of the Project. It addresses the rehabilitation needs of physically injured and
psychologically disabled war victims. The component provided establishment of locally based network
of 38 physical rehabilitation centers and 38 psycho-socially rehabilitation centers over the territory of the
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It provided for a limited civil works, equipment for physical and
psycho-social rehabilitation, furniture, consumables and learning materials and training of health
professionals to enable effective functioning of the centers. Prior to the war these services were provided
in hospitals which required long stay in hospitals for even simple diagnostic and treatment services
(which for psycho-socially disabled means institutionalization). Shifting of these activities to community
based rehabilitation centers established in the community where disabled persons live enable
rehabilitation patients to continue to live and work in their homes and business places without disruptions
that would have occurred in the previously existing system. Through shifting of these services to the
primary health care through the CBR system, 80 percent of patients are diagnosed and provided services
in the community where they live thus avoiding unnecessary high hospital costs, costs of travelling,
absence from their working place and other costs. Until today, more than 400,000 therapeutic procedures
were provided through the CBR system to all categories of population. It was estimated that the CBR
system would provide services for an estimated 40,000 to 70,000 war-injured persons and an estimated 2
percent or 3 percent of the population who are physically injured from non-war related causes. The
emphasis should be given to the fact that 60 percent of clients are either direct or indirect war victims (the
war victim is not only a person with physical injury or psycho-social disability).
22



The Project supported the training in the principles of community-based rehabilitation and enhancement
of clinical skills for professionals involved in physical and psycho-social rehabilitation. Learning
resources were provided for all professionals delivering services in CBR centers. Average staffing of
physical rehabilitation CBR is: one doctor specialist in physiotherapist, four physiotherapists, one nurse -
occupational therapist and one receptionist. All physical rehabilitation CBR centers are functioning and
provide services to 60-70 clients/daily in average.
Component 2: Prostheses and Orthoses Production and Maintenance
The Project supported production of good quality prostheses and Orthoses in three main centers
(Sarajevo, Tuzla, Mostar) and three units for limited production and maintenance (Zenica, Livno, Cazin).
The component provided a limited civil works (excluding Mostar where completely new structure was
constructed), prosthetic machines, equipment and components for production of complete prostheses.
Total of 2105 prostheses were provided through the Project (below knee, above knee and arm prostheses)
and distributed to 6 prosthetic units in accordance with their needs. Additional quantity of 600 below
knee prostheses was donated by the Government of Iceland and distributed to the prosthetic units.
Almost all prostheses provided through the Project were fitted in prosthetic units, excluding Mostar which
started -up with the activities in the last month. All professionals in the prosthetic units were trained to
enhance their professional skills.
Component 3: Orthopedic and Reconstructive Surgery
This component provided upgrading of essential orthopedic and reconstructive surgery in three Clinical
Centers and four Cantonal Hospitals in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. All units were active
throughout the war and they support a network of CBR centers throughout the Federation of B&H.
The component provided a limited civil works, equipment, hospital furniture, consumables
(osteosynthetic materials, implants) and training for the use of new equipment and other materials
provided through the Project. Operating theaters in all departments were renovated and furnished with
modern surgical equipment for very complex surgeries of war and land mine injured persons. The use of
equipment and surgeries began immediately upon installation and start up (end of 1998 through the end
of 1999) when all deliveries were completed.
VI. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Bank performance was Satisfactory. The Project was prepared in an extremely short period to meet the
emergency needs. The Project's primary objective was well defined and the project components fit well
with that objective and responded to the needs.
The Project was supervised by the Bank's staff and consultants at Headquarters in Budapest office and in
the Sarajevo Resident Mission. Bank staff, particularly in the Resident Mission were in close contact
with PIU and provided close support for many aspects of the project implementation, most particularly for
procurement issues. Bank staff coordinated well with other donors.
Borrower's performance was Satisfactory. The Project was designed too ambitiously so that the
completion term was extended for one year. All activities were implemented in accordance with the
Technical Annex and through a good management of project activities. PIU's performance was
Satisfactory. PIU focused on project implementation - coordinating investments, bidding and contracting
and payments.
23



VII. LESSONS LEARNED
1. Implementation of War Victims Rehabilitation project in immediate post conflict situation must start as
soon as possible without much delays. Even if the initial design of the project was made in very short
period monitoring and evaluation during implementation enabled corrections. The project proved that
this approach is possible with commitment of all stakeholders.
2. Community based rehabilitation is new approach to shift secondary health care services to the
community and integrate it into primary health care. This shift was possible only in the immediate post
conflict situation and would be extremely difficult to implement in a normal transitional period.
VIII. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS
The overall project objectives were achieved - to reintegrate people with war related injuries into
productive life and to introduce cost-effective approach for dealing with disabilities and support the
development of local and regional capacity to manage and deliver rehabilitation services. These
objectives were achieved through establishment of a network of 76 CBR centers in the Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina to enable physical and psycho-social rehabilitation, improvement of essential
orthopedic and reconstructive surgeries and upgrading production and quality of prostheses and Orthoses.
Outputs by Components:
Community-Based Rehabilitation Centers (CBR)
Total of 38 centers for physical rehabilitation in the community and 38 centers for psycho-social
rehabilitation in the community were established. New structures were not constructed. The component
provided for renovation of the existing facilities (dom zdravljas units), provision of medical equipment,
furniture, learning resources).
Health professionals involved in CBR centers were trained (approximately 300 professionals were trained
by CIDA). Operational guidelines - standards were developed and distributed to all CBRs and
instructions for their use were given to the health professionals. Accessibility to free of charge services
for war victims is provided in CBRs. Staff for physical CBRs were fully trained, while psycho-social
CBRs staff lack clinical psychologists, since this specialization did not exist in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
CBRs are provided with information system and well-developed database. Communications between
CBRs is on daily basis.
Orthopedic and Reconstructive Surgery
This component provided improvement of essential orthopedic and reconstructive surgery services in
three Clinical Centers (Sarajevo, Tuzla, Mostar) and four Cantonal Hospitals (Zenica, Travnik, Livno,
Bihac). The surgical departments at all sites were renovated and outfitted. The use of departments began
in 1998 upon delivery of equipment. The investments resulted in a significant increase of capacity for
complex surgical procedures of war related injuries and land mines injuries; decreased waiting times;
improved comfort for patients and surgeons. This is very important because number of land mines in
Bosnia and Herzegovina ranges up to number of 4 million. Number of war related injures, requiring
further medical treatment, range from 40,000 to 70,000. Number of amputees range from 3,000 to 5,000.
24



Benefits accomplished:
*  increased number of surgeries
*  decreased waiting times for surgeries
* use of new modern surgical techniques
*  comfort for patient and surgeons
It is very difficult to estimate how many operations will be performed with the materials and consumables
provide through the Project funds. However, based on the annual number of surgeries (e.g. 1999 Sarajevo
1300 surgeries; Tuzla 1000 surgeries; Mostar 346 surgeries) materials obtained through the project will be
sufficient for the next 2 years.
Prostheses and Orthoses Production and Maintenance
This component funded civil works and equipment, prosthetic components for production of prostheses
and Orthoses, for the total of six prosthetic units (main centers in Sarajevo, Tuzla and Mostar) and for
three centers for limited production and maintenance (Zenica, Livno, Cazin). Training was provided for
12 technicians from Sarajevo, 4 from Tuzla, 2 from Zenica, 2 from Cazin) through a parallel financing
from the Government of Iceland, the Government of Italy and the local Italian government of Emilia-
Romagna. On their return to the centers, they trained other professionals in their center so that all
professionals received training for enhance their professional skills. This component is Highly
Satisfactory because almost all prostheses were fitted (procured either through the Project - total 2105, or
provided by other donors - 600 from the Government of Iceland and others) and machines and equipment
for production and maintenance is provided (life of one prostheses is 3-4 years). Prosthetic units were
decentralized and access to services provided for all in need for these services.
IX. SUSTAINABILITY
Completion of the project implementation means the completion of the first phase of the project and
health care reform. Next phase is the process of the development of legislation and regulations,
particularly for the CBR component and overall restructuring of health financing. This process is a part
of the health financing reform supported by other projects
Although these processes have not been completed yet, the CBR system is already sustainable. Some
CBRs are working for two years and financing is provided through the health insurance funds or.
X. CONSTRAINTS
Problems in implementation of the project occurred in Kakanj and Stolac. Those problems were not
political ones, but rather due to the reluctance in accepting new way of managing rehabilitation in
community.
Delays occurred in Mostar. Works on Prosthetic center were delayed due to unresolved issues about
location of this center. The most appropriate location was found that supported unification of this city.
25



Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement
Expenditure Category      International        National           Other*           Total Cost
competitive        competitive
bidding           bidding
1. Works (all financiers)                         5,149.939                             5,149.939
IDA-financed works                                3,185.087                              3,185.087
2. Goods (all financiers)       11,443.95                                               11,443.950
IDA-financed goods              5,369.400
3. Services (all                                     23,947                                23,947
financiers)
IDA-financed services
4. Training (all                    4,838                                                   4,838
financiers)
IDA-financed training             27,812                                                   27,812
5. Recurrent Costs 9all)
IDA-financed recurrent                              951,750                               951,750
costs
Total                       11,448.788,00       6,125.636.08                            17,602.236
Project cost by component and financier
Project Cost by        Estimated      IDA         Italy       Other       Gov't    Total Actual
Component                Cost         actual      actual      Cofin.      actual        Cost
.________________     (US$ million)  __                       actual
1. Community Based           12.60   4,404,588     41,963    1,040,952                  5,487,503
Rehabilitation
2. Prostheses and             6.00    320,429   3,155,741      887,851                  4,364,021
Orthoses
Training                               32,650      23,947                                  56,597
3. Orthopedic                 8.50   3,827,767     42,581    2,872,016                  6,742,364
Reconstructive
Surgery
4. Project                    1.80    951,751                                             951,751
Implementation
Support                                                                          _
Total Costs                  28.90   9,537,185   3,264,232    4,800,819     _           17,602,236
26






MAP SECTION






IBRD 28578R
160                                     oZge                                        1 80            To Osi jek
TOZarbTo Zagreb                                    CROATIA                               To Vitkovci
To Os) jek 
Glina ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ToKLMTo eirSc
rIj  0~~~~~~~~~~~~A.                                         0aRP
a                                                                                             -n~~~~~~~~~SIT    ~.  UTRA,HNAY
o    $~~~~~~LE~~~~TE~~~~EITIES                               C                     I     I~~~~~~~~~i 
esa~lJ.eEEoFThe  ~       HeEnosanI FED. EDE ~        -< 
  NAIIONAtcAI'ITAL                              WeSc~~~~otor Va                                                             c
13 o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ski ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~        ~         ~        ~        ~       ~       O
-                     o NA'pdrdeo,o,sod                                                   '        ITuz   ~             BNica U        GARI   r-
ers ,esepn~oe m   e                   Are o7f mop
Skender V          ,okufnsotehie        I     rbmnoo40
~,A,  ~    ~        o                  YGREC    o~jonZ
Or OOY eitde~semeo~ or                                M      "I
-~~  ~ oo~~5on~~e  of sucl         10                         20               ))  TUKE
OCOER19



