Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2896 BOS
Development Credit Agreement
(War Victims Rehabilitation Project)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 22, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2896 BOS
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 22, 1996, between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS:  (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Council of Europe Social 
Development Fund (CEF) a loan (the CEF loan) in an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to 
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the CEF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CEF;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(1)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(2)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
Page  2
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons and entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Federation" means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a political 
sub-division of the Recipient, and includes any successor or successors thereto;
(b)
"MOH" means the Ministry of Health of the Federation, and includes any 
successor or successors thereto;
(c)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit to be established within the 
MOH pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 of this Agreement;
(d)
"Procurement Review Committee" means the committee to be established 
pursuant to Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement; 
(e)
"Subsidiary Credit Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the Federation, pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
as the same agreement may be amended from time to time and such term includes all 
schedules supplemental to the Subsidiary Credit Agreement; and
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
3,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from The Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars, a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Page  3
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 2006 and ending January 1, 2031. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 1, 2016 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i): the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(a)
(i) shall cause the Federation to carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial 
and health practices, and to this end shall make available the proceeds of the Credit 
to the Federation under a Subsidiary Credit Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Federation under terms and conditions which shall have been approved 
by the Association; (ii) shall take or cause to be taken  all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable the Federation to carry out the Project and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the 
Project; and (iii) shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with the carrying out of the Project by the Federation;
(b)
shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Credit Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement or any provision of any such agreement; and
(c)
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, shall cause the 
Federation to carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
Page  4
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause the Federation to 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower and the Federation responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall or shall cause the Federation to:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall or 
shall cause the Federation to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives, based on an appropriate 
notice, to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely:
(a)
Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
 
(i)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the CEF Loan 
shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the CEF Loan Agreement providing 
Page  5
therefor, or
(ii)
the CEF Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the agreed 
maturity thereof.
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under the CEF Loan Agreement; and
(ii)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following  additional event is specified, namely, the event in paragraph (a) (ii) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of 
that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. For purposes of Section 12.03 of the General Conditions, the 
following events are specified as conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement:
(a)
the Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been executed with terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the PIU has been established  under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association and the PIU director has been appointed in accordance with paragraph 1 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
the Procurement Review Committee has been established as set forth in 
paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(d)
the clinical centers, cantonal hospitals, community-based physical and 
psycho-social rehabilitation centers and prostheses and orthoses production and 
maintenance units to be rehabilitated and upgraded under Parts A, B and C of the 
Project have been selected and are acceptable to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement entered into between the Borrower and the Federation has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon, the parties to it in 
accordance with the terms of such agreement.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Mehmeda Spahe 5
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
For the Association:
Page  6
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ S. Alkalaj
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J.-M. Severino
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Credit, the allocations of the amount of the Credit to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                     Credit Allocated           % of
                       (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works           1,180,000          100% (net of taxes)
(2) Goods                 1,010,000          100% of foreign
                                             expenditures, 100%
                                             of local expenditures
                                             (ex-factory cost) and
                                             85% of local
                                             expenditures for
                                             other items procured
                                             locally
(3) Consultants' Services   340,000          100%
(4) Training                280,000          100%
(5) Incremental Operating   600,000          100%
    Costs
(6) Unallocated              90,000
      TOTAL               3,500,000
Page  7
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures";
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the costs incurred by MOH on 
account of the Project for staff salaries, office facilities, services, staff travel 
and consumable office supplies as may be agreed by the Association; and
(d)
the term "training" means expenditures incurred in connection with the 
training activities (other than consultants' services related to training) to be 
carried out under the Project, including the travel cost and per-diem of the trainees 
and other expenditures as shall be agreed by the Association.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
350,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after January 31, 1996.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) expenditures for goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $2,000,000 equivalent except for the first three contracts 
awarded under Schedule 3, Section I, Parts B.3 and B.6; (b) expenditures for training; 
(c) Incremental Operating Costs; (d) contracts for employment of consulting firms not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (e) contracts for employment of individual 
consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, each under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to help reintegrate people with 
war-related disabilities into productive life; (b) to introduce a more cost effective 
approach for dealing with disabilities; and (c) to support the development of local 
and regional capacity to manage and deliver rehabilitation services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Community-Based Rehabilitation
 
1.
Community-Based Physical Rehabilitation
 
Rehabilitation, repair and upgrading of the rehabilitation departments of about 
three clinical centers and about five cantonal hospitals and establishment, 
development and operation of a network of about 30 community-based physical 
rehabilitation centers, provision of equipment, essential pharmaceuticals, educational 
literature, consultants' services and training to improve physical rehabilitative 
services.
2.
Community-Based Psycho-Social Rehabilitation
 
Rehabilitation, repair and upgrading of essential psychiatric service of about 
14 hospitals and establishment, development and operation of a network of about 30 
community-based psycho-social
rehabilitation centers, provision of equipment, essential pharmaceuticals, 
consultants' services and training to improve service delivery to patients with 
post-traumatic stress disorder to prevent
chronic disability and to promote social and professional reintegration.
Part B:
Prostheses and Orthoses Production
 
Page  8
Rehabilitation of about three prostheses and orthoses production units and about 
five maintenance units, provision of equipment and supplies, and strengthening the 
capacity of such units through technical assistance, consultants' services and 
training for the introduction of
modern production techniques.
Part C:
Orthopedic and Reconstructive Surgery
 
Rehabilitation and upgrading of orthopedic and reconstructive surgical 
departments of about three clinical centers and about four cantonal hospitals,  
provision of equipment, surgical instruments and essential pharmaceuticals, 
consultants' services and training to improve orthopedic and reconstructive surgical 
services.
Part D:
Project Implementation Support
 
Strengthening the capacity of the PIU to oversee and coordinate the 
implementation of Parts A, B and C of the Project through the provision of equipment, 
consultants' services and training.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Service
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Limited International Bidding
 
Goods estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more per contract shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines. In addition, the list of suppliers shall be derived from, inter alia, 
the expressions of interest received in response to the GPN. Bidding documents may 
provide that the bidders can send their bids by fax, in which case bid security shall 
not be required, subject to the satisfaction of the Association that mechanisms to 
ensure confidentiality of bids received by fax are in place.
2.
Procurement of Works
 
Works shall be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three qualified contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the 
contract.
3.
International Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost more than $200,000 equivalent but less than $2,000,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines and using standard documentation agreed with the 
Association.
4.
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
Page  9
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
Direct Contracting
 
Goods which are of a proprietary nature may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
6.
Procurement from UN Agencies
 
Goods may be procured from UN agencies such as FAO, ILO, UNICEF and WHO in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract to be awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of: (i) Section I, Part B.1 of this Schedule; (ii) Section I, Part B.5 of this 
Schedule; and (iii) the first three contracts awarded under each of Section I, Parts 
B.3 and B.6, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Association, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. 
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the  Association, 
other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall 
not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall lend the proceeds of the Credit to the Federation on the same terms and 
conditions as set forth in Sections 2.04, 2.05, 2.06 and 2.07 of this Agreement, and 
the Subsidiary Credit Agreement shall contain the following Project implementation 
arrangements:
Page  10
1.
The Federation shall establish and thereafter maintain the PIU under terms of 
reference and with staffing and other resources acceptable to the Association. The PIU 
shall be headed by a director, reporting to the executive office of the MOH, and shall 
have overall responsibility for Project management and coordination.
2.
The Federation shall:
 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 1997, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by August 31, 1997 or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said report and the Association's views on the matter.
3.
For the purposes of ensuring that the procurement of goods, works and services 
is carried out in accordance with the procedures stipulated for that purpose, the 
Federation shall establish a Procurement Review Committee which shall, inter alia, be 
responsible for the approval of final recommendations of contract awards. The 
membership of the Procurement Review Committee shall include a representative from the 
MOH, a representative from the PIU and two representatives selected from the clinical 
centers or cantonal hospitals supported under the Project. The Federation shall ensure 
that the Procurement Review Committee shall be assisted by procurement advisors 
satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Federation shall select the clinical centers, cantonal hospitals, 
community-based physical and psycho-social rehabilitation centers and prostheses and 
orthoses production and maintenance units to be rehabilitated and upgraded under Parts 
A, B and C of the Project according to the criteria satisfactory to the Association.
5.
The Federation shall, for the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions, and without limitation thereto:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Federation and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project, and to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project's objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Federation on said plan.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the amount of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
Page  11
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of any outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Page  12
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
