                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32618

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (FSLT-71380)

                                                  ON A

                                        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                                 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                               URUGUAY

                                                 FOR A

                            SPECIAL STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN




                                              June 29, 2005




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective 2004)

                           Currency Unit = pesos
                                   US$ 1 = $28.72

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



BCU    Central Bank of Uuguay
BHU    National Mortgage Bank
BPS    Social Security Bank
BROU   Banco de la República del Uruguay
IFC    International Finance Corporation
IMF    International Monetary Fund
MEF    Ministry of Economy and Finance
NBC    Nuevo Banco Comercial
SAL    Structural Adjustment Loan
SSAL   Special Structural Adjustment Loan




                          Vice President:   Pamela Cox
                        Country Director    Axel van Trotsenburg
                          Sector Manager    Mauricio Carrizosa
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Daniel Fernando Oks

                                          URUGUAY
                     SPECIAL STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    4
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   5
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         6
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          16
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            24
6. Sustainability                                                                26
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 29
8. Lessons Learned                                                               32
9. Partner Comments                                                              34
10. Additional Information                                                       35
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             37
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             47
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             50
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             52
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             54
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                56
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            58

Project ID: P080263                                                  Project Name: SPECIAL STRUCTURAL
                                                                     ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Team Leader: Daniel Fernando Oks                                     TL Unit: LCSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: SPECIAL STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT                            L/C/TF Number: FSLT-71380
                            LOAN
   Country/Department: URUGUAY                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (30%); Other social services
                            (30%); Banking (15%); Housing finance and real estate markets
                            (15%); Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance (10%)
                  Theme: Debt management and fiscal substainability (P); State
                            enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (S); Other financial
                            and private sector development (S); Improving labor markets (S);
                            Social safety nets (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/19/2002                                     Effective:
     Appraisal: 07/01/2002                                         MTR:
      Approval: 08/08/2002                                      Closing:



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAY/MINISTRY OF ECONOMY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David De Ferranti
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:                 Mauricio Carrizosa
Team Leader at ICR:             Daniel Oks
ICR Primary Author:             Danile Oks




2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR

                              Quality at Entry: S                        S
                   Project at Risk at Any Time: No




3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:


a) Context

The Uruguayan economy was hit by a series of external and internal shocks since 1999; as a
result, the economy fell into a severe recession which ended in a financial and external crisis in
2002. The country faced a severe devaluation of the exchange rate and the lack of financing
placed the economy on the verge of default on its sovereign debt.

The following external factors contributed to explain Uruguay's recession: (i) poor growth
performance of Brazil and Argentina (its two main trading partners); (ii) sharp devaluations in
Brazil (1999) and in Argentina (2002); (iii) deterioration of the terms of trade (higher oil prices
and lower agricultural commodity prices); (iv) worsening financial conditions in international
capital markets.

The Argentine banking crisis spread to Uruguay as the Uruguayan banking system suffered a
severe run and lost about one-third of total deposits between January and June of 2002. Prior to
the crisis, the Uruguayan banking sector was characterized by a predominance of dollar deposits,
a system-wide currency and maturity mismatch, an environment of lax supervisory banking
regulation and overall weakness of the public banks ­ in particular, large currency miss-matches.
In addition, the government had accumulated substantial amounts of dollar denominated debt.

The Argentine bank run was prompted by three main factors: (i) inability of banks to honor their
dollar deposits in the absence of a lender of last resort in foreign currency, (ii) potential insolvency
of the banking system under a devaluation scenario; and (iii) high bank exposure to the public
sector ­ while there was increasing evidence that the government would be unable to refinance its
debt.

The first two factors were also present in Uruguay. The banking system was highly dollarized and
the Central Bank of Uruguay ("Banco Central del Uruguay" ­ BCU) was restricted in its ability to
act as lender of last resort due to the limited amounts of dollars that it held ­ especially after the
run on deposits. In addition, it was also felt that devaluation would have an adverse effect on the



                                                  - 2 -

solvency of the banking system, as it would greatly deteriorate the quality of its assets.

One of the triggers of the banking crisis was the suspension in Uruguay of the subsidiary of the
Argentine Banco Galicia, a bank that was facing a severe run on deposits. The problems in Banco
Galicia of Uruguay generated concern among depositors and spread to other banks. In this
environment the financial condition of public banks, namely "Banco de la República Oriental del
Uruguay" (BROU) and "Banco Hipotecario del Uruguay" (BHU), deteriorated rapidly despite
receiving over US$1.2 billion of liquidity support, while some private banks, namely "Banco
Comercial" and "Banco de Montevideo-Caja Obrera" were intervened as their deposit base was
quickly collapsing. In addition, a large number of foreign-owned banks had had to receive
liquidity and equity support from their headquarters abroad.

Despite substantial liquidity support provided by the authorities, the financial condition of the
banking system continued to deteriorate, provoking a confidence crisis. By the end of July, 2002,
the government was forced to impose a banking holiday and to introduce drastic measures to
counteract the crisis. These measures were centered on: (i) restructuring of the ailing banking
system; (ii) strengthening of the financial sector's regulatory and supervisory framework; (iii)
adoption of a tight fiscal and monetary program; and (iv) floating the exchange rate ­ following
the flexibilization of the prevailing exchange rate band regime. In view of the public's perception
of the growing difficulties faced by the government to service its debt obligations, in 2003 the
government renegotiated its sovereign debt lengthening the average maturity by about 5 years.

Restructuring of the Banking System

There were different strategies for restructuring the banking system depending on ownership.
Public sector banks were assisted with liquidity and restructured when needed; large domestic
private banks also received liquidity assistance, but in those cases where it was apparent that they
were facing major financial and solvency problems they were intervened, as it was the case with
"Banco Comercial", "Banco Montevideo-Caja Obrera" and "Banco de Crédito". The first two
banks had close links with Argentine banks (namely with Banco General de Negocios and with
Banco Velox), and some of the managers were prosecuted accused of fraudulent financial
activities. Only a couple of small domestic banks managed to survive the crisis, and at least one of
them was essentially an investment bank with almost no deposits. Foreign banks had to rely on
their own capital (or support from their headquarters) to manage liquidity pressures, while Banco
Galicia Uruguay (a subsidiary of the Argentine bank) was the only foreign institution that the
Uruguayan authorities were forced to intervene and eventually close down.

BROU

To stem the run on BROU's deposits, the government decided to unilaterally reprogram foreign
currency deposits by up to 3 years. BROU entered a restructuring program - including operational
cost reductions, revamping of credit and risk management systems - under the supervision of the
IMF. BROU absorbed most foreign currency deposits from BHU which were matched on its
balance sheet with a state-guaranteed bond This was the US$776 million government-guaranteed bond that
the BHU issued to the BROU when this institution absorbed the BHU's dollar-denominated time deposits in July




                                                   - 3 -

2002..
Intervened Banks

In January 2003, the authorities placed Banco Comercial and Banco Montevideo-Caja Obrera
under liquidation and created a new bank, the "Nuevo Banco Comercial" (NBC), out of the good
assets of the liquidated banks ­ a "put option" existed over category 4 and 5 loans, by which NBC
could return such assets back to the government until December, 2004. In late February 2003,
NBC issued certificates of deposits to finance the purchase of the assets of the two liquidated
banks; NBC was as of the end of 2003 the third largest bank in the country, representing 9.5 % of
total deposits within the system. Banco de Crédito was placed under liquidation on February
2003, after several failed attempts to re-capitalize it.

Foreign Banks

The network of foreign-owned banks has proven to be the most resilient of all. As mentioned,
these banks were left out of the liquidity support provided by the authorities and had to rely on
their own resources to weather the crisis. Despite this, foreign banks have been the great
beneficiaries of the "flight-to-quality" during the crisis and, to date, no major consolidation or
downsizing has taken place among these banks. As mentioned, the one exception was Banco
Galicia which underwent an orderly liquidation.

Regulatory and Supervisory Framework

The Uruguayan authorities made a substantial effort in overhauling the existing regulatory
framework and strengthening the supervisory institutions with the double purpose of, first,
re-establishing credibility in the system as a whole and, second, creating the institutional and
supervisory architecture to avoid and/or mitigate future financial crises.

With these objectives in mind, Congress passed in December 2002 a new banking law (Ley
17.613, Ley de Bancos), which clearly delineated the basic operating procedures for bank
restructuring and/or liquidation as well as re-defined and expanded the role of BCU in
strengthening the regulatory and supervisory frameworks.

As far as bank restructuring is concerned, the new law strengthened the role of BCU in the
liquidation of failed banks and established the creation of trust funds ("Fondos de Recuperación
de Patrimonio Bancario") for asset recovery. It is precisely under the umbrella of this new piece
of legislation that NBC was created and Banco de Crédito was liquidated.

The new banking law expanded the supervisory scope of BCU ­specifically of the unit within
BCU in charge of bank supervision, the "Superintendencia de Instituciones de Intermediación
Financiera" ­ and took the first steps towards the strengthening of the prudential regulatory
framework with the aim of (i) promoting the overall quality of the banks' balance sheets, (ii)
fostering the early detection of troubled institutions to avoid system-wide crisis, and (iii)
insulating the system itself from potential external shocks.




                                                  - 4 -

Finally, the new banking law also established a Deposit Guarantee Program (Fondo de Garantía
de Depósito Bancario) - which is yet to be funded.

BHU - Background

BHU is the main banking institution specialized in mortgages. Historically, it has been the vehicle
to support construction activity ­ it granted loans to construction firms ­ as well as social housing
­ loans to cooperatives. However, BHU's loans also benefited middle and high-income
households. BHU (9.7 % of total bank deposits as of the end of 2001) was the hardest hit
financial institution by the 2002 crisis. It had an inherent vulnerability in its balance sheet as, at
the end of 2001, most of its deposits (77 percent) were denominated in dollars, while the vast
majority of its loans (94 percent) were peso-denominated, indexed-to-wages loans extended to
peso-earners. Thus, following the devaluation, BHU turned highly insolvent.

BHU's difficulties were not limited to currency miss-matches in its balance sheet. Negative cash
flows and financial results also stemmed from the bank's high share of non-performing loans and
low interest rate differentials. BHU's weaknesses originated in weak credit and risk management
systems, lack of an integrated information system and low professional standards.

BHU ­ Issues

   l BHU had extremely high levels of non-performing loans (NPLs), and it lacked an
    integrated information system that could support efficient and prudent management. The ratio
    of non performing loans (net of provisions) to total loans was 41% as of December 31, 2001,
    much higher than in the overall banking system. The provisions for future losses of the loan
    portfolio were found to be inadequate as they amounted to US$150 million, equivalent to just
    22% of total non performing loans, far below international standards, which tend to be in
    excess of 100%. The quality of the portfolio was further lowered by the "promitentes
    compradores" ("quasi borrowers", who occupy housing but did not formalize mortgage
    agreements) which as of date were classified as "investments" in the amount of US$687
    million and were not provisioned.

   l BHU had currency, interest rate and maturity mismatches. The maturity mismatch was
    evident as the average term of its housing loans was 15 years, while the maturity of its
    liabilities, mainly deposits, was about eight months. BHU also had a serious interest rate
    mismatch, as most mortgages were indexed to wages, while most liabilities were in US
    dollars. This mismatch was not a problem during most of the 1990s as nominal wages
    increased in dollar terms. In fact, it led to accounting gains and large increases in BHU's net
    worth which helped to hide the potential problems of the currency mismatch. This effect was
    reversed starting in 1999 as the rate of devaluation outpaced the growth of wages, leading to
    important losses in BHU's equity position. It is estimated that the real devaluation of about
    25-30% in 2002 led to a loss of equity of about US$400-450 million during that year.

   l BHU had operating financial losses in 2002 as the interest rates charged on BHU's
    mortgages did not cover the cost of funds plus the lending risks; in fact, it was operating with



                                                  - 5 -

    a negative financial margin. The overall losses were even larger due to operational costs and
    the necessary provisions on non-performing loans.

   l BHU experienced a negative cash flow during the crisis, as it was losing deposits and had
    to confront financial obligations which far exceeded the inflows from mortgage payments and
    other sources.

   l BHU lacked both qualified finance and credit managers, as well as an integrated
    information system to support efficient and prudent management. In addition, the bank was
    overstaffed. Thus, BHU needed to restructure and downsize its operations, improve its
    management policies and procedures, and to implement a comprehensive information
    technology plan particularly in the area of loan recovery.

   l BHU was suffering financial strains with severe fiscal implications, which according to
    some estimates reached 10% of GDP at the time of the crisis, and that had to be addressed by
    Uruguay's government. Previously, BHU had had two major capitalizations as a result of
    exchange and management problems in 1964 and 1982. Another capitalization was carried out
    early in 2002, when the Central Bank of Uruguay (CBU) converted an outstanding loan of
    US$664 million into a subordinated loan, of which US$550 million was assumed by the
    government and converted into capital.

There were additional recapitalizations by an amount of about US$900 million since December,
2002, as can be seen in the following table:

                       BHU Recapitalizations since December of 2002


                           Date               Instrument          Amount (US$)
                       Dec-02        Law No. 17.596                 274.013.341
                       Dec-02        Law No. 17.513                 459.765.706
                       Jun-03        Law No. 17.596                 126.594.149
                       Dec-04        Ministry of Housing Trust        24.103.933
                       Dec-04        Ministry of Housing Trust        14.628.764
                       Source: BHU




b) Original Objectives

The objectives established in the program were appropriate to address the main weaknesses
described in the diagnosis of BHU. From a macroeconomic point of view, the aim was to defuse
the potential risks implied by any further losses or a deterioration of the overall solvency of BHU,
as it constituted a major fiscal liability of the public sector and a very important reference within
the Uruguayan financial system whose failure might have exacerbated the extent of the financial
crisis.

The starting point (in agreement with the government) was to maintain BHU operating as a
mortgage bank, as it was the only institution that could provide housing finance to individuals



                                                   - 6 -

while it was in a unique position to develop a secondary mortgage market. The objective was to
restructure the bank in order to ensure its solvency, and to make it a profitable and more efficient
institution in the medium term. BHU was to refocus its lending towards housing loans to
individuals at market conditions; through its network of branches around the country. BHU would
then package the mortgages and securitize them in the markets, thus passing along the credit and
interest rate risk to investors. In view of BHU's inability to grant good quality loans, BHU was
no longer to be allowed to take on new deposits (with the exception of Ahorro Previo deposits
linked to housing savings plans). Any new mortgages beyond a certain (limited) amount would
have to be funded through the securitization of mortgages.

As there was to be a gradual transition towards achieving the new objectives, it was agreed that
the government would implement an action plan to slow down any further deterioration in BHU's
cash flows and in its net worth position.

Specifically, the loan document includes the following main four objectives for BHU:

   l To refocus BHU's function solely on granting mortgages to individuals for housing
        finance, and to phase out its role of financing construction projects, which had generated
        significant losses in the past.
   l To develop a secondary market for mortgages as part of an effort to create new vehicles
        for housing finance. BHU was henceforth to finance its lending activities primarily through
        the sale of mortgages in the secondary market.
   l Improve BHU's governance and management, to improve efficiency and cut losses.
   l Improve transparency of public banks and strengthen their supervision.

These objectives were part of a more comprehensive set of goals addressed by the SSAL (Loan
No. 7138) and the parallel SAL (Loan No. 7137), which in broad terms aimed to: (i) take
advantage of the windows of opportunity provided by the crisis to advance Uruguay's structural
reform program, mainly focusing on fiscal sustainability; and (ii) mitigate the major impact of the
crisis on vulnerable segments of the population by protecting expenditures of selected social
programs, improving their efficiency, and reforming the Unemployment Insurance System.

The broader macroeconomic objectives of these adjustment operations were clearly stated in the
Letter of Development Policy and in the loan documentation. The specific measures for the
SSAL included in the matrix of conditionality were clearly defined. Some of the policy measures
were linked to quantifiable actions (e.g. the reduction in deposits, the limits on new loans,
reduction in costs and personnel, etc.), while others were more qualitative in nature and required
subjective evaluations (e.g. improvements in management, establishment of an integrated
management information system, etc.). Although some of the conditions were mainly qualitative,
the staff could relative easily assess whether they were satisfied during the implementation period.
The objectives and the conditions established in the program were challenging but doable, and the
government shared the objectives of the loan. These objectives were in line with the 2000 CAS,
although the base case scenario described there became outdated as a result of the crisis. A CAS
Progress Report was prepared in 2002 in response to the crisis - the depth of such crisis was not
foreseen previously. The CAS Progress Report provided the framework and objectives for the



                                                  - 7 -

2002 adjustment program which included both the SAL and the SSAL.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The program's objectives remained unchanged during the implementation period.

3.3 Original Components:
The SSAL included general conditions related to macroeconomic and fiscal policies (the same as
the SAL) as well as specific measures to restructure BHU. The combined SAL-SSAL program
was part of a concerted effort together with the IMF and the IADB to help Uruguay withstand the
impact of the crisis, address domestic weaknesses, support the most vulnerable sectors and set the
stage for sustainable growth over the medium and long term.

In addition to the general macro and fiscal components described in the Letter of Development
Policy, the SSAL had five basic components concerning BHU:

Actions to restrict the scope of BHU operations. Such actions were centered on the passage of
a law that would restrict new lending operations to physical persons and establish a ceiling on new
lending - equivalent to U$50 million dollars or 75% of the bank's capital (which ever was
smaller). Most important, BHU would stop receiving deposits except for peso-denominated
saving-deposits from individuals that in the future would apply for a mortgage (called ahorro
previo deposits). And BHU would gradually phase out the holding of foreign currency deposits
from the general public by transferring them to BROU.

1.      Actions to restructure BHU. Savings were to be achieved through sizable reductions of
staff and operational expenditures including rationalization of the branch network. The board of
BHU would approve a restructuring plan, including the appointment of professional management
and creation of new loan recovery and finance departments.
2.      Actions to improve the efficiency of BHU. BHU would develop an integrated
information system (MIS) to monitor its operations and help management improve the decision
process. The implementation of an asset and liability management system to improve risk
management was envisaged. BHU would also approve a new credit manual, that established the
procedures to evaluate and approve new loans following modern practices. To improve
cash-flow, a divestment plan (including semi-annual targets for the non-performing portfolio,
foreclosed assets, real estate for sale) would be adopted. To facilitate the divestment process and
improve provisioning, BHU was to perform a due diligence including a valuation and appraisal of
the value of the credit and investment portfolios.
3.      Actions to turn BHU into a specialized non-bank mortgage institution. The principal
future activities of BHU would be mortgage generation and securitization. As BHU would no
longer be allowed to take regular deposits as a source of funding, it was envisaged that BHU
would have to sell or securitize the existing stock of loans or new loans in order to provide
additional lending.
4.      Actions to impose discipline on BHU through improved supervision. Legislation
would be adopted removing existing differences between BCU's supervision powers over state
owned and private banks, including powers of BCU to impose fines on state owned banks.

The components of the loan were in line with achieving the main objectives to restructure BHU.


                                                 - 8 -

The purpose was to change the business model of BHU in order to avoid potential new large
losses with significant fiscal implications, trying to maintain the bank as a leader in the mortgage
market while downsizing its structure, improving its loan collection, limiting its loan origination
and its deposit taking, implementing a divestment plan on low quality assets, developing a credit
manual, hiring qualified management and implementing a MIS. The biggest challenge for the
implementation of the restructuring program was the support from the government to sanction the
laws in congress, and to move forward with the decrees and regulations to transfer assets and
liabilities from BHU to other government agencies and institutions. In addition, the program
required a strong commitment from BHU's board and management, as if implied a significant shift
in the business model, where many areas of the bank would disappear or be largely downsized.
Without strong support from management, the Board and government, the reforms would have
been difficult to implement.

3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.

3.5 Quality at Entry:


Quality Assurance Group (QAG) Assessment

Quality at entry was assessed by the Quality Assurance Group. Quality at entry was considered
satisfactory, with risk assessment rated as marginally satisfactory and all other dimensions rated
satisfactory.

The QAG team acknowledged that the Bank team acted with "considerable skill" in view of the
pressure that the crisis placed on the need to act quickly ­ as the crisis unfolded abruptly.

One key concern of the QAG team was their view that insufficient attention was paid to
alternative options that could have been proposed to the authorities. In view of the panel the Bank
also lacked foresight in anticipating and preparing for the crisis ­ the 2000 CAS indeed was based
on expectations of graduation. More positively, the panel concluded that the Bank provided
(along with the IMF and IADB) critically needed resources when they were most needed.

On balance QAE was rated satisfactory because of the contribution of the operation to the
country's return to normalcy, and a start on the reform of long-standing structural constraints.

Among the weaknesses identified by QAG for QAE were:

    · The loan focused on measures that would enable disbursements 3-6 months hence ­ rather
         than the time dimension emerging from a well defined strategy and clear priorities, e.g, a
         sequence of one-tranche programmatic operations would have given more time to prepare
         a more thought out strategy.
    · The documentation provided limited information regarding the road ahead, the role of
         other financial institutions and the risks inherent in the program. Important weaknesses in
         the financial sector were not addressed, e.g., dollarization.



                                                   - 9 -

The QAG panel advised regional management to strengthen policy dialogue and the country
strategy. The main advice to the task team was to intensify dialogue with authorities, deepen the
analytical work and formulate a clearer road for the reforms ahead, particularly in the financial
sector.




                                               - 10 -

Bank Assessment

By and large the World Bank staff did a good job in the diagnosis of the major problems that
BHU was facing when the loan was being prepared. In particular, it identified the main difficulties
including: (i) the financial weaknesses arising from the run of deposits and the operating losses;
(ii) the problems that existed as a result of the currency mismatch and the poor quality of the loan
portfolio that made BHU insolvent and in need of an urgent recapitalization; (iii) the problems
with the business strategy; (iv) the weaknesses regarding the operational issues and information
systems; and (v) the lack of a professional management. The staff also proved to have a good
understanding of the impact of the macroeconomic imbalances on the bank, as well as the
implications of asset-liability imbalances and the accumulated losses on the fiscal accounts and the
stability of the banking system.

While the loan was prepared in a relatively short time in the middle of the crisis and without
sufficient time to perform an in depth evaluation of the financial situation and business plan of the
bank, it managed to address the most serious vulnerabilities and to deal with short term problems
as well as with the long term strategy. The overall objectives of the loan that included changing
the business model of BHU was agreed with the government, who showed ownership and
expressed its intention of moving ahead with the reform as reflected in the Letter of Development
Policy.

The loan included measures to deal with the urgent issues facing BHU, mainly to address the
liquidity and financial problems that the bank was experiencing, as well as important longer term
measures in order to deal with the bank's lack of solvency and a viable long term business
strategy. The components of the loan and the matrix of conditionality were on the whole
consistent with the two objectives.

The overall strategy was to improve the finances of BHU as quickly as possible, and to address
important operational issues, including refocusing its business plan, limiting and redefining lending
operations, and redoubling efforts to improve the quality of its portfolio and collect loans. The
foreign currency deposits were transferred to BROU in order to avoid the drain of liquidity
generated by the persistent outflow, and they were substituted by a long term debt in dollars. The
so called BROU bond was subsequently restructured lowering its interest rate, lengthening its
maturity and partially canceling its principal. The transfer solved the liquidity problems, but BHU
remained vulnerable to changes in the exchange rate.

One of the limitations of the SSAL program was that most of the efforts concentrated on
measures to restrict the operations of the bank in order to avoid further losses and negative cash
flows, and there was much less emphasis in analyzing whether the new business model which
restricted lending and funding operations was sustainable. There was not a thorough evaluation of
the possibility of liquidating the existing bank or of dividing the bank into two, an old bank in
charge of managing the old portfolio and repaying some of the liabilities, and a new solvent bank
that would start from scratch, with a new business model that would concentrate on developing
the new mortgage business including origination and securitization of this type of loans.



                                                  - 11 -

The second limitation of the SSAL program was that there was no clear mechanism to address the
insolvency that BHU was experiencing as a result of the overvaluation of the investments of the "
promitentes compradores" These are individuals who made promises to buy property from BHU and service
an obligation ­ very much as if it was a loan ­ except that BHU remains the owner of the property until the full
price including interest is paid. In the meantime, the promitentes are allowed to live in the property. in the
balance sheet and of the mortgages that were granted at below market interest rates. A mark to
market valuation of the loans and investments would have shown a negative net worth for the
bank, indicating that despite the recapitalization efforts carried out as part of the restructuring,
BHU, remained insolvent. In addition, preliminary financial projections performed in 2003
indicated that BHU would continue to face solvency issues unless it went through a new round of
restructuring or re-capitalization (which in the end it received through the sale of part of the social
portfolio to the Ministry of Housing).

In summary, the measures were effective in finding a solution to the most urgent problems of the
bank: improving its liquidity position, and improving its financial numbers through a reduction in
costs. The program was also effective in starting a process to restructure the bank, including the
elimination of most deposits, a limitation on new mortgages, putting forward proposals to
increase efficiency and cut costs, improve the access to information and get in place a group of
professional managers and improve the quality of the loan portfolio (including the promitentes
compradores). These restructuring measures represented a first step towards defining a new bank
that could be efficient, with a viable business plan and profitable.

As a result, QAE of the program is deemed satisfactory.




4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


Macro objectives - Letter of Development Policy

The general conditions of the program supported by the SAL and the SSAL in broad terms
required the implementation of key structural reforms in the fiscal, banking and private sector
development areas, and the adoption of policy actions that would help overall macroeconomic
performance. These general conditions were satisfied.

Uruguay's macroeconomic performance over 2003-2004 reacted favorably to adjustment and
reforms in response to the 2002 crisis. Output increased 2.2% in 2003 and 12.3% in 2004, with
average inflation falling from around 20% in 2002 (following a close to 100% nominal
depreciation of the peso) to 9% in 2004. International reserves recovered to levels equivalent to 9
months of imports while banking stability has been regained. Underlying this performance were
sound fiscal accounts and a restructuring of the banking sector. A primary surplus of 3.8% of



                                                        - 12 -

GDP in 2004 was achieved through a combination of expenditure restraint, tax buoyancy and
upward revisions of tariffs bystate enterprises. Sovereign debt with private creditors was
successfully restructured in May 2003, with the maturity of bonds being lengthened at least 5
years at (or below) pre-crisis interest rates, and country risk premia falling from around 2000
basis points in early 2003 to around 500-600 basis points after the debt swap.

The improvement of solvency and liquidity indicators of the financial system was facilitated by
restructuring of public banks, liquidation of four large private institutions and a substantial
strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory framework for banking institutions. The run on
deposits was virtually stopped after the creation of a Bank Stabilization Fund (with World Bank
and IMF support) and the rescheduling of foreign currency deposits at BROU and BHU into three
tranches of 1, 2 and 3 years maturity. The return of confidence eventually allowed the government
to lift restrictions for each of the tranches with the bulk of deposits staying in the system. Also
contributing to maintain confidence in the banking system was the fact that the currency
denomination of deposits was not changed.

The new government (which took office in March, 2005) is committed to deepening financial
sector reforms initiated by the previous government as well as in granting greater independence to
BCU and funding the deposit insurance scheme approved by Congress in 2002. It has also
committed ­ under the new June, 2005 stand-by arrangement program with the IMF - to maintain
a primary fiscal surplus equivalent to 4% of GDP over the medium term ­ the primary surplus will
be slightly lower in 2005-2006 to help accommodate an emergency social program. Under the
basic case scenario, the public debt ratio is projected to descend to around 60% of GDP by 2010
-down from 92% in 2004.

Uruguay is taking advantage of favorable external conditions ­ fast global growth, high
commodity prices, low interest rates. This has contributed to very strong export growth - on
average exports rose 26% annually over 2002-04 and the development of new export markets.
Strong growth in 2005 (estimated to exceed 6%) is also expected to stem from domestic
aggregate demand, both investment and domestic consumption. Uruguay is expected to receive
very large inflows of FDI (foreign direct investment) ­ two European investment projects in the
wood pulp sector totaling US$ 1.6 billion are planned for 2005-07. Other market indicators ­
country risk at around 400 basis points and an appreciating exchange rate - also point to
confidence in the country and in the new government.

Against this favorable background, growth performance will remain dependent on international
developments ­ particularly in neighboring Argentina - and domestic policy factors. Public debt
sustainability will remain critically dependent on Uruguay's ability to sustain fiscal adjustments
over the medium term which is likely to require ambitious structural reforms. The high
dollarization of the banking system­ around 90% - will continue to expose the system to new
shocks. Progress on the de-monopolization of energy and water infrastructure has suffered a
setback during 2004 (in both cases through public referendums) - though it continued to advance
well in transport, telecommunications and gas. Implementation of the structural reform agenda
slowed during the run up to the national elections in October 2004 and the new administration is
still defining its reform strategy.



                                                  - 13 -

In summary, the positive response of the Uruguay economy to policies and reforms adopted
during the crisis show that the broad macoreocnomic objectives have been achieved. From this
perspective the program is deemed highly satisfactory.

Loan specific objectives

In order to prevent the recurrence of the difficulties faced by BHU and to develop the mortgage
and the capital markets, the government agreed to implement a thorough restructuring of BHU,
addressing its financial and management problems as well as developing a new business plan to
refocus the operations of the bank. Under the December 2002 restructuring plan, BHU has
become The restructuring of the BHU is delineated by the Ley 17.596 de Fortalecimiento del Banco Hipotecario
del Uruguay, approved in December 2002. a non-banking housing institution as it is no longer allowed
to take on new deposits (with the exception of Ahorro Previo or housing savings plans) and can
only issue mortgages up to a total amount of US$50 million.

The outcome of the overall program was satisfactory as most of the objectives set in the loan
were achieved. This is commendable because many of the policy conditions included in the loan
were difficult to attain as they required a strong commitment from policy makers and BHU's
management, and in many cases were politically difficult to implement, e.g., reducing by almost
half BHU's staff and tightening loan collections.

BHU is now in much better financial and operational condition as a result of the policy measures
included in the program. The bank is leaner, more focused on the mortgage business, and its staff
is concentrating efforts on improving the quality of the portfolio and gradually converting the
investments of the promitentes compradores into loans. In addition, the bank has stabilized its
finances. It is running a small profit and it has positive cash flow. The bank has also made
significant progress in preparing a large portfolio of mortgages for securitization getting ready all
the documentation for a possible due diligence, and has taken steps forward to implement an MIS
­ it has awarded the international bid to design and implement the MIS.

The net worth of the bank has improved thanks to several elements. First, there was a sizable
reduction in operational costs (described in section 4.2 point iii). Second, the bank managed to
securitize part of its social portfolio of loans with the Ministry of Housing at favorable conditions.
This transaction helped the bank to improve the quality of its assets since a large share of those
loans were in arrears (however, an important part of loans transferred were performing). It also
allowed BHU to free up some of the existing provisions for NPLs thereby improving its net worth
position. This transaction required significant involvement and efforts from BHU's top executives
and extensive negotiations with the Ministry of Housing and the Ministry of Finance. Third, the
Bank has benefited from the appreciation of the Uruguayan peso which has helped to reduce the
burden of its hefty foreign currency liabilities (primarily the BROU bond). Fourth, the divestment
plan approved by BHU's Board is being implemented. As a result of these actions, BHU managed
to generate a profit of US$89 million in 2004 despite net provisions of US$60 million. At the end
of 2004, the Bank showed a net worth equivalent to US$100 million.




                                                   - 14 -

The improvement in the financial situation of BHU has had positive effects on the rest of the
Uruguayan financial system, especially on the BROU who is its main creditor. BHU is now
honoring its financial obligations without resorting to assistance from the Ministry of Finance or
other official institutions.

Nevertheless, there are still risks, as there is a need for the new administration to: strengthen the
professional and technical standards of BHU's board; further reduce operational costs while
maintaining the reductions of expenditures achieved so far and enforce the 2002 Law by limiting
new lending and taking of new deposits. There is still a risk of a change in the overall
macroeconomic situation, especially of a real depreciation of the Peso which would weaken again
the financial situation of BHU and could threaten the bank's solvency. BHU has not yet adopted
a comprehensive strategy to substantially reduce its large currency mismatches. Progress in the
implementation of the MIS has been slow and would need to be prioritized by the new Board. It is
crucial for the rationalization of the bank, for facilitating securitization activity and for improving
control, auditing and supervision by BCU. There is also a question about the viability of the new
business model, as BHU might have difficulties competing with other private banks in the
mortgage market who have a more diversified, usually cheaper and more stable funding and that
have the possibility of offering their mortgage clients a package of financial services (e.g. checking
account, credit card, etc.) that can enhance the profitability of the mortgage business.

On balance, the outcome of the loan is considered satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The outcomes of the five basic components of the loan were:

1. Actions to restrict the scope of BHU activities and address short term liquidity
    problems.

Amendments of BHU's Organic Charter reflected BHU's more focused lending to physical
persons for the purchase, construction or repair of their own residential property and limits on
deposit-taking activity to ahorro previo deposits. New mortgages (excluding those issued to place
property/assets already belonging to the bank) not to exceed an established ceiling equivalent to
an aggregate amount of US$50 million or 75% of the bank's capital (based on central bank
accounting principles). No new lending ­ other than for construction projects that were underway
and loan restructurings ­ was granted since the change in the Organic Charter took place. All
these conditions have been strictly observed. Measures to restrict the scope of operations have
been highly satisfactory.

The policy measures included in the program managed to stop the drain of liquidity and stabilize
cash flow. A large part of the success resulted from the compulsory restructuring of deposits for
all public banks and the transfer of those deposits to the BROU. Through an agreement between
BHU, BROU and the Finance Ministry, virtually all dollar deposits of BHU mentioned in Law
17523 (December 2002) were transferred - faster than required. ­ to BROU. Deposits were
replaced by a US$776 million bond ­ called BROU bond. Subsequently (in 2004), this bond was
partially cancelled (US$500 million outstanding), its maturity lengthened (up to 20 years) and its
contractual interest rate reduced. BHU made significant efforts to improve the cash flow,


                                                   - 15 -

intensifying collection of loans, establishing procedures to improve collections from the
promitentes compradores, and reducing operational costs.

Overall, actions under this component were highly satisfactory.

2. Actions intended to restructure the bank

The government decided to delay bank restructuring until after key legislation modifying BHU's
Organic Charter was approved by Congress. The latter occurred in December 2002. Effective
bank restructuring didn't begin until after a new Board was selected in October, 2003. The
consolidated Restructuring Plan included in resolution 13891 of December 2003 was prepared
with the support of World Bank staff/consultants; the final version was also reviewed by Bank
staff/consultants.

The new organizational structure for BHU responds to the objectives of the program. It includes
the appointment of professional management in key positions and the definition of a transparent,
competitive and objective nomination process. In terms of downsizing, total BHU personnel
decreased by 28% during the last two calendar years, from 1384 employees in December 2001 to
998 full time employees by December 2003. The reduction is 45% if the 233 employees working
at the Housing Ministry are excluded. In parallel, personnel expenses decreased by 52%, from
US$48.9 to US$23.5 million during this period, while overall operating costs decreased by 35%.

The following initiatives were consolidated into the Restructuring Plan: (i) development of a
financial model (originally drafted by World Bank consultants) which facilitated financial
projections; (ii) suspension of overtime payments, suspension of charitable donations; (iii)
nomination of new Accounting and Inspection Managers, and creation of Human Resources and
Finance areas; (iv) various resolutions complemented the restructuring process through changes in
retirement age and incentives for early retirement; (v) creation of a Social Housing Area and a
Trust Fund Area; (vi) redefinition of the overall organizational structure separating business
functions (Social Housing, Commercial Loan Recovery, Credit Origination and Finance) and
support functions; and (vii) definition of an evaluation process for the nomination and
appointment of management.

Bank staff have assessed through on-site visits that the change in management processes and
attitudes implicit in the Restructuring Plan have actually been established. All key managers were
interviewed (President, Vice-president, Loan Recovery, Credit Origination, Finance, Social
Housing, Accounting and Administration, Human Resources, and Strategy and Organization)
with satisfactory results.

In November 2004 BHU sold a portfolio of loans to cooperatives - packaged in a trust in favor of
the Ministry of Housing - to the Ministry of Finance for US$140 million ­ this was paid through a
commensurate reduction of BHU's obligations to the Finance Ministry. Since the book value of
such loans was around US$102 million, the sale amounted to a de-facto recapitalization of BHU
for US$38 million.




                                                 - 16 -

Overall, actions under this component were satisfactory.

3. Actions to improve the efficiency and quality of the existing business

Following important reductions of operational costs during 2003, further cuts in operational costs
in 2004 fell short of target. Administration expenditures (on a monthly basis) were reduced from
US$2.5 million to about US$2.2 million during 2004; short of the US$1.6 million target due to
slow branch restructuring, contracting out of medical services and slower than planned reduction
in staff. Staff reduction was nonetheless sizable ­ the number of workers dropped to 752 by
December, 2004 ­ the target for end-2004 was 674.

The bank completed the valuation of its credit and investment portfolio which was helpful to have
a better idea of the market value of its assets. It also improved the quality of its management
primarily through the promotion of professionals that were dynamic and enthusiastic about the
new project. The search, however, was limited to in house personnel, and in some cases, such as
in finance, this restricted the possibility of bringing seasoned professionals into the management
team that could bring new ideas and procedures to the bank.

A new credit manual was approved. The manual includes the stipulation that loans should be for
residential property and details procedures for evaluating loan applicants considering verifiable
payment capacity and proven compliance history with BHU and other institutions. Moreover, the
manual stipulates loan-to-values of 70% which are in line with international practice and
installment-to-income ratios reflecting normal banking practices. Reflecting the new credit
restraint policy of BHU, the manual gives priority to clients with deposits in the bank (ahorro
previo) and to the sale of buildings currently on Bank's balance sheet. In 2004-05, BHU worked
on the design and begun the implementation of a credit scoring system.

BHU also took important steps to modernize its human resource management capabilities through
the selection of new managers, new hierarchical scales (reflecting the new bank structure) and
more systematic training of its staff.

BHU's Board approved a divestment plan in January 2003 referred to as "Plan Estratégico de
Gestión de Morosidad". The plan envisaged an increase in revenues resulting from payments by
both mortgage borrowers and promitentes compradores. The plan details an extensive set of
concrete actions to achieve these objectives. The targets were effectively (97%) met during 2003.
The divestment plan for 2004 included targets for real estate sales, number of loans refinanced
and number of court cases for repossession of property. All targets were met in excess except for
few minor exceptions.

To achieve these objectives, BHU separated its social and commercial portfolios and adopted
different strategies for each type of portfolio. It transferred a large portion of social loans ­ loans
to cooperatives ­ to a trust under its administration but outside its balance sheet. BHU
reorganized systems to improve the efficiency of loan collection as well as to facilitate payment
through an extended network (outsourced) as well as through economic incentives to pay.
Between 2003 and 2004, the stock of non-performing loans with over 6 months of non-payment ­



                                                   - 17 -

"Creditos Morosos" and "Cartera en gestion" ­ declined 24%. Excluding non-performing loans
(NPLs) transferred to the Ministry of Housing Trust, the reduction was 43%. However, loans
with less than 6 months of payment delay ("colocacion vencida") rose 20% which is partly
explained by better performance of loans that previously carried over 6 months (24% if loans of
the trust are included). Outstanding NPLs ("créditos morosos" plus "colocación vencida" plus
"créditos en gestión") at BHU, excluding the trust, declined 15% during 2004.

One of the weaknesses of the program was that BHU delayed putting in place a MIS which was
critical to follow up the status of each loan, such as balance due, monthly payments due, and other
critical information about individual loans. There was also a need to centralize the information
and documentation on loans, as for some loans the documentation was in the branches while for
others it was in headquarters. A waiver for this condition was recommended largely because
BHU management initiated satisfactory steps towards the acquisition of an integrated
management information system; an international bidding was awarded in 2005 and it is being
financed by a World Bank Technical Assistance Loan. Progress in the implementation of the new
information system is considered critical by BHU´s management, especially for timely compliance
with central bank informational requirements and for integrating BHU´s databases, thereby
helping to further systematize the processes of loan collection and mortgage securitization.

A second weakness was the lack of a strong financial-treasury department that could establish an
asset liability management system and evaluate options to reduce currency and liquidity
mismatches in the future.

In view of progress towards strengthening human resource capabilities, reduction of NPLs,
(slower than planned) implementation of a MIS, portfolio valuation, and reorganization of
business processes, the outcome of this component is considered satisfactory.

The actions to improve efficiency and the quality of the existing business were satisfactory.

4. Actions that affected the new business plan of the bank

BHU commissioned Price Waterhouse Coopers (PWC) to prepare the first commercial
securitization of its high quality loan portfolio. Following a thorough review of the loan portfolio,
loans totaling around US$30 million were selected for the first securitization. The proposal was to
create a trust taking advantage of the new trust law. Class A (senior) and class B (subordinate)
paper of the trust would be issued and BHU would hold class B paper. PWC evaluated various
options of securitization including the financial impact on BHU, institutional investors and other
potential buyers. The work was completed by the second half of 2004, but the securitization has
yet to take place. The main concerns were: (i) timing ­ the securitization was ready in the midst of
the political transition; (ii) marketability ­ the to be-securitized mortgages were indexed to wages
which is not a very liquid instrument in general; and (iii) a disadvantageous tax treatment of trusts
for non-institutional investors.

While the idea of restricting the operations of the bank made sense as a mechanism to avoid a
recurrence of the losses and financial problems experienced during the crisis, it remains unclear



                                                   - 18 -

whether the new business plan will be financially viable. It is possible that, with the new
restriction, BHU will not be able to grant loans on a competitive basis with other banks as its
funding may be more expensive than banks that fund part of their loans with transactional
deposits. While BHU can be financially viable thanks to the payments of the old portfolio
(including the promitentes compradores), and the liquidation of investments, it is unclear whether
a stand-alone mortgage bank can compete in the market with other commercial banks. In practice,
BHU has not been able to grant new loans because its securitization has so far not being
implemented.

Actions aimed at developing the new business plan of the bank ­ in particular, mortgages
securitization ­ are hence evaluated as marginally satisfactory.

5. Actions to improve the supervision of the bank

A bill removing existing differences between BCU's supervision powers over state owned and
private banks, including powers of BCU to impose fines on state owned banks, has been enacted,
regulated and is being implemented (Law 17613 of December 2002). This law requires BCU to
inform the Executive about non-compliance with regulations by these institutions and to propose
the consequent resolutions and fines for the Executive to consider imposing according to article
197 of the Uruguayan Constitution. The Superintendency of Financial Institutions at BCU
evaluates public banks on a regular basis and has already imposed fines as permitted by the new
law. Actions to improve supervision of the BHU are considered highly satisfactory.

In summary, with the exception of component iv., all other components of the loan are considered
to be either satisfactory or highly satisfactory. Overall, the assessment is satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The loan had a moderate impact on institutional development. It improved the performance of
BHU staff, and contributed to the development of a new management team with a strong
commitment to BHU's new business model. On the other hand, BHU has not yet completed the
first securitization of mortgages in the market that would be a significant step forward towards
the development of the capital markets in Uruguay and for ensuring long term funding for new
mortgages.




5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were few outside factors affecting the implementation of the restructuring plan. In broad



                                                     - 19 -

terms, the restructuring of BHU was helped by the evolution of the overall macroeconomic
situation in Uruguay since 2003 which helped in three ways.

First, the real and nominal appreciation of the peso after the initial overshooting of the exchange
rate had a favorable impact on the balance sheet, as the bank had a long position in pesos adjusted
according to wage inflation (BHU mortgage loans are denominated in wage-indexed units) while
it had a short position in dollars.

Second, the success of the macroeconomic policies in controlling the run on the banking system ­
in part through the re-programming of foreign currency deposits at BHU and BROU - and the
depreciation of the exchange rate contributed to stabilize the liquidity of BHU.

Finally, the quick recovery of the economy after the initial collapse of output in 2002 had a
favorable effect on the quality of the portfolio as most borrowers experienced an increase in their
incomes which helped to improve the percentage of performing loans.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The government institutions and agencies were overall supportive of the changes and reforms at
BHU. The Executive sought consensus before sending legislation to Congress. The draft law and
associated decrees were discussed extensively with different stake holders. The World Bank also
sent comments on preliminary drafts. Once the bill was sent to Congress, it was readily approved.


Equally important was the commitment of the Minister of the Economy at the different stages of
the implementation process of the reforms, as well as the commitment of some members of the
Board of BHU, especially after the Board renewal in October 2003. The new Board showed
ownership regarding the restructuring of the bank and made efforts to ensure that the reform
process moved forward. The new government appointed a new Board in March 2005 and it is
too early to evaluate their commitment.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
As mentioned, BHU management was on the whole supportive of the restructuring efforts. The
previous President and Vice-President of the Bank ­who were replaced after the new government
appointed a new Board - , were personally involved and committed to the reform process at
BHU. Their role was crucial for many of the reforms implemented, especially in the negotiations
with the various ministries and agencies involved, in working to improve the quality of the
portfolio, in improving overall efficiency, in the selection of the new management team and in the
efforts to move forward with securitization of part of the portfolio of mortgages.

5.4 Costs and financing:
There were no additional costs or any significant changes in the scope of the project. The Bank
played an active role in helping BHU staff to move ahead with the reforms. In particular, as part
of the supervision effort it helped BHU to develop a restructuring plan and new action plan that
was approved by the Board at the end of 2003. In addition, it assisted BHU in the development
of a financial model of the bank and of a new credit scoring model as well as to make progress in
the design of an MIS, implementation of which is on-going with financing from a Bank technical



                                                    - 20 -

assistance loan.

5.5. Implementation and disbursement delays

Delays in the implementation of certain policy measures led to a delay in the disbursement of the
second tranche. The initial plan was to disburse the second tranche in late 2002. However, since
the bill that changed the Organic Charter of BHU was only approved in December 2002, BHU
restructuring could only begin the following year. It was only after the Board of BHU was
changed in October 2003 that a comprehensive and realistic restructuring plan was prepared and
approved. Implementation of the plan occurred during 2004, although a number of actions were
executed also during 2003.
There were further delays as the bank took longer than was initially anticipated to value the
portfolio of loans and investments. The major delay, though, was the design and implementation
of the MIS, which in the end required a waiver from the World Bank.



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The scope and depth of the reforms undertaken at BHU suggest that the reforms introduced as
part of the program are likely to be maintained. The government changed by law the Charter of
BHU and limited the main financial operations that the bank could undertake, all measures that
would require the sanctioning of new laws to be reversed. The ability and willingness to continue
and deepen BHU restructuring will clearly depend on the impulse provided by the new
government and BHU's Board. The new authorities confirmed their intention to continue the
reforms initiated by the previous government. The enhanced autonomy of the Bank Supervisory
Agency ­ as proposed by the new government - will contribute to impose discipline on BHU
through better information requirements, provisioning needs (particularly promitentes
compradores) and asset-liability management.

The limits introduced on raising new deposits, on the amounts that BHU could lend to individuals,
and the elimination of new lending for construction activities were important policy measures to
ensure that the bank would not experience problems similar to the ones faced in 2002. Such limits
along with the obligation to fund itself through securitization are critical to reduce a potentially
large increase in BHU's exposure.

While BHU might incur new losses as a result of its regular operations ­ in particular, from
provisions on promitentes compradores, the lower scale of the bank, and the smaller amount of
deposits that it will hold ensure that even if BHU experiences financial problems they are not
likely to pose a systemic threat to the financial system, neither they will imply a major fiscal
problem for the country.

Two other aspects are the financial sustainability and long term solvency of BHU under the new
rules and the viability of the new business plan.




                                                  - 21 -

We are optimistic about the first aspects, as the bank is likely to maintain positive cash flows and
generate profits in the foreseeable future. This could be the case especially if the economy
maintains a sound macroeconomic environment, and the real exchange rate appreciates or remains
close to the levels where it has been during 2005 and hence does not constitute a threat to BHU's
solvency, as was the case in 2002.

Despite the overall positive outlook, BHU still has to write off approximately 30% to 40% of its
investments ­ primarily the promitentes compradores. Making an upfront adjustment to reflect the
market valuation of the real estate investments would require an immediate recapitalization of
BHU, with additional fiscal costs to the Treasury of approximately US$150 million. One
alternative that in fact was considered in the financial projections of the business plan (see
document "Banco Hipotecario de Uruguay: Simulación de Escenario de Negocios al 2010", April
2004), would be to move to a mark to market valuation gradually. According to some
projections, it is possible to do this process gradually over 4-5 years without affecting the bank's
capital, as BHU could finance the losses arising from this transformation from promitentes to
loans with earnings from the regular operation of the bank. The projections carried out indicate
that this would be a viable option that would allow BHU to remain solvent throughout the period.
Projections assume full implementation of the restructuring plan including increased loan
collection and asset divestments.

On the other hand we are less optimistic about the viability of the new business plan, as the bank
is likely to face difficulties in its efforts to originate new mortgages in a very competitive
environment where BHU is forced to compete with private banks without the advantage of cheap
funding. In addition, BHU still has to prove its ability to develop the market for securitized
mortgages, especially, as it does not benefit from any specific advantages in the market, either
through regulation, guarantees or tax benefits.

Question marks remain regarding whether the new business plan can be successful given the
restrictions on deposit and lending operations introduced in the new charter of the bank. In the
new business model the bulk of the efforts of the bank will concentrate on ensuring a timely
collection of existing loans, reducing the size of arrears and non-performing loans, and selling real
estate assets using the proceeds obtained from these sources to reduce the liabilities with the
BROU, the Central Bank and to repay other obligations.

Despite the importance of mortgage securitization for BHU, many issues remain to be analyzed
prior to launching a securitization. In particular, there is a need to evaluate in depth the appetite
for mortgage backed instruments among institutional investors (mainly among pension funds),
whether they would be willing to accept financial instruments that adjust according to the
evolution of wages, and if the interest rates at which they would buy the new instruments would
allow BHU to lend large amounts for housing. The previous administration of BHU approached
the pension funds, and they expressed a general interest in this type of instruments, while there
were doubts about the precise financial conditions (i.e., interest rate and choice of adjustment
index) that they would consider attractive.

The implication of the new business plan is that in fact there would be essentially two fairly



                                                     - 22 -

different business models working under BHU: one, primarily, concerned with the liquidation of
the existing portfolio and perhaps originating a share of new mortgages, and a second one aimed
at developing the market for the securitization of mortgages. Given these two well differentiated
objectives, perhaps it would have been better to divide the bank in two: (i) an old bank that would
work primarily with the existing operational structure, with many branches and that would employ
the majority of the current personnel, with a focus on liquidating the bulk of the existing loans,
improving the asset quality and repaying loans, and perhaps doing some origination of new loans;
and (ii) a new second second-tier bank in charge of securitization of the existing and new
mortgages originated by BHU and perhaps by other banks as well.

The alternative of developing a smaller, more focused second tier bank would have had a number
of potential benefits. For instance, it could have been well capitalized and hence could have been
awarded a better credit rating than BHU, which would make it easier to receive funds from
institutional investors and to access the capital markets. In addition, this smaller institution could
open its capital to strategic partners (such as other banks, foreign investors or the IFC) that could
bring know how and assets to the new institution.

Finally, the sustainability of BHU restructuring will ultimately depend on the commitment of the
new leadership at BHU, especially on the business vision of the President and Board of the bank.
One possible way to isolate the evolution of the business plan of the bank from the political cycle
would have been to name an independent board at BHU and to ensure that among the members
there are a large number of professionals and technocrats with a strong background in banking.

Summing up, considering the stability granted by laws and the substantial reforms that have
already taken place in the organization and culture of BHU, sustainability is likely. Nevertheless,
the new government will face important challenges to develop the new business model, while the
Bank maintains large currency mismatches that could be problematic if the country faces a large
real depreciation of the currency.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.



7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The evidence indicates that the World Bank had a good diagnosis of the financial situation - lack
of solvency - of BHU in 2002. The World Bank worked to put together a loan in a relatively
short time, and the loan documentation covers critical issues to avoid BHU from incurring further
losses and to ensure that the crisis of 2002 is not repeated in the future.

There are two issues that were not fully addressed during the preparation period. First, there was
a need to understand more thoroughly the implications of the new business plan, especially the
incentives and ability of BHU to develop the securitization of its mortgages at the same time that
it was concerned with improvement in the quality of its portfolio, its operations and reducing


                                                  - 23 -

costs. Second, there was not a clear strategy to deal with the problems of the portfolio of
promitentes compradores, perhaps because at that time there was not a thorough understanding
of a regime that is unique to BHU.

Although two thirds of the loan was front loaded, the dollar amount of the last tranche was
sufficiently important to ensure that BHU would comply with the necessary measures before
completing the final disbursement of the loan.

Lending was considered satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank staff monitored closely compliance with the program supported by the loan. This included
regular visits to check progress on actions by BHU to satisfy the various conditions of the loan
and to discuss with government the status of reforms. Bank staff prepared regular memos to
BHU to maintain the Board and top management aware of the steps that were required to obtain
the final disbursement of the loan.

In several instances Bank Staff provided support and suggestions to BHU's staff and Board of
directors to solve implementation problems. This was particularly important regarding the
preparation of the action plan of December 2003, in the valuation of BHU's loans and in the
preparation of a credit scoring system to approve new loans. Consultants hired by the World
Bank drafted a restructuring plan which was highly instrumental in the design of the 2003
Restructuring Plan finally approved by the Board. On several occasions, bank staff helped in the
negotiations between BHU and the Ministry of the Economy to get problems resolved and move
forward with the loan. Bank staff also provided guidance and support to help BHU to complete
the MIS, although in the end BHU did not succeed in completing this task on time and they were
compelled to request a waiver.

Finally, the business plan developed as part of the supervision activities provided some useful
ideas to improve the quality of the BHU portfolio. In particular, it helped BHU to think about the
design of an MIS that could be useful to management, especially selecting the critical variables
that management should follow closely, and the proposal to separate the social from the
commercial mortgages portfolios served as the basis for the securitization carried out with the
Ministry of Housing at the end of 2003.

In summary, the supervision was highly satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the arguments mentioned above we evaluate overall Bank performance as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
There was a good description in the loan about the financial and net worth situation of the bank
and a thorough understanding of the macroeconomic crisis that Uruguay was facing and the
implications that the financial-balance of payment crisis had on the banking system. In addition
the loan document clearly identified the main sources of financial weakness in BHU's financial



                                                - 24 -

situation: (i) problems generated by the balance sheet given the mismatch in the asset-liability
structure, which was mainly a consequence of past decisions, and (ii) problems with the financial
flows, as the bank was incurring continued losses while it was facing liquidity problems due to
negative cash flows; and (iii) the need to define a new business plan for BHU that included limits
on its lending operations and on the type and amount of deposits that it could receive.

The authorities showed understanding of the structural problems that BHU faced and were ready
to support the necessary measures to correct them even if it implied a significant downsizing of
BHU and could even threaten its long-term viability as the leading institution in the mortgage
market. The government showed ownership of the project from the very beginning, as it shared
the objectives of defining the new business model of BHU and pushed hard to pass the necessary
law in Congress for the release of the first tranche of the loan.

Borrower preparation was highly satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
While there were slippages in terms of the delivery of specific sub-components ­ particularly, the
MIS ­ overall the government was focused and determined in the implementation of the various
components of the loan. Some delays were logical ­ passage of legislation through Congress
before engaging in actual restructuring ­ and others may be explained by the natural frictions
which can be expected from the political economy implications of restructuring the second largest
public bank in Uruguay.

Overall, government implementation performance has been satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
BHU was committed to the reforms, though this became more apparent in the later stage of the
implementation when Cdr. Perez Montero became president of BHU (October 2003). The staff
of BHU was on the whole supportive of the reforms, though ­ as was expected - some areas that
would suffer downsizing and reduced influence and power within the bank resisted reforms.

Some conditionality measures were difficult to implement, as they required new skills and support
from outside consultants. In the case of the MIS and in the valuation of the mortgage portfolio
the reforms took longer than anticipated to implement, mainly as a result of the difficulties to
move through the procurement process within BHU's bureaucracy. Nevertheless, BHU moved
forward with the reforms in line with the loan documentation, conducted some internal seminars
and brainstorming sessions to get consensus on the new objectives and in the end was successful
in defining a new business model.

In addition to the specific measures supported by the loan, BHU staff made significant progress
towards preparing the first securitization of loans in the market. The bank hired Price
Waterhouse to be the advisor on this transaction, and completed the administrative and
operational procedures to have an initial portfolio of around US$30 million in loans securitized in
the markets, that would be increased to close to US$90 million over time. This would have
allowed BHU to bring to market three securitizations. In addition, price Waterhouse completed a
model of credit scoring using the information on the existing mortgages to improve the



                                                 - 25 -

procedures and reduce the risks of granting new loans. Unfortunately, the deal was not
completed as the timing of the securitization would have coincided with the political transition,
and it was generally agreed that a transaction of this type could not be done under those
conditions.

The rating of the implementation agency is satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The loan to BHU shares many characteristics of loans that the World Bank has provided to
recapitalize and restructure financial institutions. Many of the problems observed at BHU during
the preparation and implementation period are similar to those observed in other bank
restructuring programs. There are useful lessons that could be relevant in other cases.

1.       The most serious problem and the one that created the largest fiscal costs at BHU was the
currency mismatch as most of the liabilities were in dollars while the assets were in pesos. In
general, a solvency problem created by a maxi-devaluation cannot be solved only through by
improvements in flows; the solution generally requires a re-capitalization of the bank. Of course,
if there is an overshooting of the real exchange rate, part of the problems could be undone at a
later stage when the currency appreciates, but the solvency of bank cannot depend on assumptions
of a correction in the real exchange rate. Reprogramming deposits and restructuring of loans can
be a useful tool as well. Ex-ante, much can be done to prevent this type of event by limiting the
extent of mismatches in the banks' balance sheet through prudential regulation and adequate risk
management systems.
2.       The system of promitentes compradores (or quasi-buyers), individuals who in fact "rent"
properties with a promise to buy in the future, was a bad system and needs to be discontinued
immediately for new operations. Problems that arise include: lack of incentives of promitentes to
pay for expenses and take care of maintenance; foreclosing is more ­ not less ­ difficult because it
is not a regular judicial procedure as is the case with mortgage executions. The system is
misleading for the supervisors and potential investors since ­ in the case of Uruguay - these
investments were not subject to Central Bank loan classification and provisioning criteria. The
main lesson is that "a bank is a bank, not a landlord".
3.       Public banks in general and BHU in particular have shown to have difficulties in
foreclosing properties, especially in low income housing projects. It is poor policy to have a
mortgage bank that has to simultaneously fulfill a social mission and to remain profitable and
solvent. It is best to subsidize the social function through the budget and to manage a bank on a
strictly commercial basis.
4.       Governance is an important issue for the sustainability of reforms, and development policy
loans should evaluate this issue in the preparation stage. It would be useful to consider the
possibility of fully independent bank boards, whose mandate does not coincide with the terms of
the Executive power in the country, and with individuals that can prove knowledge and
experience in the banking business. At the minimum, the board should include some independent
members.



                                                 - 26 -

5.       Some of the reforms were affected by the procurement procedures of BHU and by the
restrictions imposed by the unions. This was clear on the downsizing, which was done, but in
most cases implied transferring personnel from BHU to other areas of the public administration,
and in the implementation of the MIS. Similarly, BHU found serious obstacles to downsize the
branch network. In addition, the selection of the new management team was made more difficult
as in most cases the choice was restricted to staff already at BHU. The main lesson is that the
agenda of reforms needs to take explicit account of administrative aspects such as the
procurement procedures as well as personnel policies.
6.       The preparation of a portfolio of mortgages for securitization in the markets was delayed
by the difficulties in processing the information on the mortgages in a way that could be accepted
by a rating agency. This was partly linked to the lack of a functional and centralized information
system which required manual handling of loan histories. BHU selected an advisor to help the
bank to do the first securitization of mortgages in the market, but the process was not completed
by the previous administration. This also illustrates that administrative and operational processes
are important in reform process, as they could delay or block progress on some reforms.
7.       The difficulties were in part related to the design of the administrative structure of BHU,
where the same staff had to restructure the bank, work on collecting loans and on the
securitization of mortgages. The main lesson here is that in these cases it might be worth
considering the option of establishing a separate group within the bank or even a second tier bank
with a focused mandate to develop the secondary market for mortgages.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The document has been sent to the client for comments June 21st but no comments were
received.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                  - 27 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                        1
           Indicator/Matrix         Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
N/A




Output Indicators:
                                                        1
           Indicator/Matrix         Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
N/A




1End of project
Annex 1.a: Log Frame Matrix




                                          - 28 -

                                 MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Actions to restrict the scope of BHU operations and to develop a secondary market of
mortgages.
First Tranche        A draft law had been submitted to Congress (June 30, 2002,      Accomplished
(Before Board        art. 137- 145) establishing the new mission and modus
Presentation)        operandi of BHU, including: (i) authorizing BHU to hold
                     deposits from the public only for ahorro previo; (ii)
                     limiting its lending activity to housing finance to
                     individuals, up to the equivalent of US$50m.; (iii) relieving
                     BHU's from the objective of promoting the building
                     industry and prohibiting BHU to build; and (iv) allowing
                     BHU to sell mortgages in both domestic and foreign
                     markets.

Second Tranche       BHU's new Charter, containing the main characteristics          Accomplished
                     included in the draft law, has been enacted.

                     Total outstanding deposits, apart from Ahorro previo, are       Accomplished
                     being phased out according to the Action Plan (Annex 1 of
                     LDP), and they are no more than US$750 million
                     equivalent at the Tranche Release Date.

Actions to restructure and improve the efficiency of BHU
First Tranche        1. A restructuring plan had been approved by BHU's Board        Accomplished
(Before Board        of Directors, including: (i) appointment of a professional
Presentation)        management, (ii) new loan recovery and finance
                     departments (Res. No. 13,770 and 13,790), and (iii) a
                     substantial downsizing of the bank.

                     2. BHU's Board Resolution 13,786 suspending non-binding         Accomplished
                     building contracts and establishing cost reduction and
                     control measures.

                     3.BHU called for proposals for a new integrated                 Accomplished
                     information system and for due diligence of credit and
                     investment portfolio (Res. No. 13,775; 13,779; 13,790).

Second Tranche       The following has been performed in a manner satisfactory
                     to the Bank:

                     1. Due diligence of the credit and investment portfolios.       Accomplished


                     2. A divestment plan (including semi-annual targets for         Accomplished
                     non-performing portfolio, foreclosed assets and other
                     investments) has been approved by the BHU Board. The
                     plan is on track, and the target for the first semester
                     has been met.

                     3. Approval of new credit manual.                               Accomplished




                                                      - 29 -

                     MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS (Cont.)

                     4. An integrated information system is being implemented.     Waived



                     5. The restructuring plan is being implemented as agreed.
                                                                                 Accomplished
Actions to impose discipline on public banks through improved supervision
First Tranche        A law proposal that removes existing differences between    Accomplished
(Board Presentation) supervision of public and private banks, including
                     powers of the BCU to sanction and impose fines to public
                     banks, had been presented to Congress.

Second Tranche       A mechanism that enables BCU properly supervise and         Accomplished
                     sanction public banks is operating.




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 1.b: Performance and Monitoring Indicators


                      PERFORMANCE AND MONITORING INDICATORS
         Indicators                     Expectations                  Actual Performance
Actions to restrict the scope of BHU operations and to develop a secondary market of
mortgages
BHU's new Charter               · Establishing the new mission  Key actions that have been
                                 and modus operandi of BHU,     enacted in the new law are:
                                 ontaining the main
                                 characteristics included in
                                 the draft law.

                                                                i) Amendments of BHU's
                                                                Organic Charter reflecting
                                                                BHU's new exclusively
                                                                authorized activities with more
                                                                focused lending to physical
                                                                persons for the purchase,
                                                                construction or repair of their
                                                                own residential property and
                                                                limiting deposit-taking activity
                                                                to ahorro previo deposits
                                                                (article 1).

                                                                ii) BHU would longer finance
                                                                new construction projects
                                                                (complejos); only construction
                                                                projects underway or binding
                                                                contracts as of May 31, 2002,
                                                                will be finalized.

                                                                iii) BHU's principal future
                                                                activity would be asset
                                                                securitization.

                                                                iv) New mortgages (excluding
                                                                those issued to place
                                                                property/assets already
                                                                belonging to the bank) would
                                                                not exceed an established
                                                                ceiling equivalent to an
                                                                aggregate amount of US$50
                                                                million.

Deposits phase out              · Total outstanding deposits in v) BHU would adopt a
                                 BHU, apart from those          mechanism to reduce the
                                 related to the ahorro previo   capture of bank deposits other
                                 system, shall be not more      than from the system of ahorro
                                 than US$750,000,000            previo (article 5).
                                 equivalent at the Tranche
                                 Release Date.




                                                - 31 -

                     PERFORMANCE AND MONITORING INDICATORS
          Indicators                Expectations                     Actual Performance
Credit and investments     Determining the market value        In December 2003, KPMG
portfolios                 of the credit and investment        concluded the due diligence
                           portfolios of BHU                   covering 63% of the loan
                                                               portfolio with the non-financial
                                                               private sector as of August 31,
                                                               2003. The sample covered 47%
                                                               of loans which were 100%
                                                               provisioned at the time. Taking
                                                               into account other loans that were
                                                               100% provisioned, 73% of the
                                                               loan portfolio of the non-financial
                                                               private sector was covered.

                                                               A due diligence of promises to
                                                               sell real estate--promitentes
                                                               compradores--the most important
                                                               asset in the investment portfolio
                                                               of BHU was commissioned to
                                                               Villamide, S.A. and finalized on
                                                               September 24, 2004.

Divestment plan            · Semi-annual targets for non-      BHU's Board approved a
                            performing credit portfolio,       divestment plan in January 2003
                            foreclosed assets, real estate for referred to as "Plan Estratégico
                            sale, and promitentes              de Gestión de Morosidad". The
                            compradores in arrears)            plan envisaged an increase in
                                                               revenues as follows: (i) during
                                                               the first half of 2003, an increase
                                                               in the average monthly revenue
                                                               of US$2 million, of which
                                                               mortgage loans US$1.5 million
                                                               and promitentes compradores
                                                               US$0.5 million; and (ii) an
                                                               increase in the average monthly
                                                               revenue during the second half of
                                                               about US$l million, of which
                                                               mortgage loans US$750 thousand
                                                               and promitentes compradores
                                                               US$250 thousand. The plan
                                                               details an extensive set of
                                                               concrete actions to achieve these
                                                               objectives. Objectives were
                                                               achieved.




                                           - 32 -

                     PERFORMANCE AND MONITORING INDICATORS
         Indicators                   Expectations                  Actual Performance
Credit manual                 · Approval of a Credit     BHU's Board approved a new Credit
                               Manual                    Manual in June 2003, enacted by O/S
                                                         10306. The manual includes the
                                                         stipulation that loans should be for
                                                         residential property as stated in the
                                                         new Charter, and details procedures
                                                         for evaluating loan applicants
                                                         considering verifiable payment
                                                         capacity and proven compliance
                                                         history with BHU and other
                                                         institutions. Moreover, the manual
                                                         stipulates loan-to-values of 70% which
                                                         are in line with international practice
                                                         and installment-to-income ratios
                                                         reflecting normal banking practices.

                                                         In 2004/05, BHU worked on the
                                                         design and begun the implementation
                                                         of a credit scoring system.


Management information system · Implementation of an     In November 2003, BHU's
                               integrated information    management presented terms of
                               system for BHU's asset    reference for the acquisition of an
                               and liability management. "Integrated System for Bank
                                                         Management" including its technical
                                                         requirements as well as provisions for
                                                         maintenance, training, documentation,
                                                         and the overall implementation
                                                         process. To help finance the new
                                                         system, in December 2003, the
                                                         Uruguayan Government requested an
                                                         amendment to the Technical
                                                         Assistance Loan (TAL) 45980-UR to
                                                         include the provision of this system
                                                         within the project development
                                                         objectives, estimating a total cost of
                                                         US$1.7 million. The TAL was
                                                         amended in May, 2004 to permit
                                                         financing of public financial
                                                         institutions. After Bank staff agreed on
                                                         the terms of reference for the
                                                         information system, an international
                                                         bidding to provide and implement the
                                                         new system was launched with a
                                                         deadline of October 4, 2004 for
                                                         receiving all bids. A ten-phase
                                                         implementation stage including tests
                                                         and training will require an additional
                                                         eight months.




                                               - 33 -

                     PERFORMANCE AND MONITORING INDICATORS
           Indicators              Expectations                  Actual Performance
                                                           The authorities' request for a
                                                           waiver was recommended in view
                                                           of the steps already taken to
                                                           finance and acquire the system,
                                                           and the commitment of BHU's
                                                           management to complete the
                                                           overall implementation process in
                                                           collaboration with the World
                                                           Bank through the TAL.

Restructuring plan         · Appointment and accession of  There were resolutions that
                            professional management,       defined changes in retirement
                            creation of new loan recovery  age, specified incentives to early
                            and finance departments, and a retirement, created a Social
                            substantial downsizing of BHU) Housing Area, created a Trust
                                                           Fund Area, redefined the overall
                                                           organizational structure
                                                           separating business functions
                                                           (Social Housing, Commercial
                                                           Loan Recovery, Credit
                                                           Origination and Finance) and
                                                           support functions, defined an
                                                           evaluation process for the
                                                           nomination and appointment of
                                                           management, and consolidated
                                                           initiatives into an overall
                                                           Restructuring Plan.

                                                           The consolidated Restructuring
                                                           Plan included in resolution 13891
                                                           of December 2003 was prepared
                                                           with the support of the Bank and
                                                           the final version was reviewed by
                                                           Bank staff.

                                                           In terms of downsizing, total
                                                           BHU personnel decreased by
                                                           28% during the last two calendar
                                                           years, from 1384 employees in
                                                           December 2001 to 998 full time
                                                           employees by December 2003.
                                                           The reduction is 45% if the 233
                                                           employees working at the
                                                           Housing Ministry are excluded.
                                                           In parallel, personnel expenses
                                                           decreased by 52%, from US$48.9
                                                           to US$23.5 million during this
                                                           period, while overall operating
                                                           costs decreased by 35%.




                                           - 34 -

- 35 -

- 36 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                        1
           Indicator/Matrix         Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
N/A




Output Indicators:
                                                        1
           Indicator/Matrix         Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
N/A




1End of project




                                          - 37 -

Annex 1.a: Log Frame Matrix
                                 MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Actions to restrict the scope of BHU operations and to develop a secondary market of
mortgages.
First Tranche        A draft law had been submitted to Congress (June 30, 2002,      Accomplished
(Before Board        art. 137- 145) establishing the new mission and modus
Presentation)        operandi of BHU, including: (i) authorizing BHU to hold
                     deposits from the public only for ahorro previo; (ii)
                     limiting its lending activity to housing finance to
                     individuals, up to the equivalent of US$50m.; (iii) relieving
                     BHU's from the objective of promoting the building
                     industry and prohibiting BHU to build; and (iv) allowing
                     BHU to sell mortgages in both domestic and foreign
                     markets.

Second Tranche       BHU's new Charter, containing the main characteristics          Accomplished
                     included in the draft law, has been enacted.

                     Total outstanding deposits, apart from Ahorro previo, are
                     being phased out according to the Action Plan (Annex 1 of       Accomplished

                     LDP), and they are no more than US$750 million
                     equivalent at the Tranche Release Date.

Actions to restructure and improve the efficiency of BHU
First Tranche        1. A restructuring plan had been approved by BHU's Board        Accomplished
(Before Board        of Directors, including: (i) appointment of a professional
Presentation)        management, (ii) new loan recovery and finance
                     departments (Res. No. 13,770 and 13,790), and (iii) a
                     substantial downsizing of the bank.

                     2. BHU's Board Resolution 13,786 suspending non-binding         Accomplished
                     building contracts and establishing cost reduction and
                     control measures.

                     3.BHU called for proposals for a new integrated                 Accomplished
                     information system and for due diligence of credit and
                     investment portfolio (Res. No. 13,775; 13,779; 13,790).

Second Tranche       The following has been performed in a manner satisfactory
                     to the Bank:

                     1. Due diligence of the credit and investment portfolios.       Accomplished


                     2. A divestment plan (including semi-annual targets for         Accomplished
                     non-performing portfolio, foreclosed assets and other
                     investments) has been approved by the BHU Board. The
                     plan is on track, and the target for the first semester
                     has been met.

                     3. Approval of new credit manual.                               Accomplished




                                                      - 38 -

- 39 -

                     MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS (Cont.)

                     4. An integrated information system is being implemented.     Waived



                     5. The restructuring plan is being implemented as agreed.   Accomplished
Actions to impose discipline on public banks through improved supervision
First Tranche        A law proposal that removes existing differences between    Accomplished
(Board Presentation) supervision of public and private banks, including
                     powers of the BCU to sanction and impose fines to public
                     banks, had been presented to Congress.

Second Tranche       A mechanism that enables BCU properly supervise and         Accomplished
                     sanction public banks is operating.




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 1.b: Performance and Monitoring Indicators


Mariela Alvarez

Program Assistant
Dirección Subregional
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay y Uruguay
Tel.: (54-11) 4316-9710
Fax: (54-11) 4313-1233
http://www.bancomundial.org.ar/
----- Forwarded by Mariela Alvarez/Person/World Bank on 06/30/2005 04:00 PM -----
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                   1
            Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
N/A




Output Indicators:
                                                                   1
            Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
N/A




1End of project




                                                     - 41 -

Annex 1.a: Log Frame Matrix
                                 MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Actions to restrict the scope of BHU operations and to develop a secondary market of
mortgages.
First Tranche        A draft law had been submitted to Congress (June 30, 2002,      Accomplished
(Before Board        art. 137- 145) establishing the new mission and modus
Presentation)        operandi of BHU, including: (i) authorizing BHU to hold
                     deposits from the public only for ahorro previo; (ii)
                     limiting its lending activity to housing finance to
                     individuals, up to the equivalent of US$50m.; (iii) relieving
                     BHU's from the objective of promoting the building
                     industry and prohibiting BHU to build; and (iv) allowing
                     BHU to sell mortgages in both domestic and foreign
                     markets.

Second Tranche       BHU's new Charter, containing the main characteristics          Accomplished
                     included in the draft law, has been enacted.

                     Total outstanding deposits, apart from Ahorro previo, are
                     being phased out according to the Action Plan (Annex 1 of       Accomplished

                     LDP), and they are no more than US$750 million
                     equivalent at the Tranche Release Date.

Actions to restructure and improve the efficiency of BHU
First Tranche        1. A restructuring plan had been approved by BHU's Board        Accomplished
(Before Board        of Directors, including: (i) appointment of a professional
Presentation)        management, (ii) new loan recovery and finance
                     departments (Res. No. 13,770 and 13,790), and (iii) a
                     substantial downsizing of the bank.

                     2. BHU's Board Resolution 13,786 suspending non-binding         Accomplished
                     building contracts and establishing cost reduction and
                     control measures.

                     3.BHU called for proposals for a new integrated                 Accomplished
                     information system and for due diligence of credit and
                     investment portfolio (Res. No. 13,775; 13,779; 13,790).

Second Tranche       The following has been performed in a manner satisfactory
                     to the Bank:

                     1. Due diligence of the credit and investment portfolios.       Accomplished


                     2. A divestment plan (including semi-annual targets for         Accomplished
                     non-performing portfolio, foreclosed assets and other
                     investments) has been approved by the BHU Board. The
                     plan is on track, and the target for the first semester
                     has been met.

                     3. Approval of new credit manual.                               Accomplished




                                                      - 42 -

- 43 -

                     MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS (Cont.)

                     4. An integrated information system is being implemented.     Waived



                     5. The restructuring plan is being implemented as agreed.   Accomplished
Actions to impose discipline on public banks through improved supervision
First Tranche        A law proposal that removes existing differences between    Accomplished
(Board Presentation) supervision of public and private banks, including
                     powers of the BCU to sanction and impose fines to public
                     banks, had been presented to Congress.

Second Tranche       A mechanism that enables BCU properly supervise and         Accomplished
                     sanction public banks is operating.




                                                    - 44 -

              Annex 1.b: Performance and Monitoring Indicators


                      PERFORMANCE AND MONITORING INDICATORS
         Indicators                     Expectations                  Actual Performance
Actions to restrict the scope of BHU operations and to develop a secondary market of
mortgages
BHU's new Charter               · Establishing the new mission  Key actions that have been
                                 and modus operandi of BHU,     enacted in the new law are:
                                 ontaining the main
                                 characteristics included in
                                 the draft law.

                                                                i) Amendments of BHU's
                                                                Organic Charter reflecting
                                                                BHU's new exclusively
                                                                authorized activities with more
                                                                focused lending to physical
                                                                persons for the purchase,
                                                                construction or repair of their
                                                                own residential property and
                                                                limiting deposit-taking activity
                                                                to ahorro previo deposits
                                                                (article 1).

                                                                ii) BHU would longer finance
                                                                new construction projects
                                                                (complejos); only construction
                                                                projects underway or binding
                                                                contracts as of May 31, 2002,
                                                                will be finalized.

                                                                iii) BHU's principal future
                                                                activity would be asset
                                                                securitization.

                                                                iv) New mortgages (excluding
                                                                those issued to place
                                                                property/assets already
                                                                belonging to the bank) would
                                                                not exceed an established
                                                                ceiling equivalent to an
                                                                aggregate amount of US$50
                                                                million.

Deposits phase out              · Total outstanding deposits in v) BHU would adopt a
                                 BHU, apart from those          mechanism to reduce the
                                 related to the ahorro previo   capture of bank deposits other
                                 system, shall be not more      than from the system of ahorro
                                 than US$750,000,000            previo (article 5).
                                 equivalent at the Tranche
                                 Release Date.




                                                - 45 -

- 46 -

                     PERFORMANCE AND MONITORING INDICATORS
          Indicators                Expectations                     Actual Performance
Credit and investments     Determining the market value        In December 2003, KPMG
portfolios                 of the credit and investment        concluded the due diligence
                           portfolios of BHU                   covering 63% of the loan
                                                               portfolio with the non-financial
                                                               private sector as of August 31,
                                                               2003. The sample covered 47%
                                                               of loans which were 100%
                                                               provisioned at the time. Taking
                                                               into account other loans that were
                                                               100% provisioned, 73% of the
                                                               loan portfolio of the non-financial
                                                               private sector was covered.

                                                               A due diligence of promises to
                                                               sell real estate--promitentes
                                                               compradores--the most important
                                                               asset in the investment portfolio
                                                               of BHU was commissioned to
                                                               Villamide, S.A. and finalized on
                                                               September 24, 2004.

Divestment plan            · Semi-annual targets for non-      BHU's Board approved a
                            performing credit portfolio,       divestment plan in January 2003
                            foreclosed assets, real estate for referred to as "Plan Estratégico
                            sale, and promitentes              de Gestión de Morosidad". The
                            compradores in arrears)            plan envisaged an increase in
                                                               revenues as follows: (i) during
                                                               the first half of 2003, an increase
                                                               in the average monthly revenue
                                                               of US$2 million, of which
                                                               mortgage loans US$1.5 million
                                                               and promitentes compradores
                                                               US$0.5 million; and (ii) an
                                                               increase in the average monthly
                                                               revenue during the second half of
                                                               about US$l million, of which
                                                               mortgage loans US$750 thousand
                                                               and promitentes compradores
                                                               US$250 thousand. The plan
                                                               details an extensive set of
                                                               concrete actions to achieve these
                                                               objectives. Objectives were
                                                               achieved.




                                           - 47 -

- 48 -

                     PERFORMANCE AND MONITORING INDICATORS
         Indicators                   Expectations                  Actual Performance
Credit manual                 · Approval of a Credit     BHU's Board approved a new Credit
                               Manual                    Manual in June 2003, enacted by O/S
                                                         10306. The manual includes the
                                                         stipulation that loans should be for
                                                         residential property as stated in the
                                                         new Charter, and details procedures
                                                         for evaluating loan applicants
                                                         considering verifiable payment
                                                         capacity and proven compliance
                                                         history with BHU and other
                                                         institutions. Moreover, the manual
                                                         stipulates loan-to-values of 70% which
                                                         are in line with international practice
                                                         and installment-to-income ratios
                                                         reflecting normal banking practices.

                                                         In 2004/05, BHU worked on the
                                                         design and begun the implementation
                                                         of a credit scoring system.


Management information system · Implementation of an     In November 2003, BHU's
                               integrated information    management presented terms of
                               system for BHU's asset    reference for the acquisition of an
                               and liability management. "Integrated System for Bank
                                                         Management" including its technical
                                                         requirements as well as provisions for
                                                         maintenance, training, documentation,
                                                         and the overall implementation
                                                         process. To help finance the new
                                                         system, in December 2003, the
                                                         Uruguayan Government requested an
                                                         amendment to the Technical
                                                         Assistance Loan (TAL) 45980-UR to
                                                         include the provision of this system
                                                         within the project development
                                                         objectives, estimating a total cost of
                                                         US$1.7 million. The TAL was
                                                         amended in May, 2004 to permit
                                                         financing of public financial
                                                         institutions. After Bank staff agreed on
                                                         the terms of reference for the
                                                         information system, an international
                                                         bidding to provide and implement the
                                                         new system was launched with a
                                                         deadline of October 4, 2004 for
                                                         receiving all bids. A ten-phase
                                                         implementation stage including tests
                                                         and training will require an additional
                                                         eight months.




                                               - 49 -

                     PERFORMANCE AND MONITORING INDICATORS
           Indicators              Expectations                  Actual Performance
                                                           The authorities' request for a
                                                           waiver was recommended in view
                                                           of the steps already taken to
                                                           finance and acquire the system,
                                                           and the commitment of BHU's
                                                           management to complete the
                                                           overall implementation process in
                                                           collaboration with the World
                                                           Bank through the TAL.

Restructuring plan         · Appointment and accession of  There were resolutions that
                            professional management,       defined changes in retirement
                            creation of new loan recovery  age, specified incentives to early
                            and finance departments, and a retirement, created a Social
                            substantial downsizing of BHU) Housing Area, created a Trust
                                                           Fund Area, redefined the overall
                                                           organizational structure
                                                           separating business functions
                                                           (Social Housing, Commercial
                                                           Loan Recovery, Credit
                                                           Origination and Finance) and
                                                           support functions, defined an
                                                           evaluation process for the
                                                           nomination and appointment of
                                                           management, and consolidated
                                                           initiatives into an overall
                                                           Restructuring Plan.

                                                           The consolidated Restructuring
                                                           Plan included in resolution 13891
                                                           of December 2003 was prepared
                                                           with the support of the Bank and
                                                           the final version was reviewed by
                                                           Bank staff.

                                                           In terms of downsizing, total
                                                           BHU personnel decreased by
                                                           28% during the last two calendar
                                                           years, from 1384 employees in
                                                           December 2001 to 998 full time
                                                           employees by December 2003.
                                                           The reduction is 45% if the 233
                                                           employees working at the
                                                           Housing Ministry are excluded.
                                                           In parallel, personnel expenses
                                                           decreased by 52%, from US$48.9
                                                           to US$23.5 million during this
                                                           period, while overall operating
                                                           costs decreased by 35%.




                                           - 50 -

- 51 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million




Total Baseline Cost                                          0.00            0.00
                        Total Project Costs                  0.00
                  Total Financing Required                   0.00            0.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)




                                                - 52 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 53 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 54 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               2002


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               2002


 Supervision
               2002
               09/10/2002                 1   TASK MANAGER (1)                      S               S
               09/10/2002                 1   Supervision (1)                       S               S


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision
  ICR
  Total




                                               - 55 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 56 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 57 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Cámara de Representantes de Montevideo (2002) Ley de Fortalecimiento del BHU, November.

Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas de Uruguay (2002) Letter of Development Policy, July.

Sirtaine, S. and de la Plaza, L. (2004) Uruguay and Argentina: Parallel Lives? An Analysis of the
2002 Uruguayan Banking Crisis. DRAFT. World Bank, June.

World Bank (2002), Program Document (PGD), Report No. 24515, July.

World Bank (2002), Project Information Document (PID), Report No. PID11360, July.

World Bank (2004), Tranche Release Document (TRD), Report No. 30135, October.




                                               - 58 -

- 59 -

