Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7138-UR
Loan Agreement
(Special Structural Adjustment Loan)
between 
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 8, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 7138-UR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 8, 2002, between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL 
URUGUAY (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated July 17, 2002 
(the Letter of Development Policy), describing a program of actions, objectives and policies 
designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and 
(B)  
the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide additional assistance in 
support of the Program and the Bank has agreed to provide such assistance in an amount equal to 
one hundred fifty one million five hundred twenty thousand Dollars ($151,520,000); and 
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support of the 
Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches as 
hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the modifications set forth 
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01., paragraph 41, is modified to read:
“
‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 2.01, paragraph 22, is modified to read:
“‘Fixed Spread’ means four hundred (400) basis points; provided that, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the unwithdrawn principal amount 
of the Loan, such fixed spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the 
manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines.”;
(c)
Section 3.08 is modified to read:
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall be 
made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is not the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement, 
the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the Borrower, shall purchase 
with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the Loan Account the currency of such 
Page  3
deposit account as shall be required to deposit the withdrawn amount into such 
deposit account.”;
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of 
these General Conditions.”;
(e)
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f)
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and
(g)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 and 
9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
 “BCU” means 
Banco Central del Uruguay
, the Borrower’s central bank;
(b)
“BHU” means 
Banco Hipotecario del Uruguay
,
the Borrower’s national 
mortgage bank;
(c)
“Congress” means the legislative branch of government of the Borrower;
(d)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(e)
“Executive” means the executive branch of government of the Borrower; and
(f)
“Tranche Release Date” means the date on which the Bank sends the Borrower a 
notice to the effect that the conditions set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 (e) of this 
Agreement have been met.
Page  4
ARTICLE
II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred fifty one million five 
hundred twenty thousand Dollars ($151,520,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of $150,004,800 from the Loan Account 
in support of the Program.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause its central bank to open, prior to furnishing to the Bank 
the first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain, a deposit 
account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals from the 
Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the 
Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been used to 
make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or 
(ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank 
upon such request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account unless the Bank shall be 
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on 
evidence satisfactory to the Bank:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program; and 
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the 
Borrower and the Bank.
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may give notice to 
the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have 
taken steps satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of (i), and (ii) above, as the case may be, then the 
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part 
Page  5
thereof.
(e)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of the 
proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the amount of 
$100,004,800, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program;
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the 
Borrower and the Bank; and
(iii)
that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been 
taken in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may give notice to 
the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have 
taken steps satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of (i), (ii), and (iii) above, as the case may be, then 
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part 
thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent 
(1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said 
fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the Variable 
Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Page  6
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the 
Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal 
amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the 
actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action specified in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
Page  7
principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank, namely, that except for the provision contained in Article 138 of the bill 
presented on June 30, 2002 by the Executive to Congress, no other modification in the legal 
framework of the Borrower is required to allow BHU to sell its mortgage portfolio and for such 
mortgage portfolio to be securitized by local and foreign private financial institutions.
Section 5.02. The date November 6, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
Page  8
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas
Colonia No. 1089
Montevideo, Uruguay
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINECON
269 MICECON UY, Montevideo, Uruguay
Facsimile:
(598) 2 900-0186
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
Page  9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
By  /s/ Hugo Fernández Faingold
Ambassador
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan shall not be 
used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
Page  10
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                          
-
Alcoholic beverages
121                          
-
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122                          
-
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525                          
-
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718                         
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897                         
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971                         
-
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
Page  11
consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower 
is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by 
a
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
(Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) the total principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a 
Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 2005
through April 15, 2007
25%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
Page  12
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as 
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of 
which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) and the denominator 
of which shall be the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment 
Dates falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to 
deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal Payment 
Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal 
Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of  withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if at any 
time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after 
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer 
apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank 
by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to said 
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be 
denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply 
separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (e) of this Agreement
1.
Articles 137 through 145 of the bill presented by the Executive to the Congress on June 
Page  13
30, 2002 (
Proyecto de ley referente a la rendición de cuentas y balance de ejecución 
presupuestal correspondiente al ejercicio 2001
)
have been enacted by the Congress in a manner 
substantially similar –as determined by the Bank- to the bill presented by the Executive, except 
that, in Article 137 changes shall have been made substantially reflecting–as determined by the 
Bank- the annex of the August 7, 2002 letter of the Borrower’s Minister of Economy and Finance 
to the Bank (letter number S/M No. 161/02).  
2.
Deposits from the general public in BHU, excluding those appertaining to the 
ahorro 
previo 
system, are being phased out as outlined in Annex 1 to the Letter of Development Policy.  
Total outstanding deposits in BHU, apart from those related to the 
ahorro previo 
system, shall be 
not more than $750,000,000 equivalent at the Tranche Release Date. 
3.
A due diligence, i.e., valuation and appraisal to determine the market value of the credit 
and investment portfolios of BHU, has been carried out by an entity satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
A divestment plan (including semi-annual targets for non-performing credit portfolio, 
foreclosed assets, real estate for sale, and real estate promised to be sold when the person to 
whom such real estate has been promised (
promitentes compradores
)
is in arrears) has been 
approved by the board of directors of BHU.  BHU has complied with the targets of as many 
calendar (i.e., January through June and/or July through December) semesters (with a minimum 
of one semester) as have transpired between the approval of said divestment plan and the 
Tranche Release Date. 
5.
The board of directors of BHU has approved a new BHU credit manual.
6.
An integrated information system for BHU’s asset and liability management is being 
implemented. 
7. 
A restructuring plan –approved through, inter alia, resolutions (
Actas
)
13770, 13775, 
13779, 13786, 13789 and 13790 of the board of directors of BHU (including the appointment and 
accession of professional management, creation of new loan recovery and finance departments, 
and a substantial downsizing of BHU) is being implemented as set forth in such resolutions.
8.
A bill removing existing differences between BCU’s supervision powers over state 
owned and private banks, including powers of BCU to impose fines on state owned banks  
presented by the Executive to Congress on September, 20 2001 has been enacted, regulated and 
is being implemented. When enacted, said bill shall also prescribe BCU to inform the Executive 
about said fines for the Executive to consider imposing sanctions on the members of the board of 
directors of said state owned banks, as regulated by article 197 of the Borrower’s Constitution.
