Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-7025 GE
TECHNICAL ANNEX
GEORGIA
OIL INSTITUTION BUILDING PROJECT
March 17, 1997



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 1996)
Currency Unit   =  Lari
I Lari   =  US$ 0.83
US$1    =   1.2 Lari
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIOC  -  Azerbaijan International Operating Company
BP  -  British Petroleum
EU TACIS  -  European Union Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of Independent States
GIOC  -  Georgian Intemational Oil Corporation
PCOA   -  Pipeline Construction and Operating Agreement
SOCAR  -  State Oil Company of the Azerbaijan Republic
SOE  -  Statement of Expenditure
GEORGIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Director: Basil G. Kavalsky, EC4DR
Division Chief: Dominique Lallement, EC41N
Task Team: Jonathan Walters, EC41N (Task Team Leader), T.S. Nayar, IENOG (Principal Chemical Engineer). Akin Oduolowu,
ECIIT (Principal Energy Specialist), Friedrich Peloschek, LEGEC (Lawyer)



GEORGIA
OIL INSTITUTION BUILDING PROJECT
CONTENTS
COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND  .................                     1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES   .............................                   I
PROJECT DESCRIPTION  .............................                   2
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .........................                    3
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY  ..........................                   5
LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS IDA INVOLVEMENT ....                   5
AGREED ACTIONS .................................                     5
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS AND PARTICIPATORY APPROACH                     5
ANNEXES
1. Key Project Activities and Performance Monitoring Indicators
2. Supervision Plan
3. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
4. Baku - Supsa Major Oil Export Pipeline Feasibility Study - Summary of the Terms of
Reference
MAP
IBRD 28454






GEORGIA
OIL INSTITUTION BUILDING PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Country and Sector Background
Georgia is a country of 5.4 million people bounded by the Black Sea, Armenia, Azerbaijan,
Turkey and Russia. It has played a historic role as a transit country between Asia and Europe and its
independence in 1991 reopened the country's transit possibilities. Until 1994, Georgia's political
instability did not allow the realization of that potential, but the conclusion of a cease-fire in the
Abkhazian separatist dispute in that year marked a sharp improvement in the political and economic
situation which has been sustained. This increased stability has focussed attention on Georgia as one
possible outlet for the huge oil reserves of the Caspian region.
On October 9, 1995, it was announced that Georgia would be one of two transit countries
(along with Russia) for "Early Oil" from the first phase of exploitation of crude petroleum under the
Caspian Sea by the Azerbaijan International Operating Company (AIOC), a consortium of 12 oil
companies.' The Georgian International Oil Corporation (GIOC) was created on November 11, 1995
as a state-owned enterprise to act as AIOC's counterpart in Georgia.
AIOC will finance the investment in transit facilities for Early Oil through Georgia, which
involves creating a continuous pipeline from Baku2, Azerbaijan to Supsa on the Georgian Black Sea
coast. This requires rehabilitation of existing pipelines, construction of some new stretches of
pipeline, and construction of an oil storage depot and tanker terminal at Supsa.3 The capacity of this
pipeline is estimated to be about 5 million metric tonnes a year. Early Oil is expected to begin
flowing through the pipeline by end-1998. The investment in Early Oil facilities is subject to a
Pipeline Construction and Operating Agreement (PCOA) concluded between GIOC and the
shareholders of AIOC (signed on March 8, 1996).
GIOC has been conceded the use of existing facilities, which it has in turn conceded to AIOC
(under the PCOA).4 GIOC will also provide liaison services between AIOC and the Government of
Georgia. In return for conceding those facilities and providing those services, GIOC will receive
tariff income from AIOC. In addition, GIOC is earning income, in advance of Early Oil, through the
transport of oil equipment for AIOC and of crude oil of Georgian origin. GIOC is also obliged by
the PCOA inter alia to participate in an environmental impact assessment, develop a safety
'I    AIOC is a joint venture of Amoco, BP, Delta Nimir, Statol, Exxon, Itochu, Lukoil, Pennzoil, Ramco,
State Oil Company of the Azerbaijan Republic, Turkiye Petrolleri A.O., and Unocal. AIOC has a Production
Sharing Agreement, signed on September 20, 1994, for development of the Main Azeri Oil and Chirag oil fields
and the deep water portion of the Guneshli field.
2/    The commencement of the pipeline would be at Sangachali, approximately 50 kilometers from Baku.
3/    An environmental impact assessment is underway. Once it has been completed, the design of the
pipeline, Supsa terminal and environmental mitigation systems will be subject to Georgian Government
approval.
4/    The existing facilities conceded to AIOC include the oil pipeline from Samgori (near Tbilisi) to Supsa
(on the Black Sea coast) and associated pump stations etc. (as defined in the PCOA).



- 2 -
monitoring system for the pipeline, and approve AIOC's pipeline construction plans.
In the first year of its existence, GIOC has developed significant capacity, but much remains
to be done if Georgia is to realize its full potential as a transit country. In particular, Georgia is one
of the transit options for major export pipelines, i.e. development of large-scale export from the
Caspian region beyond Early Oil. AIOC is currently studying a number of major export pipeline
routes and is expected to recommend a subset of these to its shareholders by mid-1997 for further
analysis and possible negotiations. In addition, other oil developers in the region - such as Chevron
developing the Tengiz field in Kazakhstan - are considering Georgia as one of their transit options.5
However, substantial institution building will be needed if GIOC is to provide the Government of
Georgia the technical support it needs in any negotiations for a major export pipeline.
Project Objectives
The objective of the proposed project is to enhance the capacity of Georgian personnel to
undertake international negotiations in respect of oil pipeline transit. This will improve Georgia's
ability to benefit from oil development in the Caspian Region by attracting private investment in the
necessary transport infrastructure. Such capacity-building will include financial, commercial,
engineering, environmental and legal aspects. This objective is to be achieved through on-the-job
training, formal training courses, and advisory services.
Project Description
The project consists of four components:
(a)    a feasibility study (by international consultants collaborating with
Georgian counterparts) of a major oil export pipeline from Baku,
Azerbaijan to Supsa, Georgia and of related terminal and storage
facilities at Supsa. This study is intended to provide on-the-job
training to Georgian personnel in project economics, pipeline tariff
determination, environmental audit, legal review, project management
and project financing, in order to enhance Georgian capacity to
negotiate transit terms with private investors 6.
(b)    a training fund to finance Georgian participation in formal training
courses in Georgia and abroad, and on-the-job training in international
companies in the oil industry. Such courses would include: (i)
pipeline transport economics (including principles of taxation); (ii)
international contract negotiation skills; (iii) environmental impact
assessment (including stakeholder analysis and public consultation);
(iv) legal principles of transcountry pipeline construction & operation;
(v) principles of oil accounting, general accounting and auditing; (vi)
project financing; (vii) oil marketing; and (viii) oil industry English
language.
5/    Chevron has already concluded an agreement with Georgia and Azerbaijan for the transport of oil to be
shipped across the Caspian, and then conveyed by rail from Baku to Batumi, Georgia.
6/    The cost of the study will be lower insofar as information from parallel studies conducted by AIOC and
Turkey (the latter under Bank financing) is made available to GIOC.



- 3 -
(c)    negotiations advisors to provide specialized legal and financial advice
prior to and during negotiations for oil transit, as well as to assist in
preparing related contractual documents.
(d)    proiect management services to be provided in kind by GIOC7.
The total project cost is estimated at US$ 1.5 million, financed by the proposed credit of
US$ 1.4 million equivalent, and by a contribution in kind for project management from GIOC to an
estimated value of US$ 100,000.
Project Implementation
Implementation Responsibilities. The Ministry of Finance will represent the Borrower, the
Republic of Georgia, and will onlend the proceeds of the credit to GIOC. The project will be
implemented by GIOC in its function as technical support agency for the Government in its
negotiations for oil transit through Georgia. The Executive Director of GIOC, as project manager,
will oversee project implementation; procurement and management of consultants will be his direct
responsibility, while disbursement, accounting, and loan repayment will be managed by the Finance
Department of GIOC.
Terms of Reference. Terms of reference for the feasibility study have been prepared by
GIOC, with the assistance of Bank staff, and are available in the project files (and are summarized in
Annex 4). The terms of reference emphasize the need for close involvement by GIOC counterparts in
the work of the consultants, in order that the primary objective of on-the-job training is achieved.
Terms of reference for the negotiations advisors have been drafted, and will be finalized once the
scope of the negotiations becomes clear.' An indicative training program has been prepared for
financing from the training fund, and will be finalized after the consultants conducting the feasibility
study have undertaken a detailed training needs assessment of GIOC.
Procurement. The selection process for all consulting, advisory and training services will be
in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981). No goods procurement is provided for under
the credit. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Annex 3. All letters of invitation and all
contracts will be subject to prior review by IDA (except those related to consultants' contracts below
US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals). The Letter of Invitation for the consultants to
undertake the feasibility study has already been issued in view of the need for expeditious preparation
for oil transit negotiations, which is associated with the pace of oil development in the region.
Disbursement. Disbursements against the proposed credit are expected to be for 100 percent
of the cost of services. Payments on contracts below US$ 100,000 for firms and US$ 50,000 for
individuals may be made using Statements of Expenditure (SOEs); all other payments will be made by
direct payment procedure through the Credit Account, and withdrawal applications will be fully
documented. In order to expedite urgent payments to be made locally, a Special Account with a
'/    The GIOC contribution will include support services, office facilities and the provision of maps, aerial
photographs and other data.
s/    The scope and the timing of negotiations is primarily at the initiative of the potential investors. Such
negotiations could however commence as early as mid-1997; the main focus of the negotiations would be the
terms of oil transit.



ceiling of US$ 100,000 will be established by the Borrower in a bank acceptable to IDA.
Applications for replenishment will be submitted monthly or when one-third of the amount has been
withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment will follow
standard Bank procedure as described in Chapter 6 of the Disbursement Handbook. Monthly bank
statements which have been reconciled by GIOC will accompany all disbursement requests.
Onlending.   Funds would be onlent in US$ by the Ministry of Finance to the Georgian
International Oil Corporation for 10 years, including a 3-year grace period, at a fixed rate equal to
7%, and repayable in local currency at the exchange rate prevailing as of the date of repayment.
Accounting and Auditing. The project manager will be responsible for ensuring that the
Finance Department of GIOC maintains project accounts in accordance with Bank guidelines on
financial reporting. The Special Account, project accounts, SOEs and GIOC's company accounts will
be audited by suitably qualified independent auditors acceptable to IDA; audit reports will be
submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each financial year. The audit reports will include
a statement verifying that the amounts disbursed against SOEs have been used for the purpose
intended.
Reporting. The project manager will submit to IDA a progress report on the project every
three months. This report will detail all project and related activities, report on progress in relation to
agreed schedules, and identify any problems which may have been encountered.
The expected timing of reporting by the consultants undertaking the feasibility study is as
follows:
Draft Inception Report:           within 4 weeks of contract effectiveness
Review of Inception Report9:      within 2 weeks of submission of the report
Final Inception Report:           within 2 weeks of review meeting
Draft Final Feasibility Report:   within 6 months of contract effectiveness
Review of Draft Final Feasibility
Report9:                          within 1 month of submission of the report
Final Feasibility Report:         within 1 month of review meeting
The Inception Report should contain a summary of the consultants' review of all existing
reports made available by GIOC, and identification of technically viable and environmentally
sustainable options for the proposed pipeline. The Feasibility Report should contain optimization
studies of routes, environmental audit, technical and economic analysis, tariff models, legal and
regulatory review, and a recommended training program for GIOC personnel.
Supervision. IDA supervision missions are expected to include specialists in economics, oil
engineering, environmental analysis, and law. Approximately 45 staff weeks will be required for
supervision over the 3-year lifetime of the project.
9/-    A joint review by the Government of Georgia, GIOC, IDA, and the consultants.



- 5 -
Closing Date. The project activities are expected to be completed by mid-1999; although the
feasibility study should be completed by late-1997 and the training by mid-1998, the negotiations
advisors may be required until mid-1999. The closing date of the proposed credit is therefore
December 31, 1999.
Project Sustainability
The proposed project is intended primarily to build capacity to undertake negotiations related
to a major oil export pipeline from Baku to Supsa. However, Early Oil agreements contain periodic
renegotiation clauses, and other oil and gas transit projects through Georgia are under consideration;
the capacity built by the proposed project would therefore have spinoffs for later negotiations. The
identification of a key counterpart institution, GIOC, for the project will increase the sustainability of
the proposed project.
Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Involvement
The implementation experience of the Georgia Institution Building and Structural Adjustment
Technical Assistance Credits (Credit No. 2641 and 2847, approved July 5, 1994 and April 18, 1996
respectively) shows the value of timely institution building assistance in Georgia. However,
experience of advisory services provided at very short notice for Early Oil negotiations under the
Institution Building Credit demonstrates the risk that political factors can sometimes supersede
technical advice; this suggests that sustained involvement of advisors at all stages of preparation and
actual conduct of negotiations is needed to mitigate that risk. Lessons learned from comparable
projects elsewhere demonstrate the importance of selecting internationally-reputable consultants using
Bank competitive procedures and of the implementing agency being fully committed to the project.
Agreed Actions
Prior to Board presentation, the Government of Georgia provided evidence, satisfactory to
IDA, that the Government of Azerbaijan has no objection to the conduct of the feasibility study.
Prior to effectiveness of the proposed credit, the Government and GIOC will sign an implementation
agreement. Prior to commencement of each training course or job placement under the training
component, GIOC will provide IDA for review a description of such courses/placements with the
curriculum vitae of the proposed candidates.
Environmental Aspects and Participatory Approach
In accordance with OD 4.01, the proposed project has been classified as Category C, since it
involves only institution building. However, the project places strong emphasis on building capacity
in environmental analysis and dissemination of environmental information.'" The feasibility study
includes an environmental audit to identify the key environmental issues in Georgia in order that
GIOC can evaluate the environmental impact assessment that any pipeline investors would be required
IO/ This will be carried out in parallel with the ongoing Institutional Development Fund grant for strengthening
Institutional Capacity for Environmental and Natural Resource Management and the Global Environment
Facility for Integrated Coastal Zone Management under the Black Sea Environmental Program.



- 6 -
to undertake (see Annex 4). It also places emphasis on assessing market potential in Black Sea
countries, in view of the environmental constraints on shipping oil through the Bosphorus." The
training fund supplements the on-the-job training of the feasibility study with formal training in
environmental impact assessment, and provides for training in stakeholder analysis and public
consultation in order to maximize public participation in environmental decision-making. In addition,
the feasibility study provides for a review of the legal and regulatory issues pertaining to
environmental considerations, and such issues will be included within the terms of reference of the
negotiations advisors.
II/ The Government of Turkey has repeatedly expressed concerns over the environmental implications of
increasing volumes of oil shipped through the Bosphorus.



-7 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
OIL INSTITUTION BUILDING PROJECT
Key Project Activities and Performance Monitoring Indicators
Unit   May    Sept       Oct     Dec       Project
'97     '97      '97     '98     Completion
Monitoring Targets
1. Review and update studies by    %     100        -       -                    100
AIOC, BOTAS and others on
various pipeline routes
2. Preliminary design, route     %        10       70     100                    100
survey, loading terminal, cost
estimate and implementation
plan
3. Economic and Financial        %         0      50      100                    100
analysis on various
throughput assumptions to be
agreed with GIOC
4. Commercial structure and      %         0       50     100        -           100
development of tariff models
5. Environmental Audit           %        10       70     100        -           100
6. Recommendations after legal   %         0       50     100        -           100
and regulatory review
7. Preparation of training       %         0       50     100        -           100
program for GIOC
8. Implementation of training    %         0      20       60      100           100
9. Negotiations Advice'2
2/   Timing to be deternined.



-8 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
Expected            Expected Outputs     Monitoring        Means of       Assumptions
Outcome/Impact                          Indicators         Verification
1.Initial          Review of         Submission of  Employment
identification and  existing reports   inception      of
evaluation of       and preparation    report of      consultants
technically viable  of inception      GIOC and        in time and
and environmentally  report.          IDA.            GIOC giving
sustainable pipeline                                  data.
routes.
Outcome
Enhanced capacity
of GIOC to support
the Government of
Georgia in
negotiations for oil
pipeline transit.
Impact
Generation of sub-
stantial fiscal
revenue,
employment and
economic growth.
Enhanced
attractiveness of
Georgia as a
location for foreign
investment.
2.Feasibility Study   Completion of  Review of       GIOC
(produced by        route surveys and  draft final    obtains
consultants in close   submission of  report by       necessary
collaboration with    draft final report.  GIOC and   permits,
GIOC).                                IDA and         clearances
acceptance.    and
information
from transit
countries.



- 9-                                  ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
3.Preparation of    Submission of     Review of       Adequacy of
training program for  draft final report.  draft final  consultants'
GIOC.                                   report and      experience in
acceptance by   assignment.
GIOC.
4.Implementation    Preparation of    Review of       Availability
of training.         training reports   training report  of qualified
by trainees.      by GIOC and    and
IDA.            motivated
trainees.
5.Negotiations      Preparation of    Review of       Adequacy of
advice.              progress reports.   progress       consultants'
reports by      experience in
GIOC and        assignment.
IDA.



- 10-
ANNEX 2
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
OIL INSTITUTION BUILDING PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Approximate Dates         Activities         Staff Composition        Staff Weeks
June 1997             Reviewing Inception    Task Team Leader,              3*
Report                Engineer, Lawyer (no           (4)
mission) and
Environmental
_ ______________________    Specialist (no  mission)
October 1997          Review and            Task Team Leader,               6*
Discussion of Draft   Engineer, Lawyer and           (6)
Feasibility Report    Environmental
Specialist
November 1997         Desk Review of Final   Task Team Leader,              (6)
Feasibility Report and   Engineer, Lawyer
GIOC's Training       and Environmental
Program               Specialist
January 1998          Review of Progress on  Task Team Leader,              4*
Training and          Engineer, Lawyer               (2)
Negotiations Advice    and Environmental
Specialist
July 1998             Review of Progress on  Task Team Leader,              4*
Training and          Engineer, Lawyer               (2)
Negotiations Advice    and Environmental
Specialist
January 1999          Review of Progress on  Task Team Leader,              3*
Training and          Engineer, Lawyer               (1)
Negotiations Advice    and Environmental
Specialist               .-
December 1999         Implementation        Task Team Leader,               2*
Completion Report     Engineer                       (2)
TOTAL                                                                       45
Field Mission
()Time in Office



- 11 -
ANNEX 3
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
OIL INSTITUTION BUILDING PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement Methods'3
(Thousand US$)
Project            ICB            LCB           Other         Non-IDA         Total
Element                                                      Financed'4
Consulting         0.00           0.00           1,400          100           1,500
Services and                                   (1,400)                        (1,400)
Training
Total Cost         0.00           0.00           1,400           100          1,500
=____ _   _(1,400)                  (1,400)
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(Thousand US$)
Category                      Amount                 % of Expenditures to be
Financed
Consulting Services and                  1,400                  100% of Expenditures
Training
Estimated Total Disbursements            1,400
I3/ Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts funded by IDA.
74/ Represents GIOC contribution.



- 12 -
ANNEX 4
BAKU - SUPSA MAJOR OIL EXPORT PIPELINE
FEASIBILITY STUDY - SUMMARY OF THE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Georgia is under consideration by private investors as one of a number of possible transit
countries for crude oil to be transported by pipeline from Baku, Azerbaijan. Two options for
Georgian transit are currently under review (transit through various combinations of Armenia, Iran,
Russia, and Turkey is also under consideration). One route from Baku through the Tbilisi area to
Ceyhan (on the Turkish Mediterranean coast) is to be studied under a World Bank loan to Turkey
(Baku-Ceyhan Oil Export Pipeline TA Project); other routes from Baku to Ceyhan may also be
studied under that loan. The other route, from Baku through the Tbilisi area to Supsa (on Georgia's
Black Sea coast) would be the subject of the proposed study, to be financed by an IDA credit to
Georgia. The proposed study would also consider the related oil storage depot and tanker terminal at
Supsa.'5
The proposed feasibility study aims to provide on-the-job training for Georgian personnel in
the economic and technical evaluation of pipeline options in order to build capacity in international
contract negotiations. In this regard, the consultants shall: (a) evaluate environmentally sound options
and recommend the most cost-effective routing through Georgia for the proposed pipeline, its size and
all associated facilities; (b) prepare budgetary cost estimates based on the recommended route and
conceptual design; (c) identify the best-suited location for the proposed pipeline terminal at Supsa and
prepare its conceptual design and budgetary cost estimates; (d) develop recommendations on the
pipeline tariff model; (e) identify training needs for GIOC personnel concerning pipeline and terminal
operations; and (f) undertake a legal and regulatory review.
The scope of work for each section should cover, but not be limited to, the following.
Pipeline:
(a)  Review all existing studies and technical data made available and prepare recommendations
regarding environmentally-sound options for route, capacity, pumping arrangements and
associated facilities for transporting export oil, beyond the early oil export, through a Baku-
Supsa pipeline.
(b)  Carry out route survey indicating alternatives, if any, and justification for the selected option.
The survey should cover the full routing of the pipeline. The proposed rights-of-way for the
pipeline and associated facilities should be selected to minimize impact on environment and
reduce hazards to population and public property.
(c)  Review crude oil import requirements in countries around the Black Sea (particularly Romania,
Bulgaria, Ukraine and Turkey), evaluate landed cost benefit of various options for these
15f   The choice of Supsa as the terminal for a major export pipeline is conditional on environmental approval
being received for an early oil terminal at Supsa.



- 13 -
countries and estimate their likely requirement of crude oil ex-Supsa. Take into account such
export requirement and estimate the quantity of oil that will be routed through Supsa, over and
above the early oil.
(d)  Consider at least two sizes of the pipeline (for each throughput assumed) while determining the
number and locations of the pump stations, and calculating capital and operating costs.
(e)  Investigate various pipe coating and wrapping materials and identify the most suitable one,
indicating comparative costs and benefits.
(f)   Evaluate possible options and identify the most suitable cathodic protection system that will suit
the soil analysis results and indicate source of power supply, if required.
(g)  Evaluate different options for telecommunication facilities for monitoring crude oil flow and
measurement and for general operations and maintenance. Identify a suitable supervisory
control and data acquisition (SCADA) system.
(h)  Indicate locations for pipeline scraper launching and receiving barrels and the types best suited
for pipe cleaning.
(i)  Indicate crude oil measurement facilities, locations and type recommended.
0)   Provide details of essential items of equipment and materials.
(k)  Provide conceptual design of all branch-off junctions along the pipeline, if any.
(I)   Compare capital costs for various options studied.
(m)  Prepare a general environmental audit identifying households that will be dislocated and/or lost
access to resources due to the proposed project. Evaluate project related impacts on agricultural
land, range land, forest, water sources, and other wild lands and recommend remedial
measures. Prepare an assessment of potential oil spillage and recommend mitigating measures.
Highlight areas of delicate or special ecology, major archaeological sites and national parks.
Portions of the pipeline route susceptible to earthquake, landslide, avalanche, flooding and other
natural disasters should be identified. Assess the cost of preventive measures necessary to
reduce the impact of such natural disasters on the integrity of the pipeline system to an absolute
minimum.
It should be noted that analysis of the section of the pipeline from Baku to the Tbilisi area is
intended to be based mainly on a review of information to be provided to GIOC from the World
Bank-financed study of Baku-Ceyhan (conducted by Turkey), to the extent possible.
Supsa Oil Tanker-loading Terminal:
(a)  Review all existing data on Supsa, including undersea currents and sea bed conditions and carry
out additional tests, as necessary, to evaluate the most suitable location for the proposed
terminal from the point of view of navigational safety and environmental soundness.



- 14 -
(b)  Review the condition of the ocean channel for tanker approach for the selected location and the
sea bed condition for the tanker turn-table and recommend the most cost effective design for the
terminal and associated facilities, taking into account different scenarios regarding volume of
export crude from the proposed terminal, and sizes of tankers expected to be handled at the
terminal.
(c)  Review and recommend suitable safety and navigational facilities at Supsa which will match
international standards.
(d)  Review and recommend facilities for collecting ballast water from tankers at Supsa comparable
with international standards.
(e)  Review the environmental impact, as per Georgian and IDA guidelines, of oil storage and
handling operations planned for Supsa and recommend methods and facilities to minimize
environmental pollution as a result of the proposed terminal's tanker-loading operation.
(f)   Estimate the size of tanker loading facilities, storage tanks, pumps, piping and all associated
facilities required for a modern oil tanker loading terminal, suitable for the recommended
volume of crude oil handling, and prepare conceptual design to carry out reliable cost estimates.
(g)  Review the facilities, services and materials available from Georgia and take them into account
in preparing the conceptual design and cost estimates. Prepare the capital and operating costs
for the proposed terminal in such detail that the results could be directly incorporated in the
evaluation of the export pipeline economic study.
Legal and Regulatory Review:
(a)  Examine existing laws, regulations and decrees in both Azerbaijan and Georgia which directly
affect the construction of a transnational oil pipeline;
(b)  Consider the need for, and essential provisions of, international bilateral or multilateral state
agreements amongst the transit states for the harmonization of such laws, regulations; etc., to
enable the construction and operation of such an export pipeline;
(c)  Ascertain what land easement/rights of way/permits are necessary and how they would be
granted in both countries for the construction and operation of such a transnational oil pipeline,
including such easements, etc., as would be necessary for all infrastructure associated with such
a pipeline; and
(d)  Examine, in both countries, any exonerations and exemptions, either available or to be
recommended, with respect to taxes other charges associated with the construction and operation
of a transnational oil pipeline and its associated infrastructure.
Training of Georgian Personnel:
The primary objective of the proposed study is the provision of training to Georgian personnel.
The consultants shall assist GIOC in selecting suitably qualified Georgian personnel to work with the



- 15 -
consultants' own experts in various fields and provide adequate on the job training in conducting
different facets of pipeline studies (as described in this scope of work), such as use of
computers/specialized instruments, environmental audits, investment appraisal and pipeline tariff
modeling. The consultants shall also identify training needs concerning pipeline/terminal negotiations
and operations and recommend a suitable training program.






GEORGIA                                                                     ELEVATIONS:
fet  0    100   200   300   400   500
OIL INSTITUTION BUILDING PROJECT                                                                                    10,000feet   I                              I 2
r   5,000                     KILOMETERS
EARLY OIL PIPELINES                               *)   NATIONAL CAPITALS                            2,000         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank
PROPOSED MAJOR EXPORT PIPELINES                                                              -       1 ,000       The boundor,e, colors,dee-nysinatioth ndany oithe- tiornsation
RELATED TO THE PROJECT                                 INENTOABUDRE                                                how on this -tp do not imply, o- the part 0f The World Bank Grnap,
0            any adg-ent on the legalstatus of any territory or any endorsement
or acceptanca of soch boondries.
256       ._                 30'                          35'                          40                           45'           )   " '         so'
UKRAINE                                       S                 Volgagrad             /                          KAZAKSTAN
\MOLDOVA                                                            -                        RUSSIAN
t     -     x ... \,Chisinau\j>                                                                      FEDERATION
- ROMANIA                  -  *Odesa
xl:: '.                                         . / /  \  -- 45
*Bucharest                                              Novorossiysl  '-
,~~~~'~~~.<                                Tuspse             \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rozny
BUtGAklA                                                      ,iq   hochkal~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hohal
-BUt&GARtA
Poti~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@v^ ? ~~~~~~~~~~~Samsun Btm: 
lstanbul* e             ,         psV       
LU       )                                                                                                                                                                  -
L    *             .                      T U R K E Y                                               riie ;-Bzuim  r   -       r>
1S L 0, T,z                                                                                         1. YeirwI.eJ\ig
n  .  ,  ?  .:  <:  >  -  . .  (:eyhan
SYRIAN                                        -r
m35                                           CYPRUS                   ARAB REPUBLIC                                         4          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF tRAN
3j5'                                          IRAQ        v;A                          50









IMAGING
Report No.: r-r    7025   GE
Type:TAt.J 0P1'



