Report No. PIC4948
Project Name                     Georgia-Oil Institution Building
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Oil and Gas
Project ID                       GEPE44830
Borrower                         Government of Georgia
Implementing Agency              Georgian International Oil Corporation,
Mr. Giorgi Vashakmadze, Executive Director,
7, Freedom Square, Tbilisi,
380007, Georgia
Tel: 995-32 935694,
fax: 995-32 935744
Environment Category             C
Date this PID Prepared           April 4, 1997
Board Date                       April 8, 1997
Peer Reviewers                   Michael Levitsky, Charles McPherson
BODY of the PID:
Country and Sector Background
1       Georgia is a country of 5.4 million people bounded by the
black sea, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Turkey and Russia. It has played a
historic role as a transit country between Asia and Europe and its
independence in 1991 reopened the country's transit possibilities.
Until 1994, Georgia's political instability did not allow the
realization of that potential, but the conclusion of a cease-fire
in the Abkhazian separatist dispute in that year marked a sharp
improvement in the political and economic situation which has been
sustained. This increased stability has focussed attention on
Georgia as one possible outlet for the huge oil reserves of the
Caspian region.
2       On October 9, 1995, it was announced that Georgia would be
one of two transit countries (along with Russia) for "Early Oil"
from the first phase of exploitation of crude petroleum under the
Caspian Sea by the Azerbaijan international operating company
(AIOC), a consortium of 12 oil companies. The Georgian
International Oil Corporation (GIOC) was created on November 11,
1995 as a state-owned enterprise to act as AIOC's counterpart in
Georgia.
3       AIOC will finance the investment in transit facilities for
Early Oil through Georgia, which involves creating a continuous
pipeline from Baku, Azerbaijan to Supsa (see 1/) on the Georgian Black
Sea coast. This requires rehabilitation of existing pipelines,
construction of some new stretches of pipeline, and construction of
an oil storage depot and tanker terminal at Supsa. Early Oil is
expected to begin flowing through the pipeline by end-1998. The



investment in early oil facilities is subject to a pipeline
construction and operating agreement (PCOA) concluded between GIOC
and the shareholders of AIOC (signed on march 8, 1996).
4       GIOC has been conceded the use of existing facilities, which
it has in turn conceded to AIOC (under the PCOA). GIOC will also
provide liaison services between AIOC and the government of
Georgia. In return for conceding those facilities and providing
those services, GIOC will receive tariff income from AIOC. GIOC is
also obliged by the PCOA inter alia to participate in an
environmental impact assessment, develop a safety monitoring system
for the pipeline, and approve AIOC's pipeline construction plans.
5       In the first year of its existence, GIOC has developed
significant capacity, but much remains to be done if Georgia is to
realize its full potential as a transit country. In particular,
Georgia is one of the transit options for major export pipelines,
i.e. Development of large-scale export from the Caspian region
beyond Early Oil. AIOC is currently studying a number of major
export pipeline routes and is expected to recommend a subset of
these to its shareholders by mid-1997 for further analysis and
possible negotiations. In addition, other oil developers in the
region are considering Georgia as one of their transit options.
However, substantial institution building will be needed if GIOC is
to provide the government of Georgia the technical support it needs
in any negotiations for a major export pipeline.
Objectives
6       The objective of the proposed project is to enhance the
capacity of Georgia to undertake international negotiations in
respect of oil pipeline transit. This will improve Georgia's
ability to benefit from oil development in the Caspian region by
attracting private investment in the necessary transport
infrastructure. Such capacity-building will include financial,
commercial, engineering, environmental and legal aspects. This
objective is to be achieved through on-the-job training, formal
training courses, and advisory services.
Description
7       The project consists of four components:
(a)     a feasibility study (by international consultants
collaborating with Georgian counterparts) of a major oil export
pipeline from Baku, Azerbaijan to Supsa, Georgia and of related
terminal and storage facilities at Supsa. This study is intended to
provide on-the-job training in project economics, pipeline tariff
determination, environmental audit, legal review, project
management and project financing, in order to enhance Georgian
capacity to negotiate transit terms with private investors;
(b)     a training fund to finance Georgian participation in formal
training courses in Georgia and abroad, and on-the-job training in
international companies in the oil industry. Such courses would
- 2 -



include: (i) pipeline transport economics (including principles of
taxation); (ii) international contract negotiation skills; (iii)
environmental impact assessment (including stakeholder analysis and
public consultation); (iv) legal principles of transcountry
pipeline construction & operation; (v) principles of oil
accounting, general accounting and auditing; and (vi) project
financing;
(c)     negotiations advisors to provide specialized legal and
financial advice prior to and during negotiations for oil transit,
as well as to assist in preparing related contractual documents;
(d)     project management services to be provided in kind by GIOC.
Financing
The total project cost is estimated at US$ 1.5 million, financed by
the proposed credit of US$ 1.4 million equivalent and by a
contribution in kind for project management from GIOC to an
estimated value of US$ 100,000.
Implementation
9.      The ministry of Finance will represent the borrower, the
Republic of Georgia, and will onlend the proceeds of the credit to
GIOC. The project will be implemented by GIOC Include names and
responsibilities of agencies charged with implementing individual
components, expected participation of stakeholders and NGOs, and
incentives to the participation of such groups. in its function as
technical support agency for the government in its negotiations for
oil transit through Georgia. The executive director of GIOC, as
project manager, will oversee project implementation; procurement
and management of consultants will be his direct responsibility,
while disbursement, accounting, and loan repayment will be managed
by the finance department of GIOC.
10.     Terms of reference for the feasibility study have been
prepared by GIOC (with the assistance of bank staff). The terms of
reference emphasize the need for close involvement by GIOC
counterparts in the work of the consultants, in order that the
primary objective of on-the-job training is achieved. Terms of
reference for the negotiations advisors have been drafted, and will
be finalized once the scope of the negotiations becomes clear. An
indicative training program has been prepared for financing from
the training fund, and will be finalized after the consultants
conducting the feasibility study have undertaken a detailed
training needs assessment of GIOC.
11      The selection process for all consulting, advisory and
training services will be in accordance with the bank's "guidelines
for use of consultants by world bank borrowers and by the world
bank as executing agency" (August 1981). No goods procurement is
provided for under the credit. All letters of invitation and all
contracts will be subject to prior review by IDA. The letter of
invitation for the consultants to undertake the feasibility study
-3 -



has already been issued in view of the need for expeditious
preparation for oil transit negotiations, which is associated with
the pace of oil development in the region.
12      The project manager will be responsible for ensuring that the
finance department of GIOC maintains project accounts in accordance
with bank guidelines on financial reporting. The special account,
project accounts, SOEs and GIOC's company accounts will be audited
by suitably qualified independent auditors acceptable to IDA; audit
reports will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of
each financial year. The audit reports will include a statement
verifying that the amounts disbursed against SOEs have been used
for the purpose intended.
Sustainability
13      The proposed project is intended primarily to build capacity
to undertake negotiations related to a major oil export pipeline
from Baku to Supsa. However, Early Oil agreements contain periodic
renegotiation clauses, and other oil and gas transit projects
through Georgia are under consideration; the capacity built by the
proposed project would therefore have spinoffs for later
negotiations. The identification of a key counterpart institution,
GIOC, for the project will increase the sustainability of the
proposed project.
Lessons learned from past Operations in the Country/Sector
14      The implementation experience of the Georgia Institution
Building and Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credits
(Credit No. 2641 and 2847, approved July 5, 1994 and April 18, 1996
respectively) shows the value of timely institution building
assistance in Georgia. However, experience of advisory services
provided at very short notice for Early Oil negotiations under the
Institution Building Credit suggests that sustained involvement of
advisors at all stages of preparation and actual conduct of
negotiations is desirable. Lessons learned from comparable projects
elsewhere demonstrate the importance of selecting internationally-
reputable consultants using bank competitive procedures and of the
implementing agency being fully committed to the project.
Environmental aspects and participatory approach
15      In accordance with OD 4.01, the proposed project has been
classified as category c, since it involves only institution
building. However, the project places strong emphasis on building
capacity in environmental analysis and dissemination of
environmental information. The feasibility study includes an
environmental audit to identify the key environmental issues in
Georgia in order that GIOC can evaluate the environmental impact
assessment that any pipeline investors would be required to
undertake. It also places emphasis on assessing market potential in
Black Sea countries, in view of the environmental constraints on
shipping oil through the Bosphorus (see 2/). The training fund supplements
the on-the-job training of the feasibility study with formal
- 4 -



training in environmental impact assessment, and provides for
training in stakeholder analysis and public consultation in order
to maximize public participation in environmental decision-making.
In addition, the feasibility study provides for a review of the
legal and regulatory issues pertaining to environmental
considerations, and such issues will be included within the terms
of reference of the negotiations advisors.
Program objective categories
16      The proposed project would contribute to the development of
Georgia through its potential impact on fiscal revenues and private
participation in infrastructure investment. Its emphasis on
capacity building in environmental analysis with public
participation will enhance the sustainability of that development.
Contact Point:           Jon walters, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone no.:   (202) 473-2468
Fax no.:   (202) 522-0078
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 11, 1997.
1/      An environmental impact assessment is underway.    Once it has been completed,
the design of the pipeline, Supsa terminal and environmental mitigation systems
will be subject to Georgian Government approval.
2/      The Government of Turkey has repeatedly expressed concerns over the
environmental implications of increasing volumes of oil shipped through the
Bosphorus.
-5-



