Document of
The World Bank                   FIL   COY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3014-MOR
MOROCCO
FOURTH LOAN TO CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER (CIH)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
December 18, 1980
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Dirhams (DH) per US Dollars)
Period Average
1977                       4.50
1978                       4.16
1979                       3.90
August 1980                       3.86
Source: IMF, International Financial Statistics
October 1980
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CIH            Credit Immobilier et Hotelier
CDG            Caisse de Depot et de Gestion
BCP            Banque Centrale Populaire
BNDE           Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
CNCA           Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
MOT            Ministry of Tourism
ONMT           Office National Marocain du Tourisme
WTO            World Tourism Organization
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
ONCF           Office National des Chemins de Fer
CMKD           Consortium M4aroc-Koweitien de Developpement
SICOPAR        Societe Industrielle de Construction et de Participation
CREFOGA        Credit Foncier du Gabon
SIDET          Societe Immobiliare pour le D6veloppement Touristique
CEN            Caisse d'Epargne Nationale
CASBAH         Calcul Applique de Simulation Base sur l'Administration
des Hotels
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This report was prepared by Messrs. Mohamadou Diop, Franco Batzella (EMPID)
and Mr. Iain Christie (URB/TAS) with the assistance of Ms. Eriko Ishikawa (URB).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOROCCO
APPRAISAL OF THE CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER (CIH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
t
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION         .............................................     1
II.  THE TOURISM SECTOR .......................                             1
A.   Recent Developments ..................................            1
B.   Impact on Moroccan Economy ..... ...............                  3
C.   Administration and Policies ..... ..............                 4
D.   Performance and Prospects of Tourism Investments .....           8
III. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ......................................           13
A.   Introduction ........................................            13
B.   Mobilization of Private and Institutional Savings ....           14
C.   Interest Rates and Cost of Capital ...................          15
IV. CIH'S STRUCTURE AND PROCEDURES                ..                       16
A.   Establishment and Corporate Status ......... .........           16
B.   Board and Committees               .......                      16
C. Management and Staff                   ..                         17
D. Policies and Procedures                 ..                        17
V.   CIH'S OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE AND PROSPECTS ...............           20
A. Characteristics of Operations               ..                     20
B.   Performance Under Bank Financed Projects .............          22
C.   Prospects for CIH's Operations            ..                    23
VI.  CIH'S FINANCIAL SITUATION AND PROSPECTS ...................           25
A. Resource Position                    ..                            25
B.   Financial Performance and Position                              26
C. Quality of Loan Portfolio                ..                       27
D. Audit Performance                    ..                            30
E. Resource Requirements                  ..                          30
F. Financial Prospects                   ..                           32
VII. THE PROJECT:  LOAN BENEFITS/RISKS .........................           33
A.   Benefits and Risks .................  .. ...............         33
B.   Loan Features .......................................            34
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..............  .. ...........         35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Annexes
1. Morocco: Evolution of Tourist Arrivals (1973-1979)
2. Morocco: Tourist Accommodation Capacity in 1978 and 1979
3. Morocco: Hotel Occupancy Rates (1978-1979)
4. Morocco: MOT Estimated Cost of Technical Assistance
5.  CIH:  Proposed Methodology for Appraisal
6.  CIH:  Loan Operations - Actual and Forecasts
7.  CIH:  Resource Position (September 30, 1980)
8.  CIH:  Audited Income Statements (1976-79)
9.  CIH:  Audited Balance Sheets (1976-79)
10.  CIH:  Financial Performance Indicators (1976-79)
11.  CIH:  Analysis of Loan Arrears
12.  CIH:  Resource Needs and Financing Plan
13.  CIH:  Projected Income Statements (1980-83)
14.  CIH:  Projected Balance Sheets (1980-83)
15.  CIH:  Projected Performance Indicators (1980-83)
16.  CIH:  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
17.  Data and Documents in File



MIOROCCO
APPRAISAL OF CREDIT 2IMOBILIER ET HOTELIER (CIH)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIII) was founded in 1920 as a
mortgage bank specializing in the long-term financing of housing construction.
Since 1960 it has also been practically the sole source of long-term institu-
tional financing for hotel projects in Morocco. Since August 1970 the Bank
has made three loans to CIH amounting to US$48.7 million 1/; the first two
loans have been fully disbursed. The third loan of $25 million was signed
July 2, 1976, fully committed June 1978 and disbursed November 30, 1980.
Besides lending to CIH, the Bank has supported Morocco's tourism development
through a $21 million loan in February 1976 for a tourism infrastructure
project in the Bay of Agadir.
1.02      CIH has asked the Bank for further financial assistance.  This
report appraises a proposed fourth loan to CIH for the financing of the
foreign exchange component of tourism projects. The project also includes a
technical assistance program to the Moroccan Ministry of Tourism (MOT) and CIH
with the principal objectives to: (i) finalize on-going cost/benefit studies
of tourism investments; (ii) further strengthen MOT-s institutional capability
with particular reference to the economic analysis of tourism projects and
development of new sector policies; and (iii) provide further training to CIH
staff in new economic methodology and computer based appraisal models such as
CASBAH.
II. THE TOURISM SECTOR
2.01      Developments in the tourism sector during 1970-79 and prospects for
1980-85 are described in recently completed studies, commissioned by the
Government and prepared by the World Tourism Organization (WTO) with UNDP
financing (Project file); their preparation came as a result of undertakings
agreed with the Government under the CIH-III loan (1279-MOR) 2/ to improve
understanding of sectoral developments (para 2.13). A summary of these
developments, prospects and relevant findings is given below.
A. Recent Developments
2.02      Foreign tourist arrivals grew from less than 0.5 million in 1968 to
about 1.3 million in 1973. This represented an annual growth of about 23% p.a.,
one of the highest among countries in the Mediterranean basin. Between 1973-76,
1/   Net of cancellations.
2/   Appraisal of Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH) Morocco, Report 1077-MOR
dated Aprril 30, 1976.



-2-
the energy crisis, political developments in the Sahara to cite the most
important factors, combined to reduce arrivals to 1.1 million by 1976. The
tourism business picked up again in 1977 with a 29% increase in arrivals
levelling off to 1.5 million in 1978 and 1979; arrivals during 1977-79
generated an estimated 5 to 6 million bednights in classified hotels and
vacation villages (the official statistics show no historic trend for bed-
nights as distinct from arrivals - Annex 1).
2.03      The relatively even seasonal distribution of tourist arrivals and
bednights conceals sharp regional variations stemming from climatic differ-
ences between the Northern Mediterranean areas (Tangiers, Al Hoceima, Nador)
and the Central and Southern resorts (Fez, Casablanca, Agadir, Marrakech).
In the North, sumner bednights account for 55% of the year's total compared
to 25% in the South. Thus while average annual bed occupancy rates range
from 50% to 60% in the Southern areas, in the North they hover around 30%.
This explains the much higher profitability of tourism investments in the
Central and Southern resorts. In the East and Pre-Saharan areas which
account for 6% of hotel capacity, occupancy rates fall below 30%.
2.04      At end-1979, Morocco's tourist accommodation capacity amounted to
62,370 beds, of which 49,900 were in classified hotels and vacation villages,
and the remaining 12,470 were in unclassified accommodations catering almost
exclusively to local travelers (Annex 2). Compared to the situation at end-
1974 which was analyzed in the CIH-III loan appraisal report, about 12,000 new
classified beds have been put in service at an annual average growth rate of
6% p.a.; this rate is consistent with the long range growth trend of demand
(para 2.25).
2.05      Tariffs.  As is the case in other Mediterranean countries, the
Government imposes ceilings on the maximum prices that classified hotels are
allowed to charge in Morocco, as a means to maintain international competitive-
ness. Floors to minimum prices are only imposed on the top-category, 5-star
hotels. Tariff ceilings, although adjusted periodically for inflation, may
have kept the prices charged to individual tourists by luxury hotels somewhat
below levels that market forces would have set. Furthermore, for the majority
of Moroccan hotels, ceilings are unlikely to have affected their profitability
significantly since group rates are negotiated competitively between hoteliers
and tour operators and their market levels are well below official ceilings.
Nonetheless, controls may adversely affect profitability and lead to distor-
tions and resource misallocation and should be removed. The Government agrees
with this position but favors a gradual approach to avoid a too sudden disrup-
tion of the market. To this end, ceilings (and floors for 5-star hotels) were
increased in May 1979 by 17% on average in agreement with the Bank. The Govern-
ment has recently removed controls on 5-star hotels and further increased
tariff ceilings by an average 18% (i.e., 25%for 4-star hotels and 15% to 10%
for other categories) pending completion of on-going studies (para 2.12).
Considering that price inflation rates were 8.3% in 1979 and 12% in 1980, the
tariffs have increased 15% in real terms in the last 18 months.
2.06      Investments.  During the 1973-77 planning period, investments in
tourism were as follows:



-.3-
DH million      Percent
Hotel investments:                                        766.2           80.0
Infrastructures                                           129.8           13.6
Studies and surveys                                         6.2            0.6
Promotion and training                                     54.9            5.8
Total                                                   957.1         100.0
The private sector accounted for 76% of new hotel investments, leading to an
additional capacity of 11,862 beds; semi-public enterprises and Office
National Marocain du Tourisme (ONMT) put up 12% each for the balance of hotel
investments. Therefore including hotel investments, direct public sector
expenditures for tourism amounted to an estimated DH 286 million in 1973-77;
this amount excludes subsidies provided under the incentives system. CIH
financing accounted for 50% of the total hotel investments, mostly for private
and to a lesser extent semi-public promoters. As the Government will no
longer directly invest in tourism, its investment expenditures are expected to
decrease while the reduction of incentives (see para 2.14) and the new pro-
motional tax 1/ on tourist bednights would have the net effect of reducing
direct subsidies to hotels.
B. Impact on the Moroccan Economy
2.07       Balance of payments.  Surveys made in 1979 on the amounts and
structures of tourist expenditures in Morocco and the availability of better
data on tourists length of stay and bednights provide more reliable estimates
of the effect of tourism on the balance of payments than were formerly
possible. Gross foreign exchange receipts from tourism were estimated at
DH 1.5 billion ($350 million) in 1977 compared to DH 1 billion ($250 million)
in 1974, and accounted on average for 15% of Morocco's total foreign exchange
receipts from goods and services in 1973-77. The import component of current
expenditures associated with tourism operations is estimated at 10% of
tourist receipts, thus leading to the conclusion that the net effect of
tourism on Morocco's current balance amounts to a positive 90% of gross
foreign exchange receipts from tourism. About 60% of tourists' expenditures
accrue to hotels while the balance is distributed among handicrafts (14%),
restaurants and other local services including transportation.
2.08       Employment generation.  The hotel industry directly employed 18,000
people in 1977. In addition, it is estimated that indirect employment
generated by tourism related activities amounted to 24,000 jobs in handicraft
production and 15,000 jobs in other branches (e.g., restaurants, transportation
and travel services, etc.). On the basis of available data, it is estimated
1/   One dirham per bednight is now regularly levied and earmarked for promotion.



that the cost per direct job amounts to $30,000 on average for hotels financed
by CIH compared to $41,400 for industrial projects financed under the BNDE-VII
loan (1061-MOR) 1/; taking into account indirectly generated employment in
the other low capital intensive activities mentioned, the overall cost per
job created by tourism activities is below $9,000 compared to $22,500 in
manufacturing industries 2/. An analysis of the economic impact of hotel
projects financed by the Bank is given below (in paras 5.07-5.10).
C. Administration and Policies
2.09      The Ministry of Tourism (MOT) and its parastatal ONMT are responsible
for administering the tourism industry, including the investment incentive
system, promoting tourism, training hotel personnel and developing tourism
related infrastructures. ONMT was until 1979 solely responsible through its
overseas offices for the promotion of tourism while also owning and managing
a few hotels (built in the early 1960's in Morocco) on behalf of the Government
through its Diafa hotel chain. This double function of ONMT coupled with its
poor staffing and lack of autonomy created a lot of confusion in its activities
and resulted in a poor performance. These developments eventually led to the
recent decision to fully integrate ONMT's staff and functions to the MOT.
Direct public sector investments in tourism have heretofore been channelled
through three agencies, ONMT, Maroc-Touriste, an affiliate of Caisse de
Depots et Gestion (CDG) and to a lesser extent the Office National des Chemins
de Fer (ONCF), the railway agency. Both ONMT and Maroc-Touriste own and
operate two hotel chains mainly in the South for the former and in the North
for the latter. The relatively poor performance of ONMT and Maroc-Touriste in
their tourism ventures has led to promotion of indirect public sector invest-
ments in association with private interests through new corporations (e.g.,
Farah-Maghreb, with CDG and Kuwaiti interests, Societe Immobiliere pour le
Developpement Touristique (SIDET) with BNDE and Royal Air Maroc). Direct
public sector investments in hotels have now been discontinued.
The System of Investment Incentives
2.10      Incentives for hotel investors are provided by the 1973 Investment
Code as revised in 1980 as follows: (i) a ten-year full or partial income
tax exemption depending on the project location; (ii) an interest free Govern-
ment advance equivalent to 15% of the estimated investment cost, excluding
land acquisition, for ten years including five years of grace; (iii) various
indirect tax reductions, including reduced rates on real estate taxes in the
early years of operation, reduced capital registration tax, and waiver of
sales tax on investment inputs (but not replacements); and (iv) since
February 1980, a 2% interest rebate on hotel loans provided by CIH (para 2.14).
1/   Data on the BNDE-VIII loan (1428-MOR) sub-projects (other than SSI)
suggest a higher cost per job created.
2/   See MOROCCO-SAR - Integrated Project for SSI Development (No. 2365-MOR
dated March 26, 1979).



- 5 -
2.11       Since the appraisal of CIH-I the Bank has expressed concern that
excessive incentives may lead to over-investment in hotels and misallocation
of resources. However, reliable tourism statistics, particularly the length
of stay of tourists in Morocco and the amount and pattern of their expenditures
in and outside hotels, were relatively deficient at the time of appraisal of
the third Bank loan to CIH in 1975. Thus neither the Bank nor the Government
were in a position to undertake an in-depth analysis of the costs and benefits
of tourism investments in Morocco. Because of these deficiencies, the Moroccan
authorities could not elaborate a rational strategy for the development of the
sector, nor could they devise a sound basis for restructuring the incentives
and tariff control policies.
2.12.      For the above reasons, agreements reached under the CIH-III loan
provided for the following undertakings to improve understanding of the
performance and impact of tourism activities, namely: (a) the launching of
a permanent system of collecting occupancy rates on a daily basis, so as to
permit an analysis of monthly occupancy rates of the different types of
accommodation in different areas of the country; (b) the parallel establish-
ment of surveys to analyze tourists' expenditure both inside and outside
hotels, so as to ascertain the actual economic benefits of tourism and to
permit the calculation of full economic rates of return of tourism investment
(i.e., taking into account non-hotel activities); (c) the completion of
regional tourism masterplans, to map out infrastructural requirements and
feasibilities for future development of the sector; and (d) the preparation of
an in-depth study of the costs and benefits of tourism investments to provide
the basis for better planning and strategies and for revising as called for
sector policies, including in particular investment incentives and price
controls.
2.13       The Government's performance on its undertakings was slow due to
lack of qualified staff in the MOT which in October 1977 was organized into a
full autonomous ministry (previously it was a department of a larger Housing
and Public Works Ministry) and because of frequent changes at the head of the
Ministry. This delayed the processing of the proposed loan though the CIH-III
loan had been committed in mid-1978. With tourism development becoming a high
priority under the Three-Year Development Plan in June 1978, the pace of
implementation of the agreed understandings improved with the following
results:
(i)  collection of statistical information and reliable data on hotel
occupancies and bednights: for 1978 and 1979, complete sets of such
data are available for the first time and following increased
staffing and the upgrading of the MOT's Studies Division, this
collection is now institutionalized;
(ii)  a detailed tourist expenditure survey was undertaken and completed
by a consulting firm (Dar Al Handasah) based on terms of reference
drafted with Bank assistance; the Bank also advised the consultants
on the methodology and execution of the survey. The survey provides
an up to date estimate of foreign tourist expenditure and vital
information on tourist motivations and socio-economic backgrounds
for input in marketing and promotional activities; in addition, a
permanent tourist expenditure survey patterned on the present survey
is being established in the MOT by the consultant;



- 6 -
(iii) regional masterplan studies are being executed, albeit at a
much slower pace than foreseen due to administrative delays;
the Bank has provided advice on terms of reference and on the
preliminary results of some of the studies. However, all the
studies will not be completed before end-1980 and their
coordination and future synthesis into a coherent investment
program will only be possible in mid-1981; and
(iv) in July 1979, and under financing of a UNDP project the WTO
started the execution of two of the three phases of the study of
the costs and benefits of tourism investments.  The terms of
reference of this study were prepared with Bank assistance.
Reports on phases-I and II have been reviewed in detail with the
Bank and are now completed.
2.14.     These reports were found to be reliable and adequate for initiating
interim policy changes by the Government and providing enough grounds for the
Bank to proceed with the proposed loan. The findings of these reports have
provided reliable inputs for the preparation of the present report as well as
of the new Five-Year 1981-85 Development Plan. In particular, better approxi-
mations of the full economic rate of return as well as financial profitability
of hotels have been made (See paras 2.17-2.23). On the policy level the
Government agreed and implemented the following measures:
(a) The interest rebate of 5% on hotel loans by CIH has been
reduced to 2%, by Ministerial decree in February 1980.
As CIH's nominal interest rates have also been gradually
increased from 8.75% in June 1976 to 13% and 15% (depending
on terms of the loan) in 1980, effective interest rates
charged to hotel borrowers have increased from 4.5% at the
time the CIH-III loan was negotiated to 11% and 13%; this
brings CIH lending rates to be the highest applied in Morocco
(see paras 3.07-3.08).
(b) Recovery of the full cost of infrastructure by charging appropriate
prices on serviced land made available to hotel project promoters is
now systematically sought. The policy attempts to expand to the
entire sector pricing practices successfully applied under the Bank
financed Bay of Agadir (SONABA) tourism infrastructure project
(Loan 1202-MOR).                                                                    *
(c) In order to maximize economic returns on tourism investments,
the MOT issued guidelines to: (i) promote hotel projects in
areas where important infrastructural investments have been
made (e.g., SONABA Agadir), and (ii) suspend the promotion of
new hotel projects in areas with excessive capacity and for
those hotel categories where average bed occupancy rates
are less than 40% p.a. (e.g., principally in the North
Mediterranean beaches).
(d) Tariffs were substantially increased and their gradual liberation is
now underway (para. 2.05).



- 7 -
2.15.     As pointed out in the project performance audit Report (PPAR) of the
first loan (704-MOR) to CIH (see Report No. 1926 dated February 23, 1978
already circuLated to the Board of Directors), and also taking into account
new findings in the WTO studies, further undertakings on sector policies and
administration are required, and have been agreed to by the Government. Such
undertakings are designed to better implement agreed interim measures and
further rationalize the selection and orientation of new tourism investments.
To that effect the MOT intends to strengthen its staffing, and improve its
procedures, especially as regards planning, policy formulation and implementa-
tion, marketing and promotion, infrastructural investment and particularly,
the process of selection and approval of new projects to benefit from incen-
tives. At the same time CIH's impact on tourism project selection will
substantially increase (para. 4.10). In order to achieve these objectives,
the following actions are being implemented:
(a)  A program of technical assistance has been devised in cooperation
with the MOT and the WTO consultants to complete phase-TII of the
cost/benefit study (draft document available in the Project File).
The studies will be carried out by MOT and/or CIH staff, under the
guidance of international experts. MOT's staff is expected to
benefit from this exercise, by building up experience in economic
analysis. Up to US$600,000 of the proposed loan is made available
to finance the estimated foreign exchange cost of the technical
assistance program (Annex 4). The technical assistance program
could eventually be co-financed and executed under UNDP, and/or
other possible bilateral aid sources. The Government agreed
to start implementation of the technical assistance program no later
than June 30, 1981 and to complete the phase III studies by December
31, 1982.
(b)  A "Comite Technique" 1/ of the MOT reviews all tourism projects to
determine whether they should be granted the benefits of the Invest-
ment Code. The Comite generally dwelt on the technical aspects of
projects (e.g., adherence to hotel building standards) and did not
review their financial and economic viability due to lack of quali-
fied staff. In order to remedy this situation, CIH as a member of
the "Comite" agreed during the course of project preparation to
conduct an economic and financial pre-appraisal of projects before
the Comite Technique meets, and the results of such analysis are now
taken into consideration by the "Comite" when deciding whether to
grant projects the benefits of the investment code.
(c)  The Comite Technique and the MOT have set a time limit of not more
than two years for the implementation of approved projects. In the
past, lack of a time limit led to excessive delays in project
implementation and large cost overruns. This entailed correspondent
1/   Membership of the Comite also includes CIH, Ministries of Housing, Interior,
Tourism, and Finance, and local authorities in the project location.



- 8 -
increases of the cost to the Government of the incentives granted as
CIH was often obliged to reject and refer such projects back to the
Comite Technique. The new procedures, agreed during the course of
project preparation provide that certification by an approved contractor,
CIH or MOT staff that building foundations have been completed, must be
given within two years after approval; privileges accorded are cancelled
if no certification of implementation is obtained.
D. Performance and Prospects of Tourism Investments
2.16      The availability of more reliable data on tourism activities enabled
the mission to carry further the analysis of hotel projects initiated in
1975-76 during the appraisal of the CIH-III loan, using the tourism project
appraisal model CASBAH. The project file provides details of the financial
and economic analysis of hotel investments in Morocco, notably: (i) the
financial profitability of different types of hotels; (ii) the impact on
financial returns of the various incentives provided under the tourism
investment code, and (iii) the economic returns on different types of hotel
investments taking into account the diversion effect of new capacities, and
related investments on infrastructures and tourist net expenditures outside
hotels (i.e., in handicrafts, entertainment, etc...). The input data for this
analysis were collected from a representative sample of 19 hotels with several
years of operations, financed by CIH, and on the results of a detailed survey
conducted by the WTO and MOT which yielded usable data on 91 hotels; data on
tourist expenditures are based on the results of four surveys by Dar Al
Handasah consultants, coinciding with each tourism business season during
1978/1979. The main results and conclusions of this analysis which are
reviewed below, show that (i) tourism investments, except possibly those in
the North, yield adequate financial and sound economic returns, and (ii) the
incentives are indeed effective in raising returns to equity, but do not
appear to induce misallocation of resources.
Financial Analysis
2.17      The financial as well as economic analyses are based on average
regional occupancy rates achieved in 1978; hotels are assumed to reach these
rates after a four year start-up period. This assumption is conservative as
new hotels could be expected to outperform the sector as assumed by the WTO
consultants An inflation rate of 8% p.a. has been assumed consistent with
Bank projections for Morocco. Gross operating profits vary from 10% to 44% of
total sales while net profits run from negative to 26% of sales.  In current
prices, debt service coverage is sound except for investments in the North.
Financial rates of return on equity and on total investment respectively for
projects ranging from 5-star to 3-star or vacation villages, are shown below
for the main tourist regions:



- 9
Equity                         Investment
Regions                 Constant       Current            Constant         Current
Agadir               2.8 to 18.8    11.0 to 28.0        3.0 to 8.9       11 to 17.6
Marrakech            8.3 to 13.3    17.0 to 22.3        6.6 to 7.0      15.2 to 15.6
Casablanca           5.0 to 11.5    13.3 to 20.4        4.4 to 6.2      12.8 to 14.7
North                   Neg.        Neg. to 4.2             Neg.       Neg. to 6.9
2.18      The returns on investment, while not high, are consistent with experi-
ence elsewhere in the Mediterranean, and provide assurances of reasonable
returns to investors and lenders alike. The higher returns achieved in
Marrakech reflect tariffs which are above national average (but below ceilings)
and are due to a tight hotel supply situation. The somewhat lower returns in
Agadir stem from higher investment costs due to anti-earthquake design require-
ments. Investments in the North are clearly unprofitable given current
designs and investment costs and the marked seasonality, but lighter construc-
tion for seasonal business could well be profitable. Between categories,
3-star hotels and vacation villages are clearly the most profitable thus
comfirming the market trend toward medium luxury family oriented accommodations.
Real returns on equity for 5-star hotels tend to be low due to higher equity
funding, since 5-star hotels are not eligible for the interest-free Government
loan.
Impact of Incentives
2.19      Under the incentive system, the typical financial plan for hotels
in Morocco consists of 21-25% equity, 15% Treasury advance and 60-64% CIH
long term loans for construction and equipment, net of sales tax. Sales tax,
however, is paid by the investor and subsequently reimbursed. The mission
calculated the impact on profitability of removing incentives assuming that
the Government advance was replaced by equity funds thus modifying the initial
financial plan to 60/40 debt/equity. 1/ Constant returns to equity illustrating
the impact of removing incentives, together and severally, are shown below for
selected hotels.
1/   A possible alternative, replacing the Government advance with a CIH loan,
was also considered but rejected since it resulted in unrealistically
high leverage.



- 10-
Agadir        Casablanca       Marrakech
3-star          5-star           3-star
Base case                          10.7               5.0           13.3
No incentives                       5.0               2.8            6.4
No treasury advance                 7.7               5.0            9.6
No interest subsidy                 9.8               4.5           12.4
No construction tax exemption       9.5               4.3           12.2
No income tax holiday               8.4               3.6           10.4
2.20      Under the assumptions of the model, the incentives package roughly
double returns to equity. Of the incentives, the treasury advance appears to
be the most effective in raising financial returns (but also requires a heavy
outlay of Government funds) followed by the income tax holiday. However
with rapid inflation, hotels are generating profits even in the early years
of operation resulting in an early income tax liability. Although probably
very important to investors psychologically, the new 2% interest subsidy
is of limited impact 1/ over the life of investments. The present levels
of incentives are effective in increasing low equity returns. It is unlikely
that removal of incentives could be offset, in the short to medium term,
by higher tariffs and/or occupancies resulting from a lower rate of investment.
To take an example, for the 3-star Agadir hotel above, either tariffs would
have to rise 40%, or occupancies 25% (or some combination of both) to
offset removal of incentives (that is, to give an IRR of 10%).
2.21      In Morocco, tourism investors expect minimum 15-20% annual returns
on their investment over a relatively short horizon which translates into real
IRRs of 5-10% on equity over the economic life of a project. On this basis,
all the hotels analyzed here are attractive investments, save those on the
North coast. The incentives package, on the other hand, is effective where
IRR's fall in the 5-10% range; above that, incentives may be too liberal and
below would not be sufficient to provide reasonable private profitability.
Presently available data are insufficient to analyze this last question in
more detail; such a study is to be carried out under Phase-III of the cost
benefit studies. In any event, available evidence does not point to resource
misallocation having been induced by the incentive package. Pending the
results of these studies, and a review of the incentives, the present level of
incentives should be maintained.
1/   At the old interest subsidy of 5%, which will apply to some hotels to
be financed by the project, comparable IRR's on equity would be 11.7% for
the 3-star Agadir hotel, 5.8% for the 5-star Casablanca hotel and 14.3%
for the 3-star Marrakech hotel. The reduction in the interest subsidy
from 5 to 2 points changes the equity IRR by about one point, other
things being equal.



- 11 -
Economic Analysis
2.22      In its sub-project appraisal reports under the third loan, CIH
calculated a simplified ERR consisting of in-hotel expenditures and costs
adjusted for transfers. No more was possible since the data base did not at
the time exist. Now, CIH is in a position to refine its economic analysis and
has agreed during negotiations to submit all its hotel project appraisals
to the proposed methodology outlined in Annex 5 which is based on the analysis
and cut-off rate described below. The base case estimate described below
(para 2.23) will be used by CIH in the future as the economic criterion of
sub-project acceptability with a minimum cut-off rate of 12% for all tourism
projects financed by CIH. Eowever, projects benefitting from previously
granted 5% interest rebates (instead of the current 2%) would have to yield a
minimum economic return of 15% for CIH to submit them for Bank financing. The
ERR so calculated would reflect in-hotel costs and revenues, net expenditures
outside hotels, infrastructure and diversion of demand; This rate is an
acceptable proxy for the "true" ERR 1/ and provides an adequate safety margin.
It would represent a considerable improvement in CIH's present appraisal
methodology and is readily calculated since the data for its calculation are
available from the studies started under CIH-III, as well as from the detailed
reports CIH itself prepares routinely.
2.23       Not all projects to be financed under the proposed loan have
been identified. For this reason, economic rates of return have been esti-
mated for the "typical" hotels described in the financial analysis above,
conservatively assuming that present sectoral occupancy rates will prevail for
the new hotels too. Detailed definitions and assumptions for the economic
calculations are in the project file. For each type of establishment under
analysis, the base case economic rate of return was calculated to include net
benefits inside and outside hotels, modified to take into account demand
diversion and infrastructural costs. Owing to uncertainties surrounding their
measurement, the price dilution effect, as well as shadow pricing of both
foreign exchange and unskilled labor, are treated as sensitivity tests. As
shown below, projects in Agadir, Marrakech, Rabat and Casablanca have accept-
able marginal economic rates of return (12-20%), compared to the estimated
opportunity cost of capital (10%). In the Mediterranean area, however,
marginal ERR's are negative, except for vacation villages, and given the
marked seasonality as reflected in the low occupancies, are unlikely to
change:
1/   This method of calculating the ERR differs from the "true" ERR in that
it includes neither shadow pricing nor price dilution impacts which tend
to cancel each other out; however, the cut-off points to be adopted by
CIH as eligibility criteria offer sufficient margin of security since
they are 2 to 5 points above the estimated opportunity cost of capital
of 10% for Morocco. A wider (by 3 percentage points) margin of security
is required for projects benefitting from the 5% interest rebate on
grounds that their artificially high financial attractiveness induces an
increased risk of uneconomic projects slipping through the screening of
CTH's economic analysis.



- 12 -
Base Economic Rates of Return by Hotel Category
5-star       4-star        3-star        V.V.
Agadir                     12            13           14            20
Marrakech                  13            13           12           N.A.
Casablanca/Rabat          14            14            15           N.A.
North                       0             0            0            10
Prospects
2.24      The improvement of tourism demand in Morocco since 1977 is consis-
tent with the performance in other Mediterranean destinations, and shows that
the effect of inflation and high fuel prices is no longer an important factor
affecting demand. The apparent erosion of the exotic appeal of Morocco is
being gradually compensated for by the increase in organized tours not only
to beach resorts (as had always been the case) but also the Imperial Cities
(such as Fez and Marrakech) where, traditionally, the bulk of the clientele
consisted of individuals. The expected increase in available accommodation
capacity, especially in Marrakech, should reinforce this trend. Another new
factor in the sector's development is the recent construction, especially in
beach resorts, of family oriented tourism residences catering to tourists
with children; this segment of the market had been largely absent from
Morocco, due to lack of suitable accommodation. Finally, the Moroccan
authorities and hoteliers now realize the inadequacy of their promotional
efforts, and are gearing up to correct this. CIH has indicated that it would
continue to assist and encourage this type of investments.
2.25      It is therefore reasonable to forecast that demand will continue to
grow at least at an average annual rate close to the long-term trend observed
since 1968 namely, 6% p.a. The WTO study proposes two different scenarios:
a conservative growth hypothesis of 6% p.a., and an optimistic 9% p.a. growth
which seems possible, if a major publicity effort was launched, particularly
targetted for untapped markets (e.g., families with children; budget-minded
mass-market and the circuit tourism clientele), and accommodation capacities
adapted to such markets are promoted.
2.26      Projects currently under way or at an advanced stage of preparation
would add 18,700 beds, or 37%, to Morocco's tourism accommodation capacity by
end 1983. The realization of these projects would change significantly the
structure of tourism establishments in Morocco. Firstly, the accomodation of
Marrakech would grow from 5,300 to 13,200 beds, and from 11% to 20% of the
country's total.  This sudden increase in capacity would occur in response to
current demand pressures. The size of the expansion, however, could lead to
strains on the city's overall absorption capacity, both from a physical, and a
socio-ecological point of view. The adoption by CIH of agreed appraisal
criteria should prevent its approval of further loans, with or without Bank
financing, to build hotels in Marrakech beyond those already in CIH's pipeline,
until new light is cast on the prospects for further expansion of tourism in



- 13 -
Marrakech beyond existing and planned capacity increases. This will be
analyzed in detail in the framework of Phase-III of the WTO study which will
also review the social, economic, and ecological impact of further expanding
tourism in Marrakech. Secondly, the capacity of Northern beach resorts will
expand by only 2,000 beds in vacation villages as a consequence of the lower
profitability of hotels in those areas.
2.27      The additional hotel capacity requirements for 1980-85 have been
estimated taking into account existing and planned capacity, including the
above projects under construction or preparation, on a region by region,
category by category basis, and assuming the current occupancy rates will
continue to prevail through 1984. Under the 6% p.a. growth scenario, 11,600
additional beds would be required by 1985, while in the hypothesis of a 9%
p.a. growth rate, 22,500 additional beds would be needed. Assuming, however,
that the new projects would bring about a distribution of capacity by regions
and categories more consistent with the evolution of demand, and that success-
ful efforts would be undertaken to reduce the seasonal variations of demand,
an improvement in average occupancy rates can be expected. Under these
conditions the projected additional capacity needed could be further reduced
to 9,000 and 17,500 new beds under the two scenarios by 1985. Taking into
account the gestation period of hotel investments, these projects would have
to obtain the necessary financing by 1983, i.e., by the end of the commitment
period of the proposed loan. In addition, since only about 70% of the projects
considered under construction or at an advanced stage of preparation (and
expected to bring on the market 18,500 new beds by 1983) have already obtained
the necessary financing, about 5,600 beds of this category will require
financing during the loan's commitment period. Thus, the conservative 6% p.a.
growth assumptions would lead to 14,600 beds (i.e. 9,000 plus 5,600) requiring
financing in the period 1980-83.
III.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Introduction
3.01.     Morocco has a well developed financial sector comprising 15 commer-
cial banks, 5 specialized institutions, and 2 savings banks (Caisse d'Epargne
Nationale (CEN)and Cheques Postaux). Long-term finance is available princi-
pally through four of the specialized institutions, CIH, the agricultural
credit bank (CNCA), and the industrial bank (BNDE), all of which have received
Bank loans; and the Caisse de Depots et de Gestion (CDG) a wholly-owned
Government institution in charge of public fund management (e.g., pension and
insurance funds, postal savings, etc.). The Banque du Maroc (BdM) is Morocco's
Central Bank. The analysis of Morocco's commercial banking system provided in
SAR: Integrated Project for SSI Development (Report 2365-MOR dated March 26,
1979) remains valid. This chapter focuses on resource mobilization for
development lending with particular reference to CIH's resource needs.



- 14 -
B. Mobilization of Private and Institutional Savings
3.02      The mobilization of remunerated private individual savings is
undertaken by commercial banks, the CNCA and the savings bank (CEN). Details
on the volume of term deposits (up to 24 months), and other savings mobilized
by these institutions are available in the project file. In 1978, DH 4373
million in such savings were mobilized compared to DH 2817 million in 1977;
commercial banks accounted for 85% of the total in 1978. The major increase
in savings mobilized in 1978 stems partly from better depositor interest
yields applied that year.
3.03      Institutional savings are mobilized in the form of medium to long
term securities subscribed to chiefly by CDG and insurance companies. The
annual issues of such securities amounted to DH 838 million in 1978, compared
to DH 800.6 million in 1977. The volume of Government guaranteed 10-and
15-year bonds issued by CIH, BNDE and CNCA doubled to DH 520.5 million in 1978
accounting for 62% of all issues; CIH alone issued DH 187.2 million in 15-year
bonds thus accounting for 36% in 1978. CIH increased its annual securities
issue to DH 257 million in 1979 and DH 240 million in 1980, suggesting that
the total volume may have increased significantly. The volume of institutional
savings available for long term finance is limited since its principal sources,
pension funds, insurance company reserves, and social security funds have
heavy recurrent commitments and depend on the relatively small number of
salaried Moroccans. Stock market transactions are limited to small volume
trading of bearer shares and bonds, mainly by institutional investors; private
individual savers play virtually no role in stock market operations due also
to the prevalence of family owned enterprises in Morocco.
3.04      The development of new easily negotiable financial instruments
(e.g., small denomination bonds) or mechanisms (e.g., savings and loan
schemes for housing finance) to improve the mobilization of private savings
and channel them for use in productive investment is now being considered by
the Moroccan authorities. The role of CIH in this regard is limited at the
present time. As agreed with the Bank CIH undertook a detailed study of two
savings mobilization alternatives. This study recommends the launching of an
experimental public DH 25 million bond issue in 1981 and the start of a
housing savings and loan scheme by CIH. The savings scheme will require some
additional 30 junior professionals to be trained and will be gradually set
up within a five year period following which it is expected to be fully
operational. It is proposed that the six-year bearer bonds be issued at par
ranging from DH 500 to DH 10,000 and with a yield that gradually increases
from 8% to 8.5%, compared to an estimated cost to CIH of 8.62%. Revenue
generated from these bonds would be tax-free and redemption is optional after
two years through a special fund to be established in CDG. Other incentives
include possible CIH ten year 8.5% loans for certain bond holders, of up to ten
times the amounts subscribed with a DH 250,000 ceiling.



- 15 -
3.05      The above plan to tap private savings in Morocco has a reasonable
chance of being successful although traditional savers preference for liquid
assets and high, short-term yielding investments (e.g. in real estate) may
take time to overcome. The fact that CIH holds the enticement of possible
loans to make savers future home owners and various other incentives envisaged
(e.g., tax incentive) gives its plan more chances of success than in the
past.
C. Interest Rates and Cost of Capital
3.06      The Government determines interest rate ceilings on deposits and
loans which apply to all institutional credit in Morocco. Cost to commercial
banks of local currency resources present a wide range of variation, as
follows: sight deposits yield no interest, except for CNCA (3%) and BCP's
sight deposits in foreign exchange by emigrants (3%); short-term deposits
yield from 4% for one-month deposits to 9% for deposits of up to 24 months;
rediscounting facilities at the Banque du Maroc vary from 4% p.a. for export
loans to 5% p.a for other medium-term loans. Interbank short-term money is
also available in small amounts and its cost averaged 8.0% in 1979. Local
currency 5-year notes and 10-and 15-year bonds carry interest cost of 9%, 9.5%
and 10% p.a. respectively, and can be mobilized only by specialized financial
institutions (CIH, BNDE, CNCA), and by large public enterprises. The cost of
directly contracted foreign exchange resources is not regulated by the Govern-
ment and, therefore, reflects international rates.
3.07      Lending rates, on the other hand, range from a minumum of 5% for
some short-term rediscountable loans to a maximum of 14% for long-term non
rediscountable loans; medium-term rediscountable loans carry an interest of
10%. CNCA-s medium term rates range from 8.5% to 10%. Nominal interest rates
charged by BNDE to industrial projects are 12% p.a. for all term loans, but
a majority of these projects obtain a 2% interest rebate from the Government,
which reduces effective rates to 11% p.a. after commissions and taxes. CIH
charges 13% for loans of up to 14 years duration and 15% for other loans
bringing effective rates paid by hotel borrowers to 11% and 13% p.a., exclusive
of commitment charges and fees 1/. Therefore the costs of CIH funds lent to
hotel borrowers are higher than agricultural and industrial borrowing costs.
CIHWs rates are expected to remain positive in real terms as the Bank projects
the inflation rates for Morocco to slow down from 12% in 1980 to 11% in 1981
and 8% from 1982 onwards.
3.08      Taking into account the interest-free advance to hotel borrowers
and the assumption of foreign exchange risks by Government for all borrowers,
some subsidy elements are implicit in the average cost of all funds lent to
hotel borrowers. However the need to prefinance the interest-free Government
1/   That is, 5% flat appraisal fee (with a DH 20,000 ceiling); 1% commitment
fee on undisbursed amounts.



- 16 -
advance (15% of investment excluding land) with an 11.5% renewable short-term
loan brings the estimated average cost of funds lent to hotel borrowers to
around 8.5%, close to positive levels considering the inflation expectations.
In the case of 5-star hotels, the effective cost of funds is much higher since
they do not receive the 15% advance.
IV. CIH-S STRUCTURE AND PROCEDURES
A. Establishment and Corporate Status
4.01      There have been no major changes in CIH's corporate status since
it was last appraised by the Bank in 1976. Though formally a private company
subject to corporate law, CIH is effectively controlled by the Government
through CDG, CIH's major shareholder. Two Royal Decrees of 1962 and 1968
established CIH's function of financing tourism enterprises in addition to
housing construction. Details on CIH's organization and ownership structure
are available in the project file, and its major features summarized below.
4.02      Branch Offices.  CIH has six regional branches to reach clients
in provincial centers and handle the processing of smaller housing loans.
Tourism loans and the larger housing loans are processed at its Casablanca
headquarters.
4.03      Ownership and Control.  CIH's share capital was increased from DH 60
million in 1974 to DH 160 million in 1980. Over half (55%) of CIH's share
capital is owned by publicly controlled institutions, the principal of which
are CDG, (with 30%) and Banque du Maroc (with 10%). However, in addition to
its nominal shares, CDG holds a large number (i.e., 25%) of bearer shares as
a proxy and uses them in stock market operations. The next large groups of
shareholders are twelve insurance companies with a combined holding of
20%, and commercial and financial institutions (15%).
B. Board and Committees
4.04      The public nature of CIH is reflected in the composition of its
Board of Directors and Executive Committee, which are both chaired by CIH's
President-Director General. Of CIH's 15 Board members, four represent the
private sector, and eleven public sector shareholders. The Board has dele-
gated most of its powers to the Executive Committee composed of six selected
Board members, besides the chairman and a non-voting Government commissioner.
Of these, three represent the principal public sector shareholders, one
represents BNDE, and three the Ministries of Finances, Tourism and Housing.
4.05      The Board has been active in monitoring CIH's expansion policies,
especially the launching of subsidiaries. The Board meets two or three
times a year. The Executive Committee, which examines and approves all



- 17 -
tourism loan proposals, and all other loans amounting to more than DH 150,000,
meets about once a month on average. The quality of its decisions has improved
in the past few years, especially since the establishment, in 1974, of an
internal loan Committee, headed by CIH's President, which screens loan pro-
posals. The Executive Committee delegates to its Chairman and a Managers'
Committee the power to approve non tourism loans up to DH 150,000 subject to
ratification by the Committee. Authority to approve housing loans equal to or
less than DH 100,000 is delegated to the directors of the regional Branch
Offices.
C. Management and Staff
4.06      In December 1979, Mr. Othmane Slimani, former Minister of Economic
Affairs, a competent career civil servant was appointed CIH's Board President
and Director General. Re succeeded Mr. El Habib El Fihri who had passed away
in February 1979. The President is seconded in his management tasks by CIH's
deputy director general, an experienced and competent career CIH professional
who handles day-to-day management and supervises a general secretariat and
three operating departments. The caliber of the department heads, particu-
larly the key Credit and Financial Operations directors, is high.
4.07      Staff.  CIH's total staff numbered 250 (including 122 professionals)
at end 1979, compared to about 216 (of whom 58 professionals) in 1976. The
growth of professional staff is explained by the expansion of CIH's portfolio
and the strengthening of the financial department necessitated by new account-
ing procedures and the more intensive follow-up of hotels financed. The
quality of CIH's professional staff is good and steadily improving.
D. Policies and Procedures
4.08      Policy Statement.  CIH's policy statement, approved by the Board of
Directors in 1974, establishes the following fundmental principles: (a)
projects financed by CIH in the tourism and housing construction sectors must
be financially, technically, and economically viable; they must be supervised
by CIH during their entire life; (b) loans must be secured by adequate
guarantees; (c) CIH shall provide its clients with technical assistance in the
conception, implementation and operations phases of the projects; (d) an
equity participation shall not exceed either 10% of CIH's total equity, or 25%
of the capital of the company in which CIH takes a participation, whichever is
less, except in special cases explicitly authorized by the Board. Total
participations must not exceed CIH's equity. As agreed with the Bank under
CIH-III, CIH's single financial exposure in any hotel project is limited to
20% of its equity, except if a full guarantee from the Government or any
institution acceptable to the Bank covers CIH's risk. The Board has reempha-
sized CIH's primary goals of lending for housing and hotel construction and
directed management to curtail equity participations and speedily proceed to



- 18 -
sell the remaining shares in CIH's former affiliates thereby effectively
putting to an end CIH s promotional ventures.l/
4.09.     Housing loans: Appraisal and Supervision.  CIR has over fifty years
of experience in the financing of housing construction. The procedures which
have been developed are, by now, standardized and effective.
4.10.     Appraisal of Hotel Projects.  The quality of CIH-s appraisals of
hotel loans has steadily improved over the years. In most cases, the technical,
legal and financial aspects of projects, as well as the management arrangements
made by the sponsors, are adequately covered by CIH-s reports, which generally
provide substantiated judgement on the merits of projects. The technical
appraisal of larger hotel projects (generally those requiring investments of
over DH 10 million) are normally reviewed by independent engineering firms.
Although hitherto CIH starts its full appraisal only after projects are
approved by the Comite Technique of MOT under the tourism investment code; in
its capacity as Comite member CIH reviews the promoter-s first proposal and
has this way nonetheless exercised some positive influence on their final
conception, design, and organization, particularly management. Under new
procedures of the Comite Technique (para 2.15 (b)) the conclusions and recom-
mendations of CIH's pre-appraisal are made available prior to Comite approval,
and hence CIRHs impact on project design should substantially increase.
4.11.     Agreements under the CIH-III loan provided that in addition to
the calculation of a simplified economic rate of return (a minimum 10% was
required) CIH would also apply to each project, whenever feasible, a test of
the magnitude of additional capacity required against existing capacity
effectively used. This test, the minimum economic occupancy rate (MEOR),
represents for each type of hotel in each region a threshold beyond which
additional capacity may be desirable on grounds of the existing capacity being
saturated at least during the peak month. The simplified economic return
calculation took no account of externalities and of the dilution and diversion
effects of new capacities on the existing hotel units. The MEOR was an
approximate attempt to at least take care of the dilution/diversion effect;
lack of reliable data precluded taking account of externalities. Agreed MEORs
were estimated for each tourist region by the Bank based on preliminary data
at the time of appraisal of the CIH-III loan. However, lack of reliable data
particularly on bednights and hotel occupancy rates by regions and categories
often impaired CIH-s market forecasts, and attempts to utilize the MEORs.
This was not unforeseen and the MEORs were merely set as guidelines, not
cut-off criteria. In order to further improve on the above methodology
particular emphasis was put on improving CIH's analysis of tourism market
prospects.
1/   In 1979 CIH divested from Safir, Farah-Maghreb, INEG and Promoconsult,
all former affiliates.



- 19 -
4.12       CIH achieved notable results by strengthening its staffing and
management and adopting these improved financial and economic appraisal
criteria. As already shown (chapter II) better data are now available, and
CIH not only improved its market analysis but its staff have partly mastered
the utilization of the computer based CASBAH hotel appraisal methodology. CIH
now routinely utilises this model for its financial appraisals in particular
and this has made it easier for the staff to concentrate on market, and
economic analysis and research and make quick pre-appraisals and sensitivity
analyses, prior to full appraisals and Comite approvals. These improvements
make it possible to adopt new appraisal methodologies precluding use of MEORs
but emphasizing economic analyses and sensitivity tests as described earlier
(para 2.22 and Annex 5). In order to provide further staff training in CASBAH
and other computer based economic appraisal models, up to $400,000 of the
proposed loan is earmarked for technical assistance to CIH for this purpose.
4.13       Follow-up of Hotel Projects.  Under the Credit Department, the
Hotel Follow-up division, which began to operate in a systematic fashion in
1974, is now staffed with five specialists, and headed by an able and ex-
perienced professional. The division supervises 117 hotels and 18 other
tourism projects (e.g., 14 restaurants). Serious problem projects have
annually received at least two visits of CIH's follow-up staff, others at
least one visit. In 1979 alone 81 hotels were thus visited, including 21
problem projects. Several of these visits have resulted in satisfactory
arrangements for the settlement of loan arrears as well as in agreements on
how to remedy structural project problems, where they have been identified.
Upon each visit the staff write detailed and good quality supervision reports,
including recommendations on actions to be taken. The Follow-up division
liaises closely with the Portfolio Supervision division of the Financial
Department. In 1978 the Portfolio Supervision division was created and
staffed with six professionals to apply new procedures agreed with the Bank
to improve and accelerate hotel and housing loan collection procedures, a
major weakness at the time of appraisal of the third loan. The division
closely coordinates with the legal, accounting and follow-up divisions
to keep up to date data on all loans in arrears, payments and pending legal
actions. In the past lack of coordination seriously impaired action on
loans in arrears. CIH's performance in regard to agreements to further
improve loan supervision and loan collection procedures has been satisfactory.
4.14      Disbursement Policies.  The proceeds of CIH's construction loans for
hotels are made available to borrowers in four main tranches, plus a 10% final
tranche which is withheld until the completion of work. CIH is also res-
ponsible for the disbursement of the Government interest-free loan. Funds are
disbursed only following field inspections by CIH's Technical Division, which
ensures that the portion of the investment to be financed first with the
promoter's equity and second with the Government loan has been completed and
paid for. Subsequent inspections ensure that each CIH loan tranche has been
utilized in accordance with the loan contract and the project's appraisal
report. When a discrepancy is found between the original plans and the
implementation of the project, disbursements are suspended until the promoter
provides satisfactory explanations. Follow-up reports and recommended correc-
tives measures are prepared by the Technical division whenever serious problems
arise on project implementation. CIH's disbursement procedures are adequate.



- 20 -
4.15      Procurement Procedures.  International competitive bidding is not
automatically required of all hotel borrowers by CIH, mainly because the joint
stock hotel firms (e.g., Farah-Maghreb, SIDET, etc..) that now form the bulk
of CIH's clientele usually go through local competitive biddings along guide-
lines generally followed by Government procurement for public works. However,
for these projects, CIH requires that the architects- plans and estimates be
reviewed and endorsed by independent engineering consultants. CIH-s own
engineers have acquired considerable experience in local construction cost
estimates and procurement practices, and are able to effectively scrutinize
cost estimates, invoices and other supporting documents provided by promoters
and their contractors.  Smaller clients (e.g., 2-star and 1-star hotels)
however tend to execute construction through a variety of contractors includ-
ing promoters' own firms; this type of clientele is nevertheless required to
go through a licensed architectural firm to oversee proper execution of
construction, and CIH scrutinizes their procurement practices closely. Over
90% of Bank funds finance local civil work and the balance imported hotel
equipment (e.g., kitchens), and foreign contractors are not likely to bid on
either of these items. Procurement under CIH financed hotel projects is
satisfactory, and the Bank's procurement guidelines for DFC will continue to
be applicable to CIH under the proposed loan.
V.  CIH-S OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE AND PROSPECTS
A. Characteristics of Operations
Lending Operations
5.01      The evolution of CIH's lending operations for the past three years
is detailed below (DH million).
1977              1978             1979
Hotel Loans                           No.   Amount      No.   Amount      No.   Amount
Approved                              31     119.6      34     119.0      34      97.3
Committed                             28     154.3      28     110.7      42    122.6
Disbursed                              -     103.4       -     146.8       -      98.0
Housing and other loans
Approved                            2973     411.7   3147       387.0   3449    413.1
Committed                           2576     351.4   2731      374.6    na      415.0
Disbursed                              -     253.6       -      313.8     -      425.5
5.02      Housing loans.  These loans finance the construction of houses and
apartment buildings, and, in some cases, commercial and office buildings, for
terms varying from 10 to 12 years at effective interest rates of 8% to 13%



- 21 -
depending on the value of the housing unit to be financed. The number of
housing units financed by CIH reached 5496 in 1979 compared to 5392 in 1978.
According to Bank consultants working on the basic economic report for Morocco,
CIH finances less than 10% of housing units built annually in Morocco. CIH'S
financing of low cost housing is funded by the Government, and its administra-
tion is subcontracted by CIH to Banque Centrale Populaire (BCP).
5.03      Hotel Loans.  Details on CIH's hotel loan approvals are given in the
project file and summarized below by type of operation (in DH million).
1977                    1978                  1979
No.  Inv.   Loan        No.   Inv.   Loan    No.   Inv.   Loan
Construction   13   121.9   64.5         10   175.0    86.2      9   103.6    52.5
Equipment       10    44.8   34.7        15    36.0    18.5    12    16.9    10.0
Expansion        8    35.9   20.4         9    32.7    14.2    13    53.1    34.8
Total           31   202.6  119.6       34   243.7   118.9    34   173.6    97.3
During the period 1977-1979, CIH approved hotel loans totalling DH 335.8
million compared to DH 290 million forecast at the time of appraisal of the
third loan to CIH. Commitments amounted to DH 387.6 million during the same
period compared to appraisal estimates of DH 278 million. CIH's levels of
hotel loan approvals and commitments during 1977-1979 are 200% and 245% higher
than the levels reached during 1973-76, respectively, and contributed in
financing 7606 new beds for an estimated investment of DH 619.9 million.
Disbursements for hotel projects followed the same pattern as commitments.
This good performance by CIH stems from better appraisal procedures, a larger
investment demand from better organized promoters encouraged by investment
incentives and higher foreign tourist inflows. The distribution of CIH's hotel
lending during the period 1977-79 is skewed towards the 4-star hotel categories
in the three main tourist areas of Marrakech, Agadir and Casablanca where
demand relative to existing capacity remained strong.
5.04      CIH's loans for hotel project carry maturities of up to 18 years,
including 3 years of grace for construction, and for equipment loans 10 years
with no grace; the latter are granted usually 3 years after the construction
loan is made. As construction loans account on average for 80% of CIH's
hotel lending, and 90% of Bank financed sub-loans, the average maturity of
hotel loans is 15 1/2 years, including 2 1/2 years of grace. As a result the
CIH-III loan (1279-MOR) was granted to CIH providing for maximum terms of 18
1/2 years (including apppopriate grace) for sub-loans, and a composite
amortization schedule of these sub-loans. Considering that the composite
amortization schedule is administratively cumbersome, the proposed loan is
granted on a fixed amortization schedule basis over 17 years, including 4
years of grace. Taking into account the expected 3-year commitment period of



- 22 -
the proposed loan, such an amortization schedule will reflect on average the
combined maturities of the sub-loans to be financed out of the proposed loan
proceeds and should entail no roll-over of Bank funds.
Equity Investments
5.05.     CIH holds equity investments amounting to DH 94.2 million in 26
companies as of September 30, 1980, compared to DH 66.9 million in 1977.  The
equity investments include 4 profitable financial institutions for 2.5% of
the portfolio; 7 firms in the housing construction business for 29%; 12
firms in tourism for 11%. Virtually all these firms are in their start-up
phase and not profitable.
5.06      One single new company founded in 1977, the Morocco-Kuwaiti Develop-
ment Consortium (CMKD) accounts for 57% of CIH's total equity investments.
The CMKD's capital of DH 315 million is owned 50% by Kuwaiti Government
interests, 17% by CIH, and 33% by two other Moroccan Banks. CIH'S participa-
tion, which exceeds 10% of its equity, has been specifically authorized by
CIH's Board. A large holding company comprising 19 corporations with shares
amounting to DH 161.6 million, CMKD now controls all of CIH's former affiliates,
and has been diversifying from real estate (25.3%) and tourism (23.6%) into
the industrial (44.2%), commercial retail and service sectors (8.9%) in
Morocco. The CMKD-s short-term prospects are however mixed since two of its
larger holdings, Farah-Maghreb (15%) and SICOPAR (6.8%) are still in their
construction phase. The second CIH holding of importance (DH 10 million or
11% of total investments) the Credit Foncier du Gabon (CREFOGA) is in serious
difficulties due to reasons beyond CIH-s control. CIH controls 50% of CREFOGA's
capital and normally nominates its managing director. Overall the quality of
CIH's equity portfolio is mixed. Risks of losses, although limited, have been
fully provisioned for DH 9.6 million as of September 30, 1980. In addition
the CREFOGA investment is fully guaranteed by the Government.
B. Performance Under Bank Financed Projects
5.07      Government actions to improve sector policies and administration,
and performance thereto have been generally satisfactory, albeit two years
behind schedule. A detailed review of performance under agreements with the
Bank, including lessons learnt from the project performance audit report on
the first loan ( No 704-MOR) to CIH was provided in chapter II. As to CIH,
the preceding review of institutional and operational performance, and that of
of financial performance in chapter VI show that expectations have not only
been generally met but in most cases surpassed. Exceptional circumstances
have temporarily worsened the arrears' situation but CIH has now the institu-
tional capability to deal with that situation more effectively than in the
past (para 6.10).
5.08      The Bank has made three loans to CIH totalling $48.7 million;
the first two loans amounting to $23.7 million have been fully disbursed.



- 23 -
The third Bank loan (1279-MOR) of $25 million signed in July 1976, and
effective in November 1976, was committed by June 1978, and fully
disbursed November 30, 1980, ahead of schedule.
5.09      Hotel projects financed under the CIH-II loan (848-MOR) of $12.8
million numbered 56 for 8800 new beds at an actual total investment of DH 300
million ($81 million) and contributed to directly creating an estimated 2850
new jobs at a cost per job of $28,400; the latter cost/job figure does not
take into account seasonal workers and indirect jobs created (i.e., during
construction, in artisanat, travel activities, etc.). Estimated economic
rates of return calculated on a simplified basis on these projects ranged
from 11% to 20%.
5.10      Under the third loan CIH financed 29 hotel projects at an estimated
total investment of DH 356 million ($ 96.2 million) for 8650 beds; the
estimated number of permanent jobs to be directly created is 2885 at a cost
per job of $33,350. Most of the hotel projects are still under construction
or in the process of equipment, so that the above figures remain tentative.
The estimated simplified economic rates of return on these projects ranged
from 8% to 35% compared to the minimum 10% required. Three projects' returns
ranged from 8% to 11%, fourteen had returns of 13% to 15%; and twelve had
returns exceeding 15%. All projects satisfied the 12% returns on equity which
most investors consider adequate as well as the 1.2:1 debt service coverage
ratio. The highest economic returns were achieved in Marrakech, Agadir, and
Casablanca. No projects were financed in the Northern Beach areas under the
CIH-III loan.
5.11      Free Limit.  The individual free limit under the last loan was set
at $800,000 equivalent and defined to include both construction and the
estimated equipment sub-loans to be made by CIH, irrespective of the amount to
be requested from the Bank for financing. There was no aggregate free limit,
and the agreed appraisal criteria applied to all sub-projects below and above
the individual free limit; as a result CIH's appraisal reports differed little
between free limit sub-projects and others. In view of CIH's much improved
appraisal capacity the above practice is maintained but the individual free
limit increased to $1,500,000 equivalent (DH 6 million) as defined above. As a
result at least 25 sub-projects requiring DH 500 million in investments and $40
million in foreign exchange, i.e., 40% of the proposed loan amount, will be
submitted to the Bank's detailed scrutiny.
C. Prospects for CIH's Operations
Housing and Other Loans
5.12      CIH's housing and related lending activities are generally con-
strained only by resource availability and the processing capacity within CIH



- 24 -
itself; demand for housing finance is growing steadily in Morocco, particu-
larly for apartment units. The Three-Year Development Plan (1978-1980)
estimates demand at 70,000 units minimum annually. The bulk of future
housing loans is made up of presold completed apartment development projects
promoted mainly by public enterprises, CDG, municipalities and the military 1/;
such projects require one appraisal and a simplified processing of grouped
individual demands and thus do not imply additional staff input. Taking into
account CIH's solid experience in housing finance, and the inflation of
construction cost, the projected commitment of DH 2,222 million over 1980-83
implying an average growth rate of 15% p.a., is reasonable.
Hotel Loans
5.13      The justification for the 14,600 beds expected to be financed by
CIH in 1980-83 and based on the conservative demand growth scenario of 6%
p.a., has been analyzed earlier (paras 2.25-2.27). The projects retained in
this pipeline of 65 hotels imply an estimated total investment of DH 1170
million and CIH financing of DH 565 million, of which $88 million in foreign
exchange; CIH will also commit DH 25 million for the equipment cost estimated
at DH 44,000 (of which $7.7 million in foreign exchange) for 9 additional
hotels the construction of which has been financed under the CIH-III loan
(1279-MOR). With the objective of maximizing returns on existing capacities
CIH expects to finance the modernization and renovation of existing hotels in
key areas, such as Fez, without any increase in capacity, and a number of
restaurants, sporting and other entertainment facilities designed to provide
needed leisure activities for tourists in Morocco. These types of investment
are particularly appropriate. Thus CIH expects to commit an additional DH 140
million, bringing total commitments over 1980-83 to DH 730 million, of which
$124 million in foreign exchange.
5.14      Based on the above analysis, and taking into account the much
improved quality of hotel borrowers as well as of CIH's appraisal and follow-up
capability, the forecast levels of hotel approvals, commitments and disburse-
ments detailed in Annex 6 are reliable. The implied 10% p.a. growth rate for
hotel commitments in 1981-83 compares well with past trend and is conservative.
1/ That is, Compagnie Generale Immobiliere (CGI), Etablissements
Regionaux d'Amenagement et de Construction (ERAC), and Office
des Logements Militaires (OLM), among others.



- 25 -
VI. CIH'S FINANCIAL SITUATION AND PROSPECTS
A. Resource Position
6.01      CIH's resource position (on a commitment basis) as of September 30,
1980, is detailed in Annex 7 and summarized below:
DH 000      Percentage
Resources
Equity and provisions                         214,667          9.5
Local borrowings                            1,554,426         68.7
IBRD loans                                    180,046          8.0
Other foreign loans                           313,722         13.8
Total resources                               2,262,861        100.0
Applications
Loans outstanding                           2,270,674
Investments                                   105,713
Fixed and other assets                         28,806
2,405,193
Deficit                                        (142,332)
Less:  undisbursed commitments                 (144,694)
Resource gap:                                  (287,026)
6.02      Net additional resources mobilized by CIH from December 31, 1975 to
September 30, 1980, amounted to DH 1381.8 million, 157% more than the DH 881.0
million figure reached on December 31, 1975, at the time of appraisal of the
third Bank loan to CIH.  Local currency borrowings and equity capital accounted
for 78% of those resources which CIH obtained principally from bond issues
(48%), BCP (11%) and Banque du Maroc (9.5%); CIH's Government guaranteed bond
issues are subscribed to exclusively by institutions such as CDG and insurance
companies; while 15-year bond issues of 7.5% to 8.5%, and Banque du Maroc
permanent facilities at a preferential 3.50% rate, are long term resources,
the balance of local borrowings (9.5%) is normally medium-term (i.e., 5
years) at 6% to 7%. In terms of equity funds CIH more than doubled its
capital from DH 60 to DH 160 million (of which DH 50 million is to be paid-
in by year end and is not included in the above table). On average therefore
the terms of local borrowings are good and relatively tailored to CIEW s
requirements.
6.03      In foreign currency resource mobilisation, CIH-s record is excellent
in the period under review, as CIH contracted DH 452.8 million (US$113 million)



- 26 -
from four foreign institutions other than the Bank; prior to 1976 the Bank was
CIH's sole source of foreign exchange. Two borrowings for 4 and 7 years
amounting to $31.4 million are LIBOR indexed, and their cost reached 15% in
1979 but had little impact on CIH's profitability (para 6.05). Three other
foreign borrowings ($80.6 million) are at fixed interest of 8.4% to 8.8% for
10 years. Including the third Bank loan of $25 million, it can be concluded
that on average foreign resources are tailored to CIH's needs. Bank funds
outstanding account for 8% and 36.5% of CIH's total and foreign resources
as of September 30, 1980 compared to 8.5% and 100% at end 1975, respectively.
Thus the objective of diversifying CIH's foreign exchange resources has been
achieved.
6.04      The substantially increased level of lending commitments, particu-
larly for housing and commercial building operations, has practically absorbed
all the above resources; as a result CIH has a resource gap of DH 287 million
($72 million) as of September 30,1980. CIH has contracted DH 71.5 million
($18 million) in short-term borrowings to meet current commitments pending the
payment of DH 50 million in new capital funds and the contracting of new
resources. CIH's resource requirements are reviewed below (para 6.18).
B. Financial Performance and Position
Profitability
6.05      As shown in Annexes 8 and 10, CIH's profitability performance in
1976-79 has been good in spite of a slight decrease in 1977 resulting from a
combination of increases in administrative expenses and provisions, and a
narrowing interest spread (i.e., from 3.6% to 1.7%) due to higher cost of
borrowings. However, the increases in CIH's nominal interest rates from
8.75% for all loans to 11% for hotel loans and 10% for housing loans, which
became effective in June 1976, have begun to be felt in 1978 and resulted in
a higher spread of 2.5% and a 42% increase in profits. As of September 30,
1980, CIH netted a profit of DH 13.3 million after allocating DH 26.4 million
to provisions. Moreover since June 1980 all CIH loans now yield a minimum
nominal interest of 13% (hotel loans of 15 years and over yield 15%). Conse-
quently CIH's growing profitability trend is expected to be maintained (see
para 6.23).
Financial Position
6.06      CIH's audited and unaudited balance sheets for 1976-79 are summar-
ized in Annex 9 and show that total assets have doubled between 1976 and 1979.
Housing and associated loans have more than doubled, increasing their relative
weight from 47% to 53% of total assets; in comparison hotel loans increased by
65% but declined in relative terms.
6.07      Liquidity.  CIH's liquidity position improved as its current ratio
increased from 1.1:1 in 1976 to 1.4:1 in 1978 due largely to a better matching
of the amortization schedules of loans and borrowings.  CIH is on the way to



- 27 -
solving the long standing problem of mismatch of the amortization schedules of
its loans and borrowings. This is being achieved as a result of continued
monitoring and application of better loan collection procedures as agreed with
the Bank. Thus CIH has tightened its lending terms providing 12 years maxima
for housing and putting a 15% interest on hotel loans of 15 years or more,
compared to 15- and up to 20-year terms granted earlier for housing and hotel
loans respectively at the same interest rate.
6.08      At December 31, 1979, CIH's liquidity ratio declined to 1.3:1, but
improved slightly to 1.4:1 in September 1980. CIH's liquidity situation needs
close and continued monitoring, taking into account however that CIH, like all
financial institutions, transforms shorter term financial instruments into
longer term ones and is bound at times to incur short-term manageable mis-
matches in the terms of its loans and borrowings. Thus to provide for this
situation agreements reached with CIH under previous loans stipulate that CIH
would: (i) maintain a ratio of at least one to one between loan receipts and
debt payments; (ii) calculate and project that ratio annually; and (iii) take
any necessary measures to increase that ratio to the minimum required.
6.09      Capital structure.  As defined in the CIH-III loan agreement with
the Bank, CIH's term debt/equity ratio limit is a multiple arrived at by
applying to CIH's loan and equity portfolio weights reflecting in indirect
proportion the degree of risk inherent in each category of loan and equity
participations: 18 for the ratio of low risk housing portfolio; and 9 for the
ratio of high risk hotel and commercial building loans and all the equity
participations to total portfolio. This definition better reflects CIH's
creditworthiness and true debt capacity since it takes into account the
following considerations: (i) CIH is a housing and hotel lending institu-
tion with a predominant (i.e 55%) good quality low risk housing portfolio;
(ii) all of CIH's loans are covered by solid first rank mortgage securities
and by Government guarantees of up to 100%. As of December 31, 1979, CIH's
debt/equity ratio thus defined was 13.8:1 compared to an actual term debt/
equity ratio of 13.2:1; CIH term debt will remain within the prescribed limit
as CIH further increased its capital in 1980 (para 6.24).
C. Quality of Loan Portfolio
6.10      At the time of appraisal of the third loan CIH agreed to implement
measures designed to reduce in two years, and by 50%, the proportion of hotel
loans outstanding affected by arrears. As detailed in Annex 11 by September
30, 1977, CIH reached the agreed target: hotel loans in arrears declined
to 12.0% of total hotel loans outstanding (and 5% of total portfolio); by
September 1978, however that percentage increased slightly to 13% and worsened
to 26% at end 1979. Unaudited data for September 30, 1980 show that total
arrears increased to DH 89 million or 4.4% of total loan portfolio ; hotel
arrears amounted to DH 49.7 million i.e., 7% of hotel portfolio but the
portfolio affected declined to 20% of hotel loans.



- 28 -
Hotel Loans
6.11      The increase in hotel arrears is partly due to the uncertain eco-
nomic climate in Morocco. Although the economic slump did not directly affect
tourism activities which are doing well compared to manufacturing industries,
many private hotel investors have had to divert hotel generated resources to
support other ailing activities. A detailed analysis of the 28 hotel borrowers
in arrears as of September 30, 1980, permits the following classification by
increasing order of risk of losses:
Loans Affected
Total                    Percent of
No.     Arrears      Amounts 1/   Hotel Loans 1/
- --------(DH'000)---
1.   Special cases               4      24,593       48,423           6.0
of which:  Mamounia             (16,230)    (29,200) 2/       (3.7)
2.   Starting hotels/
in construction          4        9,863       70,324           8.9
3.   Delinquent                 14       6,751       24,936           3.1
4.  Serious cases                6       8,461       13,420           2.0
Total                   28       49,668      157,103          20.0
1/   Including arrears in principal.
2/   Excluding short-term advances amounting to DH 24 million.
(a)       The special cases concern borrowers whose hotels may be operating
profitably but who are not honoring their obligations to CIH pending resolu-
tion of legal litigations with CIH and other parties; since the Mamounia case,
which constitutes the bulk of these cases has been resolved (para 6.12-14),
the hotel portfolio affected by arrears has declined to 16.3%
(b)       The second group of hotels in pre-operating or start-up phase fell
into arrears due to delays in construction, and are expected to pose no major
problems in future.
(c)       The third group includes hotels in fair to satisfactory financial
conditions; although they do not pay CIH as regularly as scheduled, they
are considered safe risks.
(d)       In the fourth group of hotels, CIH's total exposure of DH 18.3
million (including arrears) entails probable losses as the hotels involved
are not expected to resolve the structural financial problems that they face.
However CIH's mortgage securities and Government guarantees would cover most



- 29 -
eventual losses; moreover total provisions for risk of loss on loans amounted
to DH 41.1 million as of September 30, 1980 and would also largely cover
eventual losses on these and other loans.
6.12      The luxury hotel Mamounia of Marrakech, which belongs to ONCF,
was rented in 1977 to Safir then an affiliate of CIH. The Mamounia needed to
be renovated and expanded, and to that effect CIH granted Safir an unsecured
hotel loan of DH 29.2 million, and additional short-term advances cumulating
to DH 24 million to cover cost overruns. Safir, which was founded by CIH in
1974 and taken over in 1978 by CMKD, has had a poor performance due to the
inexperience of its staff and management, and has fallen in arrears 1/. CIH's
total financial exposure in Safir amounted to DH 72.5 million, including all
arrears, as of September 30, 1980, and is detailed in Annex 11.
6.13      The ONCF, a wholly Government owned agency, has terminated Safir's
rental contract, temporarily taken over the management of La Mamounia and
signed a contract with CIH that provides for the assumption of DH 40 million
in Safir debts through a loan secured by mortgages on La Mamounia assets and
Government guarantees. This loan does not exceed CIH's maximum exposure of
20% of equity and has been demonstrated in CIH's appraisal report to be well
within La Mamounia's debt servicing capacity. CIH is currently negotiating
with the Government and Safir's owners various financial schemes to recover
DH 32.5 million still owed by Safir.
6.14      Even if CIH is unsuccessful in recovering all or part of its claims
from Safir, its creditworthiness would remain good since of the remaining DH
32.5 million, DH 22.9 million are covered by specific provisions (DH 18
million of these were made in the three first quarters of 1980, still allowing
net profits after taxes of DH 13.3 million). Financial projections show that
next year's net profit before taxes of DH 56 million should largely suffice to
cover the remaining DH 9.6 million at risk, in the event CIH  would have to
write off entirely its claims from Safir. In addition, since net income is
taxed at a 50% rate in Morocco, and provisions (and write-offs) reduce net
income, the net impact on CIH's net worth of failure of CIH to recover any of
the outstanding DH 32.5 million from Safir could only be DH 4.8 million (i.e.,
50% of DH 9.6 million).
Housing and Commercial Loans
6.15      Arrears on CIH's housing and commercial loan portfolio amounted to
DH 39.5 million (i.e., 3% of housing and commercial portfolio outstanding) as
of September 30, 1980, i.e., slightly less than in 1979. These arrears are
1/   Safir manages four hotels, including the Mamounia, of which only one, the
5-star Casablanca hotel is profitable; losses are incurred in the Malabata
hotel (Tangiers) and the Mamounia.



- 30 -
generally less than a year old and present no risks as the real estate value
of CIH's mortgage securities far exceed its risk of loss on these loans. In
fact CIH has never experienced any significant loss on its housing loans.
However, CIH's short-term prefinancing of the construction of apartment
complexes by developers such as SICOPAR, entails some risks: if developers
fail to sell the built units so as to enable CIH to gradually consolidate the
short-term loans into long-term individual housing loans, a liquidity problem
may occur. Although the likelihood of increased unsold housing units is small
considering the growing demand for housing in Morocco, and that so far CIH has
not encountered any problems with these loans, they are considered in the same
category of risk as hotels for the purpose of defining CIH's debt/equity
ratio, and are expected to remain at their present manageable level, i.e.,
less than 5% of total portfolio.
6.16      CIH's hotel and housing loan portfolio can be considered of satis-
factory quality but continued close monitoring is required. CIH agreed to
maintain its individual financial exposure to 20% of equity and to continue
the application of measures agreed under the CIH-III loan to improve the
quality of portfolio, and decrease hotel arrears. The quality of the equity
portfolio has been reviewed earlier (paras. 5.05-5.06).
D. Audit Performance
6.17      In 1979 CIH hired new auditors, Arthur Andersen and Associates to
audit its financial accounts. The financial accounts of Farah Maghreb, a CIH
client whose audit is required by the Bank, have been audited in 1979 by Saba
and Co., partners of Touch Ross International, reputable international auditors.
The quality of CIHRs and Farah Maghreb audits is good.
E. Resource Requirements
6.18      As of September 30, 1980, CIH's resource needs to cover its undis-
bursed commitments amounted to DH 287 million; undisbursed commitments for
hotel projects accounted for DH 150 million, ($38.0 million) to cover import
components of those projects. Based on CIH's operational forecasts (para
5.12) its additional resource requirements for new commitments in October
1980 to December 83 are estimated at DH 2,485 million, of which DH 730 mil-
lion for hotel lending, including undisbursed commitments. CIH's total
resource requirements are estimated at DH 2,772 million; the estimated foreign
exchange requirements to finance the import component of hotel projects would
be $124 million. This estimate is based on the updated assessment by WTO
consultants of the direct and indirect foreign exchange component of hotel
investment costs by hotel category. This assessment confirms findings of



- 31 -
another independent evaluation of these components made earlier by a reputable
international consulting firm 1!.
6.19      CIH's forecast resource requirements and financing plan for 1980-83
are as follows:
Total      Hotel
(DH million)
Resource Requirements (Oct. 1980-Dec. 1983)          2,772.0    730.0
Financing Plan
Cash generation                                      186.8
Capital increase                                     100.0
Banque du Maroc                                       90.0
Bond issues                                        1,250.0
BCP and others                                       226.0
Private Savings (1981-82)                             29.2
Subtotal                                         1,882.0
Foreign Borrowings                                   490.0
IBRD Loan (CIH-IV)                                   400.0
Sub-total                                            890.0
Total resources                                      2.772.0
More details on CIH's financing plan are available in Annex 12. As the
Moroccan Government takes charge of managing all foreign exchange resources,
CIH's financial operations are transacted exclusively in local currency.
Consequently, only country balance of payments considerations 2/ and the
better terms of some foreign resources, such as the Bank's, dictate the need
for CIH to differentiate between local and foreign currencies when mobilizing
resources.
1/   Based on these studies, the import components by categories are estimated
as follows as a percentage of construction costs only: 5-star hotels-37%,
4-star hotels-36%, 2-star hotels-24%, 1-star hotels-20%. Although the
development of Morocco's high value-added import substituting industries
increased the possibility to procure mornot ,oods locally than in the past,
foreign price inflation which exceeded domestic inflation rates largely
offset the effects of locally procured goods. As a result the WTO
consultants estimate the above percentages to be conservative.
2/   Housing and commercial building construction costs also include foreign
exchange components.



- 32 -
6.20      The mission reviewed the details and feasibility of CIH's resource
mobilisation plan with the Treasury and CDG as regards bond issues and capital
increases, and with Banque du Maroc as regards other local resources. The
above local resource mobilisation plan reflects the conclusions of that
review which resulted in a significant scaling down of CIH's business forecasts.
As CIH raised DH 257 million in bonds in 1979 and DH 240 million in 1980 the
forecast bond issues seem reasonable. Other local resources fall within the
capacity of BCP, Banque du Maroc, and other commercial banks to provide.  CIH
expects to launch its first issue of DH 25 million in bearer bonds (6-year-8.5%)
to be subscribed exclusively by private individuals in 1981. Should this
first issue be successful, CIH would repeat its campaign annually and substi-
tute the new resources to the traditiotnal ones as appropriate (see para 3.04).
While the 15-year bond issues and Banque du Maroc rediscount facilities are
well tailored to CIH's lending terms for hotel and housing, the other local
resources do not generally exceed 5 years. The financial charges are expected
to vary between 10% for bonds to 9% for other resources, excluding Banque du
Maroc which charges a preferential 3.5% for its rediscounting facilities.
6.21      The DH 490 million in foreign exchange resources identified so far
include DII 154 million under negotiations and expected to be contracted in
1981; the balance of resources remain at the exploration stage and CIH expects
to secure them for 10 years at fixed interest charges of 8-9% p.a. A Bank
loan of $100 million will finance the remaining resource gap of DTI 400
million. Taking into account that no further Bank loans to CIH for tourism
are planiaed, CIH has agreed to formulate a resource mobilization strategy to
secure foreign exchange funds adapted to its requirements beyond 1983.
6.22      The proposed $100 million Bank loan would cover about 14% of CIH's
total resource needs in 1980-83, and 80% of the estimated foreign exchange
costs of hotel and other tourism projects to be financed by CIH.
F. Financial Prospects
Profitability
6.23      CIH's projected income statements are summarized in Annex 13.  CIH
expects the trend of rising cost of ts financial resources to continue in the
near future, taking into account also the rising cost of Bank funds. The
average cost of borrowings is expected to increase from 7.6% in 1979 to 8.7%
in 1983 based on the assumptions in the project file. Operating costs are
projected to -cow in relation to operations although salaries and wages will
rise at a moderate 12.5% p.a. Projected revenue assumes 13% and 15% interest
on new hotel, 13% on housing and other loans; about 18% of new hotel commit-
ments (i.e. DH 124 million) will be charged 15% interest.  The effect of
these interest rate increases on CIH's profitability would be felt only
gradually as the weight of new disbursements, particularly on hotel loans,
grows in CIH's portfolio outstanding; the average irncome from loans would
increase from 10.8% in 1979 to 12% by 1983 giving CIH a comfortable spread of
3.5% compared to administrative expense of 0.9% of total assets on average.



- 33 -
CIH's profitability prospects are thus promising with return to equity expected
to reach 14.0% in 1982-83 compared to 10% in 1979. As a result of this rising
profitability CIH expects to increase provisions for risks from 2.5% in 1979
to 3.8% of total portfolio by 1983 while maintsining an 8% dividend on an
expanded capital base.
Liquidity and debt service
6.24      CIH's forecasts were prepared within the framework of the two
constraints presented by the agreed new debt/equity structure based on the
proportion of low and high risk loan and investment portfolio and the minimum
debt service coverage ratio of 1:1 (para 6.08).  As a result of its tightening
of loan terms to match the true debt servicing capacity of borrowers, CIH's
debt service ratio as defined in the loan agreement would remain slightly
above 1.0 in 1980-81 and improve to 1.2 by 1982 and 1983. As shown in Annexes
14 and 15, the long-term debt/equity ratio, which was 12.9:1 compared to a
13.8:1 maximum allowable limit at end 1979 would decrease to 11.0:1 in 1980
following a capital increase of DH 50 million. By 1982 another capital
increase of DH 50 million has been agreed to by CIH to remain within the 14:1
allowable debt/equity limit that year, and subsequently.
VII. THE PROJECT: LOAN BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Risks
7.01      The detailed assessment of the benefits of the investments to be
financed under the proposed loan of $100 million is available in file. Hotels
to be financed are expected to generate substantial net foreign exchange
estimated at $128 million (in constant 1980 prices) by 1987 when all the
hotels in the program are fully op&rational. Direct and indirect employment
to be generated is estimated at a miniiutri 21,000 jobs; the estimated cost of
the 7,000 direct jobs to be created is $42,000, a higher figure than in the
past reflecting the increased cost of hotel construction. The net effect on
Government finance is estiuated to vary from DH 79.8 million in net benefLts
during the 5 to 10 year period of validity of tlie incentives, to DH 149
million afterwards; the net cost of the incentives to the budget is estimated
at DH 14 million the first year.  The present value of the Government's net
cash flow for the project is DH 622 million at a discount rate of 10%.
7.02      Through this loan the Bank can also expect to have a strong and
lasting institution-building impact not only on CIH but also on the M4OT.
The comprehensive technical assistance programs devised under the project
would continue and firm up the institutional improvements initiated under
the CIII-III loan. The Government is expected to dispose of a better capability
for administrative, policy and strategy formulation and implementation for
tourismn. This increased capability would lead to better choice of projects
and resource allocations. There are risks in that Government performance
may not fully live up to expectations as witnessed under the CIH-III loan; in



- 34 -
particular the temptation to encourage more projects in Marrakech is strong
although the proposed environmental impact study for that city may conclude
that the city will soon reach its tolerance level. These risks are reduced in
the light of the substantial policy changes already implemented and the
commitment to improve sector policies they illustrate.
B. Loan Features
7.03      The loan of $100 million is expected to be commited over a period
of three years; the final date for subproject submission would be December 31,
1983, and the closing date December 31, 1985. The loan is granted on standard
Bank terms and repaid on a fixed amortization schedule basis over 17 years,
including 4 years of grace (para 5.04). The proceeds of the proposed loan
will be relent by CIH at interest rates, net of Government rebates, of 11% for
subloans of up to 14 years, and 13% for subloans of 15 years or more. A
commitment fee of 1% is charged by CIH on undisbursed commitments. The Govern-
ment assumes the foreign exchange risks.  Procurement under the loan will
follow standard Bank DFC practices as currently applied by CIH (para 4.15).
The loan will finance the following:
(a)  Equipment:  100% of the foreign exchange cost of imported hotel
equipment and 65% of the total cost of locally procured equipment
previously imported or manufactured from imported components;
(b)  Construction:  the following percentages representing the foreign
exchange component of the cost of hotel construction in Morocco by
hotel category: 1-star: 20%; 2-star: 24%; 3-star: 31%; 4-star:
36%; and 5-star: 37% (para 6.18); and
(c)  Technical Assistance:  100% of the foreign exchange cost of imported
equipment, and/or the equivalent of 70% of total cost of services
required for the proposed technical assistance programs to: (i) the
MOT for up to an aggregate amount of $600,000, allocated as follows:
consultants: $385,000; equipment: $130,000; training: $60,000; and
contingencies: $25,000 (para 2.15(a)); and (ii) CIH for up to an
aggregate amount of $400,000 (para 4.12).
7.04      The individual free limit is $1.5 million equivalent in construction
and estimated equipment sub-loans to be made by CIH (para 5.11).  All sub-
projects to be financed by CIH must yield a minimum economic rate of return of
12% calculated by CIH following the methodology detailed in Annex 5 and
reflected in a side letter (para 2.22). Up to a maximum of $25 million of the
loan may be utilized to finance hotel projects which have benefitted from a 5%
rebate, provided that such projects yield an estimated minimum economic rate
of return of 15%; these projects include those, the construction of which
(in progress) was financed under the CIH-III loan (1279-MOR), and for which
equipment loans are required (paras 2.22 and 5.13).



- 35 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations the principal agreements reached with the
Government and CIH are as follows:
(a) the proposed technical assistance programs to the MOT will be
implemented no later than June 30, 1981, and the phase-III studies
of the costs and benefits of tourism investments will be completed
by December 31, 1983 (para. 2.15).
(b) CIH will submit all of its hotel projects to an agreed appraisal
methodology and will finance only projects whose estimated economic
rate of return meets a minimum 12% cut-off rate (para. 2.22).
(c) CIH's single financial exposure in any hotel project will be limited
to 20% of its equity, except if a full guarantee from the Government
or any institution acceptable to the Bank covers CIT's risk (para.
4.08).
(d)  CIH will maintain a minimum 1 to 1 ratio between loan receipts
and debt payments, monitor and project that ratio and take appro-
priate measures to maintain that ratio above the agreed minimum
(para. 6.08).
(e)  CIH will maintain its debt/equity ratio within a limit consisting
of a maultiple arrived at by applying to CIH's loan and equity
portfolio weights reflecting in indirect proportion the degree of
risk inherent in each category of loan and equity (18 for low risk
housing loans and 9 for the remainder of loans and equity investment
para. 6.09).
(f)  CIH will increase its share capital by DH 50 milLion in 1982 to
remain within the above prescribed debt/equity ratio (para. 6.24).
(g)  CIH will continue to apply measures designed to reduce its arrears
on loans and to improve the quality of its portfolio (para. 6.16).
8.02      On the basis of the above agreements and other understandings
reached during negotiations, and in view of CIHl's demoastrated creditworthi-
ness and financial requirements, a loan of $100 million is justified and
recommended.



MOROCCO: EVOLUTION OF TOURIST ARRIVALS (1973-80) 1/
('000)
1973      1974     1975      1976      1977       1978            1979              1980
First                 First
Nationality                  No.       No.       No.       No.       No.      Year      Semester    Year    Semester
France                       266       216       281       225       284       316         147        324         165
Netherlands, Belgium,
Scandinavia                  106        87       101       107       115       105          60         128        117
Germany and Austria           97        89       104       102       109       110          44        101          49
Spain and Portugal           181        77        57       126       157       153          71        128          66
Other Countries
Western Europe               185       156       164       141       157       162           67        172         21
Americas                     217       200       155       115       129       142          55         118         29
Other Countries               63        71        72        76        92        89          40         111         45
North Africans               111       156        93        (8) 21  (20) -/   36            10          21         16
Moroccans residing
abroad                       115       153       218       205       365       364         127         373        n.a.
TOTAL                      1,341    1,205    1,245    1,105    1,428         1,477         621       1,436        508
1/ Excluding cruisers
2/ Excluding Algerians
Source: Ministere du Tourisme
EMENA/IDF
November 1980



MOROCCO: TOURIST ACCOMMODATION CAPACITY IN 1978 (in beds)
Hotels                            Vacation   Apart.              Non-Classi-
P. Lioln         I-star   2-star   3-star   4-star   5-star    Total   Village    Hotel   Camping  fied Hotels   Total -
Pediterranean      867       880      1,866    3,562    1,528    8,703       5,816       378      1,760      3,918      18,815
t\orth Center      386       517        733    1,323    1,037    3,996         322         -      1,840      1,498       5,816
lastern             25       185       320       540       -      1,070        -          -         264        818       1,888
Center             720    1,578      1,439    2,491    1,965    8,193          -          74      5,324      3,472      11,739
iouth Center       229       489       812    2,139    1,190    4,859          400        -       1,136        741       6,000   W
iaharan            60       245        -      1,580       -       1,885        120        -         240       280       2,285
Beach              551       878     1,382    3,945    1,758    8,514        2,740       840        520        997      13,091
1/
Total            2,838    4,772      6,552   15,580    7,478   37,220        9,398    1,292    11,084    11,724         59,634
.            .                    .                             . . 2/                      1
1979:            2,947    5,065      7,130   15,064 2/ 7,780   37,986    10,613    2,005    _1,084    11,724            62,368
1/ Excluding camping sites
2/ Some hotels were downgraded in 1979
Source: Ministere du Tourisme
EMENA/IDF
November 1980



-38-                                 Annex 3
MOROCCO
COMPARATIVE HOTEL BED OCCUPANCY DATA FOR 1978 AND 1979
Agadir      Mediterranean    Casablanca/Rabat    Marrakech
5-star              72.9  59.0    39.9      37.2    50.0          52.5    58   57.6
4-star              52.8  56.1    36.0      38.5    53.0          53.8    63   58.2
3-star              68.6  50.5    40.0      28.0    58.0          58.3    59   46.1
2-star              50.6  53.1    37.0      33.5    57.0          58.6    48   55.8
1-star              46.6  59.7    37.0      32.5    48.0          67.7    51   41.6
Vacation Village   69.7  59.6    21.0        23.4      -            -      42   59.2
Average           60.3  57.2    30.0      30.0    53.6           55     58   55.5
EMENA/IDF
November 1980



- 39 -                              Annex 4
MOROCCO
MINISTRY OF TOURISM
Technical Assistance: Estimated Foreign Cost
(US$)
Total                      Disbursements
Man/Month      Cost        1980        1981       1982
1. Staffing
Project Manager        18        90,000      20,000      60,000    10,000
Consultants            59      295,000      105,000    170,000    10,000
Sub-total            77      385,000      135,000    230,000    20,000
2. Training                 -        60,000      20,000      30,000    10,000
3. Equipment                -       130,000      40,000      60,000    30,000
4. Miscellaneous                     25,000        5,000     10,000    10,000
TOTAL                         600,000      200,000    330,000    70,000
Nota: The local cost component, including salaries for 8 Moroccan
counterpart staff, office space, secretarial and clerical assistance,
will be borne by the Ministry of Tourism.
EMENA/IDF
May 1980



-40-                              Annex 5
Page 1 of 3
MOROCCO
Outline of Methodology to be Followed in
Economic Evaluation of Subprojects
1.        The following is a presentation of a proposed methodology for
calculation of financial and economic rates of return under the CIH-IV loan
for use in CIH's appraisal reports. It is similar to that used during
appraisal of the loan and its general outline is familiar to CIH staff.
Details are given in the mission's report "Hotel Financial and Economic
Analysis" available in the project file. The assumptions in this analysis
are reasonable given presently available data but the proposed methodology
should be viewed as evolving and be modified accordingly as the data base
improves and as information needs change. The procedures outlined here in
no way substitute for the judgment of the analyst.
2.        It is understood that the analysis will be computerized using the
CASBAH hotel appraisal model now routinely used by CIH in its project
appraisals.
A. Financial Analysis
3.        The financial analysis will remain as presently calculated, that is:
(a)  Investment costs will be estimated by CIH's technical
studies division in the light of available cost data;
replacements to maintain hotel installations at a sound
operating level will be included as investment costs
over the life of the project;
(b) Room rates and tariffs will be based on rates realized
for the category in the region and available from CIi's
hotel follow-up division, and should reflect discounts
and commissions from posted tariffs;
(c) Occupancy rates should be consistent with the market
analysis and regional rates available from CIH's follow-up
reports (Rapports d'Enqu^etes) and statistics of the Ministry
of Tourism; CIH should provide specific justifications
when occupancy rates assumptions lead to rates higher than
attained by present well-managed operations; it may be
necessary to program several seasons;
(d) Operating costs should be based on experience in the region
(as well as management company's experience, if it is a
hotel chain operation), especially for manpower, salaries
and other key categories such as food and beverage costs,
utilities and maintenance; care should be taken to separate
fixed and variable elements as well as seasonal differentials;
and



Annex 5
- 41 -                              Page 2 of 3
(e) Ratio analysis (e.g., debt service coverage, cash flow, etc.)
should be shown in both constant and current terms.
B. Economic Analysis
4.        The economic analysis should be in constant base year prices
(and will therefore not include construction price contingencies). The
analysis consists of an adjustment of the financial cost and revenue flows
for the hotels to reflect their economic values and adding the following
two refinements not included in the financial analysis:
(i) tourist expenditures outside hotel 1/ should be included
in revenue streams based on data available in the Dar Al
Handasah expenditures study and, eventually, the annual
expenditure surveys to be undertaken by Ministry of Tourism.
Investments and operating costs associated with these
expenditures should normally be included as cost streams:
until data are made available from regional and other phase-
III studies underway, a net revenue flow of 10% may be
assumed as a working hypothesis; and
(ii) infrastructure investment costs (which are also expected to
be calculated and available in the ongoing regional studies)
represent an economic cost to be allocated in part to the
project and should be added to cost streams; until detailed
cost estimates are available (project by project), CIH should
assume an average per bed cost allocation of DH 5,000 (in
1978 prices).
5.        The economic adjustments of revenue and cost streams involve the
following steps:
(a) land should be valued at its opportunity cost but in the
absence of a sound basis for such valuation, a rental
charge as currently practised by CIH should suffice;
(b) taxes and duties, which are internal transfers should be
removed from all revenue and cost streams;
(c) shadow pricing necessitates the disaggregation of revenues
as well as investment and operating costs for application
of appropriate shadow rates to various revenue and cost
categories; an attachment is provided to illustrate what
needs to be done to four categories:
- foreign exchange
- unskilled labor
- taxes and duties
- other domestic resources used
1/ Presently only foreign tourists; under the phase-III studies on domestic
tourism, data on Moroccans' expenditures on tourism will be eventually
available and taken into account accordingly.



- 42 -                               Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
(d) diversion effect: adjustment of streams to take account
of diversion which occurs when a new hotel derives some of
its business at the expense of existing hotels; for the
purpose diversion is assumed equivalent (in bednight terms)
to those months in which hotels were in no day "full" (a
hotel is assumed "full" whenever it achieves a 75% bed
occupancy); in practice this means any month in which occu-
pancy was less than 50% 1/. Variable operating costs
associated with diversion should be removed accordingly
from the cost stream.
6.        In addition to the usual sensitivity tests (e.g., on costs, occu-
pancy), tests of price elasticity for foreign tourism and shadow prices of
foreign exchange and unskilled domestic labor may be carried out, particularly
if there is evidence of regional disparities. For illustration the assump-
tions used during appraisal are reflected in the attachment and are as follows:
- the value used for elasticity is -5
- foreign exchange was shadow priced at 1.1
- unskilled labor was shadow priced at 0.7
7.        The proposed methodology will yield ERR's taking into account
hotel expenditures, outside hotel expenditures, infrastructure and diversion.
The cut-off rate for project acceptability is 12% (or 15% for those projects
which will benefit from a 5% interest rebate). The sensitivity tests,
including price elasticity and shadow pricing of foreign exchange, demand
and labor will yield estimates of the "true" ERR.
Attachment
EMENA/IDF
May 1980
1/ Using the 75% "full" definition the mission's analysis shows that when
occupancies are 50% or below, in no day of those months would hotels be
full on average: this criterion yielded diversion of 15% in Agadir,
26% in Marrakech, 15% in Casa/Rabat, 45% in North.



- 43-                                 Annex 5
Attachment
MOROCCO
DISAGGREGATION OF HOTEL INVESTMENT AND OPERATING COSTS
Foreign    Unskilled   Taxes    Other Domestic
Exchange      Labor      Duties      Resources
Shadow Rates                         1.1          0.7        1.00          1.00
A.  Operating Costs:  Economic Values
Food                              -            -        0.060           -
Imported (15%)                0.078        0.014      0.049           -
Local    (85%)                  -          0.079        -            0.77  /a
0.078        0.093      0.109         0.77
Beverages                           -            -        0.12           -
Imported (20%)                 0.098        0.018      0.06            -
Local    (80%)                   -           0.070        -           0.634
0.098        0.088      0.18          0.634
Payroll                          0.09          0.35       0.12          0.44
Energy                            0.51         0.092      0.08          0.618  /b
Local Taxes                         -            -        1.00           -
Other                             0.20         0.10       0.06          0.64
B. Investment Cost: Economic Values
Incorporation and Preopening        -            -        0.50          0.50
Construction (TPS)                  -            -        0.06           -
Raw materials (40%)              -            -        0.023           -
Local (20%)                    -            -          -            0.180
Foreign (20%)                0.092        0.018      0.073           -
Labor (60%)                      -             -          -
Nonskilled (20%)               -          0.18         -             -
Other (40%)                  0.037          -          -            0.337
Total Construction                0.129        0.198      0.156         0.517
Equipment                           -            -        0.06           -
Local                (28.2%)      -          0.027        -           0.239
Foreign (tax free) (36.0%)   0.304          0.034         -            -
Foreign (taxable)   (35.8%)   0.167         0.019      0.15            -
Total Equipment                    0.471        0.08       0.21          0.239
Working Capital                    0.10           -        0.03          0.37
/a Includes 5% subsidy
/b Includes 30% subsidy
E!FNA/IDF
Mav 19R0



- 44 -
Annex 6
MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
Loan Operations: Actual and Forecast
(DH million)
Approvals               Commitments              Disbursements
Actual       Hotels  Other  Total    Hotels  Other  Total    Hotels  Other  Total
1976       119.8   235.7  355.5       67.6   219.3  286.9       36.6   217.7  254.3
1977       119.6   411.7  531.3    154.3   351.4  505.7    103.4   253.6  357.0
1978       118.9   386.9  505.8    110.7   374.6  485.3    146.8   313.8  460.6
1979        97.3   418.1  515.4    122.6   415.0  534.6         98.0   425.5  523.5
Forecast
1980       150.0   455.0  605.0    150.0   420.0  570.0    140.0   428.0  568.0
1981       180.0   515.0  695.0    160.0   502.0  662.0    150.0   472.0  622.0
1982       200.0   606.0  806.0    180.0   580.0  760.0    180.0   549.0  729.0
1983       230.0   730.0  960.0    200.0   720.0  920.0    200.0   684.0  884.0
EMENA/IDF
March 1980



- 45 -
Annex 7
MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
Resource Position as of September 30, 1980
(Commitment basis)
DH'000
A. EQUITY AND RETAINED EARNINGS
Share capital                                            110,000
Reserves and provisions                                  104,667
214,667
B. LOCAL CURRENCY BORROWINGS
Banque du Maroc                                          220,000
Government loans                                          54,780
Local bond issues                                      1,097,948
Local borrowings                                         181,698
1,554,426
C. FOREIGN CURRENCY BORROWINGS
IBRD loans                                               180,046
Other foreign loans                                      313,722
493,768
TOTAL OUTSTANDING RESOURCES                                  2,262,861
Less: Uses of funds
Loan portfolio outstanding 1/                      (2,270,674)
Equity and other investments                         (105,713)
Fixed and other assets                                (28,806)
(2.405,193)
AVAILABLE FOR DISBURSEMENTS                                   (l6? 't)
UNDISBURSED COMMITMIENTS (loan and equity)                     (144,694)
RESOURCE GAP  9.30.1980                                       (287,n26)
1/ Including past-due loan maturities
EMENA/IDF
November 19M'



46-                                    Annex 8
MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
Audited Income Statements: 1976-1979
(DH'000)
Unaudited
As of December 31                     1976      1977       1978       1979       1980
(Sep. 30)
INCOME
Interest on loans                 79,582    99,644    139,548    188,251   176,642
Dividends   1J                        338       191         186         165      -
Other income-                       7,333    14,023      18,311     13,310    14,396
Total Income             87,253   113,858    158,045    201,726   191,038
EXPENSES
Financial charges                 55,296    77,091    105,543    139,695   123,244
Personnel expenses                  8,495    11,576      12,275     12,913      9,900
Other operating expense             3,589     5,420       5,651      5,341      3,910
Depreciation and amortization       1,532     1,264       1,809      2,595      2,345
Provision for losses                3,868     5,778      14,272     15,062    26,443
Total Expenses           72,780   101,129    139,550    175,606    165,842
Profit before taxes             14,473    12,729      18,495      26,120      25,196
Income tax                      (6,667)   (5,694)    (8,473)   (13,640)   (11,919)
NET PROFIT                          7,800     7,035      10,022     12,480      13,277
ALLOCATIONS
Reserves                            2,008     2,774       2,647      4,413         -
Dividends                           4,800     4,800       4,800      6,600         -
Directors' fees                        65        65          65          65        -
Unappropriated                        927       604       2,510      1,402       13,277
7,800     7,035      10,022     12,480       13,277
l/ Including income brought forward from previous years
EMENA/IDF
November 1980



- 47 -
MOROCCO                                      Annex 9
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
Audited Balance Sheets: 1976-79
(DH'000)
Unaudited
Dsee=ber 31                        1976            1977            1978            1979        1980
DSCember 31                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Sep. 30)
ASSETS
Cash and banks                  22,021          23,630          51,755         52,152         34,272
Past due loan maturities         65,008         88,656         122,007        192,637        198,803
Less: Provision                 (14,684)        (20,462)        (34,700)      (46,214)       (64,061)
Current loan maturities         68,913          88,931         127,580        193,020        193,020
Other receivables                53.467          81,629        109,512        101,377        267,658
Current Assets               194,725         262,384         376,154        492,972        629,692
Housing loans                  477,664         651,948         831,755      1,049,691      1,129,283
Hotel loans                    398,902         478,158         593,806        660,824        688,862
Commercial loans                42,134          57,194         104,355        185,841        175,432
Total Loan Portfolio         918,700       1,187,300       1,529,916      1,896,356     1,993,577
Less: current maturities       (68,913)        (88,931)       (127,580)      (193,020)      (193,020)
Equity investments              43,790          66,942          93,056         87,310         94,150
Government bonds                 7,379           8,277           8,731          9,666         11,247
Less : Provisions                 -                -               -          ( 2,822)        (9,573)
Total Portfolio              900,956       1,173,588       1,504,123     1,797,490      1,896,381
Fixed and other assets           6,816          10,823          20,658         24,545         26,452
TOTAL ASSETS                _I102,497        1,446,795       1,900,935      2,315,007     2,552,525
LIABILITIES
Short term borrowings           37,500          13,910          37,736         13,840         71,500
Current maturities
of debt                       79,956          74,954         151,362       227,601        236,918
Other liabilities
and payables                  53,445          60,714          71,748       123,628        153,954
Current Liabilities          170,901         149,578         260,846       365,074        462,372
Rediscounted notes             125,000         150,000         180,000        210,000        220,000
Government loans                65,363          67,391          65,424         58,700         54,780
Bond issues                    425,097         541,943         696,418        912,742     1,097,948
Other local borrowings         175,287         189,798         194,404        218,918        185,821
Total local borrowings       790,747         949,132       1,136,246     1,396,360      1,558,549
IBRD loans                      81,910         107,425         153,935       174,805        176,730
Other foreign loans             44,800         199,349         349,849       452,860         429,912
Total Eoreign Loans          126,710         306,774        503,784        627,665        606,642
Total term debt              917,457       1,255,906      1,640,030      2,024,025      2,165,191
Less: currenat maturities      T(7hT,9)        (74,954)       (151,362)    ( 227,601)       (236,918)
Share capital                   60,000          80,000         110,000       110,000         110,000
Reserves                        34,095          36,265          41,421         43,509         51,880
Equity                        94,095         116,265         151,421       153.509        161,880
TOTAL LIABILITIES              1,102,497       1,446,795       1,900,935      2,315,007      2,552,525
EMENAJIDF
Novemtber 1980



- 48 -                                 Annex 10
MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
Financial Performance Indicators
Sept.
1976      1977       1978       1979       1980
Operational Indicators
Gross income as % of average
total assets                        8.6        8.8        9.3        9.6         -
Administrative expenses as ,'
of average total assets             1.2        1.4        1.2        0.8         -
Financial expenses as % of
average total assets                6.0        6.5        7.2        7.3         -
Income from loans as % of
average loan portfolio              9.0        8.8        9.9       10.7         -
Cost of long-term debt as %
of average long-term debt           6.6        7.1        7.4        7.6         -
Spread                                3.4        1.7        2.5        3.1         -
Profitability Indicators
Net profit as % of average
equity                              8.4        6.7        7.6        9.9         -
Profit before taxes as % of
average equity                     15.6       12.1       14.1       18.9         -
Cash dividend as % of net
profit                             61.5       68.2       63.8       58.1         -
Cash dividend as % of
par value share                     8.0        8.0        8.0        8.0         -
Book value of share as %
of par value share                156.8      160.4      143.8      139.6       147.0
Financial Structure Indicators
Total debt/year end equity            10.7      11.4       12.0       13.3        13.8
Long-term debt/year-end equity         9.8      10.8       11.3       13.2        13.4
Debt/equity (IBRD Agreement) 1/        5.7       7.1        8.2       13.8        13.9
Interest coverage ratio                1.3       1.1        1.1        1.2         1.3
IBRD debt as % total long-term
debt                                8.9        8.6        9.4        8.6         8.2
Provisions for losses as % loans
and equity investments              1.5        1.6        2.1        2.5         3.5
1/ Assuming DH 19 million as subordinated debt through 1978; for 1979 new debt
equity definition excludes quasi-equity and maximum is 13.8 for that year.
EMENA/IDF
November 1980



- 49 -                                  Annex 11
Page 1
MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
ANALYSIS OF LOAN IN ARREARS OF INTEREST AND PRINCIPAL OVER SIX MONTHS
(DH million)
Audited                   (Unaudited)
December 31                 September 30
1978     1979      1977      1978     1979      1980
A. TOTAL PORTFOLIO
Housing and other loans       996.0  1,235.6    663.0    815.0  1,218.2  1,304.7
Hotel loans                   594.0    660.8    454.0    597.0    684.5    688.9
1,590.0  1,896.4  1,117.0  1,412.0  1,902.7  1,993.6
B. TOTAL ARREARS
Housing                        25.3      34.8     19.5      30.2       40.3    39.5
Hotels 1/                      26.2      45.9     11.8      23.5       43.0    48.6
51.5     80.7      31.3      53.7      83.3     89.1
As % total loans               3.2%      4.3%     2.8%      3.8%       4.4%    4.4%
C. HOTEL PORTFOLIO
(a) Hotel Arrears             26.2      45.9      11.8      23.5      43.0      49.6
As % total portfolio      1.7%      2.4%      1.1%      1.7%      2.2%      2.4%
As % hotel portfolio      4.4%      6.9%      2.6%      3.9%      6.3%    7.0%
(b) Hotel Portfolio Affected by Arrears
(i) Amount                87.0    187.0      55.5      83.3      220.0   157.0
(ii) As % total CIH
portfolio           5.5%      9.9%     5.0%      5.9%      11.5%    7.9%
(iii) As % hotel
portfolio  2/      13.9%    25.9%    11.9%    13.3%        31.0%     20%
1/ Excluding Chellah and HISA loan arrears (in 1977 only).
2/ Including arrears in principal.
EMENA/IDF
L10VCiid.Y'i



CIH's Exposure in Mamounia/Safir (as of 9-30-1980)
(DH '000)
Loans                Arrears      1/      Total              Total
Outstanding       PrinciRal   Interest        Due            Provisions
Loan                         23,855.0           5,340       10,889.0    40,084.0
Less:  Provisions              -                          (7,381)         -              (7,381)
Advance                                        24,000        3,666       27,666.0
Less:  Provisions              -            (11,858)      (3,666)         -             (15,524.0)
TOTAL                        23,855.0          29,340       14.555       67,750
Less:  Provisions                           (11,858.0)  (11,047)                        (22,905.0)
Un
Contingent liability
(ONCF rent)                                                        4,750
Total CIH Risk:                                                        72,500
PROVIS[OKS YOR RISKS:
Provisions for Mamounia/Safir                                          22,905
Other provisions on:  loan risks                                      41,156
: equity investments                               9,753
Total CIH provisions for risks       -73,814
Ii
1/ Including penalty interests accumulated.



-51 -                                      Annex 12
MOROCCO
CREDIT IMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
Estimated Resource Needs and Financing Plan
(1980-1983)
Import
Total       Hotels     Component
(DH million)         ($'000)
RESOURCE NEEDS
Expected Commitments
1980 (3 months)                                    143.0        40.0         6,000
1981                                               662.0       160.0        23,800
1982                                               760.0       180.0        26,900
1983                                               920.0       200.0        30,000
Sub-total                                     2,485.0       580.0        86,700
Gap to be financed                                 _287.0        150.0        37,500
Total requirements                                 2,772.0       730.0       124,200
FINANCING PLAN
A. Local Sources:
Net cash generation (1980-1983) 1/               186.8
Bond issues (1981-83)                         1,250.0 (15 years at 10% p.a.)
Notes issues (1981)                               16.0 (5 years at 9% p.a.)
Share capital increase (1980-1982) 2/           100.0
BCP                                              210.0 (5 years at 8.5% p.a.)
Banque du Maroc                                  90.0 (permanent at 3.5% p.a.)
Private savings mobilization                      29.2 (5 years at 8.5% p.a.)
1,882.0
B. Foreign Borrowings
1981  Libyan borrowing ($10m)                           40.0
Swiss bond issue (SF 50m)                       114.0
IBRD loan ($100m)                               400.0
1982  Japanese syndicated loan (Y lOb)                 188.0
1983  Kuwaiti bond issue (KD lOm)                      148.0
890.0
TOTAL RESOURCES                                        2,772
l/ Assuming that loan collections match debt principal repayments.
2/ The share capital was increased by DH 50 million in June 1980 but not yet
paid-in; DH 50 million in a further capital increase has been agreed to
for 1982.
EMENA/IDF
November 1980



- 52 -                                   Annex 13
MOROCCO
CREDIT IMIOBILIER ET HOTELIER
Projected Income Statements: 1979-1983
(DH'000)
As of December 31                  1979       1980         1981         1982        1983
(Audited)
INCOME
Interest on loans            188,251    234,500       297,000       369,000    452,000
Other income                  13,475      24,600       28,600        33,300     38,100
Total Income             201,726    259,100       325,600      402,300    490,100
EXPENSES
Financial charges            139,695    175,100       218,850       269,427    332,630
Personnel expenses            12,913      14,400       16,200        18,200     20,500
Other operating expense         5,341      6,320        7,300         8,500       9,800
Depreciation and amortiz.      2,595       3,640        4,580         5,710       7,220
Provision for losses          15,062      25,452       22,600        27,400     32,700
Total expenses           175,606    224,912      269,530       329,237    402,850
Profit before taxes            26,120     34,188       56,070        73,063      87,250
Income tax                   (13,640)    (16,070)    (26,814)       (34,970)   (41,780)
NET PROFIT                        12,480     18,118       29,256        38,093      45,470
ALLOCATIONS
Reserves                        4,413      4,174        5,718         7,451       8,898
Dividends                       6,600      8,800       12,800        12,800     16,800
Directors' fees                    65        115          138           142         172
Unappropriated                  1,402      5,029       10,600        17,700      19,600
12,480     18,118       29,256       38,093      45,470
EMENA/IDF
November 19R3C



Annex  4
MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
Projected Balance Sheets: 1979-83
(DH'000)
1979      1980        1981        1982        1983
ASSETS
Cash and banks                  52,151      34,794     60,593      65,663      70,150
Past due loan maturities       192,637    201,400    223,160    328,680    472,726
Less: Provision                (46,214)   (64,914)   (87,514)  (114,914)  (147,614)
Current loan maturities        193,020    250,460    301,340    381,780    481,380
Other receivables              101,418    158,721    157,508    170,178    171,473
Current Assets           493,012    508,461    655,087    831,387   1048,115
Housing loans                 1049,691   1205,216   1501,385   1861,049   2242,274
Hotel loans                    660,824    791,200    916,171   1063,097   1249,830
Commercial loans               185,841    224,404    309,991    421,829    551,363
Total loan Portfolio    1896,356   2220,820   2727,547   3345,975   4043,467
Less:current maturities       (193,020)  (250,460)  (301,340)  (381,780)  (481,380)
Equity investments              87,310     94,150      94,150      94,150      94,150
Government bonds                 9,626     11,500      14,110      17,690      22,360
Less: Provisions                (2,822)    (9,573)    (9,573)    (9,573)       (9,573)
Net Total Portfolio      1797,450   2066,437   2524,894   3066,462   3669,024
Fixed and other assets          24,545     32,158      44,741      55,379      67,887
TOTAL ASSETS                2,315,007  2,679,056  3,224,722  3,953,228  4,785,026
LIABILITIES
Short term borrowings           13,840     30,500      35,000      45,584      20,000
Current maturities of debt   227,606    262,190    233,760    277,300    375,730
Other liabilities
and payables                   123,628     96,908    117,402    180,102    224,680
Current liabilities       365,074    389,598    386,162    502,986    6-2,41
Rediscounted notes             210,000    220,000    250,000    280,000    310,000
Government loans                58,700     56,660      54,207      51,754      49,301
Bond issues                    912,742   1128,398   1384,546   1667,698   2026,910
*                 Other local borrowings         218,918    185,925    248,425    253,162    259,549
Total local borrowings  1396,360   1590,983   1937,178   2252,614   2645,760
IBRD Loans                     174,805    171,192    203,192    261,200    329,200
Other foreign loans            492,860    576,761    702,920    909,547   1232,707
Total foreign loans       667,665    747,953    906,112   1170,747   1561,907
Total term debt          2024,025   2338,936   2843,290   3423,361   4207,667
Less: Current maturities    (227,601)  (262,190)  (233,760)  (277,300)  (375,730)
Share capital                  110,000    160,000    160,000    210,000    210,000
Reserves                        43,509      52,712    690,030      94,181    122,679
Equity                         153,509    212,712    229,030    304,181    332,679
TOTAL LIABILITIES           2,315,007  2,679,056  3,224,722  3,953,228  4,785,026
EMENA/IDF
NovelDber 19'80



- 54                  ~                 Annex 15
MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
Forecast Performance Indicators
1979     1980       1981       1982       1983
(Actual)
Operational Indicators
Gross income as % of average
total assets                           9.6     10.4       11.0       11.2       11.2
Administrative Expenses as
% of average total assets             1.0        1.0       0.9        0.9        0.8
Financial Expenses as % of
average total assets                   7.0       8.0        8.2        8.3       8.4
Income from loans as % of
average loan portfolio               10.8      11.4       12.0       12.1       12.2
Cost of long-term debt as
% of average long-term debt            7.8      7.8        8.3        8.6         8.7
Spread                                 3.2       3.6        3.7        3,5         3.5
Profitability Indicators
Net profit as % of average
equity                                8.3       9.9       13.2       14.3        14.3
Profit before taxes as % of
average equity                       17.3      18.7       25.4       27.4        27.4
Cash dividend as % of
net profit                           70.1      48.6       43.8       33.6        36.9
Cash dividend as % of
par value share                        8.0      8.0        8.0        8.0         8.0
Book value of share as %
of par value share                  143.1    133.0       143.0      144.8       158.4
Financial Structure Indicators
Total debt/year end equity            13.7      11.1       12.7       11.4        12.7
Long-term debt/year end equity        12.9      11.0       12.4       11.3        12.6
Debt/equity (IBRD Agreement)           13.8     14.4       14.0       14.1        14.0
Interest coverage ratio                 1.2      1.3        1.3        1.3         1.3
Debt Service ratio 1/                   1.0      1.0        1.0        1.2         1.2
IBRD debt as % total long-term debt  8.6         7.3        7.1        7.6         7.8
Provisions for losses as % loans,
equity and guarantees                 2.5      3.2        3.4        3.6         3.8
1/ As defined in loan agreement, ratio of loan receipts to debt repayments
which must not fall below 1.0 to 1.
EMENA/IDF
November 1980



- 55 -
Annex 16
MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
Estimated Disbursement Schedule of Proposed Loan
(Calendar years)                     Quarterly                     Cumulated
($'000)                      ($'000)
1981
Quarter
III                            3,000                         3,000
IV                             3,000                         6,000
1982
Quarter I                               3,500                         9 500
II                             4,000                        13,500
III                            4,500                        18,000
IV                             4,500                        22,500
1983
Quarter I                               4,500                        27,000
II                             4,500                        31,500
III                            6,000                        37,500
IV                             6;000                        43,500
1984
Quarter I                               6,500                        50,000
II                             6,500                        56,500
III                            6,500                        63,000
IV                             7,000                        70,000
1985
Quarter I                               7,500                        77,500
II                              7,500                       85,000
III                             7,500                       92,500
IV                              7,500                      100,000
Final date of sub-project submission: December 31, 1983
Closing date: December 31, 1985
EMENA/IDF
November 1980



- 56 -                                 Annex 17
MOROCCO
APPRAISAL OF CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
Selected Documents and Data Available in
the Project File
A.1   Royaume du Maroc, Ministere du Tourisme:  Etude Economique des
Investissements Touristiques, by World Tourism Organization -
10 volumes
A.2   Royaume du Maroc, Ministere du Tourisme:  Elaboration et Mise sur
Pied d'Enqu^etes Permanentes sur les Depenses Touristiques au
Maroc by Dar Al Handasah Consultants (3 volumes)
A.3   Royaume du Maroc, Banque du Maroc:  Rapports sur Exercices 1978 et 1979
A.4   Royaume du Maroc, Banque du Maroc:  Etudes et Statistiques, mars 1979
A.5   Royaume du Maroc, Caisse de Depot  et de Gestion:  Exercices 1978 et 1979,
Rapportsd'Activite
B.1   PNUD:  Projet du Gouvernement du Maroc - Avant Projet Document
d'Assistance Technique
B.2   Morocco-CIH:  Lancement d'un Emprunt auvr6s du Public (1979)
B.3   Morocco-CIH:  Systeme d'Epargne-Logement:  Mobilisation des
Ressources, juin 1980
C.1   Morocco-CIH:  Hotel Financial and Economic Analysis
C.2   Morocco-CIH:  Ownership Structure as of December 31, 1979
C.3   Morocco-CIH:  Board of Directors
C.4   Morocco-CIH:  Executive Committee
C.5   Morocco-CIH:  Organization Chart as of December 31, 1979
C.6   Morocco-CIH:  Characteristics of Hotel Lending Operations
C.7   Morocco-CIH:  Analysis of Hotel Projects Financed Under Bank Loans



