TeDocument of          FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repu N.P-2937-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED FOURTH LOAN
TO THE
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
FOURTH HOTEL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 31, 1980
T i docmen bu a resrited dishibuto md may be wed by r|eie  only in the pXermnce of
dweir ocW dutis lb contnts may not otherwise he dised wthou Worl Dak authation.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOURTH HOTEL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                          Dirham (DH)
DH 1                                   US$ 0.256
US$ 1                                  DH  3.90
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                          British/US System
1 meter (m)                            3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                       0.62 miles (mi)
1 bectare (ha)                         2.47 acres
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCP          Banque Centrale Populaire
BNDE         Banque Nationale pour le Dgveloppement Economique
CDG          Caisse de Dep8t et de Gestion
CIH          Credit Immobilier et H8telier
CMKD         Consortium Maroc-Koweitien de Dgveloppement
CNCA         Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
CREFOGA      Crgdit Foncier du Gabon
MOT          Ministry of Tourism
ONCF         Office National des Chemins de Fer
ONMT         Office National Marocain du Tourism
SICOPAR      Socigtg Industrielle de Construction et de Participation
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
WTO          World Tourism Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER (CIH)
Proposed CIH-IV Loan
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Credit Immobilier et 118telier (CIH)
Guarantor:           Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:              US$100 million equivalent, in various currencies
Terms:               Prevailing Bank rate. The loan will be repaid on a fixed
amortization schedule basis over 17 years including 4
years of grace.
On-lending Terms:   The proceeds of the loan will be on-lent by CIH at its
prevailing nominal interest rate of 13% for sub-loans of
up to 15 years and 15% for sub-loans of 15 years or over;
Government grants a 2% rebate on such loans for projects
approved by the Ministry of Tourism. $600,000 of the loan
reserved for financing of technical assistance for sector
studies will be on-lent by CIH to the Government under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. As for all
bank loans in Morocco, the Government assumes the foreign
exchange risk on all currencies disbursed by the Bank.
Project
Description:       The project would consist of (i) tourism development
projects, mostly hotels, financed by CIH under loans to be
made until end 1983; (ii) a cost benefit study on tourism
investments, to be carried out by the Ministry of Tourism
(MOT) and CIH with the assistance of consultants; the
study would represent the third and last phase of a
program of studies, the two first phases of which were
carried out under a UNDP project with the World Tourism
Organization as executing agency, and (iii) a training
program for CIH staff to improve and computerize further
its appraisal of tourism investments. Up to $600,000 of
the proposed loan of $100 million would be made available
for the cost benefit studies if required (the studies may
be financed under a new UNDP project), and up to $400,000
for training of CIH staff. The benefits to be derived from
the project are several: net foreign exchange generation
of $128 million per year in 1980 prices by 1987; 21,000
new jobs, direct or indirect; and net fiscal revenues of
at least DH80 million per year initially, growing to about
DHI149 million after five to ten years. There are risks of
delays in carrying out the recommendations of the studies,
but the gradual progress recently accomplished in sector
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 31. -
policies illustrates the Government's commitment to
continuous improvement. Finally, the resilience
demonstrated in the past by Moroccan tourism should help
protect it against the fluctuations of economic activity
in the region.
Estimated                          FY82   FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86
Schedule of
Disbursement:       Annual       13.5    18.0    25.0    28.5    15.0
(Us$ million)       Cumulative  13.5    31.5    56.5    85.0   100.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 3014-MOR of December 18, 1980



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
FOURTH LOAN TO CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER FOR A
FOURTH HOTEL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Credit Immobilier et H6telier (CIH), with the guarantee of the Kingdom of
Morocco, for the equivalent of US$1O0 million, to help finance tourism
investments. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of
grace, with interest at 9.25 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum on Morocco" (1473-MOR)
was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1977. A basic economic
mission visited Morocco in February 1979, and updating missions in September
and December 1979 and in May 1980. A draft basic economic report was
discussed with the Government at the end of 1979, and is due to be issued
shortly. The findings and conclusions of this report and the missions are
reflected in the following paragraphs. Country Data Sheets are attached as
Annex I.
3.       Moroc,o has now moved towards a constitutional monarchy.  While the
regime remains highly centralized, the establishment of elected assemblies at
the national and local levels has had a marked effect on the political
structures and on the debate on major social and economic issues. The
dependence of the elected assemblies on popular support bas made them and the
Government increasingly aware of and sensitive to local aspirations, including
the needs of the poorest members of the population.
4.       Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed with
natural resources. It has a considerable agricultural potential. Intensive
irrigated agriculture has expanded in the Northwest plains, where the humid
and temperate Atlantic climate combines with fertile soils. Extensive
coastlines on both the Mediterranean and especially the Atlantic offer
considerable fish resources. Morocco also has the world's largest and most
easily recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the phosphate sector a key
one in the economy as regards the generation of foreign exchange. Other
minerals such as iron ore, manganese, lead, zinc, etc. are also exported, but
in much smaller amounts. Coal and hydropower plants help to meet part of the
country's energy requirements, which are essentially met with imported oil.
Morocco has however uranium and oil shales in very sizeable quantities which
could become profitable to exploit in the near future. In addition, Morocco's
geographical location gives it other advantages; its proximity to Europe has
been a factor favorable to the development of international trade, tourism and
labor migration with the EEC countries.



5.        During the Second and Third Development Plans, which covered the
1968-77 period, national income grew distinctly faster than population, with
per capita income growing at an annual real rate close to 3 percent. The
conservative approach which had tended to predominate in the post-independence
(1956) years gave way after 1970-71 to a greater emphasis CA growth. Thus,
the 1973-77 Plan aimed at a marked acceleration of economic growth and also an
improvement in income distribution. To accomplish this, it was initially
based on an export-oriented investment strategy and a much intensified savings
effort. However, taking advantage of the sudden but short-lived rise in
phosphate prices in 1974-75, the Government launched in 1975 an ambitious
investment program which brought about a considerable increase in demand for
imported goods and services (their share in GDP rose from 20 percent in 1972
to 40 percent in 1977). Growth of GDP averaged 7.3 percent p.a. during
1973-77 and imports grew rapidly. At the same time, however, exports of
phosphates and agricultural products lost their dynamism, although exports of
manufactured goods continued to increase at the rapid rate of 11 percent per
year in real terms. These various factors produced a skewed growth pattern in
which the weakness of exports and savings contrasted with the dynamism of
investment and Government consumption, and by 1977 the economy's resource gap
exceeded 20 percent of GDP, whereas it had never exceeded 5 percent before
1974.
Recent Developments.
6.       After the 1973-77 period of rapid growth which led to financial
disequilibrium, the Moroccan economy entered in 1978 a phase of adjustment,
characterized by a substantial retrenchment of investment and import levels
and a significant reduction in the rate of growth. In 1978, the first year of
the adjustment, public investment was cut back by 40 percent and the growth of
current budget expenditure held down to about 13 percent (or less than 3
percent in real terms). These measures of fiscal restraint were combined with
tight credit policies and stringent import controls. As a result, the
economy's resource gap was reduced from 22 percent of GDP in 1977 to 14
percent in 1978, while the overall Treasury deficit declined from 17 percent
of GDP to about 11 percent. Since then, however, progress towards
stabilization has been slow and both fiscal and external imbalances remain
substantial. This loss of momentum can be attributed in part to the
deterioration in the terms of trade related to the recent oil price
increases. The Government was also led to relax its austerity program in 1979
in order to meet the pressing needs of its social programs, and to keep the
rate of growth of the economy from falling below the rate of population growth
(about 3 percent p.a.).
7.       The policies adopted in 1978 had an immediate impact on the external
payments situation, which improved considerably in that year. The current
account deficit of the balance of payments was reduced by $500 million in 1978
to $1.3 billion (excluding special grants). This reflected a $400 million
improvement in the trade balance on goods and non-factor services, along with
a substantial increase in factor service income induced by the establishment
of an exchange rate premium on workers' remittances. Merchandise imports



declined more than 25 percent in constant 1969 prices. Except for food and
petroleum, most import categories showed considerable declines in current
terms. As a result of this performance, the growth of external borrowing
(excluding grants) slowed considerably in 1978, but remained at about $1.4
billion.
8.        Since 1978, there has been relatively little change in the overall
balance of payments situation, which continues to require large amounts of
borrowing. The trade deficit on goods and non-factor services widened in 1979
as imports began to rise again and the cost of petroleum imports jumped to
$710 million from $430 million a year earlier. The total import bill for
goods and non-factor services increased from $4.0 billion in 1978 to $4.7
billion in 1979. On the export side, although weather conditions adversely
affected several key agricultural export crops, overall export growth in 1979
was reasonably satisfactory at about 5 percent in constant 1969 prices, and
workers' remittances continued to rise. The current account deficit of the
balance of payments increased by about $250 million to $1.6 billion in 1979,
reflecting both the rise in the import bill and a substantial increase in
interest payments on the external debt. As in 1978, this deficit required a
net external funds inflow of about $1 billion, in addition to $350 million in
special grants from Saudi Arabia. Gross borrowing (excluding grants) remained
at about $1.4 billion as in 1978, requiring the use of nearly $1 billion in
financial credits. In 1980, favorable export prospects and a substantial rise
in the price of exported phosphates suggest that the resource gap will decline
despite the impact of the most recent petroleum price increases.   However,
there will again be a substantial increase in debt service costs, so that a
gross external inflow of around $1.4 billion would be needed to fill the gap.
9.       The budgetary and balance-of-payments constraints have had a serious
impact on the levels of investment and economic activity. Annual GDP growth
dropped from 7.3 percent in 1973-77 to 3.1 percent in both 1978 and 1979.
Gross fixed capital formation was reduced to DH 13.4 billion in 1978, compared
to DH 15.4 billion in 1977 (current prices). According to official estimates
it dropped further to DH 12.9 billion in 1979 but should recover slightly in
1980. The adverse impact of the retrenchment on employment has probably been
substantial. A rapid rate of employment creation had been one of the major
achievements of the 1971-77 period. Since then, the growth of employment is
estimated to have slowed significantly. To offset this, the Government has
initiated programs for municipal and regional investment and for small and
medium enterprises in industry, construction and modern services. The rate of
inflation, as measured by the cost-of-living index, dropped from 12.5 percent
a year in 1977 to 8.3 percent in 1979, as the Government continued to rely on
subsidies and controls to moderate the rate of price increases of basic
commodities. In addition, domestic inflationary pressures have been kept
under control as a result of the Moroccan Treasury borrowing policy, which has
generally been to finance the bulk of its deficit abroad in order to avoid
putting excessive pressure on the local banking system.



4 -
- 4
Economic Development Issues and Prospects
10.      Confronted with the need to overcome the large imbalance in external
payments, the aim of Government policy since 1978 has been to cut back
investment and increase domestic savings until the resource gap is reduced to
a size comparable with the level of external borrowing available. Initially,
the Government had hoped to achieve this goal by 1980. The difficulties
encountered internally in maintaining the necessary degree of financial
austerity led to some relaxation in these efforts. It is now apparent that
the rapid adjustment originally envisaged may not be feasible. The adjustment
process may instead have to be spread over several years into the 1980's.
Morocco now seems to face a period of relatively slow growth, during which the
Government would seek to further restrain current public expenditure and
improve domestic resource mobilization in order to maintain a desirable rate
of investment. In the external accounts it needs to accelerate the growth of
exports and to minimize net borrowings on commercial terms in order to
restrain the growth of debt service and maintain its creditworthiness.
11.      While the unexpectedly large increase in petroleum prices in 1979-80
has made the adjustment more difficult, Morocco should benefit over the next
few years from quite favorable market prospects for some of its major exports,
notably phosphates and phosphate-based intermediate products. Bank
projections summarized in Annex I reflect the likely outcome of a continuation
of present policies of gradual adjustment, with continued austerity but no
major structural reforms. According to this base case scenario, the annual
rate of growth would remain in the 4.0-4.5 percent range throughout the
1980's. Efforts to increase domestic savings would bear fruit only slowly.
The ratio of gross domestic savings to GDP would rise from 9.5 percent in 1980
to 12.2 percent by 1985 and 14.6 percent by 1990 (in constant prices). Under
these curcumstances, it would not be possible to finance a level of gross
fixed investment in excess of about 15 percent of GDP (in constant prices)
throughout the 1980's and the rate of employment creation would slow down
significantly, with the level of employment rising by 2.7 percent a year,
against 3.4 percent in 1971-77. Open urban unemployment would thus rise above
10 percent in the short run. On the basis of the GDP growth rates and
investment levels envisaged in the base case scenario, it should be possible
to keep the overall growth of imports relatively moderate. This, combined
with favorable export trends (exports of goods and non-factor services are
expected to rise by more than 6 percent a year in the 1980's) should permit a
slow reduction in Morocco's external resource gap from about 14 percent of GDP
in 1979 to 8 percent in 1985 and 6 percent in 1990 (calculated in current
prices).
12.      Medium-term prospects could however be considerably more favorable if
the next few years were used to initiate a number of far-reaching policy
changes designed to overcome the structural weaknesses which are at the root
of the present disequilibrium while implementing a larger and more selective
investment program. The major policy adjustments that would have to be
undertaken in order to achieve these objectives would have to do with
deliberate and closely pursued policies with respect to agriculture, energy,



- 5 -
export priorities, savings and investment criteria. A dialogue has already
begun with the Government on the need to proceed vigorously on each one of
these issues, and the Government has recently requested Bank consideration of
a structural adjustment loan. In the case where these structural changes
would be introduced, preliminary projections suggest that the rate of growth
of the economy could go back to 6-7 percent a year, gross fixed investment
could rise to 17 percent of GDP by 1985, and the level of employment could
increase at 3.4 percent a year during 1980-90, thus keeping pace with labor
supply. It would simultaneously be possible to bring the external
disequilibrium under control in a few years. Under the structural adjustment
scenario, the resource gap would go down to about 5 percent of GDP in 1985 and
2 percent by 1990 (current prices). Gross external capital requirements would
rise much more slowly than under the base case scenario.
13.      Comparatively slow economic growth and employment creation up to the
early 1970's were accompanied by widening income disparities and a decline in
real consumption for poorest households in Morocco. The limited data
available indicate that in the 1970's, while disparities have continued to
grow, household incomes increased in both urban and rural areas, and the lower
income groups shared in the real increase in incomes. In addition, infant
mortality has declined and life expectancy has increased since 1960, both
significantly. More recently, partly in response to the demands of locally
elected assemhlies, the Government has shown more awareness of social problems
and greater interest in the issue of basic needs. Social expenditures have
been at a high level in recent years, accounting for more than one-third of
total budgetary spending and more than one-half of current outlays. However,
social indicators still apear to be at low levels in Morocco. This is partly
due to institutional weaknesses, including policy evaluation capacity and the
lack of a clear definition of target groups and type of services to be
provided. The limited effectiveness of past social policies in reaching the
lower income groups, especially in rural areas, is increasingly recognized as
a major issue, and a new strategy is being prepared in the context of the
1981-85 Development Plan, which would emphasize rural development in rainfed
areas, where most of the poorest households in Morocco currently live, and
improved mechanisms to deliver services to meet basic needs at an affordable
cost, especially in rural areas. An effort is also being made to increase the
involvement of local communities in providing basic needs particularly for
sites and services for low cost housing, water supply, sewerage and
electrification. Although rapid results cannot be expected in any of these
areas, it is urgent to proceed with the implementation of these policies in
order to better meet the needs of low-income groups, while holding down the
budgetary cost of social programs.
External Debt and Debt Service
14.      Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1974.  Nearly all
of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. Morocco also drew on
the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and obtained about $70
million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978. Agreement was reached
with the IMF in 1980 for Morocco to draw on the Extended Fund Facility (EFF);
the agreement provides for the use of IMF resources in the amount of SDR 810
million over the 1980-83 period. From the low levels of 1974-75, Morocco's



- 6 -
external debt rose rapidly to an estimated $6.2 billion (disbursed only) by
December 1979. In 1979 debt service amounted to $799 million (21 percent of
total exports of goods and services). As a result of recent and projected
borrowings, debt and debt service may be expected to fluctuate around 21-22
percent in the early 1980's; it would reach 25 percent by 1985 in the case
where no structural adjustments would take place, but would remain at
approximately 21 percent under a structural adjustment program. Because of
the growing burden of debt service, external debt management has become more
restrictive and selective since 1978. If debt service is to stay manageable,
Morocco will have to continue this policy over the next few years. Additional
commercial borrowing should be limited, and efforts should be continued to
seek loans on softer terms.
15.      Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources to
Morocco rose from $286 million in 1975 to $296 million in 1976, and to $862
million in 1977, dropping to $434 million in 1978. Major sources of aid were
France, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group. At the
end of 1979, the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was 8.4 percent. The share of the Bank Group in debt
service was 21 percent in 1976 and declined to 15 percent in 1977, and 8
percent in 1979. By 1985 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt service are expected to be about 10 percent and 11 percent respectively.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
16.      Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 47 projects, financing
a total of $1,471.9 million (net of cancellations), of which $986 million has
been lent since the beginning of FY1975. IDA credits, totalling $50 million,
have been made available for five projects. A Third Window loan for $25
million for the third education project was approved in March 1976. IFC
investments have amounted to $42.5 million ($40.4 million after cancellations,
terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of November 30, 1980, and notes
on the execution of ongoing IBRD/IDA projects. In some cases delays in
project implementation have been caused by management problems and budgetary
constraints; however, overall performance in project execution has been
improving and is satisfactory. Total disbursements as of June 30, 1980,
amounted to 63 percent of original appraisal forecasts, and 71 percent of
revised forecasts.
17.      Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural and
industrial sectors, which have accounted for 35 and 25 percent respectively of
total commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (12 percent),
education (11 percent), roads (7 percent), tourism (5 percent), energy (4
percent) and urban development (1 percent). While limited as regards the
transfer of resources to Morocco (Bank Group gross disbursements amounted to
2.2 percent of total fixed investment during the 1973-77 Plan period), the
main objectives of Bank lending in the early years of Bank operations in
Morocco were to foster and strengthen development institutions, provide
technical assistance, especially for project preparation, and increase
productive capacity, in order to improve the balance of payments.



- 7 -
18. While these objectives remain, over the last few years Bank lending has
increasingly focussed on supporting a number of policy objectives: to promote
exports and other foreign-exchange earning activities; to reduce imports,
particularly of food and energy; to lower unit costs for the delivery of basic
services, widen their distribution among regions and increase access by
lower-income groups; and to increase employment and improve income
distribution.
19. Since FY1975, lending in agriculture has emphasized improvement in the
productivity of rainfed agriculture and livestock, which employ over 80
percent of the rural population, primarily small farmers. The Fes-Karia-Tissa
Agriculture Project, approved in June 1978, directly addresses these
objectives in the favorable cereal producing zone. The Loukkos project,
approved in May 1980, extends support of these objectives to a less favorably
endowed region and finances investments for agricultural development, erosion
control, forestry and livestock. It should have a significant poverty impact
and address major issues in developing Morocco's relatively densely populated
but poorly endowed mountainous regions. Continued Bank support of rainfed
agriculture is expected to be provided through an extensive livestock project
in central Morocco and an integrated rural development project in the
Khemisset province, both under preparation.  A fourth line of credit to CNCA
has helped provide credit to small and medium farmers, and a fifth project is
under preparation.   Increased export earnings are expected to result from a
Bank-supported project for fruit and vegetable marketing and production, as
well as from a project currently under preparation to improve the efficiency
of the coastal fishing industry.
20. As illustrated by the project presented in this report, increased foreign
exchange earnings or savings and, more recently, job creation, have been the
key objectives of Bank projects in industry and tourism. The ninth loan to
the Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique (BNDE), planned for
presentation to the Board in late FY1981, will incorporate a pilot component
for export-oriented industries and a substantial component for small-scale
industries to replenish the successful first line of credit for this purpose
approved in FY1979; this component is expected to generate increased
employment opportunities. Preparation is underway on a project to increase
the incomes of artisanal and small-scale miners in southeastern Morocco, a
region largely bypassed by previous development efforts.
21. Projects to improve basic infrastructure and services have concentrated on
improving the efficiency of existing investments and extending services to
rural and low-income urban groups. A second urban development project is
being submitted concurrently to the Executive Directors, and would continue to
support the Government's efforts to provide shelter, basic services and
employment to low-income urban families. A third highway project approved in
FY1980 supported the Government's road maintenance efforts and a fourth
project would continue support for maintenance and improve rural access
roads. A loan for village electrification approved in FY1979 will help bring
power to over a hundred small towns and villages. A third water supply
project, to be presented to the Board in late FY1981, will provide access to
safe water in small towns and semi-rural areas as well as expanding a pilot
component initiated under the second project to provide credit for house
connections to low-income urban populations. In addition, a project to
strengthen the capacity of local communities to prepare and implement their
own development



- 8 -
programs and provide financing for such programs through the Communal
Infrastructure Fund (FEC) is being prepared. It will not only help to widen
the distribution of infrastructure and services but will also support the
Government's policy of encouraging administrative decentralization and local
participation.
22. Education continues to need attention to ensure Morocco's manpower
development. While recent projects have focussed on secondary level technical
education and teacher training, attention has also been given to expanding
basic education in the rural areas and ensuring a greater orientation in
primary schooling towards practical training. This would be complemented by
future projects in non-formal education and vocational training. The
Government's recent policy supporting primary health care would be tested
through a project currently being prepared as a first phase in a nationwide
program to reorganize medical and paramedical training, health education,
nutrition, environmental sanitation and family planning services, especially
in rural areas.
23. In order to reduce the impact of the oil import burden on the Moroccan
economy, a project was approved in April 1980 that would contribute to the
Government's efforts to accelerate the exploration and development of its
petroleum potential. Preparation is also underway of an Engineering Loan to
finance studies and a pilot unit to test the potential for commercial
extraction of oil from oil shale.
24. The sectoral objectives implied in these projects as well as other
objectives relating to price policy, efficiency and composition of the public
sector investment program, and measures to mobilize domestic savings, would be
reinforced by the policy changes envisaged under the first Structural
Adjustment Loan which is planned for consideration by the Executive Directors
in FY1981. If the important structural issues believed to underly the present
disequilibrium are addressed through this program, it is expected that the
medium-term prospects for economic growth and balance of payments
stabilization would improve, thus alleviating current resource constraints and
permitting a more dynamic and effective project lending program.
PART III - THE TOURISM SECTOR
25. Lured by attractive beaches along Morocco's Mediterranean and Atlantic
coasts, the architectural monuments of the four imperial cities of Marrakech,
Fez, Meknes and Rabat, as well as pre-saharan oases and other natural
sceneries, tourists from neighboring Europe and from America have long chosen
Morocco as a favorite year-round leisure destination. As late as 1968,
however, foreign tourist arrivals only numbered 0.5 million, well behind



- 9 -
several countries in the Mediterranean basin which had started developing
tourism sooner. In the early seventies, the diversity of Morocco's tourism
resources and climatic conditions appealed to rapidly increasing numbers of a
heterogeneous tourist clientele, including culturally motivated sightseers as
well as year-round beach vacationers; tourist traffic to Morocco is more
evenly distributed over the year than in many other Mediterranean countries,
despite high seasonal fluctuations in the North of the country.
26.      After a lull brought about in 1973-1976 by the oil crisis and
political uncertainties, tourist activity resumed robust growth; Morocco is
attempting to diversify further its clientele by catering to new categories
such as family oriented tourism, and introducing tour operators to cultural
tourism, formerly the preserve of individual tourism. In 1979, foreign
tourist arrivals reached 1.5 million; tourist accommodation capacity amounted
to some 62,000 beds, of which about 50,000 were in classified hotels and
vacation villages, and 12,000 in unclassified accommodations catering mostly
to local travelers. Average growth of capacity over the past five years has
been 6 percent annually, a rate coinciding with the long range trend of demand.
27.      Tourism has made a significant contribution to economic activity,
mainly in foreign exchange earnings and employment generation. Gross foreign
exchange receipts from tourism accounted on average for 15 percent of total
earnings from exports of goods and services in 1973-77. In 1977, gross
receipts amounted to DH 1.5 billion ($350 million), of which only 10 percent
represents derived imports. Regarding employment generation, tourism compares
favorably with other growth segments of the Moroccan economy such as
manufacturing activities. While in the latter the investment per job created
is estimated to cost some $22,500, the comparable statistic for tourism
activities is less than $9,000. Except in the North where seasonality is high
and yearly hotel occupancy rates are low, tourism investments have
consistently shown satisfactory economic rates of return (ERR).
28.      The private sector accounted for 76 percent of hotel investments in
1973-77 with the balance split between semi-public and a decreasing pro-
portion of public enterprises. Hotel construction is financed through the
Credit Immobilier et H6telier (CIH), a publicly controlled development finance
company specializing in housing and hotel lending. CIH financed about one
half of hotel investments in 1973-77. Through subsidiaries, CIH in the past
was also an active promoter in the housing and tourism sectors, although it is
progressively withdrawing and divesting itself of its participations in
ventures outside its primary lending functions.
29.      Morocco has been slow in developing an institutional capability
commensurate with the importance of the sector. As recently as 1977, the
Ministry of Tourism (MOT) was but a department in the Ministry of Public
Works. MOT promotes national tourism abroad, administers the investment
incentive system, trains hotel personnel and develops tourism related
infrastructure. Administration of the sector has long been hampered by lack
of qualified staff as well as insufficient statistics and analysis of tourism
demand, cost and benefits, resulting in inadequate regional distribution of



- 10 -
investments, lack of targetting of investments for specific segments of the
market, and insufficient knowledge of the effects of the incentives system on
economic efficiency.
30.      A mutual concern to reinforce institutions administering the tour-
ism sector and to develop a suitable analytical framework for investment
planning and policymaking, has led the Government and the Bank to agree under
earlier loans on carrying out a series of actions and studies, among which:
(i) the systematic collection of data on hotel occupancies and bednights,
which is now institutionalized; (ii) a detailed tourist expenditure survey,
including information on tourist motivations and socio-economic backgrounds,
for input in marketing and promotional activities; a permanent survey system
is also being institutionalized; (iii) regional masterplan studies, to form
the basis of investment planning; implementation of some of the regional
studies is behind schedule but the summary report should be completed by mid
1981; and (iv) execution by the World Tourism Organization (WTO) under UNDP
financing of two out of three phases of a cost and benefit study of tourism
investments: the first twc phases arp now completed; they analyze the growth
potential of Morocco's tourism s  t   ane recommend general orientations for
its further development; the third phbse, which will be carried out under the
proposed project, would study the tourism market in greater detail on a
region-by-region category-by-category basis, the costs and benefits of
different types of investments, and make recommendations on specific policy
changes.
31.      Improved sector data and the studies carried out so far have already
provided excellent opportunities for constructive exchanges of views between
the Government and the Bank on policy issues, and have made important changes
possible in the areas of price regulation and investment incentives which are
set out below.
32.      Until recently, floors (to avoid overlapping of tariffs with other
categories) and ceilings were set for tariffs of luxury 5-star hotels, and
ceilings for tariffs of other categories. The issue of liberalizing the
setting of hotel tariffs was one of the topics of the studies mentioned above.
As was recommended, the Government has now indicated that it intends to
gradually free hotel tariffs as the cost benefit study is completed, and, as a
first step, has just removed all restrictions on tariffs of 5-star hotels as
well as increased ceilings for other categories by 10 to 25 percent.
33.      Incentives are granted to projects approved by a technical committee
within MOT, and are disbursed through CIH. Up to January 1980 they were
governed by the Investment Code of 1973 which provided for (i) a ten-year full
or partial income tax exemption, depending on the location of the project;
(ii) an interest free government advance equivalent to 15 percent of estimated
investment cost, excluding land acquisition, for ten years including five
years of grace; (iii) various tax reductions, including reduced rates on real
estate taxes in the early years of operation, a reduced capital registration
tax and a waiver of sales tax on investment inputs; and (iv) a 5 percent
interest rebate on hotel loans provided by CIH. Furthermore, MOT subsidized
infrastructure investments servicing tourism developments.



- 11 -
34.      After an analysis in the studies mentioned above (paragraph 30) of
the effect of incentives on the financial profitability of hotel investments,
a series of measures were taken to reduce subsidies and tighten their
administration in MOT. The Investment Code was changed in January 1980 to
provide for a reduction in the interest rebate on CIH loans from 5 to 2
percent; CIH was instructed by MOT to preappraise all projects prior to their
submission to the technical committee of MOT, and MOT has decreed that
incentives granted a project would lapse if after two years, execution has not
started. Also, MOT as a policy now seeks full recovery of infrastructure costs
in selling serviced land to hotel promoters, as is being successfully
illustrated in loan 1202-MOR for a tourism infrastructure project in the bay
of Agadir. Regarding interest rates, CIH's lending rate was progressively
raised from 8.75 percent in 1976 to 13 and 15 percent (depending on maturity)
in 1980. Taking into account the 15 percent interest-free advance and the 2
percent interest rebate, the effective cost of funds to hotel promoters is of
about 8.5 percent, while long term inflation in Morocco is projected at 8
percent.
35.      The general prospects for tourism demand in the Mediterranean,
investments underway directed towards previously neglected market segments
(e.g. family tourism) as well as in regions with insufficient accommodations,
coupled with intensified promotional efforts, are all expected to allow
further growth of demand for tourism in Morocco between 6 and 9 percent per
annum, against a long term historical trend of 6 percent. Taking into account
projects approved by CIH and with a financing plan in hand, and the gestation
period of hotel projects, the 6 percent growth scenario would entail the
financing of some 14,600 additional hotel beds up to 1983. The regional
distribution of such an expansion will have to be carefully calibrated, with
due consideration given to social, economic and ecological effects. In
particular, considering the large number of projects being implemented in the
region of Marrakech, the prospects for further expansion of demand and of
absorptive capacity in that city are in question; given the appraisal criteria
adopted by CIH in the context of the proposed project (paragraph 43) it is
unlikely that CIH will approve further projects in the Marrakech region beyond
those already in CIH's pipeline. Marrakech's situation will be reassessed as
part of the cost-benefit study (paragraph 30). Similarly, lower hotel
occupancy rates in the North warrant only limited expansion there, and only in
vacation villages.
36.      The Bank has extended three lines of credit to CIH in the past, for a
total of $48.7 million, and made a $21.0 million loan in FY1976 to finance
infrastructure for new tourism development in the bay of Agadir. A Project
Performance Audit Report was issued on the first loan to CIH (704-MOR), and
its recommendations were taken into account in the succeeding projects.
Recommendations included: (i) the strengthening of the sector through the
development of effective methods of formulating sector plans and development
strategies (paragraphs 30 to 34); (ii) the strengthening of MOT and CIH's
institutional capability through improved collection of statistical data,
reinforcement of investment analysis and forecasting, and reinforcement of
sector administration (paragraphs 30 to 34); and (iii) the strengthening of
CIH's financial position through the adoption of a prudent debt/equity ratio
and the diversification of sources of foreign capital (paragraphs 51, 52).



- 12 -
Implementation of past projects has seen a concomitant improvement in
institutional development in the sector and in government policies, although
administrative delays set back by about two years the implementation of
agreements under previous loans, causing delays in processing the proposed
project and a long hiatus in Bank financing of CIH activities. On the other
hand, loans to CIH have been disbursed close to or even ahead of schedule.
Under the CIH II Loan (848-MOR) of $12.8 million, 56 hotels with 8,800 new
beds were financed for a total investment cost of DH 300 million ($75
million), creating some 2,850 new jobs, excluding indirect job creation.
Estimated ERR's ranged from 11 to 20 percent. Under the third loan of $25
million, CIH financed 29 hotels with 8,650 beds at a total investment cost of
DH 356 million ($89 million). The number of jobs created under that loan
(also excluding indirect jobs) is estimated at 2,885 and the ERRs ranged from
8 to 35 percent. CIH has generally exceeded expectations regarding its
institutional and operational performance. In addition to its direct
objective to finance additional hotel capacity in tourism over the period
1980-1983, this project can therefore be seen as the culmination of a 10-year
dialogue between the Bank, the Government and CIH which has resulted in the
emergence of CIH as a sound institution and the achievement of substantial
sectoral reforms in Morocco.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
37.      Tne proposed loan would be the fourth Bank loan to CIH, and the fifth
Bank loan in the tourism sector. In the President's Memorandum of March 1978
on Bank lending for tourism (R78-64), it was recommended that "further lending
to local development finance companies whose primary activity is lending for
hotels should be discontinued except for a proposed fourth loan to (CIH) in
Morocco, which is sufficiently advanced that it would be ready for
presentation to the Executive Directors in early FY1980". Expectations of the
time required to bring the proposed project to the Board were, however, too
optimistic. Delays have been due to the preparation of an ambitious policy
package aimed at introducing significant reforms in tourism policy and
upgrading the Ministry of Tourism's ability to effectively administer the
sector. Given the termination of Bank lending for tourism, it was felt
important to exercise maximum influence on policy making, even though this
meant that it would not be possible to adhere to a schedule that appeared
reasonable when the President's Memorandum on tourism was presented to the
Board.
38.      The previous line of credit to CIH was fully committed in June 1978,
and the loan was fully disbursed in November 1980, slightly ahead of
schedule. Appraisal of the proposed project took place in February 1980, and
negotiations were held in Washington from November 17 to 21, 1980. The
Moroccan delegation was led by Mr. Slimani, President Director General of
CIH. A Staff Appraisal Report: "Morocco-Fourth Loan to Credit Immobilier et
H6telier (CIH)" (No. 3014-MOR) dated December 18, 1980 is being distributed
separately. The main features of the loan and project are summarized in the
Loan and Project Summary and in Annex Ill.



- 13 -
Project Description
39.      The project would consist of (i) tourism development projects, mostly
hotels, financed by CIH under loans to be made until end 1983; (ii) a cost
benefit study on tourism investments, to be carried out by MOT and CIH with
the assistance of consultants; the study would represent the third and last
phase of a program of studies, the two first phases of which were carried out
under a UNDP project with WTO as executing agency (paragraph 30), and (iii) a
training program for CIH staff to improve and computerize further its
appraisal of tourism investments. Up to $600,000 of the proposed loan of $100
million would be made available for the cost benefit study if required (the
study may be financed under a new UNDP project), and up to $400,000 for
training of CIH staff.
CIH: Organization and Procedures
40.      The Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH) was founded in 1920 as a
mortgage bank specializing in housing finance. Since 1960 it has also been
practically the sole institutional source of long-term financing for tourism
projects in Morocco. CIH operates out of headquarters in Casablanca and has
six regional branches. Though it is a private company subject to corporate
law, public institutions own a controlling majority of its capital and account
for 11 of CIH's 15 board members. The ownership structure is as follows:
Caisse de Dep6t et de Gestion (CDG), a public sector financial institution,
owns 30 percent of CIH's capital and holds bearer shares as proxy for another
25 percent; 12 insurance companies own 20 percent; commercial banks, 15
percent; and Banque du Maroc (the central bank), 10 percent.
41.      The full Board only meets two or three times a year on major policy
issues and has delegated many of its powers to an Executive Committee
consisting of 6 board members which meets monthly. The Committee examines and
approves all tourism loan proposals and all housing loans of more than
DR150,000; a Manager's Committee and branch offices approve smaller housing
loans. CIH's President Director General, Mr. Othmane Slimani, former Secretary
of State of Economic Affairs and a competent career civil servant, chairs the
Board and the Executive and Manager's Committees. He is seconded by a Deputy
Director General, a General Secretary and three Department Directors, for
Credit, Finance and Administration, all of excellent caliber. CIH's
professional staff numbered 122 at end 1979 and is of generally good and
improving quality.
42.      CIH follows sound and conservative financial policies: its statement
of policies provides notably that projects financed by CIH must be
financially, technically and economically viable; that loans must be secured
by adequate guarantees; and that CIH will provide its clients with technical
assistance over the whole project cycle. The statement also restricts CIH's
equity investments. CIH has agreed not to modify its statement of policies
without prior consultation with the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07). Over
the past few years, the main policy direction imparted by the Board was for
CIH to divest itself progressively of its equity investments in subsidiaries
engaged in tourism or housing promotional activities, and concentrate on its
primary functions as a lending institution. This process is well advanced.



- 14 -
43.      CIH has over fifty years of experience in the financing of housing
construction and has developed standard and effective procedures for this
purpose. As for tourism projects, the technical, legal, financial and
managerial aspects of projects are adequately covered by CIH's reports. CIH's
economic appraisal methodology has evolved and been considerably refined as
better sector data became available. With the improved tourism statistical
basis noted earlier (paragrah 30) and the introduction of a computer based
hotel appraisal model, CIH now uses a sophisticated appraisal methodology and
only finances tourism projects meeting a minimum economic rate of return.
Both the methodology and the minimum rate of return, currently 12 percent,
will be agreed from time to time between CIH and the Bank (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.09). Further, under instructions from MOT, CIH now routinely
preappraises all tourism projects prior to their submission to the ministry
for eligibility under the dispositions of the Investment Code (paragraph 34).
44.      CIH's loans for hotel construction carry maturities of up to 18
years, including three years of grace; for hotel equipment, loans are for 10
years, with no grace period. Interest rates are of 13 or 15 percent,
respectively for loans of less than 15 years and for 15 years or more. The
average maturity of hotel loans is 15-1/2 years, including 2-1/2 years of
grace. As the proposed loan would be committed by CIH over the next three
years, the combined maturities of the subloans to be financed out of the
proposed loan would correspond to an average maturity of 17 years, including 4
years of grace, coinciding with Bank country terms. For administrative
convenience, the loan would therefore be made on these fixed terms rather than
on the flexible amortization schedules usually applied to DFC loans.
45.      CIH starts disbursing its loans once equity funds (usually 15 to 25
percent of total costs) and the Government advance (15 percent) have been
fully committed. Disbursements then take place in four main tranches, each
time after careful inspection by CIH staff, plus a final 10 percent tranche
withheld until completion of the work. Disbursements are suspended when a
discrepancy is found between the original plans and project implementation.
46.      CIH's supervision of hotel operations has been strengthened with the
creation of a new Portfolio Supervision Division under the Financial
Department, staffed with six specialists exclusively concerned with collection
of loan arrears through legal and other actions. The Hotel Follow-up Division
under the Credit Department supervises 117 hotels which are routinely visited
and fully reported on at least once a year by five professionals. The quality
of CTH's overall supervision, a major weakness at the time of the CIH-III
loan, has been significantly upgraded, and performance under Bank agreements
in this regard has been good.
Operations; Past and Projected
47.      Between end 1976 and 1979, CIH approved housing loans totalling DH
1,212 million ($ 303 million), most of them in the medium price range, and
hotel loans totalling DH 335 million ($ 84 million). These levels of



- 15 -
operations largely surpass expectations at the time of appraisal of the
CIH-III loan; commitments and disbursements followed the same pattern. Hotels
financed are skewed towards the 4-star category in Marrakech, Agadir and
Casablanca where demand was strong.
48.       Equity investments grew from DH 67 million ($ 17 million) in 1977 to
DH 94 million ($ 24 million) in 25 firms as of September 30, 1980; however one
new promotional company founded in 1977, the Morocco-Kuwaiti Development
Consortium (CMKD) accounts for 57 percent of CIH's total equity investments.
CMKD is owned 50 percent by Kuwaiti interests, 17 percent by CIH, and 33
percent by two other Moroccan banks. CIH is expected to gradually reduce its
participation in CMKD as directed by its Board (paragraph 42). The second CIH
participation of importance (11 percent of total investments), in the Credit
Foncier du Gabon (CREFOGA), is at serious risk. However, CIH has made adequate
provisions for losses and its investment in CREFOGA is covered by a full
government guarantee.
49.       CIH's housing and related lending activities are generally
constrained only by resource availability and the processing capacity within
CIH itself; demand for housing finance is growing steadily in Morocco,
particularly for apartment units. Taking into account CIH's solid experience
in housing finance, past trends, projected resources to be mobilized and the
inflation of construction costs, CIH expects to commit some DH 2.2 billion
($555 million) over 1980-83, implying an average annual growth rate of 15%
p.a., which is reasonable compared with historic trends. CIH is developing
plans to extend its activities in the field of low-cost housing for low-income
groups.
50.      CIH is expected to finance some 14,600 new hotel beds till 1983
(paragraph 35). The projects in CIH's pipeline consist of 65 hotels to be
constructed, hotels to be equipped, renovated or refurnished, as well as
restaurants, sporting and other entertainment facilities for tourists in
Morocco. They would imply total commitments of DH 730 million ($182 million)
till 1983, of which DH 496 million ($124 million) in foreign exchange. The
projected annual growth rate of 20 percent for hotel commitments in 1980, and
10 percent p.a. in 1981-1983 compares well with past trends and is
conservative.
51.      To match the expansion of its activities in both housing and tourism,
CIH is having to considerably intensify its efforts to mobilize resources,
both domestic and external. Since 1975, CIH has increased its capital from DH
60 million ($15 million) to DR 160 million ($40 million), and significantly
increased its domestic bond issues subscribed by CDG and insurance companies.
More importantly, as the latter offer limited growth potential, CIH has
achieved an excellent record of diversification of its external resources.
While in 1975 the Bank was CIH's sole non-Moroccan lender, after four CIH
borrowings since then from foreign institutions for $113 million, the Bank now
only accounts for 30 percent of CIH's external resources. As agreed with the
Bank under previous loans (Loan Agreement, Section 4.10), the terms of CIH's
borrowings are generally tailored to the terms of its lending. CIH has agreed
as well to maintain a ratio of at least one to one between loan receipts and
debt payments (Loan Agreement, Section 4.06a)). To meet its growing resource



- 16 -
requirements to end 1983, the expected end of the commitment period of the
proposed loan, CIH plans to increase its foreign borrowings other than the
proposed loan by t123 million, and is studying new means to tap domestic
savings, through the issuance of bonds in small denominations for individual
investors and through a savings and loan scheme. The Government would continue
to bear the foreign exchange risk of the proposed loan (Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.03).
Financial Performance and Portfolio
52.      CIH's balance sheets reflect a rough doubling of total assets between
1976 and 1979 from DH 1.1 billion to DH 2.3 billion. This doubling is
accounted for mainly by an increase of DH 918 million in outstanding loans.
The housing loan portfolio increased its share in the total portfolio from 52
percent to 55 percent. Reflecting the lower risk of the housing portfolio
relative to that of the tourism portfolio, the upper limit under which CIH has
agreed to maintain its debt/equity ratio is a weighted average of ratios
established for the housing (18:1) and the tourism and commercial building
(9:1) portfolios (Loan Agreement, Section 4.05). The upper limit calculated as
of end 1979 was of 13.8:1, and CIH's actual debt/equity ratio stood at 13.2:1.
53.      CIH's profitability has reflected the evolution of the spread between
its lending and average borrowing rates, of operating costs and of provisions
for losses. Except in 1977 where the spread had narrowed from 3.6 percent to
1.7 percent due to an increase in borrowing costs, net profits have risen
steadily, reaching 9.9 percent of equity in 1979. The rapid increase in CIH's
lending rates and therefore in the spread (now at 3.5 percent), which will
have a growing impact in the next few years, should allow CIH's return on
equity to rise to about 14 percent in 1982-1983, despite projected higher
borrowing costs and provisions against losses.
54.      On September 30, 1980, arrears on housing loans amounted to about 3
percent of housing loans outstanding; generally less than a year old, they are
adequately covered by CIH's mortgage securities. CIH has never experienced any
significant loss on its housing loans. Arrears on loans for tourism have,
however, caused concern in the past, leading to a series of agreed measures
under previous loans. They were implemented on schedule and arrears were
reduced to a satisfactory level. However, the economic slowdown in Morocco
since 1977 caused arrears on hotel loans to increase again. On September 30,
1980, they amounted to 7 percent of the hotel portfolio, including arrears on
loans and advances of DH72.5 million to Safir, a former subsidiary which
managed and renovated La Mamounia, a prestigious luxury hotel. DH 40 million
of the latter were recently converted to a loan by CIH to the Moroccan
Railways (ONCF) which owns and now operates La Mamounia, and this amount is
therefore no longer at risk. CIH is now attempting to recover the remainder,
DH 32.5 million, from Safir. As CIH has already made specific provisions for
this case of DH 22.9 million (over and above general provisions), and taking
into account the 50 percent tax on income, the maximum effect of a loss on
CIH's future net profit would be DH 4.8 million, against a projected net
profit of DH 29.3 million in 1981. CIH's DH 40 million loan to ONCF reduces
outstanding arrears to 5 percent of the total portfolio, of which Bank staff
estimate 1.2 percent are serious. CIH's risk exposure of DH 12 million in



- 17 -
such loans is adequately covered by mortgages, government guarantees, and by
CIH's general provisions for loans on housing and hotel loans of DH 41
million. Overall, CIH's auditor, Arthur Anderson, estimated at end 1979 that
CIH had made ample provisions against losses on its portfolio, and CIH would
be creditworthy even in the absence of government guarantees. However, CIH
has agreed, as under previous loans, to obtain a full government guarantee in
cases where its exposure in a single project exceeds 20 percent of its capital
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
Technical Assistance and Training
55.      As indicated earlier (paragraph 30), the Government has agreed to
begin to carry out by June 30, 1981 and to complete by December 31, 1982
(Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.04; Loan Agreement, Section 3.01) the third
phase of the cost benefit study on tourism investments. The study would be
carried out by integrated teams of Moroccan experts and of consultants under
the responsibility of MOT and CIH, so as to provide at the same time useful
training to the staff in both institutions. It is estimated that this study
will require a total of 77 man-months of consultant services at an estimated
cost of $9,000 per man-month. The terms of reference of the studies and the
technical assistance needs have been agreed between the Government and the
Bank. The studies are expected to substantially enhance MOT and CIH's
planning, policy making and project appraisal capability. Similarly, a program
of technical assistance will provide CIH staff additional training in the use
of appraisal methodologies for tourism projects and assist in their
computerization.
Loan Administration
56.      The proposed loan would help finance (i) tourism projects appraised
by CIH according to agreed criteria (paragraph 43) and submitted to the Bank
by December 31, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Section 2.03 c) ), and (ii) technical
assistance for the cost benefit studies (up to $600,000), and for training of
CIH staff (up to $400,000). Up to $25 million of the loan may be utilized for
hotel projects which were granted the 5 percent interest rebate before January
1, 1980 (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02 a) iv) ). In addition, these projects
would have to have a higher economic rate of return (15 percent versus 12
percent) than other projects, in order to minimize the risk that their higher
financial attractiveness may result in uneconomic investments. In view of the
improvement in CIH's appraisal capability and the greater experience of its
hotel borrowers as well as to compensate for inflation, the free limit above
which Bank approval of projects is required would be increased from $800,000
to $1,500,000 (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02 c) ). The Bank's review is
expected to extend to projects accounting for about 40 percent of the loan.
57.      The loan would be disbursed against (i) equipment, 100 percent of the
foreign exchange cost of directly imported items, and 65 percent of the total
cost of equipment bought from local suppliers but previously imported or
manufactured from imported materials and components; (ii) civil works, from 20
to 37 percent of the total construction cost, depending on the hotel category,
representing the estimated foreign exchange content; and (iii) services, 70
percent of total cost (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02 a) ).



- 18 -
Project Benefits and Risks
58.      The benefits to be derived from the proposed project are several. Net
foreign exchange generation of the hotels to be financed is estimated at $128
million in 1980 prices per annum by 1987, when all facilities are expected to
become fully operational. Direct and indirect employment resulting from the
project is estimated at 21,000 at a minimum. Net fiscal revenues are expected
to grow from DH 80 million annually during the 5 to 10 year period of validity
of the incentives to DH 149 million afterwards. Sectorwise, the technical
assistance provided to MOT and the completion of the various studies should
further enhance the analytical framework for investment planning and for
policymaking as well as MOT's follow-up capability. Similarly, technical
assistance to CIH would further reinforce its project appraisal capacity.
There are risks of delays in putting into effect the recommendations of the
studies. The gradual but marked improvement in sector policies (paragraphs 30
to 34) illustrates however the administration's commitment to continuous
progress. Lastly, there is the risk of reversal of the trends of tourism
demand in the Mediterranean basin. However, any adverse effect on tourism
activity that may come about because of a general economic downturn in the
region are expected to be slight and Moroccan tourism has demonstrated
resilience in similar circumstances.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Credit Immobilier
et Hotelier, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and
the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The special features of the project which are referred
to in this text are listed in Section III of Annex III of this report. The
draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for loans for development
finance companies.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 31, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 19 -                                                 ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                          Page  1  of  6
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVESGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. EMS.)                                                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE
TOTAL            447.Ojc                                                    MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     203.4 /4                              MDST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE 7b         NORTH EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  190.0       300.0      670.0                698.2                   1384.1
ENERGY CONSUNPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      148.0       180.0     285.0                 545.0                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      11.6        15.0      18.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.3         34.6       39.3                 45.7                     63.4
POPULATION PROJTECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       34.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         70.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1M.                        26.0        34.0      42.0                  40.7                    28.1
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      59.0        76.0      93.0                 598.6                    81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-11* YP.S.                        44.0        47.5      46.5                  44.0                    41.4
15-64 YRS.         .               53.0         48.3      50.1                 52.5                     54.7
65 YRS. ANt ABOVE                    3.0         4.2       3. 4                  3.5             -       3.9
POPULATION GROWTH BATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.6         2.5       2.9                   2.6                      2.7
URBAN                               6.4         4.2       4. 6                  4.5                     4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      52.0        47.0      45.0                  41.6                     34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      23.0        17.0      13.0                  13.7                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.474       3.4       3.2                   2.9                      2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (-HOUSANDS)        ..        25.1      78.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          1.0       5.'*                 16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           99.0        98.0      79.0                  93.5                   106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    96.0       102.0     105.0                 103.6                   107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           62.0        66.0      67.0                  69.8                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        13.0        13.0      13.0                  17.5                    33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      30.0        22.0       17.0                 17.5                      8.4
HEALTH.
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.0         52.0      55.0                  54.4                     63.1
INFANT MORTALITY
RATE (PER THOUSAND)                  ..          ..        ..                    ..                     66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        51.0      55.0                  62.5                    65.9
URBAN                                ..        92.0     100.0                  82.9                     80.4
RURAL                                ..        28.0      25.0                  45.1                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        29.0        ..                    ..                     62.3
URBAN                               ..         75.0        ..                    ..                    79.4
RURAL                                ..         4.0        ..                    ..                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           9400.0_d   12650.0   10136.0                4688.7                   1849.2
POPULATION PER NtRSING PERSON          ..      2820.0    1826.0                1751.5                  1227.5
POP'ULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             626.1       688.0     774.0                 635.5                   480.3
URBAN                                ..       460.0
RURA-                                ..      2980.0
ADMISSIONS PEB HOSPITAL BE'            ..         .5       16.5
AVERAGE SIZE OF HO'SEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.8     _  5.5
URBAN                               4.3         4.9
RURAL                               5.1         5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.2         2.4
URBAN                               2.1         2.1
RURAL                               2.3         2.6
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              76.0          ..
URBAN                              85. 4;5     68.4      65.0
RURAL                              31.07e        ..



- 20 -                                          ANNEX I
I                                           Page  2  of  6
MOROCCO - SOCA. TXOICASQRS DATA SEUET
MNOCCO                         RZFRZCE GROUPS   1ErTE A" s
- foST IZCZN  ZS52MA7 ulp
MIDDLE INCOM
MST RECENT           8oRTU AFICA 6           MIDDLE INCOME
1960 L      1970 & ZSTIMTZ /b          MIDDLE PAST       LATTY AMERICA a C&  ZAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIAR:    TOTAL                  47.0        52.0       68.0                76.4                    99.7
MALE                 67.0        67.0      86.0                92.2                    101.0
FEALE               27.0        36.0      50.0                 59.9                    99.4
SECONDARy:  TOTAL                 5.0         13.0      17.0                33.3                    34.4
MALE                  7.0        18.0      21.0                 41.9                   33.5
FZEE                  12.0        7.0      12.0                24.2                    34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. ( OP SZCONDARY)   ..           2.0       3.0                 9.8                    38.2
Pu7IL-TACm RATIO
PRmRY                            43.0        34.0      40.0                 39.2                    30.5
sEconDLS                           ..        20.0      21.0                 25.1                    14.5
AWLT LITZRACY RATE (PERCZNT)        14.0        21.0      28.0                 39.7                    76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TROUSAND
POPCLA-ION                        11.0       15.0      19.6                 15.2                    43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS ER TROUSAND
POPULATION                       46.0        60.0      83.0                139.6                   245.3
TV RECVERS PER T8OUSAID
PDLAnToN                        C0.4        12. 0     29.0                 29.0                    84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DA=LY GENEAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
IMOUSAND POPUlATION                 22.0        16.0     21.0                 22.2                    63.3
CINBAA ANBDAL  TrEDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0          ..        1.8                  2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LAsR FORCE (TOUSANDS)       3369.7     3951.7   4954.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  10.6        15.2      16.0                 9.6                    22.2
A=iICLTURE (PERCENT)              62.0       56.9       53.0                47.0                    37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                13.8        17.4     20.0                 23.8                    23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               29.0        26.4      26.1                26.1                    31.5
MALE                                52.1        45.2      44.4                 47.4                    48.9
FEMALE                               5.9         7.5       7.9                 4.7                    14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              2.0        1.9        1.9                  1.9                    1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCEBT OF PRIVATE INCOHE
RCEIVED By
HIGHEST 5 PERCENS OF HOOSEHOLDS   18.0/f     20.         ..Lf
HIGHEST 20 PIERCEN  OP HOUSEROLDS  43.3ki    49.O        . 
L4WSlT 20 PIECE? oP ROUSEROLDS    7.0/f       4.-0/
LOVEST 40 PERCZNT OF aoUSEBOLDS   18s. 0f    12.0tf
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL MUSs PER CAPTA )
URBAN                            107.0       157.0    389.0                262.5
ROLRAX                           66.0       101.0     238.0                140.4                   190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVZ POVERTY INCOE
LEVEL (M5$ PER CAPITA)
BAN                                ..          ..    242.0                 202.1                   474.0
RURAL                              ..          ..    157.0                 122.2                   332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BZLOW ABSOLDTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                            51.0        38.0      28.0                 22.1
RURAL                            49.0        45.0      45.0                 33.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indictocr are populariom _eight.d arithMetic means. Coverage of cojntries
aong the indicators depends on avallability of data and is not uniform.
!b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year becween 1959 snd 1961; for 197C  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimace, between 1974. aod 1978.
/   Excludes iorocian provinces 1i W. Sahara; jd 1962; /e Prick buildings only; /f Consumption expenditures
of householdg.
April. 1980



.21...ANNEI
Page 3 of 6
DFltINITIOfNS OF SOCIAL INDTICATORfS
hoe: Alt-ou. shs oeta are Arson from eoueoo  generally, judged she moss suthoritanine  and re1iabl,  it should ale be noise  that the  may non be ine--
eatinsel.   comparabl   because  f the lack of stcodardiomd oofiiitions and sonoepte u..ed by differet.totee   to teleoilo   the Asta.  The date en, none-
tIbs   uou    sc seeri Ioodr f neeittodo. h.odhat   tr-sas   andsaroeceerrta-  maJor differee    sserooede
The  :Ioferenoc g...upe are  ftrho  ane, ce           rou  of toe eubrecs coun try and (2) a oeotry grou.p hint  .-meches higf.ee average Inooe tbh  the coaucr-  grop
of~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g teubetourofopsfripalSrlsiloprmmgnanhrcddelnmNrth Africa ccl Middle last" is chosen  ba....e of strnge
lee-,tlofteousie na ou halfacs fo th. -r.  .,h.a.I,tat fodtasor   SIe-e oooteag   of ....tocam    amon  she Ind idoo   depenIds ontheoil lioo
aeta end io non ucfoen. anuococ mus  ho...erisad hr raaa          - ng-s of ons idctorto cootte-   )T_cn nrge  are o...                  oe     t  toprino  the value
tonal - To-Ia  curia           I aces .. uic3 land area and icleod cater,ntuoce;   o    o    a-o-mtr   tu.ontvlv:
-gl.U  .   Esia  te           lt___...______________- d__                                                                  -            -or                     f    p act cin
ProclcId o                     kgloltural er dmoes r tampoeril  onpfa-       al          Oul          e        -use  fercoc,  ooonororide    oe
'P Par d.p.t.  -i-t.  -tolasor0e  hnoca  bd    tsa.  rhe..e    ur   -Poultin   toal
tSP .t C   ...t (COt)     I..h - typrcpt   Wccirld Bas Aturnent9ea6bk      ..i..s ..-           unbar,adrrl             lo   yscrepcl    obro   opslhd
oulased by7 saedonnucmebda  hn    ak   ca    1                      7)-f6 beau); 1960,           ailhonpuicnd otnaegsr)  e                             -h-pniclas   heepitaenn-
byEm es   nepysn     ctehIichc..mn   peonidlg primolpally ...ctadial
ENEGYc CONSUMPTION PEt CAPITo - Aaae_        cesmnooo  nsnc.a.mear_   oltar  anmo  otIdd.fonIhsptas  boliesnen,r imI nieds hea.lth afdmaia
and lgnins  pcoalsum   senra1 gas ead hydro,  ea-e   n  gohna  as-                        a    ara oo. emnnlyaafdh    ptiisfo  by.d Ri.14 a 1It med da assieant
eritiny   an..g..of.m qlalo    e   aia;lh,17.  dlP                                                 sc. .ldefe, etc.) mbioh eff en bo-p.tari            ...n aoondetbe  ad  pnevide a
POPULATIOt AND VITA). STATISTICS                                                                    tompnneln lod. " orII,  run)  ocunl  end. nedra  and  h.aptar lfo  nemeses
Maa   euain    id-Ican   felin)- un of July 1; lSt   PO.ad1T                         urcin  ne-         hmctlbe    tona1nab            r.1of   . adicoaato r   di ohae
Urlban Pelanon  rer-t of total) -ato. of sebam  no tena1 populcti..                                r  os;..dyi.   y a.-.                          .
Afaocr   dai_coon   o f urban ara         a   ffect omparubiliny of done                 HOUSItNG
encconries; ig6I. 19)1, esd 199dana.unastisonsshlfrcnaenomei)- tend  unbas. and ereri
Popuasio II  c year 2O0P - C,rne..n popolacioc pro5ento_   are bae ...          1980            Im their man   eas   A bcrden  or lodger may or mar moo be i                     Jddin
coca)   ... p  tuair ho age and eec cad tbeir mcrta1lit'.a   etln    ae.                     ncboobl   e    sneia   upes
Projeoion oramenra fo  connliny   eass   oepnie  of tree lnelsaeor-         rerae  sabe  of nrmonc  er mo  - neal. uben.lndtroal -  ntrig
cog.lIf   ceetn t c  birti. increasiag hind   ountoros Pe  ept   oe                  bAyr.. of b p  Info pe  roo. I,,   luba,adrupacupr                  snenoa
lon,a Ifnl  10     tncar  canlesae   7.   ar.    h                                                                                                  ...slaoe.rcentnt    .nlligcclV.nepcmos     trunana
Etc  coocr  isnier.amucoc  oe ottbh o  in -       omb... ccocs ofbauln                  erc"-Pio-, Anloa  00relcrciyc  lrrtoanenc
ooc_lauior-lcc   sncoa)Psp-.uoccosr  cs,iV noart.s.cco
tin  crt:.  uts i  ocua  cc  oo den), eni. at Alo theago souccuatre
mains oooecaoc.  Thus in echuened ash  amer  forullico rates decline no  Admusned tnrollmert cation~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-r.ji~  I...
chureocoeen  loeD  f u c  ne  rerouaton  sne  oey  achacsnaion Praar  eceol-  ons.,  alemaafealetems   ote., dal  en  isal
of  onn  eplsa  isef accly    Te satonrypeplain   msc  sssmelmcs  o  al  gesatnb  pimay  en    a  pasetaecOS  sasaiv
masmce   s  bc  eas fr Pt?c-c prjoa    br-      nrmiao  sepplnon                          piayabelceppltisonral   ioee    bldc   gdhl
inne  er  00,sd  h  et  o   eainoffnnlnynnen  epso-rer    ut  dosdfr  ifrn    entso   rmry crso pnien;   O
nano )eral.                                                        aeamnrios aich aoi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vara    dcto    nnionmyeoe   O   ecn
Per  c.  a.     Ohdyna  poalauon   ar  quae hleesar  lythsoanea  ofpr.idetesn_yl roatioal,on  eacer tain_a   osisonine  sr  opi
.tonl area                                                                                      usullyof  1 t  1fear.of..s ooreeeodco   oouce  see gesel
Poultlv   rondO ts .i rcrsn  -. hada  -Th Au -a grwh-  rates of. send  mid-j              p imar  sod annndoo -nn  d-irV ided              1t-1:,a  !    ...
noon.~_   ...lcun it   r            lShnPilead190-at. bbcobes  f  acbet t-h
lsboafa d15-hO.Pa 19.. k-Utt end190-7.                        s-pnoncge ffena  aut   poua Co                                                   - ag d - bSear  an  onc.V -
popoPri-;d..f,237, adf090 dse.ooys  Iprto
CrdP  en.  ot(o  oh -snd              c-- Ana     bs... per    --c1- nb4so  o  edpet                --esesneor Cae  oc  shoc rnd rontolanion      t- Psesnnromrs   ae
pou Anio    1900,t1) ,   cd1T    na                                                         aesaigle    ht  ih    esn;scoe    maeoe   ers    c
Iren  te.droductiaj  hans-Aer5gesombe  ofhid- deg-1rasema  oill baninnlicyvba
oIl ocy racs; uoalty      196psC ureago  aed 19   or. l9G    9G   n   97                 rodao   ognr:pbltpnsemn   fppaaioccoe                                        si
Peat>  P:aocino-oooetsorn, ~~~~ A rul )hceads -  Aeccuar l runbsc c!b. oc pto-           cered  psuedrer  In. ocnre   s   nyer    bceganalno.ai   e
ohitd-ocro       "ocoe  une   upoe   Sntotlial  plc1970pr7goa.                                  dhunt,efct  daafo.eca    eatma                .o be bl toposi  sine   macst.
PCr Irt" Plcioiotcecrt  fsriaoofPrenaso    areroone  abi..h.   icnes.'-dl   --a- Fd1   .r    dV
1t9O 017170UTtTdIt7tenectne  Cir-laon   or the...Idpsuandionulcen    S. bone  .b. pri ea. ....l
Rtfoscr   f  l   foo   cmonies.i Pof_    ioen ue    es   n  fe   o                    'icas to denote  prma- l  noh pecodin   general nelc... ft             -- oeidne
tor o-, calndro-Iti   Paro              h.oooe  corec-V,...r nrouy   od  fag.  sugf, arnen      toi ho 'd idly'i.npmrea.es.ou   imes
ucoccad  of eugon)chiharnedible  aol contin,i  19nt,oh   e.g.cofee  Rd Gn                  .. Annua  Aspndoc th er- CePnita     ) -a cAr-lceaP  e  nbc membra at  rd
Per crona  upooof ca .rse   f..rcPit cf recrt    ann f-4  Gepocedn iron -                en..dmoies It.                      dI            hfrd .a
ecepoeqitlct  f  ottod   uplos   ralaleinooctt  ernain                     200 PP.
pe  do. Anil-   l sI   o ne-  ofnparuiea dwmognucpout.iprsl                              oa  Laeffont  dthouLanfI  -t iaosoios-Y  t boln =Pseoos,  imIodiegt
qusoctuiseused  c soo  proosnuag  and  oeme  in dcceibcien.tequio-             leinistos ihrarhos oan1eio  are.ottnopbnaia; 190. 190 ae
eecctsceroeenimasel hnP)hadc   hsiigolsosfc   ot,ct-                                    1)  dana.          h..-
noId l  o   oo    erE          rdbt  upl   f  td oeoofdshoo    h-                   so   lenooti,ete                                                       d c  e   erecaeoftis   abrfot.  90
quoneo.ts fr allocuntIneeilihdb   tO    rvddc   iucu90ad17  dany                                            . I
ahuonc   O  rn    fcco   rcd.pn  s   n   irom    fsiu  en _eticotipaIe  haVtsd (proect) ~ -   .o..l rma  .. and feae-  PtrcicIp...uon  no
acn:        hiccasd.h avrag   fcbl  she d.t.o i   rroe   . Qc  tha        -  tic      19b. 1d9i7, and  it7  den..      T  m   r   L'   ectiatnrtsrfon
lhhl-d)~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~a.d .V , i9)G- ant 1d data.ll,,-.r 
Agg-s... P-d-ti.,  f .:dt, I ..ou ar  ft,o rattIul buroan
rtvel   ory ccuato  art   ...e o.ica    oyc"'th-I,l'  ec)'                   aa     Ioo ....ocanttro  yaic-  asco   pap l -sooude   11 sa-fic  on
PPt"uan-t rt;ont    00   huso.-  c.u  u-co   pro .I .tnldoo   fn
If  It I'll  -', -"' -  ci.trl Parooot  ot.or   crd    o.zot-oot>tEL- tBtvt rrOtRCE
Par   Ayi,.11.  X    _   ti  pr.d.              rt.  .-          -T.t.1oLrbr  . otzvrth...oordv.to- oE.         nCooe
-t _t ..taOotOOd0f 00 obO'  .ot,plAt'o;tbottct  ;7  ror.                                                                                      h- -ttd
d diV., 'r .... .S, ..4 1.....;tcx.to   por: -crd-tvlib'orti001   - qoorroo rrOt
t. ".r.  -i-d by FAC b...d pbcyoocvrtertto-o.rr.  o tutorooclgn:  nlc ooo  a uId c
_6o tooli-oo    rur.dtrO  to, t-o rcsotuo-                          Itt hto tF 1 ot pooorut) -aFeo 1a  0b00f-                  .  -lo Psarta  ronfoo rt qtr beon  Ir.not
to)     OO fO tP.to   .ofeo   s.r   r  ctnuoo  0   ctvartco                        orel
coosideeoaa baeg rtsin   esnbeacs   fnishue    rsa    r                                  persoalpacrmaIf th  tomet..  irban facl is derne   iron thVrra
td  ~  ~      ~     vn~fa    ooaic  e                boue PovRenbasLvlioo                      f-ra
curul- hunb tr.of people  (natal,gorbat, and rora ) earned boncdneta
diapseal en pencecna5se of sheirrespec tire  pooulacoena.  tonoena Ate                Oaenomic seA  Seciel bate flinision
posa  ma, t inclue .on            ....ouo    ted dItoca,P PntoanAuC -raasmhn,                                            toanemic amalysi  am  Poeeinaheenm
ofbaen  nt,c  aAwos-cne    r  morbro   ysae  r  h  aeo'Ari.19-
pie pect,uesaod  cimilaronsnallecuons.                                                                    lt.   h:-.,.I  I,,,                       rt,,r,l,t-



- 22 -
Population         18.9 (mid-1978)                                                                                                 ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  670 (1978)                                                                                                        Page 4 of 6
MOROCCO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million IISt nt                                    Annuial Growth Rates (%)
current prices)                    Actual                                          Projected
Indicator                         1978           1975   1976    1977   1978   1979e/    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/   12426               9.3   11.8    6.0       3.1    3.1         3.5      2.9      4.0      4.4       4.4      4,
Agriculture                  2248          -8.6   10.6  -13.4    18.2   -6.0           4.0       2.4      2.4      2.4      7.4      7.4
Industry                     4010          13.8   10.0   11.3   -0.7    4.8             3.0      3.0      4.4      5.1      5.5      5.5
Services                     6168          12.8   13.2    8.3    2.0    4.7             3.3      3.0      4.2      4.S      4.       4.3
Consumption                     11138           9.8   11.7    2.0       7.4    3.0         5.2      ?.9      2.8       3.7      4.1      4.1
Gross investment                 2976         24.0   20.1    11.0  -23.1   -1.2          -14.8    -1.1       2.4      6.7      4.7       6.8
Exports of GNFS                  2167        -16.0    6.3       9.8     3.8     5.5        6.0      5.4      5.5      6.1       59*      6.4
Imports of GNFS                  3990         24.1   23.8    13.5  -16.1   -1.1           -4.7      1.4    -1.2       4.3      4.6       -.5
Gross national savings           1753         21.2    13.9   20.6  -16.6    11.5          -5.8    -2.3       6.5       1.7     4.6       ;.6
PRICES
CDP deflator (1969 = 100)           .        148.7  150.9  161.3  173.0  187.3
Exchange rate (US$ per DH)          .          .247    .226   .222    .240   .256
Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)                                       Average Annual Tncrease (7)
(at constant 1969 prices)                                            (at constant 1969 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985  1990                   1960-70    1970-75   1975-80   1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic groduct                                                                 4.0         4.9        5.5         4.2        4.5
Agriculture             29.1    19.9   15.1   14.0   12.9  11.7                    3.5       -0.5         7.1        2.4         2.5
Industry b/              23.5   27.6   30.6   30.6   31.6  33.0                     4.7        8.6         5.6        4.8         5.5
Services b/              47.4   52.5   54.3   55.5   55.6  55.3                     4.1        5.5         6.5        4.1         4.4
Consumption                 89.2   88.8   87.3   88.7   86.2  83.4                     4.1         4.7        5.8         3.5        3.8
Gross investment            10.3   16.0   24.6    16.7   16.4  16.8                     8.0       15.9       -2.4         4.1        5.2
Exports GNFS                27.4   18.9   14.8   15.4   16.7  18.2                      1.3        2.6        6.3         5.9        6.4
Imports GNFS                26.9   22.5   24.4   20.8    19.4  18.5                    3.5         7.2        2.1         ?.7        3.5
Gross national savings    11.0   11.1   19.1   16.1   15.4  16.2                       3.5        13.1        3.1         3.2        5.8
As % of GDP
1960       1970       1975
PUBLIC FINANCE c/
Current revenues                                    16.5        16.6       22.9
Current expenditures                                15.6        14.9       20.2
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                           0.9         1.7        2.7
Capital expenditure                                  3.8         5.9       12.2
Foreign financing                                    -           1.4        3.7
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                        4.0        6.0         5.0        3.9        4.2
GNP per capita growth rate (%)             1.6        3.1         2.1        0.8         1.4
Energy consumption growth rate (%)         3.8        6.7         4.3        4.2        4.5
ICOR                                       3.09       2.77       4.52        3.90       3.62
Marginal savings rate                      0.10         .40        .002      0.08        0.17
Import elasticity                          0.95       1.44         .16       0.87       0.94
a/  At marlcet prices; components are also at market prices except for import taxes which are incluided in services.
b/  Share of GDP at factor cost beginning in 1980 and sectoral growvth rates at factor costs heginning in 1975-80.
c/  Current revenues are consolidated Treasury revenues (incltuding Special Accoulnts).
Current expenditures include subsidies, interest on debt. Military investment is included in capital expenditu,re.
Capital expenditure includes transfer for non-government investment projects.
e/ Estimate.
July 2, 1980
EEMNA CP TT-R



- 23 -
Population         18.9 (mid-1978)                                                                                                  ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 670 (1978)                                                                                                     Page 5 of 6
MOROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                    Annual Growth Rates Cl)
Indicator            (million US$ at                                (at constant 1969 prices)
current prices)
1978         1975   1976   1977   1978   1979e/   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports (FOB)         1502       -22.8   12.8    8.0    3.5    5.5            9.4    5.5    5.7    6.5    6.1    6.4
Primary products               1143       -25.3    13.1    2.1    3.8    3.5          8.2    3.4      3.4    3.6    3.7       3.7
Phosphate rock              488       -29.9    12.0    7.5   10.4    3.3           6.1     5.0    5.0      5.0    5.0    5.0
Others                      655       -22.5   13.8   -0.9    0.0    3.6            9.8    7.2      2.3    2.7    ?.5    2.7
Intermediate & manufactures 360            -8.5   11.0   36.0    2.3   11.4          12.6   10.9   11.3   12.q   11.9    11.5
Merchandise imports (CIF)         2967        21.4    7.8   31.4  -26.4    9.7          -1.8    2.9    4.3    4.8         5.0    5.0
Food                           481         35.5  -24.0   32.9    8.6    2.0          -1.3    3.0    3.0    3.0    2.9    2.8
Petroleum                      427         12.8    2.9   14.5   10.7   12.2           3.9    3.2    4.4    4.8    4.9         5.4
Machinery and equipment         813        51.7   20.4   76.3  -57.9   -3.2           6.3    3.8    5.6    6.4    6.9    7.0
Others                         1246         5.2   14.8    4.9  -10.7    19.1         -3.5    2.4    4.3    4.8    4.9    4.7
PRICES (1969 = 100)
Export price index                  .        ?56.5  207.8  ?01.9  211.4  233.9    266.8  294.7  323.6  353.3  385.9  418.1
Import price index                  .        205.0  211.7  223.4  236.1  247.8    287.3  317.2  345.7  372.6  401.2  431.6
Terms of trade index                .        125.1   98.2   90.4   89.5   94.4           92.9   92.3   93.6   94.8   96.2   96.9
Composition of Merchandise Trade (x)                          Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                                  (at constant 1960 prices)
1960     1970   1975   1980   1985   1990          1960-70  1970-75    1975-80   1q80-85   1985-90
Exports                                                                              2.0      -0.7         7.5        6.0         6.?
Primary products           89.5    89.7   86.9   72.5   65.2   60.7               ..     -2.2         4.7         3.6        4.3
Intermediates &manufac- 10.5        10.4   13.1   27.5   34.8   39.3              ..       9.0       17.8        11.6        9/>
tures
Imports                                                                              4.0       8.1         0.0        4.5        4.7
Food                       27.3     16.8   24.9   14.6   13.0   11.1              ..      14.0        0.8         3.0        2.6
Petroleum                   7.4      5.5   10.7   23.8   27.0   30.3              ..       9.5       10.2         4.6        5.0
Machinery and equipment  6.7    24.0   23.9   22.2   22.7   23.2                  ..      12.8       -3.0         6.0        6.3
Others                     58.6    53.7   40.5   39.5   37.3   35.3               ..       3.8       -5.4         4.3        4.5
Share of Trade with                Share of Trade with               Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (%)           Developing Countries (2)         Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (M)
1960       1970       1975         1960       1970        1975      1960            1970             1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                          72.3       73.7       60.8         27.7       25.4        38.8        ..             0.9              0.4
Imports                          76.7       74.9       65.7         23.3       25.1        33.9        . .             -               0.4
e/  Estimate.                                                                                                July 2, 1980
EMENA CP II-B



PopuIlatin      :18.9 (lid-1978)                                                - 24 -                                                                           ANNEX J
GNP Per Capita;  670 (1978)                                                                                                                                       Page 6 of
MOROCCO - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAI. CAPTTAL AND DFPT
foillion l!S  at current prices)
ITdicator                                                        Actal                                                         Proiected
1970      1975       1976       1977      1978       1979P)      1980      198!     198'    1q03    1984    1986        14M
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services                    775      7580       ?2RR       2486      ?995       3609        a44       50n58    9728      A4R2    7141    83n2    14578
Of which:  Oerchandise  f.o.h.               488       1530      1245       1283       1488       IP92       ?40)      2798      3247     3774    4375    5n4)      9342
Imparts of goods and services                   946       3134       3691      4364       4353       9275        9740     6442      7(138    8Rl49   897Q   0)16    17474
Of ahich:  Merchandise  f.o.h.               625      2267       2305       ?8302 6?2             124S        3719     4??4     4804      9430    6129    65'1 1 '61
Net carreat tranfers                              27          8        47         S2         50        0o          ?6         -         -        -        -       -         -
Current account balance                        -144       -946      -1155     -IR'6      -1148      -1616       -I1266    -1394   -131      -1564   -1638  -1814    -?q01
Special grants                                    .        100        435        360       ?50        350         290       'nn     s20        201     150      d0         -
Current accaunt balance after grants           -144       -446       -920     -1466      -1098      -1266        -919    -1084    -(I760    -1164   -168R  -1714    -29(0
Private direct investnent                         21        21        31          68         77        37          '5        25        28       11      39       '0       79
MLT loans (net)                                  90        304        336       1'33      1119       1013         Q13    1247        l'lx      1l9'   1608    1864      3141
officiul                                                 .               .                .         ..        497       716       64'      683      S54     61?      6IP
Private                                       ..         .          .               .          .    .         434       931       43?      R4q    I099       31    2924
()ther capital                                    56       104         10         54      -106        163         -87       -70      -42       -31        -       -        -
Monetary ...ements                              -73         17         16          6          8        53          20     -117       -99     - 169   -I S5              -1?1
International reserves                          161        437        948       609        772        6'17        867      984      11s0      1291    1406    159M       878
Of which:  Gold                               21         85        82        104        194        360        '60       363       t60      160      16(     360      260
Reserves as mnaths imports                      2.0        1.7        1.8        t.7       2.1        2.1         1.8       1.8      I.P       1.9      1.0      .Q I     ..
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT a)
Gross disarbo-oents                              175       664        736       1789       1191      1434
Concesaional loans                            ..        164        121       634        314        121
DAC                                                 109         73        102       100         76
OPEC                                       ..        42         41        507       18q        179
IDA                                        ..         1          4          3         -          -
Other                                      ..        13          3         17        45         66
Non-cancessional IcIns                        ..        5011      614       1151        857       1113
Official espurt credits                    ..         3         22         27          2         2
IBRD                                       16       lID         59         68        72        137
Other maltilateral                         ..         7          2          7         91         7
Private                                    25       380        531      1049l       732        967
Sappliers credits                      ..        127        ID        171         10          8
Fisancial credits and honds            ..       253        921        878        722       059
Internal Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursod               703       1723      2341       4079       513Q      6189
Official                                   ..      1121       1261       1984      7473       2842
Private                                   ..        632       1088      2094       2666       3343
Undisbursed debt                             239        652       805       1026       ?223      2246
Debt service
Total service payments                        58        145        162       265        548        799
Tnterest                                  23         90         66       148        252        411
Pay-nts as X exparts of C+S                  7.5       5.6        7.1       10.7      I1.5       21.?
Anerago interest rate on new loans (X)              4.4        7.3       7.5        6.8        6.9        8.3
Aserag. maturity af nea loans (years)              18.5       14.7      12.2       13.1       11.3       15.8
As X of Debt Outstanding at End of Most Recent Year (1979)
Matarity str.ntare of debt otsatndiog
Maturities dae within 5 years                                                  38.5
Maturities dae within 10 years                                                 73.2
Intorest struotarn of debt ousttanding
Interest doe within first year                                                  6.9
p)  Pr-liminary                                                                                                                        July 2, 1980
a)  Fram IBDR External Debt Reporting System.  There are sioeable discrepancies in some yearn                                          EMENA rP 11-B
between the external capital and debt service flown reported snder the 1BRD Debt System and
thase recorded in the official balance of payments statistics shown in the apper part of this table.



- 25 -                                      ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of November 30, 1980)
Loan or                                                                           US$ Million_
Credit                                                                 Amount   (less cancellations)
Number         Year       Borrower                Purpose              Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
Eighteen       Loans      Fully disbursed                              392.9
Four           Cred;ts   Fully disbursed                                           36.0
1017           1974       Maroc-Phosphore         Industry              50.0                    1.0
1018           1974       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             32.0                   12.5
555           1975       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture                        14.0        12.8
1123           1975       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             18.5                    2.6
1201           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             30.0                   11.1
1202           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Tourism                 21.0                   13.1
1220-T         1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Education               25.0                   25.0
1299           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Power                   49.0                    2.7
1361           1977       CNCA                    Agriculture           35.0                    0.0*
1383           1977       CIOR                    Industry              45.0                    1.0
1416           1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             41.0                   39.8
1428           1977       BNDE                    DFC                   45.0                   21.1
S-7           1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Engineering              1.5                    1.4
1528           1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   18.0                       16.6
1602           1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             65.0                   63.0
1625           1978       Maroc-Phosphore         Industry              50.0                   15.0
1681           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Education              113.0                  113.0
1687           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)               25.0                   25.0
1695           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Power                   42.0                   41.9
1704           1979       CNCA                    Agriculture           70.0                   61.2
1724           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply            49.0                   46.6
1757           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             58.0                   56.2
S-18           1980       BRPM                    Oil Exploration       50.0                   49.4
1830           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Highway                 62.0                   62.0
1848           1980 1/   Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              34.0                   34.0
Total 2/                                                        1421.9        50.0       728.0
of whicb has been repaid                                       169.0        0.7
Total now outstanding                                           1252.9       49.3
Amount Sold                                  20.1
of which has been repaid 2/                17.7                   2.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                  1250.5       49.3
Total undisbursed                                                715.2       12.8       728.0
NOTE
1/ Signed, but not yet effective.
2/ As of October 31, 1980.
*   US $40,783 undisbursed.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(As of November 30, 1980)
us$ Million_
Loan     Equity   Total
1963/1978           BNDE                          Development Bank           -        2.7       2.7
1966                CIL                           Canning Factory           0.9       0.5       1.4
1976                Marrakech Cement              Cement Factory             -        1.4       1.4
1977                Temara Cement                 Cement Factory            4.8       2.4       7.2
1979                Agadir                        Cement Factory           12.5       2.2      14.7
1980                SOMIFER                       Copper Mining            12.9       2.2      15.1
Total Gross Commitments                                                31.1      11.4     42.5
Less cancellation, terminations,
repayments and sales                                             0.8       1.3       2.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                                      30.3      10.1      40.4
Total Undisbursed                                                      25.5       4.8      30.3



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 1017 Maroc-Phosphore I Project; US$50.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project was physically completed in October 1976 and the phosphoric
acid plant is now in commercial operation.
Ln. No. 1018 Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The sugar cane processing factory was essentially completed on schedule in
1975. The project area roads construction program was completed in 1977, and
the farm roads program in 1978. The Loan Agreement was amended in July 1980
to transfer funds earmarked for the construction of flood protection dykes to
equipment and to other infrastructure works related to the Sebou I and II
projects, in view of the high costs of the dykes, and the advancement of the
construction of the M'Jara Dam which greatly curtails the risk of flooding.
Ln. No. 1123 Souss Groundwater Project; US$18.5 million of Jure 11, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
The tube wells required for new irrigated areas (6,400 ha) were completed
and tested one year ahead of appraisal schedule. Land clearing and
distribution as well as construction of the Project Headquarters and
Development Centers have been completed. Works related to the social
components of the project which suffered from substantial delay are now
underway. Budgetary constraints facing Morocco resulted in cutbacks in the
operating budget and held back the assignment of additional personnel, causing
2 years delay in project implementation, and consequent cost overruns. A
revised work program has been prepared to reflect this. Agricultural yields
are very satisfactory.
Cr. No. 555   Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The project has faced substantial delays in project implementation due
mainly to the complexity of land consolidation in a rainfed area, attempted
for the first time in Morocco under the project, and hampered by management
problems. The cadastral and socio-economic surveys are now
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the undertanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
underway, and disbursement has begun. The coordination of project activities
between the project authority and the central offices of the Ministry of
Agriculture has improved but continues to require close monitoring. A revised
land reform and redistribution program which meets the project's objectives is
currently under preparation, although final decisions on rehabilitation of the
irrigation perimeter and inclusion of seed production estates are still
pending. A nationwide study on collective lands has been postponed.
Ln. No. 1201 Doukkala Irrigation Project; US$30.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 20, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30,1981.
The project includes sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha.,
infrastructure and equipment and a research laboratory on bilharzia.
Construction of irrigation and drainage works is nearly complete. The first
4,600 ha. have been completed and put in service. Completion of the remainder
of sectors is underway and expected to be on schedule. Agricultural
development has been very satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1202 Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976; Closing Date;
December 31, 1981,
The project is intended to develop Agadir into a major tourism area
and consists of infrastructure works and public facilities for the development
of 260 ha. on which 7,000 hotel rooms and 2,600 housing units are expected to
be constructed. The project includes also regional infrastructure, facilities
and studies for the development of Agadir's tourism assets. The major project
component, UAT-Founty (SONABA) land development, is ready for construction of
hotel and residential facilities and land sales are underway. The
implementation of other components experienced delays of about one year.
Ln. No. 1220 Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: October X, 1976; Closing Date:
May 1, 1981.
The project in designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet manpower needs in
education, agriculture, health and tourism. Project implementation has been
delayed due to budgetary restrictions, staffing and management problems, with
the exception of the rural development and extension training center,
construction of which is almost complete. Construction is now underway for
about two-thirds of the project components. It is expected that
implementation will accelerate, and progress is being closely monitored by
supervision missions.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1299 Sidi Cheho - Al Massira Hydro Project; US$49.0 million of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:  November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project comprises the construction of the Al-Massira dam on the
Oum er Rbia river, a 120-MW power station including a 225-KV substation,
construction of about 200 km of 225 KV transmission lines, and preparation of
preliminary designs and bid documents for the Merija compensating dam and
power station. The project should be physically completed in early 1981 and
disbursements are on schedule.
Ln. No. 1361 Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million of February
7, 1977; Date of Effectiveness; August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production and
at expanding the capability of the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA)
as an agricultural lending institution. The project covered most of CNCA's
program for medium- and long-term lending through August 1979 and included
related technical assistance. Disbursements of IBRD funds aim at financing
on-farm investments of small farmers, cooperatives and farmers' associations.
Virtually all the Bank loan is disbursed, with the exception of funds for
technical assistance, which has begun only in late 1980.
Ln No. 1383   CIOR Cement Project; US$45.0 million of April 19, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project comprises construction of a 1.2 million tons per year
cement plant in the Eastern Region of Morocco, and related distribution
facilities. Overall project implementation is satisfactory. Training of key
personnel is almost complete, and recruitment is adequate. The cement plant
started operation in January 1979, and the distribution center, in July 1980.
95 percent of the Bank loan has been disbursed.
Ln. No. 1416 Doukkala II Irrigation Project. US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure. The
land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are
proceeding according to schedule. Implementation was slowed down due to
budgetary constraints facing Morocco and is likely to result in a two-year
delay in completing the project. Civil works are now underway in 60 percent of
the project area.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1428 Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date: September 30,
1981.
The project is designed to meet part of the Banque Nationale de
Developpement Economique's (BNDE) requirements for financing of the import
component of specific industrial enterprises, and of a small-scale industry
pilot project for which up to $5 million of Bank financing is included. The
loan is fully committed and about two-thirds disbursed.
Ln. No. S-7   Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of August 30, 1977,
Date of Effectiveness: August 18, 1978; Closing Date: April
30, 1981.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Mastet Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and of a priority first stage project. It
would assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban
sewer systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the
development of this sector. Project implementation has been delayed by about
15 months, due to administrative and budgetary difficulties, but studies were
launched in May 1980.
Ln. No. 1528 Rabat Urban Development Project; UStI8.0 million of March 31,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes upgrading of slum infrastructure and social
services in three squatter areas with a total population of about 60,000; an
experimental sites and services housing scheme; an employment generation
program; and related technical assistance. Construction is proceeding
satisfactorily; however, there has been some delay in the non-physical aspects
of the project.
Ln. No. 1602 Fes-Karia Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 18, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families cultivating about 256,000 hectares in the Fes-Karia-Tissa
region, and (ii) contributing to the growth of agricultural production and to
a reduction in Moroccan dependence on imported food commodities. These aims
would be achieved through a reorganization and strengthening of agricultural
extension and soil conservation services, training, the provision of credit
and infrastructure. Implementation is proceeding rapidly, due to excellent
project management and good interagency coordination.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1625 Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$50.0 million of October
27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1979; Closing Date;
June 30, 1982.
The project consists of expansion of production facilities at Safi
through (i) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore plant,
of an additional unit to produce for export 165,000 tpy of phosphoric acid,
complete with ancillary facilities and related civil works; and (ii) the
construction of sulphur melting units and sulphur storage facilities; and the
construction of new phosphoric acid concentration and storage facilities.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily and commercial operations are
expected to begin in mid-1981.
Ln. No. 1681 Fourth Education Project; US$113.0 million on April 25, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: October 16, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project consists of (i) construction, furnishing and equipping of
11 technical high schools, a technical teacher training college, two higher
institutes of technology, an institute of applied engineering and an extension
of Mohammedia Engineering College; (ii) technical assistance associated with
the project items and for strengthening the Project Implementation Unit in the
Ministry of National Education; (iii) pre-investment designs. Implementation
has been proceeding slowly.
Ln. No. 1687 Small Scale Industry Integrated Development Project;_US$25.0
million of April 25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 17,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of a support for a new Government program to
assist small and labor intensive industries through technical, managerial and
financial assistance. The extremely strong demand for this kind of credit has
resulted in full commitment of the loan within the first year of the project.
Ln. No. 1695 Village Electrification Project; US$42.0 million of May 22,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
This project, which is the first stage of a 15-year village
electrification program, would provide electricity to about 60,000 dwellings
in 220 villages located in 17 provinces. Administrative and budgetary
problems have delayed project start-up. Consultants have been recruited and
are in the field.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1704 Fourth Agricultural Credit Project; US$70.0 million of May 23,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
thereby improving the standard of living of about 475,000 of Morocco's farm
families. The project will cover most of CNCA's medium- and long-term lending
program and farm investment program through August 1982. Cofinancing of $75
million is provided by IFAD and KfW.
Ln. No. 1724 Second Water Supply Project; US$49.0 million of July 2, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: February 4, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1984.
The project is designed to improve access to safe water supplies of
the population of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Greater Agadir area. It
consists of: (i) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast; (ii) the expansion of bulk water
production and transmission facilities in Agadir; (iii) the establishment of a
revolving fund to facilitate house connections for low income families; and
(iv) studies on accounting and management systems. Administrative problems
have created some initial delays. Signature of the co-financing agreement
with KFW has been delayed but the KFW loan is expected to become effective in
February/March 1981. There is strong demand for the credit facilities for
low-income house connections.
Ln. No. 1757 Vegetable Production and Marketing Project; US$58.0 million of
November 15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 17, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is the first phase of a long-term program for development
of off-season vegetables for export. $50.0 million of the loan is to be
on-lent for long and medium-term farm investments and incremental short-term
production costs of vegetable quality control centers, for two small producer
packing stations, and for seedling greenhouses benefitting about 8,000 farm
families and creating seasonal employment. The balance of the loan would help
finance infrastructure in the project area, and technical assistance.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. S-18 Petroleum Exploration Project; US$50 million of May 19, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: October 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project would assist Morocco's efforts to accelerate the
exploration and development of its petroleum potential. It will help the
Bureau de Recherches et Participation Minieres (BRPM) complete its exploration



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
of producing areas and assess the petroleum potential of unexplored basins.
The project will provide technical assistance in prospect evaluation, analysis
of results of exploration, and exploration management.
Ln. No. 1830 Third Highway Project; US$62.0 million of May 19, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: September 29, 1980; Closing Date, June 30, 1984.
The project comprises (i) a three-and-a-half year time slice of the
Government's pavement strengthening and preservation program; (ii) a
three-and-a-half year program of routine and periodic road maintenance,
including the purchase of equipment; (iii) technical assistance for the
Ministry of Public Works, to improve road maintenance; and (iv) technical
assistance and equipment for the Ministry of Transportation, to improve
transportation planning.
Ln. No. 1848 Loukkos Rural Development Project; US$34.0 million of December
22, 1980; Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
The project should increase incomes and productivity of very poor
subsistence farmers in the Loukkos Basin by reversing the declining trends
cased by soil erosion and inappropriate farming practices. It consists of:
(i deve opment and erosion control works on 15,000 steeply sloping hectares
in Upper Loukkos; (ii) development of field crops and small irrigation
improvements in Middle Loukkos; (iii) establishment and maintenance of pine
plantations in the Izarene Forest; (iv) construction of roads and social
service facilities in the Project area; and (v) execution of a cadastral
survey on about 500,000 hectares of land. Once proven, the project
implementation methodology could be widely replicated throughout Morocco's
mountain and steppe land.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken by the World Tourism           Eight months (June 1979-
Organization (WTO)                      February 1980)
(b)  Project Preparation responsibility        WTO, as executing agency for UNDP
project No. MOR/79/001/A/0l,
Ministry of Tourism, CIH/IBRD.
(c)  Project Identification                    March 1979
(d)  Bank missions (i) Supervision/            June 1978
preparation           November 1978
January 1979
(ii) preappraisal           October 1979
(iii) appraisal              February 1980
(e)  Negotiations                              Week of November 17, 1980
(f)  Planned terminal date of effective-    April 30, 1980
ness
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions:
None
Section III - Special-Conditions:
Assurances were obtained that:
(i) CIH would only finance tourism projects meeting a minimum rate of
return. The minimum rate of return and the methodology for its
determination to be agreed from time to time with the Bank (paragraph
43);
(ii) fixed amortization schedule (paragraph 44);



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iii) CIH to tailor terms of its borrowing to terms of its lending, and to
maintain a ratio of at least one to one between loan receipts and
debt payments (paragraph 51);
(iv) CIH to maintain its debt/equity ratio below an upper limit (paragraph
52);
v)  CIH to obtain a government guarantee in cases where its exposure in a
single project exceeds 20 percent of its capital (paragraph 54);
(vi) Government to start carrying out the cost benefit study by June 30,
1981 and to complete it by December 31, 1982 (paragraph 55);
(vii) loan administration (paragraph 56).



