OFFIf            LOAN NUMBER 1943 MOR
DCUMENhTS
Guarantee Agreement
(Fourth Hotel Development Project)
between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1943 MOR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        F                  , 1981, between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO (hereinafter call the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Cr6dit Immobilier et H8telier (hereinafter called
the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan
in various currencies equivalent to one hundred million dollars
($100,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agrees to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applic-
able to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the


﻿-2-
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the
Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating
or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express
provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made
with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political
or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets


﻿-3-
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar fiinctions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not
take, or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any
of its agencies or any agency of any such political subdivisions
or the Banque du Maroc to take, any action which would prevent or
interfere with the performance by the Borrower of its obligations
contained in the Loan Agreement and will take or cause to be taken
all reasonable action necessary or appropriate to enable the
Borrower to perform such obligations.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall make arrangements to
protect the Borrower against any loss in connection with the
payment of interest or other charges on, or the repayment of
principal of, the Loan as a result of a change in the rate of
exchange between Dirhams and the currency or currencies in which
such payments are made.
Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor shall, by June 30, 1981 (or
such other date as the Bank may agree), begin to carry out, and,
by December 31, 1982 (or such other date as the Bank may agree),
complete the studies referred to in Section 3.01 (a) (iii) of the
Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity
with appropriate technical, financial and administrative practices
and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) In order to assist the Guarantor in the preparation and
completion of the studies referred to in Section 3.01 (a) (iii) of
the Loan Agreement, the Guarantor shall, in a timely fashion,
employ consultants and experts whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
(c) The Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank for its review
and comments, promptly upon their preparation, the foregoing
studies and the reports of the foregoing consultants and experts,
as well as any material modifications of or additions to such
studies and reports.
(d) The Guarantor shall, as and when appropriate, take all
action necessary to implement the recommendations emanating from
such studies and reports, taking into account the Bank's comments.


﻿-4
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Guarantor shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the execution of the studies referred to in
Section 3.01 (a) (iii) of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of the Guarantor at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministere des Finances
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINISTERE FINANCES                       31936 M
Rabat
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By      /   t.CK           Z ~Y'
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this        -day of   M*, 198 /
FOR SECRETARY


