CIA         LOAN NUMBER 1943 MOR
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Hotel Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
Dated                              ,1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1943 NOR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                c            , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER (hereinafter
called the Borrower), a company established and operating under
the laws of the Kingdom of Morocco.
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of' the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter
called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms ,have the following meanings:
(a)' "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to
be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an
Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project and "Free-limit
Sub-loan'' means a Sub-loan which qualifies as a Free-limit
Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement.
(b) "Investment" means an investment other than a Sub-loan
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of
the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(c) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan or in which
it proposes to make or has made an Investment.
(d) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Investment.


﻿-2-
(e) "Dirhams" and "DH" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(f) "Foreign Currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(g) "Statutes" means the statutes of the Borrower dated
July 31, 1975, as amended from time to time.
(h) "Prior Loan Agreement" means any outstanding loan
agreement between the Bank and -the Borrower dated before the date
of this Agreement and "Prior Loan" means any loan provided for
therein.
(i)  "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majori.y
of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its substdiaries.
(j) "Statement of Policy" means the Statement of General
Policies approved by the Board of Directors of the Borrower on
June 17, 1974, as amended from time to time.
(k)  "MOT" means the Guarantor's ministry responsible for
tourism.
(1) "Tourism Investment Code" means the' Guarantor's Dahir
Portant Loi No. 1-73-411, du 13 Rejeb 1393 (13 Aoft 1973)
Instituant des Mesures d'Encouragement aux Investissements
Touristiques and the decrees in execution thereof, as amended from
time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in-the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs
(b), (c) and (d) of this Section, the Borrower may withdraw from
the Loan Account: (i) on account of expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in Foreign Currency and for goods


﻿3
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor in respect of the reasonable c-ost of (1) goods and
services required for the Investment Project in respect of which
the withdrawal is requested or (2) goods required for the
studies and the training of staff referred to in paragraph (a) of
Section 3.01 hereof; (ii) the equivalent of 65% of the invoice
price less all taxes, paid for goods previously imported into
Morocco through normal trade channels or produced in Morocco from
components or raw materials so imported, with a resulting foreign-
exchange cost component in excess of or equal to such percentage,
and purchased in Morocco by Investment Enterprises to carry out
Investment Projects or purchased in Morocco to carry out the
studies referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 3.01; (iii) the
equivalent of 70% of expenditures in local currency required for
the services necessary to carry out the studies and the training
of staff referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 hereof; and
(iv) the equivalent of the appropriate percentage, as set forth in
paragraph (b) below, of amounts expended by Investment Enterprises
for works of construction comprising or included in Investment
Projects, such percentages representing the respective foreign-
exchange components of the costs of such works of construction;
provided, however, that (1) no withdrawals shall be made on
account of Investment Projects for which an interest rate rebate
of more than 2 percent per annum has been granted, except that
withdrawals may be made in an aggregate maximum amount of
$25,000,000 equivalent in respect of Investment Projects for
which a visa de conformit6 has been granted by MOT (pursuant to
the Tourism Investment Code), on or before January 1, 1980 and
which benefit from an interest rate rebate of more than 2 percent
per annum but not in excess of 5 percent per annum, (2) with-
drawals on account of expenditures in respect of the studies
referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 hereof, shall not
exceed an aggregate amount of $600,000 equivalent, (3) withdrawals
on account of expenditures in respect of the training of staff
referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 hereof, shall not
exceed an aggregate amount of $400,000 equivalent, and (4) no
amount shall be withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of any
Investment Project unless (A) the Sub-loan or Investment for such
Investment Project shall have been approved by the Bank or (B) the
Sub-loan shall be a Free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank shall
have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b) For the purposes of withdrawals pursuant to paragraph
(a) (iv) of this Section, amounts expended for works of construc-
tion shall include the full purchase price and costs of delivery


﻿-4-
and installation of all capital equipment required in such con-
struction, and the respective percentages of such amounts for the
purposes of such withdrawals, based upon the classifications
established by NOT, shall be as follows:
5 star classification              37%
4 star classification              36%
3 star classification              31%
2 star classification              24%
1 star classification              20%
Withdrawals on account of amounts expended for any works of
construction carried out pursuant to designs not so classified
shall be on the basis of such percentage as shall be agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank for each Investment Project.
(c) A Free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan in an amount
which, together with any other amount or amounts financed or
proposed to be financed for the same Investment Project out of the
proceeds of the Loan or of any Prior Loan, and not repaid, shall
not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $1,500,000, such
amount being subject to change from time to time as determined by
the Bank.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures
made by an Investment Enterprise (i) before the date of this
Agreement or (ii) in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the Bank's
approval or in respect of an Investment if such expenditures shall
have been made more than ninety days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received in respect of such Sub-loan or
Investment the application and information required by Section
2.03 (a) of this Agreement or (iii) in respect of a Free-limit
Sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received in respect of such Free-limit Sub-loan
the request and information required by Section 2.03 (b) hereof.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than
a Free-limit Sub-loan) or an Investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project
(including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan) and the proposed terms
and conditions of the Sub-loan or Investment, including the


﻿-5-
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan or of repayment to the
Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the Investment, and
suchl other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a Free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan) and the terms and conditions of such Free-limit Sub-
loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to
the Bank on or before December 31, 1983.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest. at the rate
of nine and one-fourth per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is: (i) to
assist the Borrower in financing, in the sector of tourism,


﻿-6-
specific projects of construction, rehabilitation, expansion,
modernization or equipping of hotels, other tourist accommoda-
tions, restaurants, recreation facilities and tourism transporta-
tion, in the territory of the Guarantor; (ii) to assist the
Borrower in the further training of its staff in the economic
appraisal of tourism development projects; and (iii) to assist MOT
in finalizing on-going cost/benefit studies of tourism investments
and carrying out studies to enhance the economic analysis of
tourism projects and the development of new sector policies. The
Project consists of: (i) the financing by the Borrower of specific
tourism development projects through loans to and investments in
enterprises in such territory; (ii) the further training by the
Borrower of its staff in the economic appraisal of tourism
development projects; and (iii) the carrying out by the Guarantor
of the studies referred to above.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project (except for the
studies referred to under paragraph (a) (iii) above) and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate finan-
cial standards and practices, with qualified management and
personnel, and in accordance with the Statutes and Statement of
Policy.
(c) The Borrower shall, in a timely fashion for the execu-
tion of the studies referred to in paragraph (a) (iii) of this
Section, make available to the Guarantor for the purpose of such
studies such portion of the proceeds of the Loan as the Guarantor
shall request but not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will
be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Bank and the Borrower, including, in the case of any Sub-loan and
to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any
Investment, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Invest-
ment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appro-
priate technical, financial and managerial standards and to
maintain adequate records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of otiher
relevant factors such as time of delivery and reliability of the


﻿-7-
goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts
therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality and the
competence of the parties rendering them; and (2) such goods and
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in
the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or
the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from
the Investment Project; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of
the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan
upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obliga-
tions under its contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Invest-
ment Projects, and the Sub-loans and Investments.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations in agreements under which funds have been lent or
otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor
or its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.


﻿-8-
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
Subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such Subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such
Subsidiary.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall not provide any financing
(whether in the form of loans, investments, guarantees, or any
combination thereof) for any hotel unit which, at any time,
shall exceed twenty per cent (20%) of the aggregate of the Bor-
rower's paid-in share capital, surplus and free reserves, unless
such total outstanding financing shlall be fully secured by guar-
antees provided by the Guarantor, or by any other institution
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall not modify its Statement of
Policy without the Bank's prior consultation.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, within six months following
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or by such other date as
may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank, prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of both the Investment Projects and the training of the
staff of the Borrower (as provided for in paragraph (a) of
Section 3.01 hereof), their costs and the benefits derived and to
be derived therefrom, the performance of the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.09. It is understood that the tourism development
projects to be financed by the Borrower shall meet a minimum
economic rate of return to be set, from time to time, by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank, according to a methodology
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.10. If any provision in this Article is inconsis-
tent with any provision in any Prior Loan Agreement on the same
subject (or amendment thereto prior to the date hereof) between
the Borrower and the Bank, the provision in this Article shall
govern.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
(except for the studies referred to in paragraph (a) of Section
3.01 hereof) and of each Investment Project (including its cost
and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accor-
dance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting prac-
tices the operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as reported in its current published finan-
cial statements or disclosed in writing by the Borrower to the
Bank.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any Subsidiary as security for any debt,
such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any
Subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at
no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing


﻿- 10 -
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall take all appropriate
action to ensure that, at the end of any given fiscal year and on
the basis of the audited accounts, the ratio of the outstanding
consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its Subsidiaries over
the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and all its
Subsidiaries shall be less than the limit calculated pursuant to
paragraph (b) below.
(b) The limit referred to in paragraph (a) shall be the sum
of:
(A) the product of the multiplication by 18 of the ratio of
the Borrower's total mortgage private non-commercial
housing loans outstanding as of the end of such fiscal
year over the Borrower's total loans and equity invest-
ments outstanding as of the end of such fiscal year;
and
(B) the product of the multiplication by 9 of the ratio of
the Borrower's loan and equity investments other than
mortgage private non-commercial housing loans out-
standing as of the end of such fiscal year over the
Borrower's total loan and equity investments outstanding
as of the end of such fiscal year.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "mortgage private non-commercial housing loans
of the Borrower outstanding at the end of the
previous fiscal year" means loans for housing
construction, loans for acquisition of
existing homes and the Borrower's staff
housing loans.


﻿- 11 -
(ii) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by the
Borrower or any Subsidiary maturing more than
one year after the date on which it is origi-
nally incurred, including debt assumed or
guaranteed by the Borrower or by a Subsidiary
but not including debt so guaranteed by the
Borrower or Subsidiary when the liability of
the Borrower or Subsidiary resulting from such
guarantee is fully covered by a guarantee of
the Guarantor in favor of the Borrower or
Subsidiary, as the case may be.
(iii)  Whenever reference is made in this Section to
the incurring of debt, such reference shall
include any modification of the terms of
payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to
be incurred (1) under a loan contract or
agreement on the date and to the extent it is
drawn down pursuant to such loan contract or
agreement and (2) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into.
(iv) Whenever in connection with this Section it
shall be necessary to value in terms of
Dirhams debt payable in Foreign Currency, such
valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such Foreign
Currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt.
(v) The term "consolidated debt of the Borrower
and all its Subsidiaries" means the total
amount of debt of the Borrower and all its
Subsidiaries, excludi,4g (1) any debt owed by
the Borrower to any Subsidiary or by any
Subsidiary to the Borrower or to any
other Subsidiary and (2) the amount referred
to in paragraph (vi) (2) below.
(vi) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of
the Borrower and all its Subsidiaries" means
the aggregate of (1) the paid-in share
capital, surplus and free reserves of the


﻿- 12 -
Borrower and of all its Subsidiaries after
excluding such items of capital, surplus and
free reserves as shall represent equity
interests of the Borrower in any such Sub-
sidiary or of any such Subsidiary in the
Borrower or in any other Subsidiary, and (2)
such amount of any other borrowing of the
Borrower which the Bank may determine to be
included in the consolidated capital and
surplus of the Borrower.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:
(a) conduct its operations and affairs in such a manner
as shall be necessary to maintain a ratio of at least one to one
between (i) the accumulated payments of loan principal, interest
and other charges from its debtors (hereinafter called Loan
Receipts) and (ii) the accumulated payments of loan principal,
interest and other charges to its creditors (hereinafter called
Debt Payments).
(b) promptly after the end of each fiscal year, calculate
the ratio in paragraph (a) above on the basis of actual Loan
Receipts and Debt Payments for such fiscal year and project it on
a cumulative basis for each of the five following fiscal years on
the basis of scheduled Loan Receipts and Debt Payments for loans
and debts outstanding as of the beginning of such following period
of five fiscal years; and
(c) whenever the ratio in paragraph (a) above shall fall
below the limit referred to therein or whenever there is reason to
believe that such ratio may not be met over the following twenty-
four months, the Borrower shall promptly (i) consult with the
Guarantor and the Bank on such action as shall be necessary or
advisable to bring such ratio .within the prescribed limit by the
end of the Borrower's current fiscal year, and (ii) thereafter,
implement such action taking into account the Guarantor's and the
Bank's comments.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including Dirhams) used in its lending and
borrowing operations.


﻿- 13
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the Borrower and its Sub-
sidiaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement and any relevant documents.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall ensure that the maturities
of such of its borrowings as are or will be utilized as resources
for relending are appropriate to ensure as of right the avail-
ability to the Borrower of such resources as and when necessary
according to the terms and conditions of the Borrower's present
and anticipated commitments towards beneficiaries of such re-
lending.
Section 4.11. If any provision in this Article is inconsis-
tent with any provision in any Prior Loan Agreement on the same
subject (or amendment thereto prior to the date hereof) between
the Borrower and the Bank, the provision of this Article shall
govern.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the contractual instruments
relative thereto, or any security for any such loan shall have
become enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Statutes, or in the
Statement of Policy, which, in the judgement of the Bank and after
an exchange of views between the Borrower and the Bank, might
materially and adversely affect the operations or the financial
condition of the Borrower; and


﻿-14--
(c) a subsidiary or any.other entity shall have been created
or acquired by the Borrower, and such creation or acquisition
might, in the judgement of the Bank, adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial condition
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel
or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any of the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section
5.01 hereof shall occur; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of
Section 5.01 hereof shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date of                        , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 1 .04 of the.General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C, 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 15 -
For the Borrower:
Cr6dit Immobilier et H8telier
Angle Rues de Reims et Lamprciate
Casablanca, Morocco
Cable address:                       Telex:
CREDOTEL                             22839 M
Casablanca
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By            R
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-.16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1985
through October 15, 1997                   3,845,000
On April 15, 1998                               3,875,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable
in a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepaymnt
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  1.65%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                         3.25%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  6.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                  8.15%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                  9.25%


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes 6f the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The words "Investment Projects and other components of
the Project" are substituted for the words "the Project" at the
end of Section 5.03.
(2) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of the
Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied, or
(c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall have
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07
with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice
to the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit
such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such
amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this        -day of        , 198L.
FOR SECRETARY


