Do~~7-  II
MIe World Dank
iOWCoVIALUSEONlY
&uN.. P-6383-VB
REPORT AMN
OF .WK
PRESIDEIT OF T
IIERNRION   D       PNET ASSOCIATION
TO THE
ECUIVE DIRECTORS
am A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 103.5 NILLION
TO
SOCTAIST REPUBLIC OF VIET RAN
FOR A
ST1CTURAL ADJUSTHNT PROGRM
SEPTEIER 26, 1994
MIICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-   6383 VN
Type: MOP
This doment has a resticted di&buion and may be used by Wmt ondy in the perfomne of
ir offieca duies 16 contt may not oterwise be disclosed wtout Wold Bank auhoriaton.



Cy RRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of August 1994)
Currency Unit    =   Dong (D)
D 1,000             US$0.09
US$1.00         -   D   1,00(0
dpEIGEIS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            -  Asian Development Bank
CG             -  Consultative Group
DFI            -  Direct Foreign Investment
ESAF           -  Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESW            -  Economic and Sector Work
FSU            -  Former Soviet Union
GArT           -  General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP            -  Gross Domestic Product
GNP            -  Gross National Product
ICB            -  Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICOR           -  Incremental Capital Output Ratio
IDA            -  International Development Association
IFC            -  Intnational Finance Cororation
IMF            -  International Monetary Fund
LDP            -  Leaer of Development Policy
MOF            -  Miistry of Finance
O&M            -  Operations and Mainteance
ODA            -  Official Development Assisance
PFP            -  Policy Framework Paper
PCR            -  Project Completion Report
PPAR           -  Portfolio Performance Annual Review
PER            -  Public Expenditure Review
PEP            -  Public Investment Program
SAC            -  Structural Adjustment Credit
SAL            -  Structral Adjustment Loan
SDR            -  Special Drawing Right
SOE            -  Stat-Owned Enterprise
SPC            -  State Planing Committee
UNDP           -  United Nations Development Programme
VNLSS          -  Viet Nam Living Standards Survey
FISCAr   YEAR
January I - Decemiber 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOCILIST  EPUBE IC OF VIET NAM
SICIk   NURL   QSbS PROGRAM
1.  THEECONOMY ..........,....,..-...
A. Introduction .1
B. Reforms Completed to Date.                                                  2
C. Recem Econonic Developmnts.                                                 3
D. Rationale for IDA Adjustment Lending.                                       4
U.  THE GOVERNMENT'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM.                                            5
A. Macoeconomic Framework                         .5
B. Extemal Fianci Requirements..............I ..                               7
m. THE SAC REFORM PROGRAM.                                                           8
A. Budget Management ...................                                       8
B. State Enterprise Reforms ..................-. 11
C. Fincial Sector Reforns .13
D. Liberaizadon of Foreign Trade .13
E. Social CostsofAdjusunent .14
IV.   THE PROPOSED OPERATION  ..............................                        15
A. Background and Credt Objecives .........................                   15
B. IMF Status and BankiFund Cooridon .15
C. Conditions ofTrancheRelease .16
D. Technical Assisac and Aid Coordion .17
E. Pocurement .17
F. Disbursement ..........                                                    17
G. Accoumsad Audits .18
H. Monitoring ........                                                        18
I. Benefitsand isks .18
V. RECOMMENDATION .19
This docwnent hW a resticted disbi  ad may be used by reci   ol in the   fa  .,;
officia dutes. Its conents may o otherw  be dslosed withu Word Book  trIIztio



An=  1.          KeyBconomiIdcatois                                            -..............2..........   20
An  E.           Leta of DevelopmentPU      ...........................   23
Auachent I.   Macroeconomic          nCriteria .                                 38
Ataichmeutf.  P      o     liot Maii ............................               39
Anraim.          TimutableofK .yE ts    -.        .                                47
Am- IeV.         StasofBankGroupOpetWons in VietNam .s.                            48
:  ~ .     .                 -.               .                    ... 



aOIAUS  ;REPUBLIC OF V-EM     N
STRI2Il  ADlJ1MNTPROGRAM
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
Not applicable.-
-SDR 103.5 million (US$15 milliou equivalent)
40 years.
Fee:       0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, begining 60 days after signing, less
any waiver.
Net Present Value:     Not applicable.



REPORT AND RECOMMNDATION OF TIHE PIDENT
OF TEE IDA TO THE EXECUTV DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VET NAM
FOR A STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.      : I submit for your approval the following report and         *on on a proposed
development credit to the Sociast Republic of Viet Nam for SDR 103.5 mllion, the equivalent of
US$150 million, on standard IDA terms, with a matrity of 40 years, to help finance a Structura
Adjustment Program to-support the Goverment's medium-term program of macoeoomic stabiation. -
and structural reform.                                          -
I. THE ECONOMY
A. Inoduction
2.         Viet Nam has been carryig out an ambitious adjustment and reform program  ince 1989
and is making a steady- transition to a market economy. The country's achievements are particularly
oteworthy for two reasons: (1) it is one of the poorest countries in Asia with per capita GNP below
US$200 in 1993 and- (2) it carried out a succsl stabilization during 1989-93 without sigifficant
iternational financial support. The Country Economic Report, Public Sector Manam    and Private
Sctor lives (Report No. 13143-VN, September 1994), reviews developments during the past year
and analyzes the major bottlenecks and issues affectg the economy and the reform progr.
3.         The reforms that Viet Nam carried out on its own, without itertional support, icluded
decollectivization of agriculture, price liberalization, unification and devaluation of the exchange rate, and
hardening of the budget constraint for state enterprises. At the same time the fiscal deficit that was the
root cause of inQation was reduced through a combination of tax reform, elminion of subsidies, and
expenditure restraint. These reforms produced good results. Real GDP grew at an average rate of 7%
during the 1989-93 period, while inflation was brought down from triple digits to 5.2% in 1993.
4.         While Viet Nam's achievements are impressive, there are serious weaknesss mn the
economy that should not be overlooked. The country is still in the process of normalizing relations with
its creditors and has large balance of payments fmancing needs in the next few years. In addition, further
sucural reforms are needed to complete the transition to a market system and to put the economy on
a sustaed growth path. Many of these reforms require institutionilding measures that will take
several years to complete. To a large extent, the reforms that can be implemented quickly, with a stroke
of the pen as it were, have been completed.
5.         The Government of Viet Nam has worked with the Bank and the Fund to defne a medium-
term reform program that is smmazed in its Policy Framwork Paper for the 1994-97 period. The
proposed Stnc   Adjustment Credit has been prepared in this context. It is designd to focus on
criical aspects of the larget reform agenda that will be implemented in the net 18 month. The
measures targeted by the operation focus on the budget, state enterprises, the financial sector, and the
trade regime. The meaures have been selected both because they promote the longer term instion-
building agenda and becmse they address immediate bottlenecks to the economy's development. The
proposed focus ilso takes account of the planned ESAF program of the IMF, which will target



-2-
macroeconomic bencmarks, assist with development of monetary policy istmnt, and support
measures to reform the tax system and libealize wrade and exchange aragements.
B. Reforms Coipleted ol)ate
6.         Viet Nam's progra  of "Doi Moi"- (remvation) was launched in the late 1980s in the
context of byperinflationt and stagndion i real per capita GDP. The goal of the reform progrm was.
first, to stabilize the ewnomy, aad, second, to engine a tramition from  lentra planning to a market
economy in order to promote sustained development. The lack of intnational financial support for Viet
Nam's reform program during the 1989-92 period creae  some difflties, but also esred that
ownership" of the program was total. Thghout hs period the Govermnent had an active policy
dWoigue with the Bank and the Fund and was very receptive to outside advice; however, remained in
firm control of the pace and details of reform. Me Govermment has completed a wide range of reforms -
- including stabilization and price refonms often covered in a first SAL - and now planb to move on to
more difficult structural measures.
7.         The key measures completed to date under the reform program covet:
*    Mhonetary poiifv. The moneY supply and inflation were brought under control by a halt in
credit io the-budget, rstained overall growth of credit, and inter  rat reforms
*    Fiscal reforms. Ambitious fiscreforms were unrken to coslidate the stabilizaion.
program. More than 500,000 soldiers were released from the military. Other expeitture
restraint, combined with tax increases, brought the fiscal deficit to a manageable level.
*    3Rral rde. The collective system was largely dismantled, and agriculture returnd to
family farming. The 1993 Land Law formally gave land use rigbts to peasant households.
*    Price liberalization. Sweeping liberalizaion removed virtly all price controls.
Devaluation. The exchange rate was unified and sharply devalued (73% in real term), and
is now determined largely by market forces.
*     inancial sector reforms. Four state-owned commercial banks were separated frm the
State Bank. Interest rates were raised to positive real levels and inter-sectoral differena
eliminated. With entry of private and foreign banks, there are more than 60 commercial
banks opeaing.
*    State enterprise reforms. The end of budgetary subsidies and increases in iter  rates
hardened the budget constmaint for state enterprises and ushered in an era of restrucgt.
The proportion of bank credit going to public enterprises was reduced from 90% to 67%,
with fiuther reductions expected in 1994. About one-third of the 2.4 million employees in
the state enteprise sector in 1988 have sice moved to the private sector. The mmber of
state firms has been reduced from 12,000 to 7,000.
*    Promotion of the rhiate sect2. After years of discri on against the private sector,
the Govermment reversed co.rse and now encourages the private sector.



-3-
*    Onenness to direct foreion investment. A liberal foreign investment law and subsequent
revisions succeeded in attracting a growing volume of DFI.
-    *    Reform of foreign . Quaniative restrictions have been largely *'tinated and replaced
with tariffs. Access to foreign trade permits has gradually been liberalized.
*    Social costs of adiastment. The Government initiated a numbe of forward-looking
programs to deal with the transitional unemploymet caused by the reform progam
including severance pay, retraining schemes, and soft loans for the small-scale pnvate
sector-.
8.         f.egal Reform. The Goverment also recognized that a successful transition to a market
econmy qures the deveopment -of an appropriate egal fameworwk, which will inevitably take some
years to complete. The gradal process of puttinj into place the necessary elements of such a system has
included a new constitution and the cnactment of legislation in the areas of conac, company, land, and
bankuptcy law. That process is now accelerating with the enactm  in June 1994 of a labor code to
protect empleyees and employers alike as the labor market develops and a domestic invesunent promoton
law to provide incentives for the domestic private sector comparable to those for foreign investors. The
legislative agenda for the 1994-96 period includes a basic civil cWe as the legal foundation for the system
as a whole and a commercial law to facilitate business activity, ds well as the implementin legislation
needed to give fill play to the land and bankrptcy laws enacted in 1993. Planned amendments in the.
company law and the enactment of a state enterprise law as part of the State Enterprise Reform Program
are intended to strengthen the legal basis for competition between public and private firms.
9.         lmportartly, a major transformation is underway this year in the mechanism for the
settement of economic disputes, which is central to the effectlfeness of the legal framework. The
people's courts at the national and provincial levels established economic courts in July 1994, to
adjudicate economic disputes and exercise fuctions under the banikruptcy law. These developmens
highlight the need for training of legal personnel to staff these new fiumtions as well as for the
strengthenn of Viet Nam's growing legal profession. A number of technical assistance programs are
starting up in Viet Nam which are intended to assist both in the preparation of legislation and in the
tang of legal professionals.
C. Recent Economic Developments
10.        The initial response of Viet Nam's economy to stabilization and structural reforms was
good. These developments are covered in detail in the previous economic reporl, Viet Nam: Transition
to the       (ark eport No. 11902-VN, Sepmber 1993). To reiterate briefly, real GDP grew steadily
throughout the adjustment program, with an average growth rate of 7%. Exports were a leading sector,
inreasing at more than 30% per anmum during 1989-92. Inflation was reduced from 400% in 1988 to
moderate levels in the 1989-92 period and to 5.2% in 1993. At the heart of the disinflation program was
fiscal restrain that reduced the budget deficit from 10.3% of GDP in 1989 to 3.7% in 1992. Foreign
assistance to Viet Nam was withdrawn during this period, with the result that the external current account
deficit swiftdy declined from more than 8% of GDP in 1989 to less than 1% in 1992.
I.        The Bank's report highligted a number of featu   of Viet Nam's adjustment that were not
likely to be sustainable, and developments during 1993-94 have borne out this analysis. In particular,
the public investment program was sevetely compressed during 1990-91. Furthermore, real civil service
wages feB sharply as wage increases lagged behind inflation, leading to problems with the provision of



4-
public services. To be sure, the  were some real fisca adjustmes during 19&9-92, notably the
downsizg  of the military &?d the eliuninatioa of subsidies to state enterpnses.  However, the
comWression of public investint and rel civil service waes was not sustainable.
12.       In 1993 the Governament moved to expaW  its investment progranm and to raise civil seMce
salaries. Both moves are necessay in the long nm, but the Govermment moved too quicldy and without
adequat planning, with the result that the fiscal deficit grew substantily during the year, to 6.2 % of
GDP. Of greater concern was the fact that much of the fiancing for this deficit came from borrowing
at commercial rat that the Goveramera canll WaPord. There was also an alarming icrease in current
expenditure, which grew by- fhve percage pojnts of GDP in 1993. Tbis emerging fiscal problem has
placed budget mangement -        with the basic fisall system to be defined through a new budget
law - as a priority issue in the reform progrm. The Government's success with stabilization was also
threatened by excessive growth of uomestic credit and by a shatp deteioration in the extenal accounts.
it was in this context of excessive expansion that the Government entered into a Standby ArnM ment
with the Fund in October 1993. The key elements of the-program were (1) tax and expenditure reduction
policies to limit the overall fiscal deficit; (2) monty and credit policies aimed at roducing the growth
of domestic credit; and (3) a market-oriented exchange rate policy in which official intervention is limited
to smoothing out short-term fluctuations. Thesm stabilization policies yielded good resuits: both fiscal and
exemral deficits declined to manageable levels during 194, and the-growth of credit was moderated.
The IMP reviewed-the Sandby Aragemet in June 1994, at which tine Viet Nam  ide a second
drawing under the rTennt. The gsuccessful review.pave the. way for the Government and the Fund 
to prepare an ESAF.prog              -                                                -
) Rationale for IDA Ad"ent Lendin=
13.        Viet Nam has the potential to put its fiscal house in good order and its balnce of payments
on a susainable basis. IDA adjustment lending will allow this transition to occur both more rapidly and
more smootly. Thank to a lively policy dialogue and the resumption of project lending, the World
Bank has become a trusted partner of the Govement of Viet Nam in the design and implementation of
reforms. This operation will provide an opportunty to support implementeion of the wide-ranging
reommendations set forth in our recent economic reports. The Government indicated, in its strategy
document prepared for the November 1993 Donor Conference, its broad agreement with many of these
remmeaions. Furthrmore, the Baks involvement in the design of the public inveument program
and of the broader budget policy, which will be supported by the conditionality of this operation, will
provide assurance that donor resources in general and IDA resources in particular are dircted to their
most beneficial uses.
14.        From the Bank's point of view, the SAC is one piece of a broader, longer term strategy for
assisting Viet Nam's transition. In the Country Assistance S   (Report No. 13545-VN, September
1994), two of the key eement of the Bank's strte  are to assist with the development of (1) the
institutions of macroeconomic manageme  and (2) the policies and institutior needed to bring about a
smooth tansition to a market economy. The SAC is designed to address these issues. I will help the
Goverment to clarify its vision of the division of labor between the public and private sectors, a crucia
area in which a range of decisions will have to be made in the net five years. The SAC will support
a number of specific reforms that will faciate private sector expansion. In addition, it will resut in an
intenified dialogue between the Government and the Bank about the couns overall development
stategy and the role of the private sector in that strategy. Some of the specific mes   supported by
the SAC will lay the foundation for frther reforms of the budget, state enterprises, the financial sector,



-5
and the trade regime- reforms that could be supported tirough ESW, invetme operations, or a follow-
up adjustment credit.
H. THE GO NT'S -ADIE PRQGRAM
15.        While Viet Nam has reduced inflaton to one of the lowest levels among tasition
ecomies, its stablization is still fragile. Events of 1993 u scored this fragility, as esionay
poli:ies led to increases in the -fiscl -and externa deficits to unsustainable levels. Faced with these
macroeconomic imbalances, the Goverment moved quickly to adjust its ficl and montay policies.
It introduced budget measures that have reduced the fisc deficit to a projected 2.7% of GD? in 1994.
Restrained credit policies contributed to an improvement in'the balae of payments situation, with'the
current account deficit projected to faU to 4.9% of GDP this year. In order to consolidate the
stabilization and to foster long-term growth, the Government has turned to the Bank .nd the Fund to
assist it to develop a coordinated program dwat would hold the fisca deficit to a manageabie level, restrain
the growuh of domesdc credit, improve the efficiency of public expdites so that essential services can
expand, and strengthen incentives for private saving, investment, and production.
A. Macroeconomic Framework
16.        The macroeconomic famework for the adjustment program is set out in detail in the Policy
Framework Paper. The Goverment's target for GDP growth is 8%. Gim -n that this rate of growth was
achieved in 1992 and 1993, it is certainly feasible. The authorities recognize, however, that it is an
ambitious target, especially in light of the recent moves to adjust the fical and exteal deicits
downward. A strong response from private savings and invstment is needed to offset the dmpening
effect of fiscal and monetary restraint. Furthermore, it will be important to increase Govenruent savings
if public investment is to grovi while the fiscal deficit is held in check. The base scenario (Annex I)
illusaes the macroeconomic m4qirements to maintain the 8% growth targeted by the GoQwnment and
in particular highlights the key imornce of raising domestic savings.
17.        Fiscal  _lic.  As part of the Struural Adjustment Program, the Government has
committed itself to reducing the fiscal deficit from the 1993 level of 6.2% of GDP. The Govemment
has already intoduced measures that will reduce the 1994 deficit to 2.7% of GDP and hold the 1995
defieit to about 3.3% of GDP. One of the primary objectives of the Govenment is to increase its
savings, which were close to zero in 1993. Governent savings will finance public iesme  directly
and will also have a strong indirct effect because they will inluence the country's ability to make use
of foreign savings offered in the form of ODA. The Govenment's target for savings is 3% of GDP in
1994 and 4% in 1995.
18.        Viet Nam has significantly improved its revenue collecdon in recent years, as a result of
the boomig economy, some inital success with tax refom, and growing income from oil. Further
reforms are needed, however, to ensure that revenue is robust as the economy expands and diversifies.
An important source of revenue is a unover tax that has many diffent rates and is quie distorting.
In conjunction with the IMF program the Govermment will reduce the number of rates during 1995 and
convert the turover tax to a value zdded tax in 1997.
19.        After a period of austerity, the share of Govermment xendiue  in GDP increased
m Isubtilyfrom 17.3% in 1991to28.5% in 1993. Whiletherearearangeofpublicservicesthatneed



-6-
to expand in Viet Nam, this rate of growth of expenditure was too rapid. in 1994 the Government took
steps to restain the growth of spending, with the rest that recurrent expenditure as a share of GDP is
projected to decline by one percentage point. Together with higher revenue, this will contribute to the
deired increase in Government savings. In fuue  years, the base sceaario projects that recurt
expenditure will be stable as a share of GDP, while capital spending gradually expands as revenue and
ODA disbursements rise.
20.        Preparing and managing the budget in a more traparent mner and analyzing th impact
of diffeent Government expenditures are key elements of theX justment program that will help the-
Government to ensr that its spending is targeted to priority areas. Reform of the budget, including the
Public Investment Program, is an important measure that will be targeted under the SAC Program. The
SAC will also address furter reforms of state eneprises that are complementy to the budget reforms.
The Govemment is preparing a program to clearly identify the strategic fims that will contnue to be
supported through the Public Itvestmenm Program and to establish remaining firms as companies that
compete on a level playing field with the private sector, as a step toward eventual divestiture.
21.        Monetarv Policy. Prudent monetary policies will be essential to consolidate the recent
stabilization. inflation was brought down to 5.2% in 1993. The growth of domestic credit (59%) was
alarmigly high during that year, however. One positive note is that the fiastest growing category was
credit to the non-state sector. -Nevertheless, this rate of increase could not be sus_ined witout-renewing.:
infladon. The State B.ank moved in early 19094to resirain thergrowti of credit,.in the coext of its .
Standby Program with the Fund. The medium-term inflation target is to reach the level prevaling in
trade partner countries by 1997.
22.        Balance of Pavments. The growth of imports was held down during 1990-92 by lack of
fiancing. Both the trade bance and the cumrnt account balance were essentially zero in 1992. With
renewed aCcess to face in 1993, and in response to trade liberalizadon measures, imports surged 46%,
and the current account deficit expaaded to 8.3% of GDP. Much of the financing for this deficit came
from sources that camnot be- ssained: high-cost commercial borrowing and the drawdown of reserves.
The proposed Structul -Adjustment Program aims to bring the external-deficit into line with reliable
sources of finance, namely DFI and ODA. Specific measures that will assist in meeting this objective
are (1) strict limits on the Govermmn t's commercial international borrowing; (2) streamlined procedures
to accelerate implentauon of projects financed via DFI and ODA; (3) the restained credit policies
noted above; (4) an exchange rate policy that will limit interveion to smoothing out short-term
fluctuations; and (5) strengthened incentives for exporters. Some of these measures have already been
introduced and are showing results. Export growth accelerated from 12.4% (constant prices) in 1993 to
a projected 23.3% in 1994. The current account deficit has been reduced from 8.3% of GDP in 1993
to a projected 4.9% in 1994.
23.       Incnives for Saving and Invesment. Viet Nam bas been able to grow at 8% for several
years with an invmestment rate of around 19% of GDP. The ICOR has been below 2.5, very low by
international standards, becuse of several factors, mcluding the initial impact of price reforms on the
efficiency with which capital is utilized. Over the medium term it is likely that the ICOR will rise to the
level of 3-4 commonly observed in developing economies. As a result, the growth rate will slow down
if the investment rate is stable or increases only modestly. To sustain the 8% growth of the base scenario
requis that the investment rate increase to about 26% of GDP by the end of the decade. As noted
above, the current account deficit - and hence the inflow of foreign savings - is projected to decline as
a share of GDP, from the very high leve of 8.3% in 1993. Thus, incremen to the investment rate wiUl
have to be financed largely by growth in domestic savings. In the base scenario domestic savings clib



-7-
from 15.0% of GDP in 1994 to about 20.0% by 1999. The pla.med increase in Government savings will
make a cotribution. Private savings will have to expand as well, and spurring the growth of the private
sector ic probably the key to sustning the 8% growth that the Goveament hopes to realize.
24.        Surveys of, and discussions with, private firms in Viet Nam reveal that the two critcal
botlenecki holdihg back expansion of investment are (1) weak ias re, especially in the tnsport
sector, and (2) the poor fimctonmig of the fiuawnial system. Problems of ir;irastructure wil be addressed
through the budget reforms discussed above, specifically through msures to increase expenditure on
operatins and nantenace and on priority  public investmet that are complementary to private
investment. Private investent in irastructue will also be encouaged through frter rfine   of
the regime for forign investment. Turning to the financial sector, there are a wide rang of problems,
the most pressing of which is the inability of the commerciu banking system to provide basic services
such as check-cleatng, sh-term working capital loans, or lets of credit. Seveal imOrtlnt measur
to improve the functioning of the commercial banks wiUl be tageted under the SAC.
25.        The foreign trade regime, in particular the incentives to export, will also play an important
role in spurring private savings and invesment. In the area of imports, quantitadve restrictions have been
abolished in favor of tariffs. A number of measures have been taken to ensure that producers have access
to materials at international prices. An important rmain  distortion, however, is the wide dipersion
in tariff rates, creatig significant distortions through variaton in effective rates of protection. In the
context e4 the SAC, the Governmuent will reduce this dispesion of effective protection so as to provide
more efficient price signals to produces and to reduce anti-eort biases.
B. Egernal Fiial Rea ents
26.        The financig requirements for Viet Nam's program of adjustmen and reform are large.
it is efficient for Viet Nam to make use of foreign saviogs offered via DFI and highly concessional ODA.
Xpendi       on economic and social infrstructure has been low for a long time and there are large pent-
up needs. In the next few years the Government plans to use ODA and domestic borrowing to finance
about half of the public investment program, while coveing the remainder from Government savings.
27.        There have been large DPI cotments made in Viet Nam, but so far disb      have
lagged well behind commitments. Part of this delay is the inevitable startup time required to get
factories and other productive facilities operating. The start-up lme is paiarly long in Viet Nam
because of poor transort, telecounicaion, and power inftructure, on the one hand, and
bureaucratic delays, on the other. Cumbesom    procedures and buacratic requiremen  for thee
negotation of contcs, issuance of rlated licenses, and implemention of projects are singled out by
most investrs as major impediment to the expansion of foreign investment. The Govmen has
already taken some measures to reduce these bottlenecks, and addionl steps to samline the investme
regine will be part of the medim-term program.
28.        In the near term, ODA wil account for the lion's sbare of foreign financing as infrastructure
needs are met and the incentive regime is improved. Over time the relative roles of ODA and DFI wil
shift, with the latter expected to provide the bulk of exeral finamcing in the long run. The gross
extnl financing required for 1994 is about US$1.3 billion, of which one4hird is projected to come
from DFI. In addition to IMP financig and grant assistance, around US$315 mllion of di s
are needed fom concessional and other longterm loans. In 1995 the required fincing from long-term
loan dis         rises to US$600 million.



-8
29.        The first Donor Conference for Viet Nam, in November 1993. was highly successful in
generat  US$1.8 billion in ODA commitments for Viet Nam. The vast majority of this is for specific
projecats a  only about US$150 million of the project omnitments are expected to disburse in 1994,
and a further US$250 million in 1995. Thus, Viet Nam has a bance of payments financing problem
that is likely to persist for several years. The Govemen tured to commercial sources for US$100
million in the first half of 1994 to help in financing its balance of paymets. The proposed SAC would
fill the remainder of the gap in 1994. The size of the gap that needs to b¢ filled by quick-dibursing
ODA in 1995 is estimatd to be US$230 million. Te second tranche of the SAC and an ADB program
loan would meet about half of this requirement; and it is anticipated that bilateral sources would provide
the remainder. It should also be noted tat a Pais Club rescheduling in December 1993 has made an
important contrbton to puttig Viet Nam's balance of payments on a sustaiable basis. Furthemore,
the Govermment is negodating the reheding of its commercial debts through the London Club. In the
wake of these rescheduings, projeted debt service is quite reasonable: it should decline from the pre-
sheduling level of 26.6% of exports (1993) to 11.9% in 1994.
30.        Looking ahead a few years, the large project commitments being made by major donors
have the potential to provide significant financing for Viet Nan's development program. In order to take
maximum advantage of these commitments the Govemment will need effective institutions and procedures
for aid management. The early experience with project implementation has revealed some waknesses
in ex    ist tgtustoudanctprocedures: The Bank, as part of its overall assistance strategy, will contim
to work with the G Qovernm  to improve ODA m nagement and project nmple ion.
m. THE SAC REFOR
31.        The overall objective of the proposed SAC Program is to assist Viet Nam to sustain a high
growth rate and to make a smooth tansition to a market economy. To that end, the program will help
to establish an efficient division of labor between the public and private sectors. Reforms targeted under
the SAC are part of the Government's larger reform agenda. The Letter of Development Policy. with
attached policy nmix (Annex 1), ariculates the Government's overall development and reform strategy
and indicates how the specific measures under the proposed SAC fit into the larger program of reforms.
In particular, given that the IMP Program concerns macroeconomic bnars and issues of tax reform,
the Government has requested that the SAC Program address four areas: (1) budget management, (2) state
nterprises, (3) the financal sector, and (4) foreign trade policy. Reforms in these four areas will
conibute to increasing savings and investment, either in the public sector or in the private sector. As
noted in the macroeconomic discussion, increasing domestic savings will be the lky to sustning high
growth in Viet Nar, and the measures targeted under the SAC will encourage such savings.
Futermore, the focus of the operation is on critical meures to be implemented in the next 15 months.
The measures that will be implementd as conditions of second tranche release are underscored in the
following text and su_mmrized in paragrh 67.
A.  Iud"et Manement
32.        The Government has at its disposal a growing volume of resources to provide the public
services required to make a market economy function well. Govemment revemue as a share of GDP
increa  to 22% in 1993, and a substantial volume of foreign aid is now available to the country. As
a result of this increased availability of resores, the Govemment was able to more than double real
development expe        between 1991 and 1993. This inuded large increases in spendifg for



-9.
educaton, health, and public investmnta. Th broad alloca    of enture between developmen and
nondevelopmn purpos  in Viet Nam now compa  favorably to oe low-icome counes.
33,        As noted in praph 12, however, the growth of expeitue in 1993 was too rpid and
treatened m            stability. It Is clear hat te grdw   f  ig must be modeted. Targets
for the fiscal deficit have been stalisd as part of the mncroonoic :fmwork. Inthe coexA of
the SAC, the Bank will assist the G aovernme  to Inrodc measures that will improve the efficiency of
expenture so  a importa  setvices can   an t  the reour  evelpe establihdas pa of the -
macro frework.
34.        Sector studies caried o  by tho Bak nd oth  provide evdc ta the efficiencmy of
public expendiures is cueny low in Vict Nam.  he Bak's Trapo  Sector Review, for example,
found ta the Govemnt is -consiwtg   1or-wnewnvents in roads and other-transport
infrastructure, bu at the same time     pwoving adeque fmds for opei   and _mntean  of
infastucture. In the case of roads, addiionl funds for     would have a highe rate of retr
than some of the projecs under consideration. Lack of adequate fig for O&M is a geal problem
tha goes beyond the rmsport sector. The probln has gott  more acute in the past few yeas because
O&M expenditure bas not iceased as rapidly as other items in the budget.
35.        The Bank's recent poverty mi    found simiar emples of inefficiency in the ddivey
of social services. There are 28 natonay fund  socisl progams t  reah down to fte commue level.
Thes program  address very specific problems, for example, got or maria. The funds are not
fingible, hcwever, so that a commune can only use funds provided thdough the anti-maaria program to
adress that probfem, regardess of its needs. Local authorities would like more discrto in demiing
how to spend funds targeted to social sevices, which should makehe expendtures more effective.
36.        Ipoving the efficiency of public expeni    will require seal Itegated refrms. The
Govements stra        in the SAC Prgrm is to immediaely address a number of clear problems,
notably the underfading of O&M and the conmositio of the investment program in the 1995 budget.
At the same time, the Govermmn will commence long  term intional refoms concering
preparaton and management of the budget. These refr  will enable the Govermen to improve the
quality of services, while at the same time building up saving to help finance needed invesmes in
economic and social       .
37.         ud S           Ihe problems with Viet Nams budget begi with the fact that the
procedures for prepaing and _na   the budget are not traspare  and ivolv several agencies with
overlapping authority. To rec*t this problem, the Gosvenm    is dftg an orgaic budget law. This
law would establish the Ministry of Finance as the agency in charge of prepaing and managing the
budget, and clarify the role of other agencies, including the State Plaing Committee, line ministries,
and provical goverments. The law would also set out a rational timetable for prepaig the budget.
Finally, the law would clarify the asignment of revus and exenditur  between cena  and local
authorities. The corrent system is bighy  lize, a root cause of the specfic inefficiencies noted
above, and the orgamc budget law would introduce greater d a o, allowing local audtories
more discretion over level of expende on function that have been assigned to them and over taxes
to provide flmcA for thee mendiur_. Uw  m=            invtend toopeeto   Natian1Asebl 
in I 9an 2MM& bxetlawv. s mn   to IDA. thtatwocdte oces for pr _om              n
the budget. including the roles of diffeent Mental gom     agencies and of cenr  and local
amhorites.



- 10-
38.        The expenditre made ad revenue aised at various levels of govenmnt need not balance.
Therfore, the budget law would provide In general terms for a system of transfers to provide support
for pooe localities to mainain appropriate exped    levels. The law wil need to be followed by
implementing regulatio to defime the details of the transrs. The Bank's poverty mission identified this
as an important issue, as poor provic  currenty are having diffiwlties fiancing social services and a
safey net for tbose in need. In conjuncdon with the-SAC, the Governme  will conduct a study of
reveme capabilities and expenditure needs by province. The study will provide the basis for improving
the system of inter-govenmenal transfers to eme that poor areas have adequae resources for their
expen=nue needs.
39.        Recurrent            Based on available iormation, it is dffictlt to fault the broad
allocation of spendig among major categoies of Viet Nam's budget. The one clear excepdon to this
tate   is the svere udflding fopations and          Ia the rect budget The poor
state of infrastce is universally recognized as a constraint to Viet Nam's development. Since
investm   projects inevitably take some years to complete, the only measure that could alleviate the
bottlenecks quickly would be enhanced expenditure on O&M. The Government bas taken an important,
inidal step to address this problem, increasing the allocation for O&M funds in the 1995 budget pmposl
by 30% over the 1994 level. The Goverpent's Letter of Development Policy indicates tat it will
coninue to give priority to increasing expenditure on O&M as resour  become available.
40.        It is dIfiicilt to make other spefic r       about the allocation of expenditures
that would improve their-efficiency because the 1-udget lacks aiequa  detail and t.   As part.
of its collaboration with the IM;, the Ministry of Finae is working to improve the functional ad
economic classification of expend . These reforms wil inuease the tasarency of the budget and
facilitate an economic analysis of expenditr. This kInd of analysis will be required before the
Govemment can prepare a program to cut inefficient expnde, release reddant staff from the civil
service, and rgnize the public baay. The Govemnt plans to complete by mid-1995 a Public
Expeditur Review, under tems of refeenc  saisacory to JDA. to obtai a clear picur of
ovemmnent s        and to analyze the efficienw of exUs in meen  stated objectves.
41.        Public gv =. The incased level of domestic and extal resources has enabled the
Govemment to expand its ivestment program. Furermore, there has been a significant shift in the
composion of the investment progam financed from the budget. Commertc  fim, including power
companies, are no longer supported through the budget. The 1995 investment budget focuses on
infrastcture in the tansport, irrigaton, water supply/sanitation, edtion, and health sectors. The
Govermment is suppoting investment in commeil public services such as power trough onlending of
ODA resowurces. While progress has been made in the broad composition of the public investment
program, there remai a need to improve the allocation of resources withn sectors. Criteria for project
selection are not clear, planning is not done on a multi-year basis, and investme  have been chosen
without adequate concem for the related implications for the recurrent budget
42.        To ensure that resources are allocated to priority inestments, the Goverment will prepare
a muli-year public imvestment progrm (PIP) that looks beyond the annual budget horizon The PIP will
establish priorities among invesnt proposals by developing p dues and strict crteia for selecting
projects. In general, efficient public  vstments are ths that are comple   to private sector
developmentand situated in a well-defid sectoral stategy. The sctoral stategies in turn should take
account of the econmic rates of return on differen potendal investments, as well as of the need to
promote development in di=    regions of the contry. The PIP should be closely linked to the budget
to ensure that it is realistic in tems of (1) domc  and extena  resurc  avalble for the invesunnt



budget and (2) the provision of finds m the recet budget to finance related operatig and maitnn
costs. The GovernMe  ham completed guidelines that it will use to prepare the Public Inv es
Program for 1996-98. Durin 199S the Govenment plans to adopt an invesment prgm fo 1229-
-Suyto,IA, fgUf  on m_v llM  jn                   and humanm= resouro  dtIhatar
comlemntary to ,nrJvate inve_en and that are situated in well i  scor      is.
43.        Cvt &g=. The bulk of public inestmt in the medium term will go to i   r
and commercia pubUc sevices, especially roads, power, urban water supply, irrigation, and seaort.
In all of these areas it is impor to chare aoprimate prices    for efiency res    and in order
to raise fimds for operation, maintenance, ande3pansion of capacity. The Goverment has introduced
som  measue of cost recovery in sectors such as power and water supply, in wbich prices are still
regulated. It also  roduced an hiport tax on gasoline that is jutfied on   ren'nta ground -and
aims to coUect resowues from the users of roads (a form of cost recovery). As noted in the Trnsport
Sector Review, hower, the import tax on diesel fuel has been much lower (12%), despite the fac tat
the trucks that usediesl fue account for most of the wear and tear on roads. The Review   I
an appropriate tax on diesel fuel, comparable to taxes on other petroleum products, as an efficient vdeide
for the Government to raise the resources that are needed to increase O&M expenditu   in the budget.
in response, the Goverment increased the import tax on diesel fuel to 20%, effcdve July 1, 1994.
Furtmore, as part of the overall tax reform, the import tax on gasoline will be reduced to 60% and
an excise tax on gasoline and diesel fuel inroduced. In 995 the G-oement inte   to WM*W in
excise tax on etlum products (includWu     diesel fiel) of at least 10%. in order to hrs reven and
to make the priCeS Of different petroleum nroducts more comuarabe. In future years, the Government
plans to increaSe the petroleum excise tax gradualy in order to stngthen cost reovaey for the transport
sector without impoSing any sudden shock on the economy. T'he higher revenUes from peomtaxao
wIl help finance the increased eqendiu  on O&M (paragraph 39).
44.         uMMa  of Bud_   Meu. Thus, during the preparton of the SAC Pgm, the
Goverment inoduced meweurs that have an immediate impact on the 1995 budget, that is, incd
funding of O&M, a tax on diese fiel that will help finance this higher expendiu, and guidelines for
public imvesment. )uring 1995 the Govermnent will take steps :oward longer term, insutiona refom
of the budget, including adoption of a new budget law and system, completion of a Public Expendiu
Review that aalyzes the efficiency of goverment spendig, and preparation of a multi-year investmet
program.
B. Ste Eatpris Relim
45.        The objective of the Govemen's state enterprise reform program is to imnprove the
efficiency of firms and to reduce the burden that they place on the budget. The strategy tough which
this objective will be pursued is to draw a clear disticon between Istrategic firms providig important
public services and non-stategic eneps. The segic cegoty will be composed primarily of public
utilities such as power and water. The remaining firms, i.e. in n  and other service sectrs,
wifl be considered n.  The Govenment's plan is to create a level playing field between non-
stategic firms and the private sector and to experimet with privaizaton of ese firms an a pilot basis.
Government support, thougthe budget or lon guarantees, will then be targetd to the stategc finns
provng important services.
46.        The Government has introduced an initial set of measures to harden budget constan  of
public firm, including the  ii_na    of peratg subsidies from the budget and   i  rat  efo
that reduced implicit subsidies through the banking system. These policies led to a rationalizati  of the



- 12-
sector, and several thousad loss-making firms were liquidated. The main problem that remains is that
public firms continue to have privileged access to resources, especially capital. The bulk of lending from
the financial system still goes to state enterprises, though there has been a gradual icra in the share
going to the private sector. Addressing tbis problem will require in aed reforms of state enterprises
and of the commercial bks.a-
47.        Now that most loss-making fims have been dosed, the main issue on the stat enteprise
reform agenda is -to create a level playing field between -public and privae firms in the competitive
sectors. In the Bankes view this will set the stage for evental privatizadon of state firms. The
Government is not willing to commit at this stage to a large-scale program of privaization, though it has
initiated a pilot program of 'equitization" in which shares of enterprises are sold to workers and the
eral public. An important step toward creation of a level playing field was the passage of the
bankuptcy law, prepared with teclmical assistace executed by the Bank. This law applies to all public
and private entprises. Implement  regulations for the bankruptcy law should be promulgated by end-
1994 so that the law can become filly effctive for both state and private firms.
48.        The Government's long-term plan is to maintain only 'strategic" erpise, mostly in
nasucture and commercial public services. The _mmdiate agenda is to determine (I) criteria for
classifying sectors and specific enterprises as stategic (all others would be non-strategic); (2) the
organizational and management  ichni    r enterprises in ech category ind .(3) a timetiable  fir
classifying state  rise  i  these categorie    d for making the necessary legal and insitutonal.;
changes.
49.        For non-strategic firms, the company law would need amendment to enable state enterprises
to reorgane as single shareholder companes, placing them under the same legal fiiiework as private
companies. The process of reorganzig non-strategic firm  as companes should take about two years.
To manage that process and to manage the Goverment's shares in these companies, a ministry-level
agency or holding co rmy should be established. As a result of this change, the state's ownersip in
these firns would no longer be exercised by line miistnes. These reforms will enable the Government
to accelerate the completion of its pilot pr   of "equitization.2
50.        Concerning strategic firms, the Government plans to submit to the National Assembly during
1995 a state enterprise law to stplate the managemnt and operatioa suctre of these firms and to
specify how the Govemment will exercise its ownership rights in them. In the meantime the Goverment
is working to improve the accounting, auditing, and monitoring of its firms, concening initially on
the largest firms, many of which will eventually be classified in the 'strategic' category. A general
dearment of state enterprises wiUl be established within the Ministry of Finance by early 1995 to cary
out this task
51.        The reform of the Public lnvestment Program (pagraph 42) will support these state
enterprise refoms. Public invesment in state enerprs , through the budget or through subsidized or
guanteed loans, will be restricted to firms providing important public services.  he shareholdmg
companes fully or partily owned by the Goverment will have to find their own investment funds
without govermment support or guaantees.
52.        The GQvernment plans to formally adopt during 1995. a time-bound State Enern
Reform Action Pror. saisfctor to IDA. to (i) establish and utilize clear criteria to identifv strategic
firns t   prMvide essentia nublic seMices. (i! transfor nM atepic ste firms into coManLes that



-    -~~~~~~~-3
-13 -
compete on a level plaving field with private firns, and (iii) strengthe_n the managemnent of.M=Lc firms
that will continue to receive government support.
C. Financial Sector Reforms
53.        Viet Nam is in transition from a system of cetal planning to a market economy in which
management will be carried out throug:i incentives rather than direct controls. The country is well along
in this transition, but there remain important areas in which the-incentive regime needs to be
strengthened. A recent Bank financial sector mnission identified key weaknesses in the banki system
that are holding back development of the economy. These- weaknesses include bad debts in the state-
owned commercial banks that threaten the solvency of the system and a turnover tax on intermediation
that discourages expansion, especially of new banks. In addition, a poor check-claring system
discourages use of domestic cuency.
54.        The state-owned counercial banks inherited a sigmficant amount of bad debt when they
were separated from the State Bank. More importantly, it is not clear what the quality of recent lending
is as supervision of banks is weak. The capacity of both the central bank and of the state-owned
commercial banks is currently being strengthened through technical assistance executed by the Fund, the
Bank, ADB, and bilateral donors. An inportant complement to this work is determining the exact scope
of the nor.-perforing loans in the banks' balance sheets so that the Government can prepae a program
to clean up bad debts and ensure that banks are adequately capitalized. The Government intends. -durin
1995. to conMlete initial portfolio audits, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. of at least two
of the four state-owned commercial banks. in order to identfy the scone of the bad debt problem and to
prenare reliable balance sheets for these banis.
55.        One of the most positive features of Viet Nam's financial sector reform has been the entry
of about 60 new banks, mostly private, both domestic and foreign. This entry has the potendal to create
a vibrant banking sector. The expansion of these banks is hampered, however, by the urnover tax
assessed on banks' net interest-income. This tax inpractice discriminates against newly established bank
because they have little deposit base and initially fund their lending primarily by equity. Thus, they have
interest income but little interest cost, so that the effective tax rate is extremely high. This burden is
passed on to borrowers in the form of high interest rates and discourages the expansion of the private
banking sector. As part of its overall reform of the tunover tax in 1995. the Government plans to
present to the National Assembly legislation to exempt banking from the turnover tax. in order to
encourage expansion of intermediaton in general and of the new private banks in pUfiglar.
56.        By reducing inflation the authorines have taken the hardest steps to encourage resource
mobilization. They will now introduce other measures to encourage the use of domestic currency and
deposits, specifically an increased supply of larger denomination notes - of course draining an equal
amount of smaller value notes - and an improved check cleaing system. A proposed IDA project for
1995 will support this modernizaion of the payments system.
D. Liberalization of Foreign Trade
57.        Liberalization of foreign trade has been an important element of the Government's program
to improve the enabling environment for the private sector. Concering imports, nearly all quantitative
restrictions have been removed and replaced with tariffs. In addition, several reforms have been
undertaken to strengthen the incentive to export and to ensure that exporters have access to maerials at
international prices. First, the requirement that a manufactmer have a minimum level of capital in order



- 14-
to obtain a license to export and mport was elimaed, which resulted in better access to foreign trade
by the private sector. Second, bonded warehouses and a duty exemption system were introduced so that
epoers have access to imported materials duty-free, provided that they process them within three
months after witdrawing them from the warehouse. Finally, shim   licen   for exports were
eliminated as of July 1, 1994 (except for oil, rice, and wood). The Government indicates in its Lter
of Development Policy its commitment to provide exportrs access to inputs at international pries and
to review the effectiveness of the above measu  on an ongoing basis to ensure that this objective is met.
58.        The Govermet is exploring the possPiblity of joining GATT and recognizes that remaining
impedimet to imports will have to be largely removed before it can do so. Thus, the Government's
program of reducng amistrtive barriers to tade will contn, with plans for phasing out shipme
licenses for imports during 1995-96.
59.        In addition, the SAC program will address the most importan remaining trade distortion,
the tariff code. Viet Nam's current code differs significantly from those in place in leading exporting
countries. It is very complex, contning a large mnmber of rates from 0% to 200%. Furthe , rates
have been frequendy changed. In 1995 the Goverment intends to rede the maximn import tax rate
to no more than 60%. in order to reduce the distortion in the incentive regime for prdUr.  This
change will be part ofa coehensive tax reform package that will be phased in over several years..
The Govem        notes in-its Letterof lDevelopment Policy that -its intenion over the wedium term is to
frher reduce the dispersion in effective raties of protction.  .
E. Social Cs of
60.        Viet Nam's transition experience has been very diferent than tht of other command
economies as well as of countries undergoing structural adjustment programs. It stands out for four
pnncipal reaso: First, the relative importance of agricuture rather than industry has heled most
Vietnamese households to benefit from the initial price reforms. When reforms were initiated in 1989,
most Vietnmmese (72%) were farmers while only a small percentage (15%) were inployed by the state
sector. Liberalization of agncultural prices in tandem with decollectivization of farms resulted in
immediate benefits for most Vietnamese households, despite the public sector being reduced in size by
onethird (to 10% of the labor force). This outcome is in marked contrast to countries which have large,
enenched state ente8pises employing most of the labor force. Second, those laid off from the state
sector received adequt copnsatdon packages, on average equivalent to one year's pay. Thi.
according to the Ministy of Labor most retenched workers were absorbed by the quickly growing
private sector within one year, a different structural adjustment experience than that of Europe or Africa.
Fourth, ste-owned enterprises in Viet Nam have not served to the same eatent the critial role of
.provider of social services as they have in many countries (e.g. PSU, Eastern Europe, China). Hence,
the liquidation of SOEs does not directly affect household access to social services. As a result of these
four factors, the social costs of adjutment in Viet Nam have been milder than experienced elsewhere.
61.        Nevertheless, Viet Nam is a very poor country with many vulnerable households.
Moreover, while Viet Nan's transition experience has been much more positive than most other
countries, it does share one common problem with other transition economies: the chagn  role of
govermen coupled with fiscal restaint has resulted in problems of financing social services including
health, education, fmdy plamning, and assistance for tie most vulnerable. The private sector has
emerged to provide some social services; however, there is a great need to sengthe the public provision
of basic social services as well as the mechm  to provide support to the most vulnerable households.



-~ 15 
62.        Given Viet Nam's unique transition experience, and the fact that any further en'. 'yees laid
off from the public sector will receive adequate severance pay, the Bank will not focus its wor. e.. *socill
costs of a4ustment on these redundant workers. Rather, it will take a broader approach to aiding the
more vulnerable regions and households of Viet Nam. Expanding access to primary education, basic
health services, and famy planning services will be central goals of the itial IDA projects in the soci
sectors. These projects will be complemented by assistance to improve the system of inter-governmental
fiscal relatis. While the Govermment tends to focus its poverty alleviation efforts on the desig of
targeted relief programs, the inability of the. poorer provinces to implement these progms - as well as
other sectoral strategies perting to humah capital and physical inuur- places inter-
governmental finances as a priority topic. Aspart of the Bank's ongoing poverty study, the ise of
expenditure needs, revenue retention, and transfer design are being carefully studied with the goal of
improving the design of the inter-govemmental stem to enable households in aU provinces to parcipate
in the county's economic growth.- Recommnaetions from this work will help to improve the redesign
of the budget system, one of the reforms suported by the SAC.
63.        Another key compoent of the Bank's strategy involves the Viet Nam Living Standards
Survey (VNLSS), which has been executed by the State Planning Committee with Bank assistance during
the past two years. The Bank and the SPC are currently analyzing the data to idenif the most
vulnerable bouseholds, sub-populatons, and geographic regions to enable more effictive targeting of
public expenditr. In addition, the Bank organized a four-part, six-mon  training course for policy
planners from line ministies to learn how to analyze the VNLSS data to help inform policy decisions.
withn their sectors and to target their efforts where most needed. This training will sren    the
Government's capacity to carry out periodic poverty assessments to monitor the country's progress with
poverW alleviation.
IV. THE PROPOSED OPERATION
A. Backeround and Credit Obiectives
64.        The proposed IIDA credit wil help strengh  the balance of paymets position of Viet Nmn
at a time when major changes are being implemented which aim at further inegratng the economy with
the international system. The credit would support the consolidation of a suitable medium-erm
frmework im which structur reform can be pursued in a growth-orieated manner. Tke credit will
support macroeconomic stability through improved management of the budget and stae enerprises. It
will strengthen the incentives for private saving and investment through banking and foreign trade
reforms. The credit, in the amount of SDR 103.5 million (US$150 million equivalent) to be disbursed
in two tranches (equivalent to US$90 million and US$60 million, respectively), would finance general
imports of goods to meet part of the economy's extena fnancing requirements. Intere  in paralel
financing has bee expressed by Japan, France, and Sweden. Together, these sources would help fill the
unfinanced gap in 1994 and 1995, according to the Bank's medium-term projections.
B. IMF Status and Banktund Coordination
65.        The Governet's reform program contnues to receive the financial support of the IMP.
The first review of the Stndby Arrangement, although delayed, was ucessfilly concluded in June 1994.
Discussions between the IMF and the Vietnamese authorities on an ESAF program are at an advanced
stage. The Bank, the Fund, and the Govemen agreed in September 1994 on a Policy Framework



- 16-
Paper for the 1994-97 period. Cooperation betweer. the Bank and the Fund has been very close
throughout the development of the policy program. In general, the Fund has taken the lead with the more
macroeconomic policies, including fiscal and monetary issues, the exchange rate, and tax reform. The
Bank has focused more on structural and institutional measures, including reform of legal infrastructure
and state enterprises, as well as on sectoral policies and issues of poverty and the environment. Areas
in which the Bank and the Fund are working closely together include the budget, the financial sector, and
the trade regime.
C. Conditions of Tranche Release
66.        During 1994 the Govenment introduced fiscal and monetary measures that shengtned
macroeconomic policies and resulted in reductions in the fiscal and external deficits. It also continued
its program of structural reforms. In light of these developments, no additional measures will be required
before the release of the first tranche of the credit. Concerning second tranche conditions, the
Government's broad reform program is set forth in the Letter of Development Policy, with attached-
Policy Matrix and macroeconomic indicators to be monitored under the SAC (Annex I1). Implementation
of this agreed program of reform is a condition for second tranche release. In addition to this general
condition, the Bank and the Government have agreed upon a number of specific measures that would be
conpleted before release of the second tranche. These measures have been selected becase they cover
a range of importat issuds and because -they address imndiate bottlenecks whose removal will result.
in accelerated growth and development of the economy.
67.        The conditions for second tranche release are:
(a) Maintenance of a sound macroeconomic framework, consistent with objectives of the
Program, as determined on the basis of indicators agreed to by the Borrower and IDA
(Annex II, Attachment 1).
(b) Presentation to the National Assembly of an organic budget law, satisfactory to IDA,
that specifies the process for prepaing and managing the budget, including the roles of
different central government agencies and of central and local authorities (paragraph 37).
(c) Completion of a Public Expenditure Review, under terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA, to obtain a clear picture of government spending and to analyze the efficiency of
expenditures in meeting stated objectives (paragraph 40).
(d) Adoption of an investment program for 1996-98, satisfactory to IDA, focusing on
investments in infrastructure and human resource development that are complementay to
private investment and that are situated in well-defined sectoral strategies (paragraph 42).
(e) Introduction of an excise tax- on petroleum products (including diesel fuel) of at least
10%, to increase revenue and to make the prices of different petroleum products more
comparable (paragraph 43).
(f) Adoption of a time-bound action program, satisfactory to IDA, to (i) establish and utdize
clear criteria to identify strategic firms that provide essential public services, (ii) transform
non-strategic state firms into companies that compete on a level playing field with private
firms, and (iii) strengthen the management of strategic finms that will continue to receive
government support (paragraph 52).



- 17-
(g) Completion of initial portfolio audijs, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, of
at least two of the four state-owned commercial banks, in order to identify the scope of the
bad debt problem and to prepare reliable balance sheets for these banks (paragraph 54).
(h) Presentation to the National Assembly of legislation to exempt banking from the
turnover tax in order to encouragexexpansion of intermediation in general and of the new
private banks in puticular (paragraph 55).
(i) Reduction of the maximum import tax rate to no more than 60%, in order to reduce the
distortion in the incentive regimefor producers (paragraph 59).
D. Technical Assistance an Aid Coordination
68.        Much of the success of the Government's structural adjustment program hinges upon
institutional reforms. The Bank is therefore helping the Government to identify grant technical assistance
to design and implement reforms and to train local staff. The proposed SAC would be part of a oohent
effort by the multilateral institutions to support the transition to a market economy in Viet Nam.
Coordination is particularly close with the IMP, owing to the joint work on the PFP. The UNDP has
provided strong support to both the Bank and the Fund and is itself assisting with legal, adminstrative,
and civil service reforms and with strengtening the Govermnent's capacity for aid coordination. In the
areas of financial market developmnent, private sector development, and foreign investment policy, the
Bank is coordinating closely with IFC. The Bank Group is also working with ADB in several areas,
including capital markets development.
E. Procuremnent
69.        The proceeds of the proposed credit would be used for eligible imports, subject to the
standard negative list. Both private and public sector inports are eligible for fnancing. Imports valued
at US$5 million equivalent and more by both public and private sector entities would be procured in
accordance with simplified ICB procedures except for certain commodities which are traded in
intemational markets. The Bank's standard bidding documents will be used for ICB procurement.
Procedures for procuring commodities traded in intenional markets would be agreed upon before
procurement activities are started. Goods valued at less than US$5 million equivalent per contract
imported by public sector entities would be procured using their own procurement procedures, which
have been reviewed and found acceptable to IDA. The specific import procedures followed by selected
public sector entities have been reviewed in connection with this operation and determined to be
satisfactory. Goods valued at less than US$5 million equivalent per contract imported by private sector
firms would follow exisdng commercial practices. Expenditures for goods procured under contracts for
less than US$10,000 would not be eligible for financing under the proposed credit.
F. Disbursement
70.        The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed against the foreign costs of general
imports based on a standard negative list which includes, inter alia, luxury goods, military equipment,
and environmentally hazardous products. Retroactive financing up to SDR 20.7 million (US$30 million
equivalent) would be provided to reimburse expenditures for eligible imports incurred after July 1, 1994.
No witdrawals would be made in respect of expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount of SDR 20.7
million (US$30 million equivalent) for petroleum products and foodstuffs. Disbursemes would be
administered by the Ministry of Finance. For goods valued at less than US$5 million equivalent, the



simplified documentaon procedures for adjustment operations would be followed. For such contracts,
each valued at less ihan US$5 million, IDA would reimburse the Borrower on the basis of Statements of
Expendit prepared frm the customs cerfices showing that eligible goods at least equal in vlue
to the amount requested from IDA had been imported into the couny durng the period under
consideration. The customs certificates will be retained by the Miistry of Finance for review by
supervision missions and for subsequent audit by the extemal auditors. For conracts ch valued at
US$5 million equivalent or more, IDA would reimburse the Borrower against full documentation.
conracts, suWlier invoices, evidence of payment, and evience of shipment. -The proposed credit is
expet  to be disbursed over a period of one year. lTe closing date woUd be December 31, 1995.
71.        The Ministry of Finace wi}l maintain accounts and supporting documentation in respect of
the program. Audits will be camed out by independent auditors acceptable to IDA within nie months
of closing of the fiscal year (December 31) in which disbursements under the credit are made.
H. Mongto
72.        The adjusment program is being coordinated by a Steering Committee with represention
from the State Baik, Ministry of Finance, Staite Plapng Committee, and Miisy of Trade. The
policies are alredy. weh in tiain and the Goveent's commite   to them is clear. TXe proposed
operation requires monitoring-of the consistency-of the macroeconomicframework, as oudined in the
Letter of Development Policy, and the implemeitation of specific actions detailed in pragraph 67. The
monitoring of the macoeconomic performance in particular will be carried out in close coordination with
the IMF. Monitoring of the specific actions detailed in pargraph 67 will be nertaken in the conte
of supemsion missions which will visit Viet Nan prior to second tranche release. The COovernment will
prepare reports on implementation prior to the supervision missions and an overall e.aluation of the
program when the credit is closed.
1.  'nft  an Risk
73.        The benefits of Viet Nam's transition to a market economy are already plainy visible.
Growth in per capita income during the 1989-93 period has been stronger than at any tme since
reunification. Viet Nam remains a very poor country and the expected benefits from contied rapid
growth are very high, especialy reduction of poverty and of associated problems of malnmtrition and poor
health. Viet Nam's development will depend first and foremost on its own efforts, and the reform
program supported through the SAC is very much the country's own. The expected benefit rom the
operation is to stregthen the country's adjustment program in two specfic ways: (1) financial and
technical assistance should result in more rapid reform and accelerated growth, bringing benefits sooner
rather than later; and (2) features of the opeation will ensure that benefits are widely dispersed so that
poverty reduction occus more rapidly than would result fmom merely relying on rapid growth to alleviate
poverty.
74.        The main risk associated with the operion is that refonns wil! not proceed as rapidly as
planed owing to weak institutonad capacity and/or lack of trained staff. Design of the operation is
aimed at minizing these risks, in that it will be accompanied by a coordiated program of technial
assistance fimded from grant sources. There is also a risk that stuctural reforms will be undermined by
the return of macroeconomic instability, as the stabilization is sfill fragile. The Government does,
however, have a track record of takdng firm actions when confroted with mounting iflation.



-19-
V. IEC01NION
75.    .     an. satisfied that the proposed development credit would comly with the Articles of
Agreemen of the Assowiaton, and I recomrend that the Executive Diretors approwve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washigton, D.C.
September 26, 1994



-2Q
Page I of 3
VIET NAM: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1991-1999
BASE CASE
1991    1992    1993.    1994       1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
RPd GDP'                                  60%       .6%    8&i%      8.7%      8.0%    8.0%    8.0%    8.0%      8.0%
Red  -DY                                  4.8%    6.0%    9.2%       8.0%     7.7%    8.0%    8.0%    7.9%    7.8%
Real ODY per Capt                         2.5%    3.7%     6.9X      5.7%      5.6%    5.8%    6.0%    5.8%    5.8%
CPI (Annua Avoe)                         8W       37.7%    8.3%      8.0%      7.0%    6.0%    6.0%    6.0%    5.0%
CPI (Doc. toD.c.)                        67.6%   17.5%    5.2%         ..       ..       ..
Debt Swve. (nublil suarmteed-
Deb Servie. (US$li           ---,:         504     717    .97i      .543       602     480      509      567 .  646
Debt ServiceIXOS                         19.9%   2215%   26.6% .  11.9%       11.7%    8.5%    8.2%     8.3%    8.5%
Debt ServiceIGDP                          5.2%t    6.9%    7.6%      3.5%      3.5%   -2.6%   .2.4%    2.5%-.. 2.5%
Raios to GDP (Current Prim)
Investneat                               15.1%   17.0%    19.4%     19.9%     21.8%   23.4%   24.6%   25.2%    25.8%
Nafional Savlup                           13.1%   16.3%    11.2%    15.0%     t6.2%    17.1%   18.0%    19.0%   19.9%
Pubic _wemt                       .       2.8%    5.8%    7.0%       7.2%      7.9%    8.2%    8.5%    8.5%    8.5%
Psivate Investment                       12.3%    11.2%   12.4%     12.7%     13.9%    15.2%   16.1%    16.7%    17.3%
Ratio of PublllhPrFt Investrnat           0.23    0.52    0.S7       0.57     0.57    0.54    0.53    0.51    0.49
Govt. Revenus (inc. Grants)              13.5%    19.0%   22.3%     25.4%     2S.5%   25.7%   25.7%   25.9%   25.9%
GovtL EJXpediture (oc. Sched. bnL)       17.3%   22.7%   28.5%    28.1%      28.8%   29.1%   29.4%   29.4%   29.4%
Overal Deo"ci (Accrua Baads)             -3.8%   -3.7%    -6.2%     -2.7%     -3.3%   -3.4%   -3.7%   -3.5%   -3.5%
Overall De"ict (Cak Bauds)               -1.5%   -1.7%   -4.7%    -1.9%          ..      ..
Oe items:
Export Grwtd Rae (Volume)                23.9%   31.2%    12.4%    23.3%      10.0%    6.9%    6.5%    7.3%    7.7%
ExpotSGP                                 2S.7%   30.9%   28.3%    29.5%      30.1%   29.8%   29.4%   29.3%   29.3%
mpoxt Growth Rats (Volume)               15.3%   19.9%   46.4%      12.6%     11.8%    8.7%    7.1%    5.8%    5.5%
IznpozlDP                                24.6%   28.5%   32.8%      31.3%     32.6%   32.9%   32.7%    32.3%   31.8%
Curet Aco,wt Baance (USS Million):
- Before OfiC  Trnsfem                    -188     -75   -1063      -743      -944   -1174   -1352   -1443   -1499
* Percent of GDP (%)                   -1.9%   -0.7%   -8.3%      -4.9%     -5.6%   -6.2%    -6.5%   -6.3%   -5.9%
- After Officill Tranfer                  -133     -11    -6        -642       88    -1031   -1234   -1320   -1370
*Prct of GDP (%)                       -1.4%    -0.1%   -6.8%     -4.2%     -4.8%    -5.4%    -5.9%   -5.7%   -5.4%
Gross R   ces in Woes
of Total lmpo                              ..       ..     6.0       8.5      9.8    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0
A        dsta4r Viename authoritie and Bank and Fwud staff atimate.
Projctions: Bank staff estites.



-~~~~~~~~~2 -
-21-                    A.nex .
Page 2 of 3
VIET NAM: BALANCE OF PAYMNTS, 1991-1999 (US$ mion)
BASE CASE
AMd1                                      Psoqocod
199I     1992      199.    1994        199S     1996      1997      1998      19
A. E1ozt ofQFS                        2492      3200      3622     4530      5107      S597      6121     6744      7461
1. Msadibs  (FOR)                   2042      2475      2850     3600      4086      4514      4956      5461     6041
4fwb3h: am&udoa                     S81      756       844       899      1024      1141     1274      1423      1589
2. Non-Fadwr S4rm                    449       724       772       930      1021     1083      1165      1283      1420
B. ImpoM of ONPS                      2377      2950      4199     4804      5533      6184      6802      7420     803
I.  madls _(FO                      2107      2538      3505     4001      4631      5174      563       OM       6756
2. Now-Factor Srvu                   270       412       694       796      903      10O9      1109      1219      1337
C. Resouce Bal                         115       249      -m7      -274      -426      -586      -681      -7       -632
D. Net Facr humc                      -339      -384      -556     -S6D      -618      -679    -79         -       -1014
1. IntAreg Paysects                  248       282       327      256       262       285       312       340      363
E. Net Transas                          91       123       264       192      237       252       238      256       276
1. OfIn Trmnaea                       55        64       194       101      136       143       118       123      129
P. Curret Acount Baane                -133       -11      -8       -642      -8       -1031    -1234    -1320    -1370
(after offiow (kant.)
Current Acowunt Wmeie Chntda)       -188       -75    -1063       -743     -944    -1174    -1352    -1443    -1499
G. LAng Tam Caplal hIlows
1. Dret  Forpign Ivsmat              220       260       300      435       501       575       661       761      8S3
2. Not Lco Tam onnowln              -198        52      -442       197      429       725       733       794       790
a. Disbu asoats                      59      487       202       484       769      920       930      1020      1073
b. Axosrtizm l                      256      435       644       287       340       195      197       226       283
3. Mther Capa (Not)                  -89       -41       -S8       -19                  ..
R. Eos and Omndoes                     143         8       -76       29         ..       ..
I. Ovenll Baance                       -56       268    -1145          0      122       269       160       235      273
J. Fbiancng                             56      -268      114S        0      -122      -269      -160      -235     -273
1. Change in Reserve                -276      -463       S27     -254      -269      -269      -160      -235     -273
2. Arrears (net)                     332       196      -266    -2459         ..
3.D Reschodullg 1/                          ..I.         883      2713      147
Source:
Actal dft. Vtnames autoba and Bank and Fund staff edEtIMas.
Project : Bank sff edstimates.



22-mex
Pap 3 of-3
VIET NAM: EXTERNAL FINANCING tEQUIRQtEMS, 1991-1999
BASE CASE 
Actua                 Prel.
1991     1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1s9?      1998      1g9g
CurrentAccount Deficit             188       7s      1063  - 743          944      1174      1352      1443      1499
Officia M&L Amortzation           256       435       644       287       340       195       197       226       283
Oher.s (Net) 1i                  -143        -8        76       -29         ..       ..
Rwesve Roqulreomts                276       463      -S57       254       269       269       160       23s       273
Total                             577       965      12S6      1255      1553      1638      1709      1904      2055
Financing Resources
Offlcial Grants                    55        64       194       101       136       143       118       123       129
Long Team BorowIng                 59       487       202       484       769       920       930      1020      1073
Direct Foreign Investment         220       260       300       43S       501       575       661       761       853
ShorTerm Capital (Net)            -89       -41       -58       -19
Arears Accumultion (Net)          332       196      -266    -2459          ..
Debt Rescheding 2/                  ..                883      2713       147
Total                            577       965      1256      125S      1553     1638       1709      1904     2055
Note:
1/ Errors and omissons for 1991-1994.
21 Based on the Paris Club negotitons.
Source:
Actu  daft: Vietnamese authorites and Bank and Fund staff estimats.
Projections: Bank aff estimates.



-23 -
Letter of Development Policy
September 21, 1994
r.Lwi T. Preston
President
Interatonal Developmt Associ-on
Washington, D.C.
Re: Struural Adjutm  Credit
Dear Mr. Presidet:
The Governmen of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam is implementing a wide-ranging
reform program aimed at transforming our system to a market economy and placing the economy on a
sustmable growth path. We have been working with your staff to develop a stctural adjustment
program that could be supported through IDA resources. The program addresses macroeconomic
management, as well as structural reforms of the budget, state eterprises, the fiancial sector, the foreign
trade and investment regime, and legal infrastucture. One of our primary concerns is the social impact
of the reform program, and we have worked closely with the staff of IDA to develop projects and
programs that would address our country's pressing social needs. This letter provides an ovemew of
the Government's reform program, including m ures already taken and concrete plans for further
reforms.
Wbile this is the first time that we have requested adjustment financing from the World
Bank, we would like to aephasize that the Govermet of Viet Nam has been carrying out its economic
reform program for some years already. The prgram of "Doi Moi" (renovation) began late in 1986.
After slow progress initally, the Government intuced a comprehensive package of reforms in 1989.
These reforms have been sustained for five years now, and have yielded noteworthy resuts. Inflation,
which had been as high as 400% in 1988, was reduced to moderae levels and then to less than 10% in
1993. MViet Namp's is one of the few cases in economic history in which disinflation was achieved without
a recession. Growth was maintned in the 5-6% range during 1990-91, years of sharp fiscal cub
and austerit. After the successful stabilization, growth accelerated to 8% in 1992-93.
The Goverment is proud of the results that have been achieved so far, but is also acutely
aware that the stabilizfaion still needs to be consoLidated and that the remai     agenda for strucural
reforms is large and complex. The fragilit of the stabilization was clear in 1993, when both the fiscal
and external deficits increased too rapidly. At the heart of the structual adjustment program are fiscal
and monetay policies aimed at reducig these deficts as a share of GDP and manag    them in a
sustnable manner. The need for firm fiscal discipline means that we have to plan our expendiures
arefully in order to provide priority public services. Reform of the budget, inchding the public
investment program, is thus one of the key areas to be addressed in the nex stage of reform. These
measues will be complemented by furiher reforms of state enterprises that aim to elimit implicit
subsidies and to create a level playng field between public and private fimis.



-24 -
Our vision of development has been strongly influenced by the successful economies in
our region. We wish to develop an incentive regime that stimes prvate saving and investment, and
that results in a growing outward orientation of our economy. To that end we plan to intuduce measures
to strengthen the fiancial sector, liberalize foreign trade and investment, and furtier extend the lega
infrastructure for the market economy.
Thus, the broad objective of the reform program is to create an efficient, well-focused
public sector, and a dynamic private sector, which together can bring about sustied and rapid
development of our economy and society.
Mediunm-Term Economic Framewor
The Government plans to conduct its policies and programs within a consistent medium-
term framework. The main objective is strong and sustained growth, which is at the har of an effective
strategy for generating employment and alleviating poverty. To achieve this objective, the medium-term
strategy has three inter-related components: strong macroeconomic mnagement, strucural measures to
improve efficiency of both the public and private sectors, and effective use of foreign resources for
development. To maintain macroeconomic stability will require management of the fiscal and external
deficits in light of the availabiliy of reliable sources of fiance, pruent monetary policies, and emternal
policies that permit the build-up of an adequate level of international reserves. Structural measures that
are important in the medium term are reform of the budget and state enterprises, on the public sector
side, and improvements in the incentive regime for the private sector. These measures aim to increase
public and private savings in Viet Nam, so that development can proceed more rapidly. In addition,
effective use of foreign resources is an important component of our medium-term financing plan. This
involves atracting private sources through creation of a good enabling environment for DPI, as well as
efficient use of ODA resources to build up our economic and social ift cture. We are working to
strengthen our aid management procedures and insttutions in order to accomplish the latter task. As our
program will require significant fmancing, we have asked the World Bank to organize and chair a
Consultative Group for Viet Nam to help mobilize and coordinate extemal aid. These aspects of the
medium-term program are elaborated in more detail below.
Macroeconomic Prosnects and Objectives
The growth rate of the Vietnamese economy accelerated to 8% in 1992-93, from 5-6%
in 1990-91. The Government's medium-term plan is to maintain growth in the 8% range, or higher if
the context allows. However, several features of the growth pattern in 1993 were not sustainable, and
thus we introduced some adjustments to put the economy on a sound expansion path. The exenal deficit
increased too rapidly in 1993, and reached 8.3% of GDP. Part of this was financed from sustinable
sources, that is, direct foreign investment and official development assisunce. A substantial share of the
external deficit in 1993, however, was funded from non-sustanable sources. This included the drawdown
of the gross reserves of the banking system and international commercial borrowing at high intest rates.
A key aspect of the Government's adjustment program in 1994 and 1995 is to bring the
external deficit into line with reliable sources of financing. Projections of the inflows of DFI and ODA
indicate that this policy will result in a decline in the external current account deficit, to about 5% of



-25 -
Annex R-
GDP in 1994 and 1995. The extemal deficit indicates the inflow of foreign savings to help finance
investment. As this declined in 1994, it was necessary for domestic savings to increase, as a source of
financing for invesunent, in order to maintain the investment rate.
One of the notable achievements of the reform program has been the rapid increase in
invesmenet. Investment as a share of GDP increased from 11.5% in 1990 to 19.4% in 1993. Over this
period our national savings increased from 73% to 11.2% of GDP. The Government's medium-term
program projects that the investment rate wIll have to rise further in order to sustain 8% growth. A
number of special factors enabled our economy to grow rapidly, with only a moderate investment rate.
We recognize, however, that  will be necessary to build up the investment rate toward 25% of GVDP in
order to meet our growth objectives. The fact that the investment rae needs to increase, combined with
our plans to carefully manage the external deficit as a share of GDP, means that ongoing increases in
domestic savings will be required in order to achieve these targets. -It is for this reason that measures to
strengthen the incentives to save and invest are central to the Govemment's reform agenda.
While we expect the private sector to play the leading role in building up domestic
savings, the Government will also contribute through better fiscal management. In 1993 Govermment
savings were just slightly positive. Our medium-term plan is to increase Government savings to 4% of
GDP. This goal will be accomplished through a conbination of increased revenue and restraint of
recumrrent expenditure. Government revenue has increased very substantially as a share of GDP during
the reform period, rising from 13.5% of GDP in 1991 to 22.3% in 1993. We anticipate further moderate
increases as a result of tax reform and broadening of the tax base. The Ministry of Finance is working
with the IMF to reduce the number of turnover tax rates and to convert this tax to a VAT by 1997. We
plan to computerize the tax system and have initiated discussions with IDA concerning the financing of
this project. These measures together should ensure that revenue collections are robust as the economy
expands. However, we recognize that expenditure restaint will also be needed to meet our savings
target. Hence better planning and management of the Government budget is another key element of our
program and is discussed in more detail below.
The expansion of exports is an important component of our growth saegy. Export
growth in excess of 25% per year during 1989-92 was a key factor sustaining the Vietnamese economy's
growth during a difficult adjustment period. The slowdown in the growth rate of exports to 12.4%
(constant prices) in 1993 made us realize that additional measures are needed to promote the expansion
of foreign trade on a long-term basis. The Government plans to promote export development focused
on labor-intensive manufactures and processed primary products. Exports of the former are particularly
important to our economy, as they will generate large numbers of jobs for our unemployed and
underemployed workers. The growth of these non-radiional exports is already evident, as labor-
intensive manufactres - starting from a very low base - were the most rapidly expanding class of
exports in the past two years. In comparison to the traditional exports (rice and oil), development of
these exports is more complicated, and will require ongoing reform of supporting institutions, especially
the financial sector and the system for imports and exports. We also plan additional reforms of the
regime for foreign investment, as foreign investment will be of major assistance in developing
manufactured exports.



-26-
We are confident that with the provision of adequate financial assistance, the objectives
outlined above can be achieved. We do recognize, however, that our targets are ambitious and that it
will not be easy to reach them. Stronger macroeconomic management and additional measures to deepen
the structural reforms will be the keys to meeting our program objectives.
External Borrowing StraUv
The Vietnmese econony went through several years of austerity during which little
external assistance was available to it. The collapse of the Soviet Union, which-had been a major donor
aWd trade partner of Viet Nam, was a large shock to our economy. In the wake of this shock, the
extenal deficit was quicldy reduced to zero, as no other major sources of finncing were available at that
time. While this was a difficult period of austerity for the country, it had its positive effects as well, in
that it encouraged the exchange rate devaluation and trade reforms that have subsequenty made it possible
for Viet Nam to reiegrate quickly into the international economy.
The Government feels that it emerged from this period of isolation with polcies taw will
enable the economy. to make effective use of foreign fiincigand-fi tiide. In addition, however, th
Goverment is burdened with a significant extemal debt. This includes debt denm     in Transferable
Rubles, as wel as hard-currency debt to official and commercial creditors. Most of the hard-currenc
debt was taken on in the late 1970s. Failure to service this debt throughout much of the 1980s resulted
in accuuladtion of arrears and build-up of this debt to a significant level.
In December 1993 the Govermnent successfully negotiated a framework for rescheduling
official debts with Paris Club members. We intend to use this as a framework for negotadng debt
rescheduling with other creditors, official and commercial. While these negotiations are still ogoing,
we project that the net effect will be to reduce the debt servicing burden to a manageable level for the
medium term. Specifically, debt service will decline from 26.6% of exports and 7.6% of GDP in 1993,
to a projected 11.9% of exports and 3.S% of GDP in 1994.
The Goverment has learned from this experience the importance of using borrowed
resources effectively. For the medimm term the Govermnent will adopt a prudent suategy for use of
foreign resources. The first element of this stategy is to encourage foreign inflows in the form of direct
investment, as this entails no risks for the economy or the Government A liberal regime for foreign
investenit, introduced in 1987 and amended several times subsequenly, has been successful in atcting
growing flows of foreign investment. The Govemment recognizes, however, that there are still
impediments in place that limit the implementtion of foreign investment projects, and furter
improvements in the DFI regime are part of the medium-term program.
The other maim source of exeral finnce in the medim term will be ODA. At a first
Donor Conference for Viet Nam in Paris in November 1993, donors indicated US$1.8 billion in aid
comnitments that will disburse over several years. The Government recognzes the value of this kind
of aid meeting for mobilizing and coordating concessional finance, and has requested that the World
Bank chair a Consultative Group for Viet Nam on a regular basis. At the first CG meeting in November
1994 the Government plans to announce several specific meures designed to accelerate implementation
of projects financed by ODA.



-27 -
Annex I
The Govement will adopt several meares aimed at ensuring that foreign borrowing
does not generate a debt problem for the country: (1) prudent, overall targets for the external deficit will
be developed as part of tLe mediumtern program; (2) the Government will tailor its own foreign
borrowing to match the avaflability of concessional finance and strictly limit its commercial international
borrowing (including publicly guaranteed borro3ing of state enterprises); and  ) a medium-term public
investment program will be developed that focuses on priorit ivestments in infas ture ad human
resource development. Government sponsored borrowing will be used only to finan  the invement
in-this progm. Thus, the Govement's stragy is to carefiuly plan both the aggegate amouns of
extrn  borrowing as well as the specific projes to be fimded frm this source.
Mareconomc Maaemnt
The Government feels that it has achieved substanial improvements in its macroeconomic
management in recent years. Inlation was reduced to single digits in 1993, and was lower than in any
other trnsition economy. Strong growth has been maintined throughout the stabilization period. At
the heart of the stabilization program were prudent fiscal and monetary policies. The fiscal deficit was
reduced from more than 10% of GDP during the hy'erinflationary period to 3.7% of GDP in 1992.
Monetary policy improvements during this period included a halt in credit to tde budget, increases in
interest rates to positive real levels, and restraint on credit to state entprises.
While these achievments are important, we would like to emphasize that they were not
without their economic and social costs. Hardening of the budget constraint for state enterprises led to
a restucuring in the sector, with the result that 800,000 workers were laid off over a four-year period.
The fiscal restraint was aided by a significant demobilization, with about 500,000 soldiers leaving the
amy and retung to the productive labor force. The fiscal restraint also required cutbacks in important
public services. Investment in necessary infructure declined to an extremely low level; real wages
for civil servants fell; and there was insufficient provision of fiuds for operations and mainenance of
infratrcur.
With the achievement of a successful stabiization, the Govenment shifted its attention
from inflation-fighting to promotion of growth and development. Increased tax revenue and the
resumption of concessional financing expnded the resou   available to support the country's
development program. Between 1991 and 1993 the Government more than doubled real development
expendiure - that is, expenditure on social services, economic services, and inrs .  Our
country's needs in these areas are very large.
However, the Government recognizes now that its stance, particularly in 1993, was too
expansionary. The increase in Government spending was excessive, resulting in an increase in the fiscal
deficit to 6.2% of GDP. More important than the absolute size of this deficit was the fact that there were
not sufficient reliable sources to fmance it. As ODA has only recendy resued on a large scae,
disbursemen are low and provided only a small amount of financing for the deficit in 1993. Thus, the
Government had to turn to expensive domestic and foreign borrowing to finance its deficit.
Monetary policy was also too expansionary in 1993. The Government eased up on the
very tight monetary conditions that prevailed in late 1992, as part of its program to support investmen



-28 -
LAnnex II
and growth. The result was that domnestic credit expanded by 59% in 1993. The economy was able to
absorb this credit without generating infladon during the year becase of a number of factors. Large
pent-up demand for imports, liberalized procedures for mports, and easy availability of foreign exchage
combined to channel demand pressures ansing from rapid credit growt into a surge in imports, which
grew 46% in real terms in one year.
The Government quickly recognized that this pattern could not be sustained. It entered
into a Standby Arrangement with the IMF in October 1993 with the principal objectives of(1) restraing
growth of domestic credit, (2) strengdtening the external position, and (3) controlling the fiscal deficit.
Specific measures that the Govermnent has undertaken to dampen the monetary expansion include iiumts
on State Bank refinancing, increased interest rates on foreign curency loans, and bank-by-bank credit
ceilings. The slowdown of credit growth is aimed at' maintaining inflation in single digits and
strengthening the external- position.
The Government plans a' more prudent fiscal stance in 1994 and 1995. The growth ef
expenditure will be moderated, and revemne measures introduced, in order to reduce the fisal deficit to
about 3% of GDP in 1994 and 1995. The Govermnent will ai;o work withthe donors to spedd up
implementation of projects and to thus accelerate aid disbursements. Its intenion is to finance the bulk-
of its deficit from concessional sources in 1994 and 1995. It will also issue small amounts of treasury
bills, an important step toward development of capital markets. Neither the Government nor public
financial institutions will engage in commercial international borrowing in 1994 and 1995.
As part of its external policies, the Govermment will also refrain from intervening in the
foreign exchange market to support the dong. Such intervention was not extensive in 1993, but was
nevertheless one factor contributing to the drawdown-in reserves. The Government's medium-term policy
will be to gradually build up official reserves to the equivalent of 11 weeks of imports.
Structural Reforms Cometed durina 1989-93
The stutural measures that the Government proposes to implement in the medium term
build on a solid foundation of reforms carried out during 1989-93. The objective of these reforms was
to stabilize the economy and to initiate a transformation of our previously planned system to a market
economy. The cental theme of the reform program was to decentralize economic decision-making to
households and firms and to create a good enabling environment so that this decenralized decision-
making would lead to efficient and sustained development.
The first key measure that the Government introduced was price reform in 1989 that was
bold and sweeping. Price controls on virtually aU goods and services were eliminated. In particular, the
long-standing policy of mainaining a low price for rice and other agricultural commodities was abolished.
As a result, the terms of trade for farmers improved dramatica}ly. This important price reform was
complemented by the dismantling of agricultural collectives and the dividing up of agricultural land
among peasant families. The return to family-based farming in a Liberal market environment led to an
immediate and dramatic increase in rice output, which was the key factor enabling our economy to grow
during a period of stabilization. The promulgation of a new Land Law in 1993 formalized the granting
of land use rights to peasant households.



-29 -
Anmex 1 -
As in other transition economies, the reform of the industrial sector is more complex than
the reform of agriculture. We feel, in fact, that we have an advantage over other transition economies
in that the industrial sector of Viet Nam was small at the beginning of our transition, so that the problems
of this sector have less weight in the overall economy. Nevertheless, reform of the industrial sector,
compwrised largely of state eterpris. was a major challenge for our program.
A centerpiece of our stabilization pro    was hardening the budget constraint of state
enterprises. Operating subsidies through the budget were eliminated, and capital investment through the
budget targeted to economic and social infrastructure. Interest rates were raised to positive real levels
and overall credit to state enterprises restrained. These policies ushered in an era of restructing, in
whichb the number of state firms declined from 12,000 to 7,000, and the state enterprise workforce
declined by 800,000 (about one-tird of the pre-reform level}.
There were parallel -reforms of the state banking system, which previously had served
only to subsidize state firms. Fou,r commercial banks were separated from the cental banking functions
of the State Bank of Viet Nam. These banks have been given increased autonomy to make lending
decisions and to function in a comnpetitive market. In line with the overall direction of Government
policy, the share of lending from these banks going to state enterprises declined from 90% in 1990 to
67% in 1993 and a projected 62% in 1994. The increase in credit to the non-state sector was 178% in
1993, one of the main reasons why the overall growth of domestic credit was so high. To foster
competition, the Govenmnent has licensed a wide range of domestic and foreign private banks, so that
the total number of comnercial banks operating in Viet Nam has reached 60.
Beginning in 1989 the Govermnent's policy has been to encourage expansion of the
private sector, both domestic and foreign. To this end, a new Constiution was enacted in 1992, which
protects rights over private property. Laws for domestic companies and private foreign investment have
been promulgated.  More broadly, the Government recognized that a completely different legal
infrastructure was required to support the market economy and has worked gradually to develop this
infrastructure. This task involves introduction of specific legislation, such as laws for contracts,
companies, and bankruptcy, as well as development of a basic framework of civil and commercial law
along with dispute resolution mechanisms. In the latter area, economic courts were established in July
1994.
In making the transiton to a market economy, the Government also wishes to develop
a much more open economy. We have leanied from the success of neighboring countries that foreign
trade and investment can make major contributions to Viet Nam's development. Our 1989 price reforms
included unification and major devaluation of the exchange rate to-improve competitiveness. Since then,
we have developed a foreign exchange market and left the exchange rate largely to market forces. Easy
convertibility for urrent account transactions has been an important factor spurring the growth of Viet
Nam's trade. At the same time, impediments to exports and importv were reduced by abolishing quotas
and easing requirements to obtain necessary pennits and licenses. As a result of this growing openness,
foreign trade (imports plus exports) increased from 46% of GDP in 1990 to 619% in 1993.
Most households in Viet Nam have benefited from this reform program, which is why
it has such widespread popular support. Nevertheless, the stabilization and stuctural reforms inevitably



-30-
An= .
imposed costs on some individuals, especally those laid off from the public sector and those wao have
been unable to respond to market incentives. To ease the problem of public sector  ech     the
Government introduced several programs. Workers released fiom the public sector have received
severance payment equal on average to one year's salary. Tle Ministry of Labor has monitored the
transitional xerience of these workers and has found that the vast majority have been absord into the
expanding pnvate sector within one year. The Government has also introduced a small-scale credi
progm  to support the integration of workers ino the private sector, as well as reaing programs to
give thm the skills required in the marlet economy. There are also househokls that are unable for a,
variety -of reasons to respond to the opportunities in our emerging markt economy. We feel that an
inportant role of the Govenunent is to provide a safety net throughout the country for poor and
vulnerable households. As we develop measures to improve our fiscal systm, one of our chief goals is
to ensure that all provinces in Viet Nam have sufficient resources to fund their saety nets.
The Curremt Reform  
e Go6vernmet's cirrent agenda focuises oi consolidating thestabilization and deepeing
structural reforms so that growth can be sustained. The fiscal deficit needs to be kept under control,
while at the same time there are large demands for expanded public services in Viet Nam, paticuilarly
in the social sectors and in the provision and maneenane of infrestrctre. This mak  the Government
budget a crucial tool both for macroeconomic management and for pursuing development objectives. One
of the most important issues on the Government's agenda is improving the -efficiency of Govermnmet
expenditure, both recurrent and capital. A related issue is the ongoing reform of state enterprises: some
fims produce imortant public services and need to be integrated into the GovermnWt's planning,
whereas other firms wiUl be cut loose to compete on a level playing field with the private sector.
Fiscal constraints, and considerations of efficiency, mean that the Govermment's activities
will be sharply focused on services that are complementay to pivate sector activities. The Government's
programs to develop human capital and build up inrastructure will provide a sound basis for prvate
sector development. At the same time, the Government wiUl work to improve the incentive regime for
producers through the following specific measures: stengthnig of the commercial bankig system so
that it can provide fimancial services needed in the market economy; ongoing liberalization of imports and
exports to increase the access of producers and consmrs to the international market; r  in the
regime for foreign investnent to streamine procedus and reduce bottlenecks; and development of the
legal infrastructure for the market economy.
Budget Mangement
The Government has at its disposal a growing volume of resources to provide the public
services requed to make a market economy function well. Govemment revenue as a share of GDP
increased to 22.3% in 1993, and a substantial volume of foreign aid is now available to the country. As
a result of this increased availability of resources, the Government was able to more than double real
development expenditures between 1991 and 1993. This included large increases in speding for
education, health, and public investment. As noted above, however, the growth of epenitue in 1993
was too rapid and threatened macroeconomic stability. We recognize that the growth of spending must
be moderated, and have establised prudent targets for the fiscal dict in our macroeconomic program.



-31 -
AnnexLU
The Govanmer will also introduce meawres to improve the efficiency of  so that   rtant
services can expand within the resource envelope established as part of the medium-term framework.
Impovig the effiincy of public ependitue wfll require sever integrated reforms.
RI    Ssm. The problems with Viet Nam's budget begin with the fad tbat the
procedures for preaing and mangg the budget have involved several agencies with overlapping
authority. To rectify this problem, the Govermnent has drafted an organic budget law that will be
submitted to the National Assembly in early 1995. This law will establish the Ministry of Financ as the
agency in charge of preparng an maaging the budget, and clarify the role of other agencies, including
the State Planning Cmmittee, line ministries, amd provincial govenments. The law wiUl also set out a
rational imee-forprepar  the budget. Fnlly,theb w wilcarify the assignent of rees and
expenditur between cental and local authorities. Our system has been highly centralized, and this has
resulted in inefficiencies becase in many cases local authorites have a better assessment of community
needs than central authorities. The organic budget law will itroduce greater decentralization, allowing
local authorities more discretion over level of expenditure on fimctions that have been assige to them
and over taxes to provide fnancing for these expeditur.
In preparing this budget law, one of our main concens has been to ensure that poor
provinces have adequate resources to meet their expenditure needs. If poor provinces were left to depend
solely on their own revenue base, they would not have sufficient revemus. Therefore, the organic budget
law will provide for a system of transfers to provide support for poorer localities to maintain appropriate
exediture levels. The law will need to be followed by implementing regulations to define the deails
of the transfers. The Government wil conduct a study of revenue capabilities and expenditure needs by
province, which will provide the basis for improving the system of inter-governmental transfers to ensure
tat poor areas have adequate reources for their expenditure needs.
Recuwr-ent Etmedr. We have highlighted the fact that we have significantly increased
expendiu  on importat services, such as education and health. We recognize, however, that other
important services are unde  d and that in paricular inadequate financing of operations and
maintenance (O&M) in the recurret budget has been a source of our economy's serious infrasucture
problems. The poor state of infratue  is uimversally recognized as a consaint to Viet Nam's
development. Since inves  projects inevitably take some years to complete, the only measure that
could aUleviate the bottlenecks quicldy would be enhanced expendie on O&M. The transport and other
sector studies prepared by the World Bank have given us usefid guidance as to what an appropriate level
of spending would be. The Govenmt has taken an initial step to address this problem and has
inreased the allocatiot for O&M in the 1995 budget proposal by 30% over the 1994 level.
The Government is also aware that efforts to improve the efficiency of expenditures are
hampered because the budget lacks aequate detail and transparency. As part of its collaboration with
the IMS, the Ministry of Finance will introduce a futional and economic classification of expendtures.
Thi reform wil increase the transarecy of the budget and facilitate an economic analysis of
expenditures. The Govermment intends to conduct a thorough Public Expenditure Review to obtai a
clear picture of government spending and to analyze the efficiency of expenditures, and will complete this
review by mid-1995. We view dds analysis as the underping for a Governmet program to cut



-32-
AMen n
inefficient exnditure, release redundant staff from tde civil service, and reorpanze the public
bureaucracy.
Public   r nt. Be increased level of domesaic and externat resources has enabled
the Govenment to expand its inesunent program, which is largely targeted to economic and social
infrastucne  To ensure that resources are allocaed to priority investments, the Governm    is
preparig a multi-year public invesument program (PIP) that looks beyond the anmual budget horizon.
The Govenmment has drafted guidelines for preparing an efficient Public Investment Program. During
1995 the Government will prepare a three-year investment program based on these guidelines. Thereafter
the investment program will be adjusted year-by-year on the basis of implementation experience and in
light of changing circumstances. The PIP will establish priorities among investment proposals using clear
procedures and criteria for- selecting projects. In general, the Govenmet will target its investment to
projects that are complementary to private sector development and situated in a well-defined sectoral
strategy. The sectoral strategies in tum will take account of the economic rates of return on different
potental investments. as well as of the need to promote.development in diffrent regions of ourcountiry.
The PIP will be closely linked to the budget to ensure that it is realistic in ems of (1) domestic and
external resources available for the investment budget and (2) the provision of finds in the recurrent
budget to finance related operating and maintenance costs. The Goverment views the PIP as a mgajor
tool to assist with aid coordination, and we plan to present the thre-year PIP to the donors at the CG
meeting in 1995.
Cost Recovery. The bulk of publlc investnent in the medium term will go to
infrastrucre and commercial public services, especially roads, power, urban water supply, irigation,
an seaports. In all of these areas it is important to charge appropriate prices both for efficiency reasons
and in order to raise funds for operations, maintenance, and expansion of capacity. The Govenment has
introduced the principle of cost recovery in sectors such as power and water supply, in which prices are
still regulated.  It has also introduced a sigificant import tax on gasoline that is justified on
environmental grounds and also aims to collect resources from the users of roads (a form of cost
recovery). An important measure implemented in 1994 was an increase in the import tax on diesel fuel,
to 20%. As part of its overall tax reform, the Government plans to introduce an excise tax on petroleum
products (including diesel fuel). These reforms wil bring the prices of different petroleum products more
in line and raise the overall tax revenue from this source. This higher taxation will be one source of
fiancing for increased O&M expenditures in the budget.
Summary of Budget Measures. Thus, the Government has introduced several important
measures that will have an immediate impact on the 1995 budget, wtably increased fimding of O&M and
higher petroleum. taxes to help finance this higher expenditure. During the next year the Government will
also take steps toward longer term, instituional reform of the budget, including adoption of a new budget
law and system, completion of a Public Expenditure Review that analyzes the efficiency of govermment
spending, and preparation of a multi-year investment program.
State Enterpise Reforms
Tie objective, of the Government's state enterprise reform program is to improve the
efficiency of firms ani t) reduce the burden that they place on the budget. The strategy through which



-33 -
this objective will be pursued is to draw a clear distinction between "stegic" firms providing impota
public services and non-strategic enterprises. The strategic category will include public utilies such as
power and water and other important companes such as the railway and the national airline. Non-
strategic firms wil inclde t   in manufacturing a   in many service sectors as we;l.  The
Government's plan is to create a level playing field between non-strategic firms and the-private sector and
to experiment with privazation of these firms 'on a pilot basis. Govermment support can then focus on
the strategic firms providing import  services.
-he Govemment has already introduced an initial set of measures to harden budget
constraints of public firms, including the elimination of operating subsidies from the budget and interest
rate reforms that reduced implicit subsidies through the bankig system. These policies led to a
rtionalization of the sector, and several tiousand loss-making fimis were liquidated. In this contet the
Government has been carrying out a program of resolving inter-enterprise debts and will complete this
exercise by end-1994.
With most IoSs-making frms closed, the Government has turned its attention to crea,tg
a level playing field between public and private firms in the competitve sectors. An important step
toward this objective was the passage of a bankuptcy law applicable to all public and private enterprises.
plementing regulatons for fte bankuptcy law will be promulgated by end-1994 so that the law can
become fully effective for both state and private firms.
The Government's immediate agenda is to (1) establish and utilize clear criteria to identify
stegic firms that provide essential public services, (2) transform non-strategic state firms into
companies that compete on a level playing field with private firms, and (3) strengthen the management
of strategic fims that will contine to receive government support. The Goverment will formally adopt
during 1995 a State Enterprise Reform Action Program that addresses these issues and that stipulates a
clear timetable for carrying out reforms. This program will include the following elements:
Concerning non-saegic firms, the Government will propose to the National Assembly
amendments to the company law to enable state enterprises to reorganze as single shareolder companies.
placing them under the same legal famework as pwriate compamies. The process of reorganizing non-
strategic firms as compaies should take about two years. To manage that process and to manage the
Government's shares in these companies, a mistry-level agency or holding company will be established.
As a resut of this change, the state's ownership in these firms will no longer be exercised by line
ministries. These reforms will enable the Government to move ahead quickly with the completon of its
pilot program of "equitization,* in which shares of state firms are sold to workers and the general public.
-The Government also plans to submit to the National Assembly during 1995 a state
entprise law to stipulate the management and opraional structre of its firms and to specify how the
Government will exercise its ownership rights in them. In the meantime the Govenmuent is woridng to
improve the accounting, auditng, and monitoring of its firms, concenahin initially on the largest firms,
many of which will eventually be cla&ified in the "strategic" category. A General Department of State
Owned Capital and Assets in Businesses will be established within the Ministry of Finance during 1995
to cary out this task.



-34-
The reform of the Public nvme  Program will support those statw enterprisie rfoms.
Public investment in state enterprises, dtrough the budget or though subsidized or guaranteed loans, will
be resticted to strategic firms, that is, those providing important public services. The shahldiug
compaes fully or partially owned by the Govement will have to find their own invesutent fud
without Govenmet support or guarantee.
-iancial Sector Refonrs
Viet Nam is in aition from a system of cetal planning to a maet economy in which
maement will be carried out throug incentives rather tb direc controls. The country is well long
in this tansition, but dte  remai Inmpott areas in whi the incentive- regime needs to be
strengthened. We feel that the most important problem with the incentive regime is the poor functionin
of the financial system, especially the cocial banks. The banking system has a number of
weaknesses that are holding back development.of the economy. Specific weakness  in the sector include
bad debts in the staewned comwercial banks h reaten the-solvency of the system and a.turnovm
tax on inredaion which dis       gs exson,especially of the new private ba.          e
Govern t's progriof financial sector reform will move forwaid ont o tracs, one to stand
ensure the solvency of the state-owned banks, the other to promote developmen of the private banking-
system. In addton, the Govemmen will improve check-learming and introduce other msures to
encourage use of domestic aurency.
The state-owned commercial baks inhe     a signiicant amount of bad debt when they
were separed from the State Bank. More importaly, it is not clear what the quality of recen lending
is as supervision of bans is weak. The capacity of both the central bank and the state-owned conmmrcial
banks is currently being sengthened through technical assistance executed by the Fund, the Bank, ADB,
and bilateral donors. An important complement to this work is detmiing the exact scope of the non-
perfomi3g loabns in the bans' balance sheets. The Government plans to cany out independent portfolio
audits of the four state-own  commercial banks in order to idenfy doubtful and bad loans on their
books. This informion will enable the Government to prepare a sensible program to clean up bad debts
and ensure that banks are   aly  capitaized. This program   likely to involve a combination of
recapitalization of some elements of the state-owned banking system, and liquidation or privaizaton of
other parts.
One of the features of Viet Nam's finana sector reform with which we are pleased is
the entry of about 60 new banks, mostly private, both domestic and foreign. This entry has the potential
to create a vibrant banking sector. The expansion of these banks has been hampered, however, by the
tunover tax assessed on banks' net interest income. In order to improve the incentives for commercal
banlk to expand their operations, banking will be exempted from the turnover tax during 1995. We wil
introduce other measures as well to encourage the use of domestic currency and deposits, specifically an
increased supply of larger denominon notes - of course drainng an equal amount of smaller vaue
notes - and an improved check clearing system. We have requested an IDA project for 1995 to support
this moderniion of the payments system



-35-
L~~~LRL~~.    .. .. 
Unibei, Of          -TM&
iberaition of forde   trade has ben an importan element of the Govenme's
program to i    e the enabling eavironmen for the-private sector. Concernin import, neay all
qawitative restictions have bee removed and replaced witi tarf. In addit, a reof refoms
bave ben udertaken to s   th   h icentive to eixport and to ensue that epoters have acce  to
materials at international prices. Fist,    requreme  tat a m facturer have a    level of
capital in order to obtan a license to export and import was eoliad, which reuted in beW acces
to foreign rade by the prvae sector. Second, bonded warehouses and a duty exempion system wern
introdwuced so that expoe have acces to imported marials duty-free, provided that they pr s them
with  tree monsafter withdrawing them ftom the warehouse. Pinally, shipment lice    for exports
were elimna   as of July 1,1994 (except for oil, rice, and wood). The Govenmen is committed to
prviing eporters access to inpUtS at interational prices and will review the effectven  of the above
measures on an ongoing basis to enatre that this objectve is met.
While.important    i       s have been achieved, we recogize t  the are alo
impedimentsthat remann. The Governmnm has a medium-term goal of joiig GAlTr and reli  that
removal of non-tariff barriers to imports will be required before it can do so. We wil cotiue our.
program of reducing _aminsaive bariers to trade, with plans for phasig out shipment licenses for
ts during 1995-96.
Mother  portant trade issue is the tarff code, which in Viet Nam diffs significantly
from those in place in leading exporting countries. Our code is very complex, containg a large number
of rates, from 0% to 200%; furtemore, rates have frequ y been changed. The Goverment's
nedium-term objective is to introduce a more stable and uniform tariff code so that  dve rates of
poteDon are similr across sectors and do not favor inefficient industries. A fir step in this direcdon
wil be taken in 1995, when the highest tariff rate will be lowered to 60%. We wil submit this prposa
as part of the first phase of a com sive tax reform plan. The Goverment anicipat  frther
stremlining of the tariff code in future years, with the ultimate objecdve of a modere, largly unifom
iarfF rate.
In the are of foreign invesent, the Govannt has strenghned th incentiv  for
investors, but imdents remain in place. Cumbersom  pcedurs and bu ucratic requirements for
the negotiatiou of contracts, issuance of rlated leenes, and impl  of projects are singl  out
by most investors as major problems in this aea. Te Goverment has alrady ten some measures to
reduce these bottlenecls. In addition, the folowng strog meawres to streanline the investment prooem
will be taken: (1) stamlning of dministrative procedures so as to shorten the time for project
prparton and negon, for isuce of reltd Lcses, and for Ipl entaio of projec; (2)
reducton in the mber of agecies and levels of gment involved in the licene approval process
and in the issuance of other permits required to undetake the investment; and (3) sm Gpliicati  of thn
fasibilit sudy reqiemen for small prqjects.



-36 -
Foreig ivestors fice s fict difficutl in securig land use ghs and are fburier
hampered by the inabilty to mortgage these rights. This *iuaon is under study by a working group
involved in implementinS the lnd law. In addition, inesto  need to have access to bdepede  and
timii it', ilhyquafied accountants and audts. Roo ent  ofditig fimswill be lifted
duing 1994.
Te Govarnm  realies t  Viet Names contnud growth will depend to a lapge extet
on dte d  diopment of uppt  Irasrutue. Stat e       es inthe power, telecomcaton, and
_ranport ectors kv no bew sble to fiance al of the infe            t      d to sustain the
aemyt-o's robust growth. Thus, the Goiverment iends to invite the private sector, including foreign
Iveto, to coam m  public: invm et in these citical seorm trough Build-Opte-Transfer and
other sdmes. Te Government is studying how some of these sectors or part thereof could best be
opened to com       In this conext, a study on private participation in  iastructure wi}l be caied
out durig the extyear.: --
A sucesu traniton to a markeconomyt rer  the devopment of a legal
famwork that not anly defines hienv  and removes disincentives but also provies the necessary
on chanis. The Govement has recognized the need for a legal system that is
prceived as reliable and fair, as part of the econmic reform progrm. The-gradual process of putting
Into plce the necesay eloments of such a system has incded a new conston and the enactent of
legislatio in te ares of conact, company, land, and bnkruty law. That process is now accelerat
with the    t       in Ju  1994 of a labor code to protect employees and employers alike as the labor
maket deveops and a domestic investment promotion law to pr e inenives for the domestc private
sector comarable those for freign invetors. The legislatve agenda for the 1994-95 period ilmCudes
a badsc civil code as the leg  foundato for the system as whole and a combmeal law to facilitae
buiess actvity, as well as the implementing legisladon needed to give full play to the land and
bankruptcy laws enacted in 1993. The    _      in the company law and the enactm   of a ste
entepris law as part of the Sta Enterprise Reform Program are intded to strngthen the legal basis
Ibr competion beween public and pnve firms.
Imoraly, a major         ia underway this year in tie mechanisms for the
settme  of econoic disputes, which is central to the effectvens of the legal framework. The
peoples courts at the n Io  and provinci  levds establish  economic cout in July 1994, to
adjudicae economic disputes and exercise functions under the bankuptcy law. These developments
highlight the need for tRsining of legd pesne to staff these new functions as well as for the
strel4ohenig of Viet Nams growmg legal profession. We welcome the tehnical asace programs
srtng   p in Viet Nm- to asist both in the preparaton of legislation and in the training of legal
pofesskon, and appreciate the Bank's role in advising and assistDg in the coodiion of these
activities.



37 .
Socal U    of Adiusmn
Viet Nam's expeence has been very difMren than that of otber commnd economies in
transition to a market economy. It stands out for sever  reasons: First, the rdative importa    of
agrculture rather than ndustry has helped most Vietnamese households to benefit frm the itial price
reforms. When reforms wert ini        in 19g9, most Vietnamese were farmers while only a small
percentage were employed by the state sector. When agcultural prices wee liberalzed in tandem with
decollectivization of faums, the net result for most Vi_etm    hshds was overwhlmigly positive.
This outcome is in mared conra to countries whicb have large state enteprie sectos   oying most
of the labor force. Second, those laid off from the state sector reied adequate  at  ges,
on average equivalent to one year's pays Third, our M stry of Labor ha found ta most rrednd
works were absorbed by t  quicly  w         private sector within one year.
Nevertheless, Viet Nan is a poor country with maiy vulnerable households, and
alleviating poverty is one. of the Govements central objectives. To this end, expnding access to
primar education, basic health services, and fmily planning services v ill be central goals of the iit
projects that we have requested from IDA in the social sectors. 'rhese projects will need to be'
complemented by nmasur that ensure that poorer prvinces have the resources needed to susta these
program  on an ongoing basis. For this reason, the issues of expendir  needs, revenue retention, and
asfer design will be carefully sudied with the goa of improving the design of the int-governmental
system to enable households in all provinces to participate in the country's economic growth and to have
acoess to the social safety net when confroted with severe hardship.
Another key component of thfe Govaements poverty alleviation stategy -involves the
Uving Standards Survey, which has been exemted by the State Plni  Commte with Bank aisn
during the past two years. The SPC and the Bank are currenty analyzng the data to identify the most
vulnerble households, subpopulations, and geographic regions to enable more effecve targeting of
public expenditures. The Goewrnm t wil cary out periodic suveys of this kind, as well as powert
asesments based on them, to monitor the county's proges with poverty aleviation.
Conclusions
In light of the Government of Viet Nam's song commint to macroec     stability
and to ongoing stral reforms desied to tranfrm our system into a maket economy, the
Govenmen would appreciate favoable consideration be given- to its request for a US$150 millon
Strucual Adjustment Credit. The Governent will contine its close cooperaion wihi the World Bank
througout the program and will implemen to the best of its abilit, uie meares set forth in this letter.
We believe that the rom pro-m  that we are undert    will place our economy on
a path of rapid and susined growth that wl bring about material hi   in the livg standards
of the people of Viet Nam.
Yours sincerely,
Cao Sy Kiem
Govwr, State Bank of Viet Nam



- 38 -
Am1
A qWmu I
Viet Nam Structal Adjum  Credit
Criteria for Monitwing    o    c Performance
Short-t   macrm  peforance will be monitored, in coultation with te IMP,
based on the following macroeconomic variables and targets for 1994 and 1995: consolidated general
budget deficit' of 2.7% of GDP in 1994 and 3.3% of GDP in 199S; extera curreat account deficit
(before official transfers) of 4.9% of GDPin 1994 and 5.6% of GDP in 1995; and an increase in net
dometic assets of the banking system to 32,400 billion dong (end-1994) and 39,100 biHlion dong (end-
1995). If dibursement of ODA is higher than projected, then the fiscal and exeral deficits would be
larger by a cmensurate amount. The detailed information prepaed for the IMP regaling fisca,
monetary, and balance of payments performance will be made available to IDA on a montbly basis. In
addition, the authorities will provide infonnation on the variables listed in the following table, for which
indicative target rans have been specified  r the pipowe of ionitoring progs under thi reforn
program.          -
M    OMMc Inicators to be Monitored under the SAC
1993 (actual)     1994 (target)      1995 (target)
Goverment Curent SurplusW
(% of GDP)                            1.6               3-4                34
Non-state share of
ou ding domestic credit
to enateprises, year-end (%)          33                 35-38              39-42
Governme  share of
gross investment (%)                   36                 36                 36
Real Export Growth (%)                 12.4              10-15              10-15
gI   Government revenue (excludWg grants) minus recwnt expenditu  (cash basis, including interest
payments).
1/        Govemnmet revenue (cluding grants) minus total ependue (cash basis, including
interest paymns).



- 39 -
ill       0|3i,1E      |     g
*~ ~ ~~~I -,liii }    Sl    l2
0            .
E~ I iiI  I
S~ ~~~~~~~~~~      S    
S   It,            iii
.~~~ .II
tg  
, 112      X   lX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*
IIII



PAP2 df 8
gkkdo~ NAM 91 O                                                E          ID= AFo Sl DW A
L   _ E _ w_                                                                            *       :         
3.                                     Budgedeci.                          -   i    defit redced f     12%d of       Mlugame  of budet dfIci it
GDP to vob condsseo  with low          1994 And be7od so   aSoid
Inflasimi. :%''resorting so l smmuytsouNkom                  ow    of
fmnabin anad crowdingou of
. ~~~~~~or" Of 19p bfd l995
*odkmWm i*S1004            01080.is.
-   efitn  of govrnu                     Dewree estalishing procede fr        - Meausus to 0-e8en eal debt                 c
esibw ly for deexterxa                 ODA manant.:                          redan   management_
_sanemanagement..
Decree eosabhing procres or                        t Marmle proeue
foeign bfrigb ior  pe                                on of ODA pjecta.
4.        g                           Exchange rate mangemnent                Deau on MS3 in rea  M) and             MaINin co_m      e exan   rate.
Exchunt Raw                  '                                             M u atu  inOf excn   rae.
Esabibdd excbane mscet trougb
*. ~ba,g M_-
IL          a
J.Budet System                                                                * Adopt Budget Law dar**iWroes
of diffrt         and a_sin te
of responsibilities to cetal and
.locd authorities.
-E1xpenditw  Mlaemn                           eveobpm     expetbdk          - baoduc  awed          aad economic
reduced hrough demobaoon and                       of   _      .
end of SE udi.



Page 3 Of 8
Vlr,NM- IME1 OF SRUlLADIlMlSIROG4
O,b  SeAlof                                                                       AcTakz                                 ,
-Civi servic rdued by 20%.               Mesues to streastbe,nading of
Govemu  agies andes tovet
procedure for Government
- lnteased expendkture for educatin     Publi expenditur rview to monlyz
and halth.                            efFe       bu      o dr.
- Iacreased ex pedkure fr opera'ovs
and mui_tuce of in_astruct.
- PublIsmen Program.                  - EsWablished cteha flr the PIP,       * Adopt  aw for 1996-98, focuIg
focuig   on bwves'               '    on prido  ivessal in
compIem    y to private               Infrastructure nd uman resauc
instmen, and adopted 1995             devPPmL
bweseu t pgam  basd on dtese
2. I&=                                Taes                                - _nmdMctilc of iom  nd profit          Reueo numb  of trex  rawes
ts  repao  it VAT by 1997.
- Cost Recovey                              e - Icasd fees   coomerc  pbW    * I     _od    sexge fo r pewom'
M                                      -b i        u a
dinl foOL



Dbi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n~~~Are
Pape 4 of 8
IL~~~~~~~~~~O
NAM                                  MgM Aku* -lls)
IL tPbqlse~~crer-  :.
, . so  .om        ab               k      dbk                           Is           "ou
3  capital subsifdiu from           - e budget or
hag-ften c*it limited to &nu
ox_,. tmm8dSI          wice.*
-mp0fift I'm="shru0 6bo¢a
Number af SOBs reduced from
12,QOO to 7,AOO.



Pag S of 8
AreasoX Kwlin              o s UrAbmv 1*4; 
IL
- legal and Reguly Fmewo.            - Decres an Decisins prviding for   * Adopt an action pgm to creae a
SOE auitomy . ' for a pilo          level plying field for privae and
program of privathatior.             public *m in the 
setors, a  to cleary   f a
Baniupcy law.                        limbied _mber of tatfinnm
ta wi contiuMe 10 rcive
Amed Company Law to aow
SOEs to be eorpizd uxder s=me
l fr.            -
* AdopSOE Law oe e_S    lgat
fmo  and _mngem
bctur for sa          fims.
- EstablIshmenof a ministry or
holing compa  to exercise
Govenment's ownership rjht in
- Completdhepiotpr     oamf
m. I^moefor JbaM
- Prices.                               Elimination 9f prc cotl, Xecq
for cm ialW publ  evics.



Page 6 of 8
Q.bfrss~                                   Arena of Intervention                         lready T boak Agden                   sg"d
IlL
Legal Sysm                          - Adoption of new consiton.             Adopt civl code and cmnercul
climdg p     _ton of pVWate      ,  law.
Adopion of commcial laws (i.e.,      Adp  IlmentI  regulations for
for bantin, 'coPanies, bnuptY,      lan a  b ut laws.
and bkW us      ,
b wntwro  cnomic court.
- Financial sectr                    - Prmooip of competon amng           * mInal pofo ads of stat-owned
buank by I opnMg of new baks        coneci bank to identfy bad
(mding fteign banjoint               debts an obi acu   balance
ventues ..                           shdeets.
* Exempt b*ng fiom    tne
*                        tax to enmouage expan .
::                          especialy of dsh new pt  bas.
,.                       -  m4prove  chok-cearing.
- Development of ban spervision
bmed on prdnl regulaions for
,:',-dce,nta zedomptivedbankq
"~~~~~~~~~sseu



AIFLU
Page 7 of 8
VW NAM - EINS OF STRUCTURAL AUFM RNT  OGRA,
Arman of                              AC*=
- Financial Sectr                                                          - Dveopmt of aAcot
andding saads for aU
(fincd NWd 
Bmubiluut Of (tmawwk o
reanactaidu  of flhnyu intautton
.- dc   -        ubafdpf_ olr      ;
¢oK aporunu s,
-  Eoin trade regie                  - Repbwd QRS wim arifm.
-lmne B  shien xlcences fo          * Revie tariff od to reduece    
eXPorts                              distortioss (I.e.,   b hst *te
-Phase out bae    -s an liess
Direa Ftaocgip  a hwvestanw        - Law p1omoIg DPI and sbequen *        S4e_smrmsppro   proc_4e.
-' BUI   on fosu   fald an



- 46 -
ill                            11111-it
I!ii "b
5~  ml .            -... 
i ~ ~ i  -}    ,----i  i s--;-------;
.§~~~ a
f t .                 .  i
l'I
|a .i_'



-47 -
SOC>IAST REPUBUC QF VIET NAM
$RUI UAL DJUTMNT CREDIT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)   Time taken to preal the project              11 Monts. Januwa  1994 - November
1994
(b)   Prepared by:                                 Government with Association
Assistance
(c)   First IDA mission:                           March 1994
(d)   Appraisal mission departure:                 June 14, 1994
(e)   Negotiations:                                Sepember 1994
(D)   Plamned date of effectiveness:               November 1994
ig)   List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:             None
The project was prepard by the following Bank staff: David Dollar, Task Manager, Jennie Litvack
Thang-Long Ton; Natalie Lichtenstein; Gerard Caprio; Pierre Guislain; Michael Finger. Division Chief
is Khalid Ikram; Director is Callisto E. Madavo. Peer reviewers were Gene Tidrick and Steven Webb.



4-                                               Afx IV
STATMS F  B              RO    nQTZN
A. VWUM lET BMQ  AN MA 0ffh: a
(As of Jun 30, 1994)
Amoult (US$ miflion) b
Lowat o                                                                                  (losw pancllations)
Num    Yer         Brrower        Pupose                                                    MA   Undisbursed
one credit fillt dis"u--ed                                                                 59.70
2548    1994       Vie Nam        Primary Edatim                                           70.00         71.75
2S49    1994       Viet Nam       Highway RehailiationaX                                  158.50        162.30
2561    1994       Viet NM        Agriculture Rehabilitatio                                 L.00        1
Total     .         -                                                            384.20        334.43
ofwllasrqpdd;: .b .h-a.                                ;  .    - --  -: --   3.28
Totl Now Held  tink and 11)A. .                                                  380.92-
Amount old                                  0.00             - .
Total Undisbursed                                                                              334.43
Not.:
W TMM a.U of the projt  etad in Put A b deuclbd In a separt report an al IBI4IDA-Aaed pojectinemoulsc
wc s updaetd twice yealy and circated to the Exeutive Diret  an Aps 30 and October 31.
W PrIcpal ousin U8$ equivaleddt ae valud at o ngr  applcable at dte ofaWgdl  and udisbursed amouas
in US$ equiat awe valued at exchp n rat applale on the daft of ths staL
B. STATEMENT OP W INVmETSI
(As of July 31, 1994)
Total  Undisbured
0__    _ C___                 Hld       cludig
]BY IFC    Participants
Fiscl                                                         Loa     Equiy      ToalC   (at cost)     Portion
Year    Obligor           Type of Busikess                     US S  mil-
1995    Hanoi Sofil Meftopole    Toim                          8.S         -       8.S       8.5           8.5
Total Grss Comiitmonts a/                              8.S        -       8.5       8.S           8.5
Nat@ at  "  oMCMIiafestofmaf  ed andA odr*p



