Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16580
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit No. 265 7-VN)
May 15, 1997
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 1997)
Currency Unit   =   Dong (D)
D 1,000   =   US$0.09
US$1.00   =   D 11,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    -   Asian Development Bank
CG    -   Consultative Group
ESAF    -   Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESW    -   Economic and Sector Work
FDI   -   Foreign Direct Investment
GDP    -   Gross Domestic Product
IDA    -   International Development Association
IFC    -   International Finance Corporation
IMF    -   International Monetary Fund
MOF    -   Ministry of Finance
MPI   -   Ministry of Planning and Investment
O&M    -   Operations and Maintenance
ODA    -   Official Development Assistance
PFP    -   Policy Framework Paper
PER    -   Public Expenditure Review
PIP    -   Public Investment Program
SAC    -   Structural Adjustment Credit
SOE    -   State-Owned Enterprise
SBV    -   State Bank of Vietnam
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Programme
WTO    -   World Trade Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President                                Jean-Michel Severino
Director                                      Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Acting Division Chief                         Kyle Peters, Jr.
Task Manager                                  Thang-Long Ton



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit No. 2657-VN)
CONTENTS
Preface
Summary                                                                 i
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment                               1
The Setting                                                       1
Program Objectives and Design                                     1
Achievement of Objectives                                        4
Bank Performance                                                 9
Borrower Performance                                             10
Sustainability, Assessment of Outcome, and Lessons Learned      11
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5 -6:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:   Project Financing
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operations Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices:
A.    Mission's Aide-Memoire
B.    Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C.    Map
This document hag a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit No. 2657-VN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Structural
Adjustment Credit in Vietnam, for which Credit No. 2657-VN in the amount of US$150
million equivalent was approved on October 25, 1994 and made effective on November
9, 1996.
The credit was closed on September 30, 1996 compared with the original closing
date of December 31, 1995. The first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully
disbursed by January 31, 1995. The second tranche was released on September 13, 1996
and was fully disbursed by October 17, 1996. Cofinancing for the project was provided
by Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) for US$10 million in two equal
tranches and the Netherlands' Ministry for Development Cooperation for NLG 18.25
million in two parts. The Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA) also
provided an amount of DKK 60 million as cofinancing for the second tranche.
The ICR was prepared by Thang-Long Ton (Economist, EAlCO) and reviewed
by Mr. Kyle Peters, Jr., (Acting Division Chief, EAlCO), Mr. William McCleary (Lead
Economist, EA1DR) and Walter Schwermer (Project Advisor, EA1DR). The Borrower
provided comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission, in July-August 1996. It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's
execution and initial preparation, and commenting on the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT NO. 2657-VN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction.
1.    In the late 1 980s, faced with a deteriorating economic situation and international isolation, the
Vietnamese leadership initiated an ambitious program of renovation in 1986 and accelerated its
implementation in 1989. It aimed to stabilize the economy and to promote sustained development
through a transformation of the economy from one directed by central planning towards one guided by
market forces. The initial reform program was designed to remove price distortions and improve
production incentives. The economy responded quickly, with GDP growth averaging 7 percent in 1989-
93. Inflation was reduced to 5.2 percent at the end of 1993. However, there were serious structural
weaknesses in the economy and its stabilization was still fragile. Further structural reforms were needed
to move closer to a market system and to put the economy on a sustained growth path. For the next stage
of reform, the Government of Vietnam worked with the Bank and the IMF to define a medium-term
reform program. In this context, the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) was designed, focusing on the
most critical elements of the reform agenda.
The Structural AdJustment Credit (SAC).
2.    The overall objective of the SAC was to assist Vietnam to sustain a high growth rate and to make
a smooth transition to a market economy. The SAC program was designed to build on the measures
already taken by the Government prior to the SAC. While these were not part of the conditions for the
SAC preparation, they provided a favorable backgrouiJ that facilitated SAC appraisal and approval. The
SAC program aimed at strengthening macroeconomic stabilization and addressed four structural reform
areas: (1) fiscal management, (2) state enterprises, (3) the financial sector, and (4) foreign trade policy.
The credit focused on improved management of the budget and state enterprises. It aimed to raise public
savings and improve the allocation of expenditures through better fiscal management. It supported the
strengthening of incentives for private savings, saving mobilization and investment, through reforms of
the banking and financial sector and foreign trade.
Achievement of Objectives.
3.    The objectives of SAC were largely achieved in all areas -- macroeconomic management, fiscal
management, SOE reform, financial sector, and trade policy.
4.    Macroeconomic Management. From a low income economy, emerging from central planning,
severe adverse shocks, and macroecnomic disequilibria, Vietnam's overall performance was very strong,
and the turnaround was probably unparalleled. The economy responded well to the Government's reform
program supported by the SAC. Growth continued apace at 8.8 percent in 1994 and a record rate of 9.5
percent in 1995 -- the highest since 1989 -- and 9. 3 percent in 1996. Investment accounted for 27.1
percent in 1995 and 27.9 percent in 1996. High and rising public savings provided the primary impetus
to increases in national savings as fiscal measures raised revenues and reduced expenditures. However,



1.
private savings remained largely unchanged during the SAC period. At the same time, the Government's
management of inflation was uneven. Inflation rose to 19.3 percent in mid- 1995. Beginning in late 1995,
the Government tightened monetary policy, successfully reducing inflation to 4.5 percent in 1996. The
reduction on inflation was helped by lower food prices, from bumper rice harvests, themselves reflecting
earlier agricultural reforms.
5.    Trade reforms contributed to a diversification of export goods and the development of new
markets. Imports also increased -- in capital, intermediate, and also consumption goods -- in response to
the accelerated implementation of investment projects. However, with large increases in imports, the
current account deficit was greater than anticipated. While available data for the capital account showed
that the deficit was largely covered by higher than expected inflows from FDI and, to a lesser extent,
from increased ODA disbursements and an increase in short-term borrowing; particularly the use of
"deferred" letters of credits also increased to finance imports. The Government in 1996 undertook
measures to limit imports and to encourage exports in order to prevent further increases in the deficit.
Further tightening of macroeconomic policies, including tighter control over the borrowing of SOEs will
be necessary to insure that the deficit could be financed in a sustainable manner in the medium term.
6.    In the monetary sector, confidence in the domestic financial system and in the local currency
continued to grow as financial sector reforms took hold. Banking data provided evidence of improved
access to credit by the non-state sector. The share of Dong in M2 continued to increase while Dong
deposits showed substantial growth. However, the conduct of monetary policy during the program period
was uneven: the easing of credit in 1994 was followed by large price increases. To its credit, the State
Bank of Vietnam (SBV) responded swiftly and tightened its control through imposing bank-by-bank
credit ceilings in mid-1995 and 1996 to fight inflation and bring it down to 4.5 percent in 1996. Despite
swift responsiveness to signs of instability, the Government will need to pay closer attention to signs of
underlying disequilibria that could pose potential problems in macroeconomic management.
7.    Fiscal Management. Several measures to improve budgetary management were successfully
implemented. The Government has been consistently prudent in managing its budget, a critical factor in
its macroeconomic stabilization efforts. Public savings increased to 5 percent of GDP in 1994 and this
was sustained in 1995 and increased to 6 percent in 1996. Since 1992, the budget has not been financed
by the domestic banking system. Long term measures, including the submission to and enactment by the
National Assembly of a Budget Law, the preparation and adoption of a Public Investment Program (PIP),
and the preparation of a Public Expenditure Review (PER), were completed during the SAC period. The
Budget Law is expected to establish a more transparent framework for budget preparation and
management. The PIP helped to prioritize the Government's public investment within a realistic funding
envelop. It is now incorporated into the activities of the Ministry of Planning and Investment (MPI) as a
tool for its investment planning for the budget. The completion of the PER achieved the purpose of
aiding the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to analyze its expenditures with a view to define priorities in public
spending and to increase the Government's efficiency in the delivery of public services. MOF plans to
implement recommendations in the PER in future budgetary activities. However, the record was
somewhat mixed in the measure on taxation of petroleum products. The action agreed under the SAC
was implemented. This helped finance the increase in overall O&M expenditures and in O&M
expenditures in the transport sector. But, the ratio between the price of gasoline and diesel fuel improved
only marginally. This did not lead to a higher cost recovery from heavy road users and to more
comparability between domestic prices of petroleum products, the intended effect of the SAC condition.



iii
8.    State Enterprise Reform. The Government made some progress in the overall state enterprise
reform during the SAC and also continued with further reform measures in this area since the SAC
closed. The reform program supported by the SAC had three objectives: (i) establishing and utilizing
clear criteria to identify strategic firms that provide essential public services, (ii) transforming non-
strategic state firms into companies that compete on a level playing field with private firms, and (iii)
strengthening the management of strategic firms that will continue to receive government support. The
Government adopted a time-bound action plan for the state enterprise reform. It introduced a series of
important measures to reform SOEs. Measures to further state enterprise reforms were also taken in the
legal, corporate governance, and financial areas. The most important of these included the approval of
the Law on State Enterprises (1995) and its implementing regulations (1996), and the establishment of the
General Department for Management of State Capital and Property at Enterprises. The decree on
equitization was promulgated in May 1996. Another decree providing the definition of public service
state enterprises was issued in October 1996, following which the Government has initiated the SOE
classification process. The playing field between state and private enterprises has become progressively
more level during the recent years. However, the SAC's design in the SOE sector was weak in retrospect
and the agenda of reforms still remains considerable in this area.
9.    Financial Sector. The SAC was designed to build on reforms already undertaken and underway
in this sector to increase the competition among banks and to support a series of measures to strengthen
further the Vietnamese banking sector. One step toward a better financial sector was the auditing of
state-owned commercial banks. The Government completed the initial portfolio audit of one state bank.
The second audit is expected to be completed in mid-1997. (A delay in securing technical assistance for
bank audits led to a non-objection waiver for this condition.) The SAC helped the Government and the
state-owned banks realize the importance of credible audits to develop financial institutions and
strengthen domestic and international confidence in them. As a result, it has decided to undertake regular
audits of all four state-owned commercial banks. The turnover tax exemption for lending activities was
passed by the National Assembly in 1995. Reform of the banking sector is continuing with support from
the Bank's Payment and Banking Modernization Project and an ADB program loan.
10.   Foreign Trade Policy. The SAC supported the Government's trade liberalization plan to
improve the competitiveness of the economy and to allow more regional integration. Trade measures
already undertaken included the reduction of the number of items subject to import permits (from 15 to
five items) and the abolishment of import shipment licenses. To rationalize the import tariff and to
reduce effective protection, the SAC specifically supported the measure to reduce the maximum import
tax rate to no more than 60 percent -- approved by the National Assembly and effective in January 1996.
This measure is one of the steps toward introducing a more stable and uniform tariff code so that effective
rates of protection are similar across sectors and do not favor inefficient industries, consistent with
ASEAN trade requirements and WTO's conditions.
Bank Performance.
11.   Since the late 1980s, the Bank has been an important partner of the Government. Before lending
began, the Bank, with the IMF, provided technical advice to the Government in the formulation of its
strategy and contributed to shaping measures and policies of adjustment and reforms. Several Bank
economic and sector studies contributed to the understanding of issues facing Vietnam's development.
These served subsequently as the basis for the Bank's lending program. The Bank played a more active
role as lending began in 1993, assisting the Government to carry out some of this advice. It has worked
closely with the Government to ensure a successful implementation of the SAC. However, Bank staff



iv
overestimated the technical capacity of the Government and the complexity and political nature of some
of the measures and, thus, the timing required for their implementation (PER, PIP, bank audits), leading
to two extensions -- a total of nine-months -- of the SAC's closing date. During the SAC period, the
increase in savings reflected higher government savings from cautious budgetary management. Private
savings, however, remained at the same level, underlining the fact that import,-,t elements of a well-
functioning market economy are still missing and that the Government needs to formulate concrete
policies to improve the incentive system so as to encourage the growth of private savings. Concurrent
with the unchanged private savings, there was an increase in the current account balance deficit, resulting
from the more rapid than anticipated increase in FDI and an increase in short-term borrowing. The
widening deficit in the balance of payments highlights the need to ensure the sustainability of the balance
of payments in the medium term, if the Government intends to sustain the current high rate of growth.
Borrower Performance.
12.   The Government considered the implementation of the SAC very seriously and learned quickly
by doing, despite a lack of familiarity with the Bank's adjustment lending. Government officials did not
fully anticipate all the requirements and difficulties when they agreed to the SAC schedule. There were
complications and resulting delays in the mobilization of financial resources needed to prepare the PER,
PIP, and the bank audits. The Government, however, learned the value of several conditions in the SAC,
notably the PIP, the PER, and the audits, and sought to deepen their applications. MPI has incorporated
the PIP as a regular activity in its report to the National Assembly. MOF expects to implement many of
the recommendations made in the PER. SBV realized the benefits of the auditing exercise and has
expanded its plans to conduct regular audits of state banks in the future.
Sustainability. Assessment of Outcome. and Lessons Learned.
13.   The SAC was rated highly satisfactory. It was successful in supporting the Government's effort
to stabilize the economy and sustain a high growth rate. The SAC helped the Government to frame some
concrete steps in the reform agenda by focusing on specific weaknesses that needed to be addressed as
prerequisites for further reforms. The series of measures, discussed above, consolidated the gains of the
past several years while laying the ground for further reforms and follow-up adjustment operations and
other sectoral lending. At the same time, it provided a sound foundation for the Government to proceed
to more complex reforms toward sustainable development.
14.   The principal feature for the success of the SAC operation in Vietnam is that it reflected the
strategy of the Government in its reform and adjustment program. This reform program grew out of the
close policy dialogue between the Bank and the Government since the late 1980s. These features will
continue to serve well in the future for a fruitful cooperation between the Bank and the Government as
Vietnam embarks on a more complicated path to sustainable development. As Chairman of the
Consultative Group for Vietnam, the Bank also cooperates and coordinates with bilateral donors active in
Vietnam and with other multilateral institutions and UN agencies, the most important of which is the
UNDP whose technical assistance has been closely linked to the Bank's lending activities. The SAC was
cofinanced by the Governments of Denmark, the Netherlands, and Sweden. This cooperation helped
provide a consistent message to the Government on economic policies supported by donors.
15.   The implementation of the measures supported by the Bank's first SAC in Vietnam has led to a
strong macroeconomic performance and helped further the transition to a market economy. Nevertheless,
sustaining Vietnam's recent economic performance will require further reform to improve investment



v
efficiency and raise domestic resource mobilization, as well as ensure the sustainability of the balance of
payments. Further reform measures in these areas would be supported by a second Structural Adjustment
Operation, currently under preparation.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT NO. 2657-VN)
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
The Setting
1.    Vietnam's economy performed poorly in the 1980s. Stagnating per capita GNP, triple digit
inflation, chronic balance of payments problems, and large fiscal deficits financed by the banking system
characterized the economy. The country was cut off from the international community and depended solely
on the former Soviet Bloc for trade and aid that declined rapidly. Facing a deteriorating situation, the
Government initiated dramatic changes in foreign policy and in domestic economic management. An
ambitious renovation program was adopted in 1986 and its implementation accelerated in 1989. This
program aimed to stabilize the economy and to promote sustained development by transforming the
economy from a centrally planned system to one guided by market forces. Vietnam has been making a
steady transition to a market economy, at first through learning by doing and later with advice and assistance
from multilateral institutions and bilateral donors.
2.    The reform program was designed to remove price distortions and improve production incentives.
The dismantling of the collective system in the rural areas returned agriculture to family farming. Sweeping
price liberalization removed virtually all controls. The exchange rate was unified and devalued. The
Government hardened the budget constraint for state enterprises. Fiscal deficit was reduced through a
combination of tax reforms, subsidies elimination, and expenditure restraints. The economy responded
swiftly: GDP growth averaged 7 percent in 1989-93 and inflation was reduced from triple digits to 5.2
percent by end- 1993. From a chronic importer, Vietnam began to export rice by 1990. Most importantly,
Vietnam carried out these reforms on its own without international support in this period.
3.    While Vietnam's achievements were impressive, there were serious structural weaknesses in the
economy and its stabilization was still fragile. Savings were still low and needed to be mobilized further.
Additional structural reforms were needed to advance the economy to a market system and to put it on a
sustained growth path. To initiate the next stage of reform, the Government worked with the Bank and the
IMF to formulate a medium-term reform program, summarized in the first Policy Framework Paper (PFP)
for 1994-97. The Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) was designed in this context, focusing on the most
critical elements of the reform agenda. The SAC was also a direct outcome of the policy recommendations
made by the Bank in its economic report, Viet Nam: Transition to the Market, prepared at the same time.
Program Objectives and Design
4.    The overall objective of the SAC was to assist Vietnam to sustain a high growth rate and to make a
smooth transition to a market economy. Prior to the SAC, the Government had taken and had been
implementing a series of reform measures in several areas. The Government committed itself to reduce the
budget deficit and to continue to restrain the growth of spending with 20 percent reduction in civil service
while protecting expenditures on health, education, and operations and maintenance of infrastructure. The
State Bank of Vietnam (SBV) moved to limit credit growth in early 1994. In the external sector, the



-2-
Government introduced strict limits on commercial borrowing, streamlined procedures to accelerate
implementation of FDI- and ODA-financed projects, pursued an exchange rate policy that limited
intervention to smoothing out short-term fluctuations and established foreign exchange market through the
banking system. Incentives for exporters were strengthened by replacing quantitative restrictions with tariffs
and the elimination of shipment licenses for exports. In the state enterprise sector, the Government
eliminated budget subsidies for operating expenses and other implicit and capital subsidies; promulgated
decrees and decisions providing for SOE autonomy and a pilot program for equitization. Incentives for
savings and investment included the elimination of price controls (except for commercial public services), a
new constitution, commercial laws, the law on direct foreign investment and its amendments, the
introduction of economic courts, the promotion of competition among banks by licensing of new banks. A
program of compensation for redundant workers and training and credit schemes was implemented to assist
their absorption into the private sector. While the measures were not part of the SAC conditions, they
strengthened the positive environment and facilitated the SAC appraisal and approval.
5.    Building on these measures, the SAC supported the strengthening of macroeconomic stabilization
and addressed four other areas: fiscal management, state enterprise sector, financial sector, and foreign trade
policy. The SAC focused on improving management of the budget and state enterprises. It aimed to raise
public savings and improve the allocation of expenditures through better fiscal management. Incentives for
private savings, saving mobilization, and investment would be strengthened via reforms of the banking and
financial sectors and foreign trade. There being no conditions for effectiveness, the Government turned its
attention to the implementation of measures for second tranche release once the SAC became effective.
Fiscal Management
6.    The SAC program sought to encourage the Government to establish a transparent framework to
manage its budget. First, it required the Government to submit to the National Assembly a Budget Law that
would establish a more transparent budgetary process for preparing and managing the budget. Second, a
Public Expenditure Review (PER) was to be prepared to identify public spending priorities and areas of
weaknesses for further improvement. As revenues are in fact high for a country at Vietnam's income level,
increasing effectiveness in spending is the most likely way to increase public savings. Third, in the public
investment area, the Government would prepare a multi-year public investment program (PIP), focusing on
investment in infrastructure and human resource development complementary to private investment and
situated in well-defined sectoral strategies. The PIP would enable the Government to establish its
investment strategy within the availability of resources in the medium term and consistent with a policy to
sustain economic development and growth.
7.    Bank studies provided evidence of low efficiency in public expenditures and inadequate funding for
operations and maintenance of infrastructure. Under the SAC, the Government was to introduce measures
with an immediate impact on the budget, i.e., increased funding for O&M, an excise tax on petroleum
products to finance this higher expenditure, and to bring about a revision in domestic prices of different
petroleum products to reflect their international pricing structure.
State Enterprise Reforms
8.    The contribution of state enterprises to Vietnam's GDP was estimated at about 28.5 percent, much
lower than that of other transition economies. In the mid-1980s, the performance of SOEs deteriorated due
to the sharp reduction in trade and financial flows from the former Soviet Union. Early reforms in the sector
were implemented by the Government to increase autonomy and reduce budgetary support. As a result of



the sector's consolidation since 1990, the number of SOEs declined from about 12,000 to some 7,000 while
employment in the sector declined from some 2.1 million to about 1.7 million in 1995. SOE performance
improved significantly, with their share in total credit decreasing and their contribution to the budget
increasing. However, further reforms were needed since continued reliance of the state enteiprise sector on
remaining privileges, i.e., easier access to land and foreign trade, was an obstacle to private sector
development. The SAC supported the Government in defining and sharpening its strategy for the next phase
of reform in the sector. The Government would adopt an action plan (i) to establish and utilize clear criteria
to identify strategic firms providing essential public services; (ii) to transform non-strategic state firms into
companies that compete on a level playing field with private firms; and (iii) to strengthen the management
of strategic firms that will continue to receive government support. These elements were part of a broader
action plan to help the Government fulfill the objectives set out in this area.
Financial Sector
9.    The SAC program sought to remedy some obstacles in the banking sector that hindered its smooth
operation. These included bad debts accumulated in the state commercial banks resulting from the
restructuring and consolidation of the state enterprise sector, a turnover tax on lending activities which
discouraged bank expansion, especially by new banks, and a poor check-clearing system that discouraged
domestic currency use. The SAC proposed the preparation of initial portfolio audits of at least two of the
four state commercial banks to identify the scope of the bad debt problem. Credible audits were needed to
establish   d strengthen domestic and international confidence in these banks. These represented at the time
almost 90 percent of total non-government credit and still account for the largest lending share.
10.   A positive feature of Vietnam's financial reform has been the entry of new banks, domestic and
foreign and mostly private. An impediment to the expansion of these banks was the turnover tax assessed on
bank's net interest income. This tax in practice discouraged intermediation in general and discriminated
against newly established banks since they had little deposit base and initially funded their lending primarily
by equity. Thus, they have interest income but little interest cost, and the effective tax rate was extremely
high. To create a vibrant banking sector, the SAC proposed the exemption of the banking sector from the
turnover tax to encourage expansion of intermediation in general and new private banks in particular. The
SAC did not directly address the issue of the payment system. However, to encourage the use of domestic
currency and deposits, an IDA project, approved in 1995, supported the modernization of the banking
system in order to improve the check clearing system.
Liberalization of Foreign Trade
11.   The Government considered the liberalization of foreign trade to encourage private sector
participation and to ensure that state enterprises were exposed to international competition. Prior to the
SAC, reforms were undertaken to strengthen incentives to export and to ensure that exporters have access to
inputs at international prices. At the same time, nearly all quantitative restrictions were replaced with tariffs.
The SAC program addressed the existing trade distortions in the tariff code by proposing the reduction of the
maximum import tax rate to no more than 60 percent, consistent with the direction that the Government was
following to fulfill its obligations to ASEAN and WTO's prerequisites.



-4 -
Achievement of Objectives
12.   The objectives of SAC were largely achieved in all areas -- macroeconomic management, fiscal
management, SOE reform, financial sector, and foreign trade policy.
Macroeconomic Framework
13.   The economy responded well to the reform program. Growth continued and reflected the experience
that the Government has quickly mastered in managing its economy since the start of the reform. GDP
growth rate was 8.8 percent in 1994 and 9.5 percent in 1995, the highest since the reform program began in
1989. The economy continued to expand in 1996 at 9.3 percent, led by the double-digit growth in the
industrial sector and better than expected performance of exports and imports. These recorded double digit
growth rates in 1994, 1995, and 1996, thanks to the continuing trade liberalization policy and stabilization
measures which in turn encouraged export-oriented industries to develop and grow. For a low-income
country that just emerged from central planning, severe adverse shocks, and macroeconomic imbalances,
Vietnam's overall performance was very strong, and the turnaround was probably unparalleled.
14.   Investment and Savings. Investment grew by 21.7 percent in 1995, or 27.1 percent of GDP. For
1996, investment accounted for 27.9 percent of GDP, as projects were being implemented at an accelerated
pace. Public investment accounted for 5.7 percent of GDP (1995) and 6.6 percent of GDP (1996). The
growth in investment constituted a successful component of the SAC as the stable macroeconomic climate
attracted foreign funding and stimulated domestic investment. In 1995 and 1996, national savings was the
largest source of funding for investment. Savings were 17 percent of GDP in 1995, with government
savings at 5 percent of GDP. Figures for 1996 were however slightly lower at 16.6 percent of GDP, where
government savings accounted for 5.4 percent of GDP. The government was quite successful in its fiscal
management, with high and rising public savings, resulting from measures introduced to increase revenues
and reduce expenditures. However, private savings remained at about 12 percent of GDP since 1991 (except
for 1993). This highlights the fact that further improvement in the financial system and structural reforms
would be required to induce higher private savings if high growth is to be sustained in the future. Further,
despite the good performance of overall indicators, and swift responsiveness to signs of instability, there
were already symptoms of underlying disequilibria -- i.e., in the external sector -- that could become
potential problems in the economy and would require careful management by the Government.
15.   Inflation. The record on managing inflation was mixed during the SAC period. The sharp decline
at the end of 1993 was followed by an acceleration in late 1994 and early 1995 as a result of food prices
increases due to droughts and floods and the accommodating credit expansion for disaster-affected people.
It reached a peak of 19.3 percent in mid- 1995. To their credit, the authorities implemented swift corrective
measures to rein in the surging rate and succeeded in containing it and brought it down to 4.5 percent by
end-1996. Lower food prices, i.e., rice, contributed to the reduction in inflation. While the Government
learned quickly to apply the measures necessary to control inflation, it will have to be more cautious and
consistent in its monetary policy to avoid sharp prices movements in the future.
16.   External Sector. Trade reforms contributed to vigorous developments in the external sector since
1989. Exports benefited from the Government's policy of integration of the country into the international
community and normalization of its international relations, including membership in the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) in 1995. The export sector has been growing at an annual average rate
close to 30 percent (Figure I and Table 1). Exported goods are quite diversified. Vietnam moved quickly
into new markets, including the US even before any formal trade agreement between the two countries.



-5-
Imports recorded strong growth during this period, driven largely by the acceleration of foreign investment
projects. Capital goods accounted for the largest share of total imports, followed by raw material and
intermediate inputs. In 1996, imports continued to grow (over 30 percent in real terms) with strong increase
in consumer goods, following import liberalization measures, including the reduction of items subject to
import permits from 15 to five and the abolishment of import licenses per shipment.
Figure 1. Vietnam: Macroeconomic Indicators
GDP Annual Growth Rate (%)                   Investment and Savings (% of GDP)
30
00
25
190                                           20
6 0                                            Is
10
4 0                                               .-    -
2.0                                            0
0                                    ~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996p
1990    199!    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996  *Investment   ESavings
Inflation Rate (%)                     Exports and Imports Growth Rates (%)
100 0                                           60
80 0                                            50
40
60 0
30
40 0                                            20
200            L                                10
199001991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996        1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995    1996p
SAnnual Average  U Dec-Dec Rate                     *xotUIpr
Government Budget (%/ of GDP)                  Current Account Balance (%, ofGDP)
250                                             s -
200                                                  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996p
10 0                                           -2u Ed  I2 0
soCas I  xpnU-,r    OCuren DU    W    sl.ef,.icn -
00 I~~EJ...A.E~~IhJ] ~Uh  Eli LUll INtl ~-4.0
-8 0
1990  991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996p   0
Reen.e          Cunrent Expenditare   -12 0
OCapital Expendn.re   OCu-rent Defica
Note: Figures for 1996 are preliminary.
Source: General Statistical Office. Ministry of Finance. and Bank staffestimates.
17.    As imports increased rapidly, the current account deficit reached a higher than anticipated level
during the SAC, reaching 10. I percent of GDP in 1995 ($1.9 billion) and 11.3 percent of GDP in 1996 ($2.5
billion). It was financed largely by FDI (estimated at $1.5 billion in 1995 and $1.8 billion in 1996). The
large FDI inflows reflected the fast implementation rate of projects committed in the early 1990s. The
deficit was also financed by ODA loan disbursements from large infrastructure projects funded by
multilateral and bilateral donors (about $190 million in 1995 and $340 million in 1996). The remainder was
covered by short-term inflows. Firm FDI commitments and increasing ODA are expected and the current
account deficit could be adequately financed in the short term. However, there is evidence of slower export
growth while imports -- both capital and consumption goods -- continue to expand. There has also been
indication of increasing short-term borrowing and extensive use of "deferred" letters of credits in 1996 to
finance imports. Toward the end of 1996, in order to prevent further increases in the current account deficit,
the Government undertook measures on the one hand to limit imports (especially restricting the issuance of
letters of credit), and, on the other, to encourage exports, and also to effect closer supervision of external



- 6 -
borrowing. Further tightening of macroeconomic policies -- tighter control of borrowing by state enterprises
and short-term borrowing -- would be necessary so that the current account deficit could be financed in a
sustainable manner in the medium term and high economic growth could be sustained.
18.    Indicators monitored under the SAC. Selected indicators were established for assessing short-
term macroeconomic performance (Table 1). The Government was successful in meeting fiscal targets for
the period. However, the balance of payments deficit widened to 8.6 percent of GDP in 1994 (target: 4.9
percent) and 10. I percent in 1995 (target: 5.6 percent). Net domestic assets of the banking system were also
surpassed in 1994 (36,066 billion Dong vs. target of 32,400 billion Dong), and in 1995 (41,859 billion Dong
vs. target of 39,100 billion Dong); and the 1996 figure was 50,400 billion Dong.
Table 1: Indicators Monitored under the SAC: Target and Actual
1993           1994                 1995            1996
Item                      Actual      Target  Actual     Target    Actual     Prelim.
Government Current Surplus
(% of GDP) a'              1.7        3 - 4    4.2        3 - 4     4.6         5.4
Non-state Share of
Outstanding Domestic Credit    33    35 - 38    39      39 - 42     43          47
to Enterprises. year-end (%)
Government Share of Gross
Investment (%)            28 b/        36     25.9        36       21.0        20.3
RealExportGrowth(%)       16.6b/     10- 15   36.9       10- 15    27.1        25.6
Note:   a/ Govemment revenue (excluding grants) minus recurrent expenditure (cash basis, including interest payments).
b/ Revised due to revision of gross investment in 1993 by GSO.
Source: General Statistical Office. State Bank of Vietnam and Bank staff estimates.
19.    Monetary developments. Confidence in the domestic financial system and in the local currency
continued to grow as financial sector reforms took hold. The share of credit to the non-state sector in total
domestic credit continued to increase, indicating improved access to credit by private enterprises. The share
of Dong in total M2 reached 79 percent in 1995 and 80 percent in 1996, reflecting the continuing shift from
dollar into Dong. Dong deposits increased 51 percent in 1995 (39 percent in 1994), encouraged by high
Dong interest rates. However, it slowed to 28 percent in 1996. Net foreign assets showed a large increase of
58 percent at the end of 1995 and 30 percent in 1996. SBV was in a strong reserve position with its
international reserve close to $1.4 billion (end-1995) and about $1.8 billion (end-1996). During the SAC
period, however, the conduct of monetary policy was uneven. Following an easing of monetary policy in
1994 and early 1995 -- an important factor behind the jump in the inflation rate -- SBV tightened credit
through stricter imposition of bank-by-bank credit ceilings. The growth of domestic credit declined steadily
from 40 percent in 1994 to 25 percent (end-1995) and was 17 percent (end-1996). Broad money growth was
also controlled: 22 percent in 1996, 22.6 percent in 1995 (33.2 percent in 1994). These measures
contributed to the reduction of the inflation to 4.5 percent in 1996 (para. 15).
Fiscal Management
20.    Several measures to improve budgetary management were successfully implemented. The
Government has been consistent and prudent in managing its budget. As a result of a sustained tax
mobilization effort and continuing restraint in expenditures, government savings (derived with revenues
including grants) increased to 5 percent of GDP in 1994 and 95, and over 6 percent of GDP in 1996. Since
1992, the budget is no longer financed by the domestic banking system or by printing money. The overall



budget deficit (cash basis) -- 0.1 percent of GDP in 1996 and the lowest recorded (0.5 percent in 1995 and
1.6 percent in 1994) -- was fully financed by foreign and domestic non-bank sources.
21.   The SAC supported a series of long-term fiscal measures, including the submission to the National
Assembly of a Budget Law, the preparation and adoption of a PIP, and the preparation of a PER. Submitted
to the National Assembly in December 1993, the Budget Law was approved in March 1996. The
seriousness with which this law was reviewed and debated showed the ownership of the Government and the
National Assembly. This helped expedite its implementation in 1997. The Law provides transparent rules
for the preparation and implementation of the budget, clarifies the responsibilities of different government
agencies and levels of government in the preparation and implementation of the budget, assigns all land
taxes to local governments, and ensures stability of revenue assignments, revenue sharing and transfers from
the center. Interim regulations and guidance for the 1997 budget were issued for the 1997 budget
preparation, consistent with the new law. The Government prepared a PER as agreed under the SAC.
Despite its reluctance at the beginning to provide data to international consultants, the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) subsequently developed a clearer understanding of the usefulness of the exercise and indicated that it
intended to develop it further as a budget management tool. MOF organized a formal meeting to present the
PER to the donor community and a series of workshops at the provincial level to introduce it to local
governments. The PIP was prepared through an open process with comments from government agencies
and ministries, and donors -- an important step in itself to achieve transparency in investment planning. It
was approved by the Government in June 1996.
22.   The SAC sought to establish a balanced distribution of resources between expenditures on O&M and
new projects to ensure high returns from past investments. It called for an increase in the taxation of
petroleum products by the introduction of an excise tax on petroleum products (including diesel fuel) to
improve cost recovery from heavy road users, to increase revenues to finance O&M expenditures, and to
make domestic prices of petroleum products more comparable. The record on these measures was
somewhat mixed. Revenues from overall taxation of petroleum products have increased (mostly from
higher taxes on gasoline and fast growth in the consumption of petroleum products), allowing for higher
O&M allocations to the transport sector. O&M expenditures increased substantially in 1994 (0.7 percent of
GDP vs. 0.4 percent of GDP in 1993), and have since been maintained as a share of GDP. However, the
ratio between the price of gasoline and diesel fuel improved only marginally in 1996 compared with 1993.
This did not lead to a higher cost recovery from heavy road users and to more comparability between
domestic prices of petroleum products, one of the intended effects of the SAC condition.
State Enterprise Reform
23.   The Government has made some progress in the overall state enterprise reform. A time-bound
action plan was approved that included (i) establishing and utilizing of clear criteria to identify strategic
firms that provide essential public services, (ii) transforming non-strategic state firms into companies that
compete on a level playing field with private firms, and (iii) strengthening the management of strategic firms
that will continue to receive government support. The SOE condition was designed to encourage the
Government to set some dates for reforms to be undertaken and to engage it in a policy dialogue on this
issue. A series of important measures in this area were introduced: the Law on State Enterprises and the
decree on "equitization" (i.e. corporatization and equitization via sale of shares) of a number of enterprises.
These measures resulted in part from the slow but fruitful dialogue between the Bank and the Government
on this issue. Nevertheless, the SOE sector remains a critical area which requires further reforms.



24.   The Law on State Enterprises, approved in 1995, and its implementing regulations in 1996, provide a
comprehensive framework to improve and reform the management and supervision of the sector. In
particular, the law distinguishes between "public service state enterprises" (PSSEs) and "business state
enterprises" (BSEs), and includes measures to strengthen the autonomy and accountability of their
management. This law followed the implementing regulations for the Law on Bankruptcy in 1994, which
spelled out clear criteria for distinguishing state enterprises "directly servicing defense or security or
important public utility services" from other state enterprises -- the latter being subject to bankruptcy
proceeding in the same way as private firms. Another decree was issued in October 1996, establishing the
definition of a PSSE. The Government is in the process of classifying SOEs as either a PSSE or BSE.
25.   The decree on "equitization" (Transforming a Number of SOEs into Joint-Stock Companies) in May
1996 provides for the transformation of selected SOEs into open joint-stock companies and the sale of
shares in these companies to their workers and to Vietnamese individuals and organizations. This very
important measure provides a firm legal basis for the Government's decision -- endorsed by the National
Assembly -- to equitize between 150 and 200 enterprises in the next few years. The Government has also
asked ministries and provinces to propose SOEs for equitization.
26.   The Government has taken actions to strengthen corporate govemance in the SOE sector. In April
1995, the General Department for Management of the State Capital and Property at Enterprises was set up in
the MOF to improve SOEs' supervision and management by separating the public ownership function from
its regulatory function (exercised by line ministries). In June 1995, to regularize the corporate governance
of state corporations, a model statute was issued under the Law on State Enterprises. In February 1996,
standards were issued for the establishment of boards of management in large-scale state enterprises.
27.   The playing field between state and private enterprises has become progressively more level in
recent years. State and private enterprises are now subject to the same tax and investment incentive regimes.
The new tax laws recently enacted by the National Assembly have established the same tax rates for both
private and state enterprises. Access to credit by private firms has increased significantly. Other reforms to
create over time a uniform legal environment for enterprises in all economic sector included amendments to
the Company Law, the Law on Private Enterprises and the Law on Foreign Investment, all of which were
approved by the National Assembly in late 1996.
28.   Despite the progress achieved under the SAC, SOE reform remains a priority area for further reform
efforts. One aspect which merits closer attention is the recent establishment of general corporations that
encompass smaller companies. The Government will need to monitor their actions carefully to prevent their
monopolistic behavior in the future. It will also have to a1aalyze its own policies to ensure that it does not
endow the general corporations with monopoly powers. A second area is to continue to take actions to level
the playing field further between state and private enterprises. This is especially important in land, trade,
and financial policies.
Financial Sector
29.    Since 1989, the Government allowed the establishment of private and foreign banks to encourage
competition in the banking sector. Other banking reforms were also undertaken prior to the SAC, including
the separation of the commercial activities of the SBV and their assignment to four state banks. To build on
these measures, one of the steps envisaged by the SAC toward better banking was the audit of state banks.
The SAC anticipated the completion of initial audits of at least two state banks. Due to delays in securing
technical assistance, only one bank was audited by the SAC closing date. The audit of the second bank is



-9-
underway and expected to be complete in mid-1997. A non-objection waiver was requested for this
condition. The most significant outcome with the first audit was the realization by the Government and the
state-owned commercial banks of the importance of credible audits to develop financial institutions and to
strengthen domestic and international confidence in them. Thus, the Government decided to undertake
regular audits of all four state banks. These measures are supported by the Payment System and Bank
Modernization Project and by the ADB program loan. The exemption of banks' lending activities ' from the
turnover tax was submitted in 1995 to the National Assembly, was approved and became effective from
January 1996, fulfilling this condition in the SAC. Measures supported under the SAC strengthened the
banking system, but this is an area where further reform measures are clearly required. In particular,
measures need to be taken to strengthen the prudential regulatory framework and improve supervision.
These issues will be addressed under the proposed SAC II.
Foreign Trade Policy
30.   The SAC supported the continuation of trade liberalization, improvement in the competitiveness of
the economy, and further regional integration. Prior to the SAC, the Government already eliminated most of
the quantitative quotas in imports and pursued the policy to simplify administrative controls on export and
import activities. The rationalization process of the trade regime was further supported by the measure to
reduce the maximum import tax rate to no more than 60 percent, approved by the National Assembly and
effective in January 1996. 2 In addition to equal taxation on domestic and imported products, the result of
this measure is to reduce uncertainty for domestic producers and importers, as it narrows the band within
which import tax rates can be adjusted by the Government without legislative approval. This measure is a
first step to a more stable and uniform tariff code so that effective rates of protection are similar across
sectors and do not favor inefficient industries. However, the trade regime remains subject to considerable
administrative regulations and discretion, some uneven levels of tariff protection, and a few quantitative
restrictions. Further trade reform is also a key element of the Government's reform agenda. Vietnam has
also committed to take further reforms, including a substantial reduction in import taxes by 2006 as an
ASEAN member, and is also pursuing WTO membership, that requires further trade liberalization measures.
31.   In sum, as one piece of a broader and longer term strategy for assisting Vietnam's transition, the
SAC helped further the Government's reform agenda. It helped bring about a number of specific reforms
that enhanced macroeconomic stabilization and growth objectives and facilitated private sector expansion.
The SAC also intensified the dialogue between the Government and the Bank on the country's overall
development strategy and the role of the private sector in that strategy. These have established a basis for
further cooperation between the Government and the Bank and for the deepening of reforms to create a
favorable environment for a sustained development of Vietnam's economy.
Bank Performance
32.    Since 1989, the Bank has been an important partner of the Government in its overall strategy of
economic reform. Before lending began, the Bank, together with the IMF, provided technical advice to the
Government in the formulation of its strategy and contributed to shaping measures and policies of
adjustment and reforms. Bank economic and sector studies in finance, transport, poverty, environment,
health and education, facilitated the understanding of issues facing Vietnam while offering appropriate
I Banks' interest income is exempt from the tumover tax.
2 In late September 1996, however, the tariff for light trucks was raised to 80 percent to limit their import. Bank staff indicated that this rate was
inconsistent with the Government's commitment under the SAC. In January 1997, MOF issued a decree to lower this tariff to 60 percent.



- 10-
advice. The Bank executed several technical assistance projects funded by the UNDP in the SOE sector and
in institution building. These prepared the ground well for the SAC implementation, especially in
strengthening the capacity of government agencies responsible for macroeconomic management and
monitoring. When lending began in 1993, the Bank assisted the Government to carry out some of this
advice, working with the above agencies in macroeconomic management..
33.   Since the SAC was the first adjustment operation in Vietnam, Bank staff paid close attention to the
program and carefully monitored the implementation of proposed measures. The continuing presence of
Bank staff familiar with Vietnam since the beginning of the cooperation with Vietnam ensured smooth
relations with government officials in charge of the SAC and greatly facilitated the implementation of this
operation. The timely establishment of the Resident Mission also contributed favorably to the dialogue
between the Bank and the Government to ensure the smooth implementation of the SAC program.
34.   As the program developed however, there were delays in the implementation of some conditions,
due to Bank staff's optimistic expectations about resources availability to implement agreed conditions, such
as the preparation of the PER and the auditing of the state commercial banks. These stemmed from the fact
that the Government had to secure technical assistance funding for these tasks and these arrangements were
administratively time-consuming. All these activities also required the Prime Minister's approval and this
step also took time. Thus, the SAC was extended twice until September 30, 1996 for a total of nine months.
35.   In macroeconomic management, Bank staff were optimistic in the ability of the Government to
mobilize private savings during the SAC period through incentive measures in the financial sector and a
stable economy. Most of the increase in savings came from government savings while private savings
remained unchanged. This highlights the fact that important elements of a well-functioning market
economy are still missing and emphasizes the need to formulate concrete policies to improve the incentive
system so as to encourage the growth of private savings. Bank staff also underestimated the growth of
imports and the resulting current account deficit despite the continuing good performance of exports. While
the financing sources appeared to cover adequately the growing deficit in the short term, closer attention
needs to be paid to the country's import requirements and financing sources to insure the sustainability of
the balance of payments in the medium term and the current high rate of growth.
Borrower Performance
36.   The Government took the preparation and implementation of the SAC very seriously. A Steering
Committee was established, chaired by the Vice Governor of SBV, with vice ministers from MOF, MOT,
and MPI. An administrative unit, the SAC Secretariat, oversaw the technical and day-to-day
implementation of the credit. It consisted of director-level officials from the same ministries, and a
representative of the General Statistical Office. The collaboration offered by the Vietnamese with all Bank
supervision missions was excellent. Technical consultations between the Government and Bank staff took
place on a continuous basis. Once the credit became effective (and because there were no conditions for
effectiveness), the Government focused its attention on the second tranche release conditions. Most of the
conditions under the control of the Government were carried out promptly. Even those measures involving
the National Assembly's approval or submission were implemented expeditiously.
37.   However, there were some administrative and logistic issues that needed to be resolved in the
implementation of the conditions. The SAC closing date was extended for six months and another three
months due to the delay in implementing three conditions: the PER, the auditing of two state commercial
banks, and the adoption of a time-bound action program for the state enterprise sector. The delay for the



first two conditions was partially due to the time required to arrange for financial funding-and for the
Government to carry out the PER and the audits. Thus there was the need to seek a non-objection waiver for
the audit as it could not be completed by the time of the credit's closure. The second extension was
requested in order for the Government to finalize the PIP and the PER and to effect a formal PER review
within the Government. The authorities considered the PER as a serious exercise and sought the Premier's
endorsement, which took some time. This however reflected the seriousness of the Government because its
action went beyond the SAC condition, testifying to the sustainability of the PER and the PIP exercises.
38.   While the Government had made progress toward the classification of enterprises according to the
Law on State Enterprises, the SOE's action plan was not ready by 1995 due to the complicated coordination
required among ministries and agencies and the activities and measures already undertaken in this sector.
There was also some uncertainty as to which ministry was responsible for the preparation and submission of
the action plan and the procedures within the Government to approve this plan for submission. In the end,
MPI prepared the plan, expedited the Government's approval, and submitted to the Bank in May 1996.
39.   With regard to the condition on the introduction of an excise tax on petroleum products, the effect
intended in the imposition of this tax was undermined by other actions undertaken by the Government.
While tax revenues from petroleum products have increased. the ratio between the price of diesel fuel and
gasoline improved only marginally between 1993 and 1996 as a result of taxation.
40.   The experience of the Government in managing the economy was somewhat mixed during the SAC.
While a stable environment and a cautious fiscal policy enabled the economy to grow at a high rate, its
record was uneven in monetary policy, the fight against inflation, and the management of the balance of
payments. Most of this could be attributed to the unfamiliarity in managing an economy in transition and
one opening up rapidly to the outside world. when the legal. regulatory, and institutional framework for a
market economy was incomplete. The lesson from the SAC showed that while economic policy makers are
learning rapidly the tools of economics, they need to be more attentive and consistent in their overall
approach to economic management and implementation of economic policy measures. In this context,
despite good performance of the overall indicators, the government would need to pay attention to emerging
and underlying signs of disequilibria in the economy that could become problems if not handled properly.
41.   Despite the relative unfamiliarity on the part of the Government with the Bank's procedures.
procurement and disbursements proceeded quickly once the tranches were released. The credit financed all
imports except a negative list of ineligible items. The loan disbursement procedures were simplified for
SAC procurement in April 1996 and this greatly facilitated the rapid release of the second tranche.
Sustainability. Assessment of Outcome, and Lessons Learned
42.   The SAC was successful in supporting the Government's efforts to stabilize the economy and in
bringing about a sustained and record growth rate during the program period. With a series of measures in
the fiscal area, the state enterprise sector, the financial sector, and the external trade sector, the Government
consolidated the gains for the past several years while laying the ground for further reforms and follow-up
adjustment operations and other sectoral lending. The principal feature for the success of the SAC operation
is that it reflected closely the strategy of the Government in its reform and adjustment program. The SAC
helped the Government focus its attention on a series of concrete steps and specific measures to address
immediate bottlenecks to facilitate the transition to a market economy. Close cooperation between the Bank
and the Government since 1989 and the continuation of staff working on Vietnam contributed to this
successful result. As the Government was learning by doing, there were some lapses in its policies and in its



- 12-
implementation of the agreed conditions. The Government will need to be more cognizant of the
consistency required in its macroeconomic policy measures to achieve its economic stabilization objective.
Bank staff will need to monitor carefully the program to help the Government in the fine-tuning of its
economic policies consistent with its objectives.
43.   Specific lessons could be drawn from the SAC implementation. First, Bank staff and Government
officials could not anticipate the complexity and the timing needed to secure technical assistance within the
SAC period for the required activities, resulting in delays in the PER and the banks' audits. Also, the Bank
overestimated the technical capacity of the Government to implement some of the SAC conditions. The
Government's institutional capacity still needs to grow and evolve as the requirements for the management
of a market economy continue to emerge. Responsible officials will need to learn new experiences as they
manage an economy in transition. In this context, the proposed MOF Modernization Project focusing on
institutional building and the Payment System and Bank Modernization Project would meet a critical need in
Vietnam. Similar institution-building projects would be useful in developing the technical capacity of the
Government's officials so that they can better perform the required functions of monitoring, enforcing, and
guiding incentives in a market-oriented economy. In the reforms designed for the SOE and financial sectors,
the SAC did not anticipate that the initial good SOE overall financial sector performance could conceal an
underlying deterioration due to the continuing problems with information availability and its quality, and did
not, in retrospect. cover adequately these issues in the SOE and financial sector.
44.   For the PER, once funding was available, MOF was slow to work with its international consultants
and to provide data necessary for such an analysis. However, the technical assistance was able to show the
utility of a PER and the need for budget data (previously restricted). At the end, MOF had strong ownership
of the PER and took its obligations seriously by seeking the Premier's endorsement of the PER. MOF
hosted workshops with other ministries and with provincial governments to review the PER results. Thus,
the PER, a budget management tool advanced by the Bank from its experiences in other countries, served a
useful role for the Government.
45.   The Governments of Denmark, the Netherlands, and Sweden cofinanced the SAC. This cooperation
helped provide a consistent message to the Government on economic policies supported by donors. The
cooperation between the donors and the Bank also served as a conduit for better consultation and
coordination of ODA. an extended form of the activities of the Vietnam Consultative Group, chaired by the
Bank. Australia funded the technical assistance for the banks' audits. Close cooperation between the Bank
and the UNDP was also beneficial to the Government. The PIP and PER were funded by the UNDP.
46.   The SAC program was overall a successful operation in assisting the Government to frame concrete
steps in the reform agenda by focusing on specific weaknesses that needed immediate attention. It provided
a sound foundation for the Government to proceed to more complex reforms. As Vietnam continues its road
to sustaining high. labor-intensive and broad-based growth, further progress is needed in structural reform to
allow Vietnam to fully realize its potential. The implementation of the measures supported by the Bank's
first SAC in Vietnam has led to a strong macroeconomic performance and helped further the transition to a
market economy. However, sustaining Vietnam's recent economic performance will require further reforms
to improve investment efficiency and raise domestic resource mobilization. Specific areas in which policy
reforms could proceed more rapidly are trade liberalization, private sector development, further restructuring
of state enterprises, financial sector reform and social safety net provision. To facilitate policy reform in
these areas. the Bank is currently preparing a second Structural Adjustment Operation to continue its support
in the reforms in the above mentioned areas. These areas and topics will also be covered in future Bank
sector projects and adjustment operations.



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives     Substantial          Partial           Negligible       Not aplicable
Macro policies
Sector policies
Financial objectives
Institutional development
Physical objectives                                                                        W
Poverty reduction                                                     lizi
Gender issues
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives                                                                   W
Public sector management
Private sector development
Other (specify)
B. Proect sustainablty                  l                      Unke                     Uncertain
C. Bank performance              Highlvsatifactor            Satikfact                   &ficiei
Identification                    |____|
Preparation assistance
Appraisal
Supervision
D. Borrower performance,         Highlv satisfactorv          Satifacto                 Deficient
Preparation
Implementation
Covenant compliance                                            W
Operation (if applicable)                                                               _
E. Assessment of outcome       Highly stisfacto     Satisfacto      LLisafact        Highlv unsatisfactorv
w                                                        =



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/credit title                            Purpose               Approval    Status
Preceding operations
None
Following operations
1. Payment system and bank           Improvement in payment
modernization project            services and institutional       1996       on-going
capacity building
2. SAC II                            Increase of the economy's         na         being
competitiveness through                    prepared
leveling the playing field
between private and state
enterprises.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                Date planned             Date actual
Identification i/                              December 9, 1993        December 9, 1993
Preparation                                           n/a                January 1994
Appraisal                                      March 14-25, 1994       June 15-28, 1994
Negotiations                                       May 1994          September 5-10, 1994
Letter of development policy                          n/a             September 21, 1994
Board presentation                                 July 1994            October 25, 1994
Signing                                               n/a               October 28, 1994
Effectiveness                                         n/a              November 9, 1994
First tranche release                                 n/a              November 9, 1994
Second tranche release                                n/a             September 13, 1996
Project completion                             December 31, 1995      September 30, 1996
Loan closing                                   December 31, 1995      September 30, 1996
Note: 1. The initial draft Initial Executive Project Summary was prepared in November 1990. However. lending activities to
Vietnam only resumed in October 1993 after Vietnam cleared its arrears to the IMF. Preparation work for the SAC
resumed in 1993.



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY 1995        FY 1996          FY 1997
Appraisal estimate                         90.0          150.0            150.0
Actual                                     90.7           90.7            150.0
Actual as percent of estimate             100.0           60.5            100.0
Date of final disbursement                                           October 31, 1996
Table 5 - 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
I.  Key implementation indicators in SARI         Estimated
President's Report                              Target              Actual
1. Government Current Surplus i/ (% of GDP)
1994                          3 - 4               4.2
1995                          3 - 4               4.6
2. Non-state share of outstanding domestic credit
to enterprises, year-end (%)
1994                         35- 38                39
1995                         39 - 42               43
3. Government share of gross investment (%)
1994                          36                  25.9
1995                          36                  21.0
4. Real export growth (%)
1994                         10- 15               36.9
1995                         10- 15               27.1
II. Other indicators
1. Consolidated general budget deficit (% of GDP) 1/
1994                          2.7                  1.6
1995                          3.3                 0.5
2. External current account deficit
(before official transfers) (% of GDP)
1994                          4.9                  8.6
1995                          5.6                 10.0
3. Increase in net domestic assets of the banking
system (billion dong, end period)
1994                         32,400              36,066
1995                         39,100              41,859
Note:  1. Govemment revenue (excluding grants) minus recurrent expenditure (cash basis, including interest payments).



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study              at appraisal/redefined        Status              Impact of study
1. Public Expenditure   To identify public spending  Completed   Ministry of Finance to implement
Review (PER)       priorities and areas of weaknesses   and cleared   selected recommendation in this report
for further improvement        by the
Government
2. Public Investment   To prepare a multi-year PIP to  Completed   Ministry of Planning and Investment is
Program (PIP)      enable the government to establish  and     implementing the annual investment
clearly its investment strategy  approved by  program within the framework of the
within the availability of resources  the   approved multi-year PIP
in the medium term and consistent  Government
with a policy to sustain its
economic development and growth
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                 Actual estimate (US$M)
Local       Foreign                     Local        Foreign
Source             costs        costs        Total         costs         costs        Total
IDA                                     150          150                        150          150
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)             Actual estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign                   Local      Foreign
Source                costs        costs       Total        costs       costs      Total
IDA                                           150         150                      150         150
Cofinancing institutions
Sweden -- SIDA                              10          10                       10          10
The Netherlands --                          10          10                       10          10
Ministry of Development
Cooperation
Denmark-- DANIDA                            10          10                       10          10
TOTAL                                         180         180                      180         180
Note: Figures are rounded.



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Not available since this is a policy-based credit)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants i/
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Structural Adjustment Credit
Cove-            Original  Revised       Description
nant   Present   fulfill-   fulfill-         of
Agreement    Section      type    status    ment       ment         covenant           Comments
date      date
SAC         2.02        1        C      Sept. 20,           Maintenance of      Audit reports
(amended                                    1996               records and        received in Sept
in July 1,                                                    accounts.           1996 and found
1996)                                                        Amendments to the  satisfactory for the
DCA no longer      first tranche.
require audit report
for the Second
Tranche
Schedule     10       C      1994-95              Maintenance of a    Maintained
2.1                                            sound               economic stability,
macroeconomic      consistent fiscal
framework          policy and
consistent with the   relatively tight
objectives of the  monetary policy;
program            control]ing
inflation,
implementing
reforms in taxes,
SOEs, banking
sector
Schedule     10       C        Mar                Presentation to the   Organic budget law
2.2                         1996               National Assembly  submitted and
an organic budget   approved by the
law                National Assembly
Schedule     10      CD        Jun                Completion of a     PER completed and
2.3                         1996               Public Expenditure   approved by the
Review (PER)       Government
Schedule     10      CD        Jun                Adoption of a       PIP prepared and
2.4                         1996               public investment    adopted
program (PIP)
Schedule     10       C        Dec                Introduction of an    Excise tax of 10%
2.5                         1994               excise tax on       introduced.
petroleum products  revenues from
(including diesel  petroleum products
fuel) of at least  increased and
10%                helped finance
O&M.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants I/
(Continued)
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Structural Adjustment Credit
Cove-             Original   Revised        Description
nant   Present   fulfill-    fulfill-           of
Agreement    Section       type    status      ment       ment          covenant            Comments
date       date
Schedule      10       CD        May                 Adoption of a time-  Plan of action
2.6                           1996                bound action         adopted after some
program             delay
Schedule      10      CD         Mar        First    Completioa of       One audit was
2.7                           1996      quarter   initial portfolio    completed. The
for first   of 1997   audits of at least  second one is
audit      for      two of the four     underway and
second   state-owned          expected to be
audit   commercial banks    completed in early
1997
Schedule      10       C         Oct                 Presentation to the    Exemption
2.8                           1995                National Assembly   submitted and
of legislation to   approved by the
exempt banking      National Assembly,
from the turnover    effective on
tax                 January 1996
Schedule      10       C         Oct                 Reduction of the    Maximum import
2.9                           1995                maximum import    tax rate was
tax rate to no more   reduced to 60%
than 60%
Note: 1. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended in July 1, 1996. The section numbers used in this
table followed the amended DCA document.
Covenant types:                                                                 Present status:
I = Accounts/audits                  8 = Indigenous people              C  = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and         CD = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries        reporting
3 = Flow and utilization of project  10 = Project implementation not     CP = complied with partially
funds                                covered by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding             It = Sectoral or cross-sectoral     NC = not complied with
budgetary or other resource
allocation
5 = Management aspects of the       12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
project or executing agency          policy/regulatory/institutional
action
6 = Environmental covenants         13 = Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement



Table 11: Compliance with Operations Manual Statements
No significant variance with the Operations Manual Statements based on documents in the
project file.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                Planned                    Revised                    Actual
project cycle       Weeks       US$ (000)      Weeks       US$ (000)    Weeks        US$ (000)
Through Appraisal       53.3         191.2         53.3         191.2        53.3        191.2
Appraisal - Board       65.4        195.1          19.9         73.7         16.1         54.9
Board - effectiveness     -             -            -            -            -            -
Supervision          27.0          97.2         31.3        117.2         37.2        132.3
Completion           20.8          53.8         15.4         46.1         12.5         43.9
TOTAL              166.5        537.3         119.1        428.6       119.1        422.5
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Specialized
Number   Days         staff     Implemen-  Develop-    Types
Stage of         Month/        of        in        skills      tation       ment        of
project cycle        year      persons   field   represented      status    objective  problems
s
Through Appraisal        -          -         -
Appraisal through    Jun 1994       6        14          E
Board approval      Sep 1994       4        5          E
Board approval
through effectiveness
Supervision       Dec 1994       2        10          E            S
Mar 1995       3        17          E            S
Sep 1995      2         8          E             S          HS
Mar 1996       5        11          E            S          HS          T
Jul1996       3         18         E            S          HS          T
Completion        Jul 1996       3        18          E            S          HS
1. Specialization                  2. Performance Rating                  3. Types of Problems
E = Economist                      HS = Highly satisfactory               F = Financial
S = Satisfactory                    T = Technical
U = Unsatisfactory                  M = Managerial



Append"iA
Page I of 6
SAC Supervision and
Implementation Completion Report Mission
Aide Memoire
A World Bank mission, including Thang-Long Ton, visited Vietnam during July
2-20 to supervise the SAC and to initiate the preparation of the SAC's Implementation
Completion Report (ICR). Mr. Pham Minh Duc participated in most of meetings with the
mission. Mr. Kyle Peters and Mr. Bradley Babson joined the mission for the wrap-up
meeting. The mission worked with the SAC Secretariat, including the State Bank of
Vietnam, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Planning and Investment, Ministry of Trade,
and General Statistical Office. Mr. Nguyen Quang Ngoc, Economist, of the Embassy of
Sweden and Mr. Lambert C. Grijns, Second Secretary, of the Royal Netherlands Embassy
attended the wrap-up meeting. The mission wishes to thank the SAC Secretariat for the
excellent cooperation received during the visit.
The mission reviewed recent economic developments and progress with structural
reforms supported by the SAC. It also followed up on measures and activities that are
being implemented by the Government to fulfill the conditions for the SAC's second
tranche release since the March mission. It also initiated the preparation of the ICR for
the SAC operation, including the arrangement with the SAC Secretariat for the
preparation of the Government's assessment to be included in the ICR.
SAC Supervision
Macroeconomic Developments. ' The economy continues to perform well in the
first six months of 1996, with GDP estimated to grow at an annualized 9.3 percent during
this period. A 9.5 percent GDP growth rate is expected for the whole year.
In agriculture, there was a bumper harvest for the winter-spring season, with
output of 12.9 million tons -- 90,000 tons more than last year's season. The industrial
sector grew at 13.2 percent compared with the 6-month period of last year. Growth in the
service sector also continued apace during the first part of this year.
The rate of inflation for the first half of the year was only 3.3 percent compared
with December 1995, (11.4 percent for the same period in 1995), the lowest since 1991, a
notable achievement as the Government continues implementing tight monetary and
fiscal policies. The June 1996-June 1995 rate was 4.6 percent.
The reliability of mid-year economic data is uncertain and any interpretation based upon these data should be
treated cautiously.



Appendix A
Page 2 of 6
Table 1: Vietnam: Macroeconomic Indicators
Item                               1993         1994       1995       1996
(PFP)       (PFP)       Prel.      Proj.
(PFP)     (PFP)
Growth Rate(%
GDP                                 8.1         8.8        9.5        9.5
Exports                           12.8         30.7       34.7       14.5
Imports                           47.6         34.9       45.1       14.9
Share in GDP(%
Gross Investment                  20.5         25.6       27.1       29.0
National Savings                   12.2        18.0       19.1       20.1
Current Account                    -8.3        -7.6       -8.0       -8.9
Memo Item:
Official Reserves (US$ mil)        404         876       1,363      1,818
Note: Historical data and 1996 projections are based on the PFP prepared in February 1996.
Source: reliv' Statistical Office and staff estimates as of June 1996.
In the external sector, exports and imports continued to expand and the current
account deficit reached $1.1 billion for the first quarter of the year. This has been
partially financed by an increase in ODA and FDI disbursements, but the majority of the
financing for this deficit has come from "errors and omissions," according to SBV's
estimates. This expansion in the trade deficit needs to be closely monitored, as does the
source of its financing. At this time, the explanation seems to lie in the considerable
expansion of capital imports and their financing through FDI, which may be
underestimated in the SBV's estimates for the first quarter.
The mission reviewed the short-term macroeconomic variables and targets for
1994 and 1995, as well as estimates for 1996. The consolidated general budget deficit2
was only 2.4 percent of GDP in 1994 (target: 2.7 percent) and 1.1 percent of GDP in 1995
(target 3.3 percent); the 1996 deficit figure was estimated at 0.9 percent. Net domestic
assets of the banking system exceeded the target for 1994 and 1995.
The mission updated the macroeconomic indicators that are monitored under the
SAC. These are presented in Table 2.
2 Govemment revenue (excluding grants) minus total expenditure (cash basis, including interest payment).



AppendixA
Page 3 of 6
Table 2: Macroeconomic Indicators Monitored under the SAC:
Target and Actual
1993          1994                1995            1996
Item                        Actual     Target   Actual    Target    Prel.      Proj.
(PFP)              (PFP)              (PFP)       (PFP)
Government Current Surplus
(%ofGDP) a'                   1.6       3-4     4.2       3-4       4.6         6.2
Non-state Share of Outstanding
Domestic Credit to Enterprises,    33  35 - 38   37.3    39 - 42    41.1         -
year-end (%)
Govemment Share of Gross
Investment (%)              34 b/       36      25.8       36       21.0         -
RealExportGrowth(%)         12.8b/    10- 15   30.7       10- 15    34.7        14.5
Note:   Historical data and 1996 projections are based on the PFP prepared in February 1996.
a/ Govemment revenue (excluding grants) minus recurrent expenditure (cash basis, including
interest payments).
b/ Revised due to revision by GSO.
Most of the benchmarks for macroeconomic performance monitored under the
SAC program were met or exceeded in the fiscal and monetary sector (see Table 2). The
fiscal sector performed well and public savings increased during the SAC period. While
public expenditures did not decline in value in 1993-95, its share in gross investment was
lower than expected. This was due partly because actual public capital expenditures were
lower than were planned in the approved budget and partly because of the higher growth
of private investment in total investment. The external current account deficit in the
balance of payments widened in 1994 and 1995 and larger than targeted, but it was
financed by higher than expected foreign investment inflows in these two years. Imports
continued to grow apace in 1996 and dominated by capital and intermediate goods, driven
by the accelerated rate of implementation of projects funded by FDI and ODA. However,
its growth will need to be monitored closely to ensure that increased imports be
adequately covered by the increased inflows of both FDI and ODA disbursements and by
the growth in exports.
Progress toward the Second Tranche Release.
The supervision mission in March 1996 assessed in details the progress made
toward meeting the second tranche release conditions that were not yet completed. It
reported that significant progress was being made toward the completion of three actions
that were under implementation at that time: the Public Investment Program, the Public
Expenditure Review, and the audit of at least two state-owned commercial banks.



Appendix A
Page 4 of 6
However, in addition to the three actions above, the March mission considered
two issues still outstanding: the action plan for the state enterprise reform and the issue
of taxation of petroleum products. Following the March mission, the action plan for state
enterprise reform was submitted to IDA in May 1996 and Bank staff subsequently
recommended to the Bank's management that this plan be considered satisfactory for this
condition.
Concerning the taxation of petroleum products, Bank staff recommended to the
Bank's management that this condition be considered implemented by the Government
with the introduction of a tax of 300 dong per liter on petroleum products. However, the
intended effects of this action have been offset by other actions taken by the Government
with the result that domestic prices of diesel fuel and gasoline have become less
comparable relative to their import prices. Measures to rectify this situation are currently
under discussion to address the concern of the Government that agricultural users of
diesel fuel not be overtaxed. Another intended objective of this condition was fulfilled as
the revenues from the overall taxation of petroleum products have increased (mostly from
higher taxes on gasoline and fast growth in the consumption of petroleum products),
allowing for higher operations and maintenance allocations to the transport sector.
This mission followed up on the on-going implementation of the last remaining
conditions of the SAC for the second tranche release. The PIP has been approved by the
Government and a letter informing IDA of this approval is expected from the SAC
Secretariat. The PER is currently being reviewed by the Office of the Government. This
is seen as a positive step, as the Ministry of Finance (MOF) has taken the exercise
seriously and intends to implement the recommendations made in the PER.
Dissemination of the PER is being made widely, with a presentation of the report to the
donor community in Hanoi and a series of provincial workshops organized by the MOF
in July. The mission recommends that a letter from the Government be sent to the Bank's
management stating that the PER has been completed in order to fulfill this condition.
Prior to the mission's departure, the State Bank provided it with such a letter notifying
the Bank's management that the PIP has been approved by the Prime Minister and the
PER has been completed by the Ministry of Finance.
The audit of Incom Bank, the other remaining condition of the SAC, is proceeding
according to the planned schedule. SBV is in the process of reviewing and evaluating the
bids submitted. SBV expects that the audit will begin in September and will be
completed in early 1997. Given the fact that the audit will be done, but will not be
completed before the closing date of the SAC, staff will seek management and board
approvals for a waiver of this condition.
With the official receipt of the letter from the Government informing IDA the
approval of PIP by the Government and the completion of the PER, the mission will
recommend to Bank's management that all conditions -- except for the audit for which a
waiver will be sought -- for the second tranche release of the SAC be considered met by
the Government and implemented satisfactorily to IDA.



Appendix A
Page 5 of 6
The mission learned that the Government does not consider the completion of the
activities called for in the SAC conditions as an end in themselves, but it continues
vigorously its activities to further implement these measures and to deepen their effects in
the budget and the economy. Preparation for the implementing regulations of the Law of
the Budget is underway at the Budget Department of the MOF. The PIP is being made
more concrete for 1996 and 1997 in order to be presented to tle National Assembly in
October 1996. As part of the work program in the plan of action for the state enterprise
sector, MPI -- in coordination with the Office of Government (OOG), MOF, Ministry of
Trade (MOT), and SBV -- is leading the task of preparing a series of decrees to guide the
implementation of the Law of State Enterprises. For the PER, MOF does not consider its
task finished with the completion of this report. MOF's Budget Department is seeking
the Government's mandate to put into effect PER recommendations for its work in the
budget in the future.
Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report
The mission initiated the process to prepare the ICR for the SAC. It discussed the
experiences in the preparation, appraisal, and implementation of the SAC operation with
staff of the SAC Secretariat that include MOF, MOT, MPI, SBV, and the General
Statistical Office (GSO). The mission also worked closely with the SAC Secretariat
which oversees the implementation and management of the SAC program.
The prevalent consensus among the officials of the SAC Secretariat and the
ministries was that the SAC program was consistent with the Government's overall
strategy for economic reforms and thus contributed to its successful implementation. On
the one hand, several measures called for by the SAC were implemented expeditiously
because these were well understood by the staff of the implementing agencies and
ministries and were also consistent with their agenda of reform. On the other, SAC was
also seen as a useful catalyst that helped bring about quickly the implementation of
certain measures that might have taken longer had they not been part of the SAC
conditions. The SAC facilitated the implementation of other measures, e.g., such as the
preparation of the PIP and the PER. Once the preparation activities began, the officials
at MPI and the MOF took the ownership of these two documents seriously. As they are
now completed, detailed plans for the implementation of the recommendations in these
reports have been underway at the two ministries. MOF also counted on Bank staff for
comments and suggestions during the drafting of the Law of the Budget. The strong
ownership of these activities by the concerned ministries also helped to possibly develop
adequate political consensus behind these measures to get them implemented.
SBV has played an important role in the process of the SAC as the Chairman of
both the SAC's Steering Committee and the SAC Secretariat. SBV staff, especially those
from the Foreign Department, were instrumental in the appraisal, negotiations, and
implementation of the SAC. SBV facilitated the dialogue between the Bank and the
ministries involved and prepared a level ground work for the implementation of the SAC.



Appendix A
Page 6 of 6
SBV was also instrumental in convincing the National Assembly for the approval of the
turnover tax exemption for the banking sector, a condition of the second tranche release.
Officials from MOF's General Tax Department noted that in the condition
concerning the tax on petroleum, the issues involved were not fully considered and their
effects and implications involving other areas were not completely thought out and well
understood before the agreement. Consequently, there were some differences of opinions
within the Government and MOF and other actions undertaken by the Government that
offset the intended effects of this condition after it was agreed with IDA.
MPI officials noted that at the time of the SAC there was no coordinating unit on
SOEs at the ministry. Consequently, there was some confusion and uncertainty on which
agency in the Government would take charge of the preparation of the Plan of Action.
Officials at the Ministry of Trade emphasized that a program of reform should be
designed to better reflect the actual economic situation and stage of development in
Vietnam, especially in establishing conditions and measures required for trade policies.
These would help the officials who are later responsible for the implementation. GSO
officials agreed that the SAC measures, especially in fiscal and trade policies help
brought about a consistent high growth rate in the economy.
Government's Section in the ICR. The mission discussed with the staff of the
SAC Secretariat on the arrangement for the preparation of the Government's section ir
the ICR and the schedule of processing. The mission also discussed the outline and the
content to be covered by this section. The mission proposed that the SAC Secretariat will
be the unit responsible for the submission of the Government's assessment to the proper
authority for review and clearance and will be the unit that will submit it to the Bank.
The SAC Secretariat agreed to prepare their contribution by the 30th of September, 1996
for inclusion in the ICR. It was also agreed that staff from the resident mission would
assist the Government in this preparation.
A draft summary of the ICR was prepared during the mission's visit,
incorporating the inputs from the ministries and agencies involved in the SAC. This draft
summary was left with the SAC Secretariat for comments. On the mission's return, the
ICR draft will be submitted to Bank management for review and revisions according to
Bank's procedures.
Schedule for the ICR. The draft ICR will be sent by the Bank's management to
the Government for review and comments within three months. The SAC Secretariat will
process the Government's section of the ICR after proper procedures from the
Government. It will send this document to the Bank for review ard for inclusion into the
ICR. The ICR will be finalized within a three-month period and will be submitted to the
Bank's Board for consideration.



IBRD AND IDA IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY
SECTION 5: ACTIONS PREVIOUSLY AGREED OR RECOMMENDED (SECTION 8 OF LAST FORM 590):
To be taken by Borrower:
(a) To continue to proceed with the second state-owned bank audit by selecting the auditing firm and to begin the
auditing process;
(b) To provide IDA with the final PIP (English version) and the complete PER.
To be taken by Bank: To prepare the Board Paper for the Release of the Second Tranche
SECTION 6: ACTIONS TAKEN BY (a) BORROWER AND (b) BANK SINCE PREVIOUS FORM 590:
(a) Actions taken by the Borrower:
Macroeconomic management continues to be very good: growth is expected to be about 9.5 percent in 1996;
the Government followed a cautious fiscal policy and tight monetary policy; inflation brought down to single digit in
the first half of 1996 and is stabilized and consistent with the target of 9 percent for 1996 as a whole.
The Public Investment Program was approved by the Government in June 1996; it was also reviewed by the
country team. The PER is completed and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) is seeking a mandate from the Government
to implement the recommendations made in the report. MOF organized a seminar to introduce the PER and a series of
workshops in the provinces for local governments.
The State Bank of Vietnam is reviewing the bids for the audit of the second state-owned bank (IncomBank)
with a view to choose the firm for the audit. SBV expects that the audit will begin in September and complete in early
1997.
The time-bound action program for state enterprise reform was submitted to IDA in May
The measures presented to the National Assembly were approved: The Law of the Budget, legislation to
exempt banking from the turnover tax; reduction of the maximum import tax rate to no more than 60 percent; and an
excise tax of 15 percent was introduced on gasoline and other petroleum products (including diesel fuel).
(b) Actions taken by the Bank
The closing date of the credit has been extended to September 30, 1996.
SECTION 7: SUMMARY OF CURRENT PROJECT STATUS AND MAJOR PROBLEMS:
Progress continues to be made toward the overall economic objective of sustaining a high growth rate and
facilitating the transition to a market economy. Domestic savings and investment have increased steadily. All agreed
macroeconomic benchmarks monitored under the SAC have been achieved, with the exception of the current account
deficit, which was larger than envisaged but remained sustainable with higher than expected foreign direct investment.
The growth of imports however needs to be monitored closely to insure that financing sources are available. Inflation
continues to decline in the first half of 1996. The SAC Secretariat agrees to report IDA's concern to the Government
and to closely monitor the Balance of Payments situation. Progress with the implementation of the agreed measures
has been satisfactory and completed. Eight conditions for the second tranche release have been met. For the
remaining condition -- the audit of the second state-owned commercial bank -- staff will seek a waiver. The funding of
the audit has been secured, bids were received and the State Bank of Vietnam is currently evaluating the bids with a
view to choose the firm to begin the audit. It is expected that the audit will start in September and will be complete in
early 1997.
SECTION 8: SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS WITH BORROWER, AND FURTHER ACTIONS RECOMMENDED TO BE TAKEN BY (a)
BORROWER AND (b) BANK:
To be taken by Borrower: Proceed with the audit of the second state-owned cdmmercial bank.
To be taken by Bank: Prepare the Board Paper for the Release of the Second Tranche
NAME OF PREPARING OFFICER         REVIEWED BY: (DIVISIONAL MANAGER)   REVIEWED BY (DIR/RVP)
Thang-Long Ton                    Pamela Cox, Chief, EAICO
Kyle Peters, Task Manager



Appendix B
Page 1 of 7
Structural Adjustment Credit
Implementation Completion Report
The Government's Assessment
1.    Background
The Structural Adjustment Credit Program (SAC) was negotiated and signed in
October 1994 to support the Government of Vietnam's comprehensive reform program
undertaken since 1989, aiming at transforming its centrally planned economy to a market
oriented one and placing the economy on a sustained growth path. Before the SAC
program was prepared, the Government had already implemented many features of this
overall comprehensive reform program which later facilitated the introduction of the SAC
2.    Actions taken prior to October 1994
a/    From 1986 to October 1994 (the date of the SAC's signature), the Government
undertook a series of measures in fiscal and monetary reforms to address the macro-
economic imbalances and to liberalize the economy. These measures, which were taken
without any external financial assistance, although they were consistent with the policy
advice from the World Bank and from other international financial institutions. The
completion of these measures facilitated the quick appraisal and approval of the SAC
once lending to Vietnam resumed. The first tranche was released, on the basis of the
satisfactory implementation of various measures in different areas, as soon as the SAC
became effective. The most important aspects of the Governnent's reform program prior
to the SAC were:
b/    Price Liberalization: Since 1989, most prices were fully decontrolled, and largely
determined by the market. The price liberalization combined with appropriate policies on
interest rate and credit in the banking sector successfully contributed to inflation control.
The inflation rate was drastically reduced from hyperinflationary level of nearly 400
percent at the end of 1988 to 5.2 percent in 1993.
c/    Agricultural Policy and Rural Development: Since 1988, agricultural land was
assigned to families for utilization and the Land Law 1993 legally granted long term land
use right to the farmers.  The improved price incentives combined with the de-
collectivization of agriculture contributed to increasing and diversifying agricultural
production. The increase in agricultural output also transformed Vietnam from a rice
importer to the world's third largest rice exporter in the early 1990s.
dl    State Owned Enterprise Reform: Measures to reduce subsidies to state enterprises
were introduced, including hardening budget constraints and restraining credit.
Enterprises were given financial autonomy. Inefficient state owned enterprises were to be
closed. The number of state enterprises was substantially reduced during this period. A
plan to strengthen SOE's efficiency and a pilot program to convert some SOEs into share-
holding companies were launched.



AppendixB
Page 2 of 7
e/    Private Sector Improvement: The Law on the Promotion of Domestic Investment
was adopted by the National Assembly, Ninth Legislature, Fifth Session, on June 22,
1994 to promote investment of the non-state sector.
fl    Trade Policy and Export Promotion:  Main trade measures included the
liberalization of trade and foreign investment regulations, the elimination of most import
and export quotas, the appropriate exchange rate policy contributed to sharp increases in
foreign trade and investment.
g/    Tax reform: The introduction of income and profit taxes and the increase in fees
for commercial public services contributed to tax revenue increase. The total tax revenue
increased at average annual rate of 67.2 per cent during the period of 1989-1993. The
increase in tax revenue combined with strong growth helped to reduce the fiscal deficit.
h/    Financial sector reform: New legislative documents allowed the establishment of
a two tier banking system. The reduction of budget subsidy through lending to SOEs
combined with the increase in lending to non-state sector helped improve the efficiency
of the whole banking system as well as the production sectors.  The increasing
competition, including permits to allow foreign banks to operate in Vietnam, provided the
foundation for further banking reform and modernization.
These measures provided a strong foundation for the specific program designed
by the SAC to assist the Government in its overall macroeconomic stabilization strategy
and integration into the world economy.
3.    Implementation of the SAC
The overall objective of the SAC was to assist Vietnam to sustain a high growth
rate and to make a smooth transition to a market economy. To meet the overall
objectives, the SAC Program addressed four priority areas: 1) budget management, 2)
state enterprise, 3) financial sector, 4) foreign trade. The major contributions of the
reforms in these four areas were to improve savings and investment in both the public and
private sectors. The credit became effective in November 1994 and the first tranche
release of US$90 million was disbursed in late 1994.
After the first tranche release, the Government concentrated its efforts in the
program leading toward the completion of the nine specific conditions that the
Government agreed in the SAC document. These will be discussed below, including the
implementation process of each.
Condition1: Macroeconomicframework
The maintenance of a sound macro-economic framework was fulfilled as a SAC
condition. GDP growth grew at the annual average rate of 8.2 percent during the past



Appendix B
Page 3 of 7
five years (1991-1995) and accelerated to 9.5 percent in 1995. A rate of 9.3 percent was
achieved in 1996. The composition of GDP has rapidly changed toward industrialization.
The share of the agriculture sector has declined from 41.8 percent in 1989 to 33.9 percent
in 1995, while the share of the industrial and service sectors increased from 23.5 percent
to 27.7 percent, and from 34.8 percent to 38.8 percent respectively during the period of
1989 to 1995. The inflation rate was 14.5 per cent in 1994 but declined to 12.7 per cent
in 1995. The current tight credit policy by the State Bank resulted in further decline in
the inflation rate. In 1996, the inflation rate was 4.5 percent. Investment grew by 21 per
cent, reaching 27.1 per cent of GDP in 1995. Public investment accounted for 5.7 per
cent of GDP and private and state-owned enterprise's share was 21.4 per cent of GDP.
Condition2: Budget Law
The Budget Law was passed by the National Assembly, Ninth Legislature, of the
Socialist Republic of Vietnam at its Ninth Session on March 20, 1996. The Budget Law
legally clarifies the assignment of revenues and expenditure between central and local
authorities, introduces greater decentralization for local authorities in planning and
allocating the budget within their localities. This condition is more than satisfied since
the draft budget law was not only presented to, as a SAC conditionality, but passed by the
National Assembly.
Condition 3: Public Expenditure Review
Under term of references satisfactory to IDA, the Government completed a Public
Expenditure Review in April, 1996. The preparation of this report has improved the
classification of expenditures and increased the transparency of budget procedures. The
Ministry of Finance with the financial assistance of UNDP undertook this activity. The
finding of this study will assist the Government in improving the efficiency of recurrent
expenditures and budget management. The conclusions and recommendations of the
PER were discussed fully with the donor community at an Aid Coordination Meeting on
July 5, 1996 in Hanoi. The PER has been reviewed by the Prime Minister's Office.
Condition 4: Public Investment Program
The Public Investment Program for the period of 1996 to the year 2000 has been
adopted by the Government on June 18, 1996. Key objectives of the PIP are to develop
projects in economic infrastructure and human capacity to support the expansion of
productive activity in all sectors, and by so doing increase the feasibility of investment
outside the State budget. Public investment will thus play a leading role in promoting the
conditions needed for accelerated growth and structural change. The PIP has been
reviewed and found satisfactory by IDA.



Appendix B
Page 4 of 7
Condition 5: Excise Tax on Petroleum Products
This condition has been met. According to the Decision 1233 TC/TCT/QD on
December 9,1995 of the Minister of Finance, the import tax on diesel was increased from
20 percent to 25 percent as a measure to improve the transport cost recovery as an
evidence satisfactory to the IDA. Recently, the Government decided to decrease the
import tax on diesel from 25 percent to 15 percent (Decision 443 TC/TCT/QD on May
4,1996 of the Minister of Finance) to accommodate the increase in international price of
diesel. The Government also decided to impose the special consumption tax of 15
percent on gasoline while reduce the import tax on gasoline from 70 percent to 55
percent. (Law on Amendments and Supplements to a Number of Articles of the Law on
Special Consumption Tax; and the Decree 97/CP of December 27, 1995 of the
Government detailing the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements
to a Number of Articles of the Law on Special Consumption Tax). To increase the
resources available to the Government for O&M expenditures in the budget, the
Government also issued Decree 186/CP on December 7, 1994 to collect traffic fees of
VND 300 per liter on the sale of petrol and oil. The Government has taken these
measures to raise the taxation of petroleum prices, including diesel. However, the
Government would like to point out that the taxation of diesel has been approached
cautiously because nearly 70 per cent of diesel consumption is in the agricultural sector
and the Government needs to be cautious in taxing this sector because of relative low
incomes in rural area.
Condition 6: Plan ofAction to reform State Owned Enterprise
The Plan of Action for State Enterprise Sector Reform in 1996 prepared by the
Ministry of Planning and Investment was endorsed by the Prime Minister on May 16,
1996. The measures related to the SOE reform include:
i)    The establishment of specific criteria to identify state enterprises with 100 percent
state investment, public service state enterprises (PSSEs) and business state enterprises
(BSRs), and restructuring of SOEs: Directive 500/TTg of August 25, 1995 of the Prime
Minister on urgently restructuring SOEs continues to support the SOE reform in: a)
making a clear distinction between PSSEs that either provide important public services
under state policies or directly execute national defense and securities activities, and
BSEs; b) experimentally establish a number of essential general corporations; c) setting
up the Board of Management in a number of big-scale enterprises which meet the eligible
criteria on capital, revenue, budgetary contribution and labor force. During the past five
years, nearly 2000 enterprises have been divested; over 3000 small enterprises have been
merged; about 6300 enterprises have been re-registered under the Decree 388/HDBT in
order to ensure their legal operations.
ii)    Recently, the Government issued Decree 28/CP on the transformation of a number
of state owned enterprises into share-holding companies to facilitate the transformation of



Appendix B
Page 5 of 7
the BSEs that are not wholly owned by the state into companies that compete on a level-
playing field with private firms.
iii)  In order to push up the reform and restructuring process of SOEs, the Government
issued Decision 90/TTg and 91/TTg of March 7, 1994. In April 1995, the Law on State
Enterprises was approved by the National Assembly. These documents and some other
legal supplement guidance for the implementation of the Law on State Enterprises
facilitated: 1) closed supervision and appraisal on the establishment of new SOEs; 2)
maintenance and development of the effective and important SOEs, and transformation of
the poor performing SOEs; 3) issuance of the model statute on the organization and
operation of state general corporations; 4) issuance of new accounting and statistical
systems for SOEs; 5) reduction of quota-imported items; 6) application of measures to
control monopolistic SOEs; 7) adjustment of tariff to promote export and production of
import substitution. The Government also set up a number of functional agencies to
support the SOE reformn namely: State Audit General Office, General Department for
Management of State Capital and Assets at Enterprises, and General Department for
Development and Investment as a separate unit detached from the Vietnam Bank for
Investment and Development. In addition, the Law on Bankruptcy of Enterprises, the
Civil Code, the Land Law, the Law on State Enterprises, the Law on Promotion of
Domestic Investment have been promulgated to create a better legal framework for SOE
reform.  To facilitate the implementation of the Law on State Enterprises, the
Government has issued a number of under-law legislative documents such as Decree
39/CP of June 27, 1995 on the model statute on the organization and operation of state
general corporations; Circular 03-BKH/QLKT of February 7, 1996 of the Ministry of
Planning and Investment on the standard for large-scale independent SOEs having the
Board of Management; Decision 144 TC-QD/CDKT of February 7, 1996 of the Ministry
of Finance on the accounting system for SOEs; Decision 838 TC/QD-TCDN of August
28, 1996 of the Ministry of Finance on the model financial regulations of state general
corporations; Decision 404/QD-NH5 of the Governor of the State Bank of Vietnam on
the model statute for financial companies under state general corporations.
Condition 7. Commercial BankAudits
According to this condition, the two commercial banks should be audited.
Recognizing the importance of the audit to improve the performance of the commercial
banks, the Government has requested for all four major state-owned commercial banks to
be audited. One portfolio audit for the Vietnam Bank for Agriculture has already been
completed. The second audit has been underway. However, due to the timing required,
the audit would not be completed by the time the Credit closed. Thus, we agreed with
Bank staff that a waiver on a non-objection basis was obtained for this condition.
Condition 8: Elimination of Turnover Tax on Banking
The Law on Amendments and Supplements to a Number of Articles of the Law
on Turnover Tax was passed by the National Assembly, Ninth Legislature, of the



Appendix B
Page 6 of 7
Socialist Republic of Vietnam at its 8th Session on October 3-28, 1995. Article 2, Item 4
of this Law states that the credit activities are not subject to the turnover tax. The
Government consequently issued Decree 96/CP of December 27,1995 providing details
for the implementation of the Law on Turnover Tax and the Law on Amendments and
Supplements to a Number of Articles of the Law on Turnover Tax.
Condition 9: Reduction of Import Tax Rate
Given the strategy of Vietnam to integrate its economy into the world community,
in combination with many other trade liberalization measures, the Government of
Vietnam has reduced the maximum import tax rate to less than 60 percent according to
Resolution 293 NQ/UBTVQH9 on November 8, 1995 of the Standing Committee of the
National Assembly on the Amendments of Import Tax Rate in the Tariff. This action is a
part of a comprehensive tax reform agenda, given the entrance of Vietnam into ASEAN.
4.    Overall Assessment of the SAC implementation
The SAC is an important project and the first adjustment operation of the World
Bank to Vietnam. The Government feels that the SAC was successful, because it
accurately reflected the strategy and directions of the Government. The Government's
reform program, supported by the SAC, has brought remarkable achievements in the
economic development of Vietnam. The World Bank, through the content and conditions
of the SAC, actively helped Vietnam in formulating and implementing a series of
appropriate medium-term policy instruments to accelerate and sustain growth during the
transition period.
The most favorable condition during the negotiations, appraisal, and approval of
the SAC is that up to the date of the SAC's signature in October 1994, the economy of
Vietnam performed remarkably well and responded positively to the comprehensive
economic reform program undertaken by the Government without any external financial
assistance. The conditions negotiated and agreed within the SAC framework are part of
the overall reform agenda.
The Government paid close attention to the implementation of this program and
closely followed the SAC's conditions to adjust appropriately its economic policies in
order to sustain a high growth rate, and at the same time to satisfy the SAC's conditions.
The Government enjoys a close cooperation with the World Bank as one of its main
partners in development.
The main lesson drawn from the process of preparation and implementation is the
importance of selecting conditions and measures that are fully consistent with the
Government's own reform program. The SAC's conditions should be important concrete
measures or policies, focused on major objectives, consistently related to each other so
that result of implementation of one condition will bring about or help expedite the
implementation of others. The content of each condition should also be realistic, feasible,



Appendix B
Page 7 of 7
and appropriate with the specific context of Vietnam and require adequate timing. The
Government feels that long-term policies should not be a part of SAC conditions since
they cannot be carried out within the life of the SAC. Furthermore, the SAC should not
consider measures which are more appropriate to be implemented in a sector or better
dealt with by a sector operation.
Some features of conditions were agreed without taking into account the
unexpected developments in the course of implcmentation of the SC (bank's audit for
example), therefore, there was a number of obstacles in the implementation and caused
some delays and waiver.






  Ku.mi                           3    ong                                                                                  H,1 CHINA
c0  In                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THAILAND
'*       CHAMBODIA)
T. S.o-                9V
13 ~'                 e    iver
Tc        H-                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~VIETNAM
LAO  PEOPLE'S                                                      Gul2 1] r  of               Hainan 10                   Selected Towns
DEM\OCRATIC                    \        1UT k                                                 (China)               R)     Province Capitals
REPUBLIC                   h_-(\                               TonkIn                                                   National Capitol
--z ;t-  Rivers
.  \     {/-~\            To Khommouan\t                                   ~                      $~TRoods
____Roads
\tS,4 90\ \\<\<4North                                              Railroads
Ko<\ \ \, tS Central                                               Province Boundaries
SS  >   <\\\> ng H.i                                            Planning Region Boundaries
Internationol Boundaries
>  2h t                                     Northern
THAILAND                                       Nong ntrat                      Uplands            Central Coast
I Ha Giong        27 Quang Nam
l   >Y    ) 2  t {!$>t  2 Tuyen Quang    28 Quang Ngai
3 Coo Bong         29 Binh Dinh
4 Long Son        30 Phu Yen
-  0009 t    ;    972s(NFi   xs  5 Bac Thai  31 Khonh Hoa
6 Lao Cai         32 Ninh Thuon
T.] ToAftopu _  35   5&   >                         7 Yen Bai          33 Binh Thuan
K- j  ~  J j  /  $   0LiX8 Lai Chou                     Central
9 Son La Nn         ihad
2                ~~~~10 Quang Nn       ihad
C.T  /    @ 4  ((~;n                   11 Ha Bac   34 Gia Lai
12 Vinh Phu        35 Kon Turn
13 Hoa Binh        36 Dac Lac
Red River         37 Lam Dong
Delta
)   <   CAMBODIA      2                     (   .     )  t  i      $                    14 Ha Noi          Southeast
15 Hai Phong       38 TP Ho Chi Minh
16 Ho Toy          39 Song Be
17 Hai Hung        40 Tay Ninh
18 Thai Binh       41 Dong Nai
19 Nam Ho          42 Ba Ria-Vung Tau
\jf          39 bJ*40   4  ;      Si                              20 Ninh Binh       Mekong River
041                   3                        ~~~~~~~~North      Delta
T,.,    Th,\ Penh{ t ?  st          _Santf,;Central                              43 Long An
H\rNnb,   au  n,4 -B                                           21 Thanh Hoa       44 Dong Thop
T. Ph P-h  ~ ~  ~      ~       ~      ProThet22 Nghe An                                    45 An Giang
-< Penh &; r-~\_>  S  phThiet23 Ha Tinh                                           46 Tien Giong
p\\ c. 43  T   onAs C5SnhsCw42                                 24 Quang Binh      47 Ben Tre
Lnh                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25 Quang Tni  48 Vinh Long
_V.Q %                                    r-   26 Thua Thien Hue  49 Tra Vinh
T.                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50 Soc Trang
Gulf of                   Roch       `5l  Srto\  T                                                             This map -o preporod   Si Can Tho
bf4the Mop u,
Thciiiand  52                                                                      Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h World or> 52 Kien Giang
Tb-oundor,o,os ono   53 Minh Hai
}   <<>SosTrPng                                      aw~~~~~~oher informotioohon sh
on th.o orp do o.
/\^ek4iRiver                                                 ;mply 00 I  port of  
50   100   150   200   050                                                                                         iodetaeot on he leol
KILOMETERS                                         C o o I                                               or  00y oodorsererrt
10                ULOMETEti                   g                    dCon Dao                                        101br oc ptooco of suh 









IMAGING
Report No.:         16580
Type:     ICR



