Report No. PIC1073
Project Name                      Viet Nam-Structural Adjustment Credit I
Region                            East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                            Structural Adjustment
Project ID                        VNPA4829
Date Prepared                     May 20, 1994
Projected Appraisal Date          June 13, 1994
Projected Board Date              October 18, 1994
Background
1.   Viet Nam's program of "Doi Moi" (renovation) was launched in
1986, but proceeded slowly until 1989. At that time the Government
initiated a series of coordinated reforms aimed at transforming the
economy from central planning to a market system. The lack of
international financial support for these reforms created some
difficulties, but also ensured that "ownership" of the program was
total. Throughout the 1989-93 period the Government had an active
policy dialogue with the Bank and the Fund and was very receptive to
outside advice; however, it remained in firm control of the pace and
details of reform. The key measures that have been completed to date
are
*     Monetary policy.   The money supply and inflation were
brought under control by a halt in credit to the budget,
restrained overall growth of credit, and interest rate
reforms.
*     Fiscal reforms.   To consolidate the stabilization program
ambitious fiscal reforms were undertaken. More than 500,000
soldiers were released from the military. Other expenditure
restraint combined with tax increases brought the fiscal
deficit to a manageable level.
*     Rural reforms.   The collective system was largely
dismantled, and agriculture returned to family farming. The
1993 Land Law formally gave land use rights to peasant
households.
*     Price liberalization.   Sweeping liberalization removed
virtually all price controls.
*     Devaluation.   The exchange rate was unified and sharply
devalued. A foreign exchange trading floor now permits the
exchange rate to be determined largely by market forces.
*     Financial sector reforms.   Four state-owned commercial banks
were separated from the State Bank. Interest rates were
raised to positive real levels and inter-sectoral
differentials eliminated. With entry of private and foreign
banks, there are now 60 commercial banks operating.



*     State enterprise reforms.   The end of budgetary subsidies
and increases in interest rates hardened the budget
constraint for state enterprises and issued in an era of
restructuring. About one-third of the labor force (800,000
workers) has left the sector. The number of state firms has
been reduced from 12,000 to 7,000 through liquidation
(2,000) and merger of failing firms into profitable ones
(3,000).
*     Promotion of the private sector.   After years of
discrimination against the private sector the Government
reversed course and now encourages the private sector. Laws
for companies and private enterprises give the once-informal
sector official sanction.
*     Openness to direct foreign investment.   A liberal foreign
investment law and subsequent revisions succeeded in
attracting a growing volume of DFI.
*     Reform of foreign trade.   Quantitative restrictions have
been largely eliminated and replaced with tariffs. Access
to foreign trade permits has gradually been liberalized.
*     Social costs of adjustment.   The Government initiated a
number of forward-looking programs to deal with the
transitional unemployment caused by the reform program,
including severance pay, retraining schemes, and soft loans
for the small-scale private sector.
2.   The initial response of Viet Nam's economy to stabilization and
structural reforms was good. These developments are covered in detail
in the recent economic report, Viet Nam: Transition to the Market
(September 1993). To reiterate briefly, real GDP grew steadily
throughout the adjustment program, with an average growth rate of 7%.
Exports were a leading sector, increasing at more than 30% per annum
during 1989-92.   Inflation was reduced from 400% in 1988 to moderate
levels in the 1989-92 period and to 5.2% in 1993. At the heart of the
disinflation program was fiscal restraint that reduced the budget
deficit from 11.9% of GDP in 1989 to 4.0% in 1992.    Foreign assistance
to Viet Nam was withdrawn during this period, with the result that the
external current account deficit was swiftly reduced from more than 9%
of GDP in 1989 to less than 1% in 1992.
The Government's Adjustment Program
3.   The challenge for the Government is to consolidate the
stabilization program while at the same time promoting the rapid
growth that is necessary to absorb unemployed labor and lift the
country out of poverty. The current reform agenda revolves around
three inter-related issues: (1) public sector management, (2) the
incentive regime, and (3) revenue mobilization.
4.   Public Sector Management.   The Government has at its disposal a
growing amount of resources to provide the public services required to
make a market economy function well. Government revenue as a share of
- 2 -



GDP increased to W in 1993, and a substantial volume of foreign aid is
now available to the country. One of the Government's primary goals
is to strengthen the institutions of public sector management to
ensure that resources are well utilized. A crucial issue here is the
preparation of the new budget law, which will define the fundamental
fiscal system and the division of revenues and responsibilities
between local and central authorities. Establishment of a sound
fiscal system at this early stage of the transition will facilitate
the development of Government expenditure programs that are efficient.
5.   There are other specific issues of the budget that are important.
One is preparing a well-organized and flexible public investment
program. The Government is already working on this, with technical
assistance from the UNDP. The recurrent budget also needs to be
reformed. Currently it lacks transparency and needs to be presented
in a way that will facilitate decision-making.
6.   Incentive Regime.   The Government has adopted the basic principle
of funding through the budget services that are public goods or that
involve large externalities, leaving other activities to the private
sector and autonomous state enterprises. This division of labor
should result in healthy growth, provided that there is a proper
incentive regime for households and firms. The Government is working
to strengthen the incentive regime in several ways. It is preparing
the legal infrastructure that governs property rights and commercial
transactions. It is continuing to refine the regime for foreign trade
and investment in order to strengthen the outward orientation of the
economy. And it is tackling the inter-related problems of
restructuring the state-owned banks and reforming state enterprises.
This is a large agenda and the Government needs advice on establishing
priorities for reform as well as technical assistance to execute these
measures.
7.   Revenue Mobilization.   The resources available to the Government
have increased in recent years. Nevertheless, there are several
reasons why resource mobilization issues remain an important part of
the reform agenda. First, the Government relies to a large extent on
oil revenue, which is an uncertain source. Second, concessional loans
will be an important method of financing the public investment program
in the next few years; but looking further ahead it would be
preferable for the Government to generate savings to finance an
increasing share of this investment. Third, aspects of the tax code
and the pricing rules for public services generate inefficiencies.
Thus, simplifying business taxes, unifying import taxes, and
increasing fees for power and other services should have the dual
effect of strengthening resource mobilization and improving the
efficiency of investment. The issues of better public sector
management, improved incentives, and strengthened resource
mobilization are closely inter-related.
The Proposed Operation
8.   The overall objective of the proposed Structural Adjustment
Credit is to assist Viet Nam's transition to a market system by
helping to establish an efficient division of labor between the public
-3 -



and private sectors. To attain this over-arching objective the
operation will address a range of issues that fall into two broad
categories: (1) public sector management; and (2) incentives for
saving and investment. A third important component of the
Government's adjustment program is improving revenue mobilization. In
this area the IMF has taken the lead with advice and technical
assistance. The SAC will be closely coordinated with the IMF program.
9.   As with other adjustment lending, the funds from the credit will
finance the balance of payments, specifically general imports procured
under guidelines acceptable to the Bank and subject to a negative
list. In return for this balance of payments support, the Government
will commit itself to specific policy reforms that will assist the
economy to develop more successfully. Technical assistance will be
required to help the Government implement these reforms. Grant
funding for this technical assistance will be sought from bilateral
donors; technical assistance will not be financed from the credit.
Policies that potentially could be covered under the SAC include:
(1)   Public Sector Management.   The objective is to improve the
efficiency of Government spending. The key instruments to
be used are (1) a revised budget system, as set out in the
organic budget law; (2) an expanded public investment
program managed on a rolling basis; (3) a Public Expenditure
Review; (4) a more efficient system of inter-governmental
transfers that ensures that poor provinces have adequate
resources to fund social services and a safety net; and (5)
an action program for state enterprise reform. The expected
outcome is more efficient Government expenditure focused on
development of physical infrastructure and human resources
in all parts of Viet Nam.
(2)   Incentive Regime.  The objective is to provide an enabling
environment that encourages private producers -- both
domestic and foreign -- to rapidly expand investment,
employment, and output. The instruments to be used are (1)
an improved legal framework for economic activity; (2)
liberalized procedures for exporting and importing; (3)
reduced taxation of commercial banking; and (4) improved
operation of the state-owned commercial banks. The expected
outcome is an incentive regime that provides strong support
to private saving and investment.
Social Issues of Adjustment
10. Viet Nam's transition experience has been very different than
that of other command economies as well as countries undergoing
radical structural adjustment programs. It stands out for four
principal reasons: First, the relative importance of agriculture
rather than industry has helped most Vietnamese households to benefit
from the initial price reforms. When reforms were initiated in 1989,
most Vietnamese (72%) were farmers while only a small percentage (15%)
were employed by the state sector. When agricultural prices were
liberalized in tandem with decollectivization of farms, the net result
for most Vietnamese households was overwheingly positive, despite the
- 4 -



public sector being reduced in size by a third (to 10% of the labor
force). This outcome is in marked contrast to countries which have
large, entrenched SOEs employing most of the labor force. Second,
those laid off from the state sector received adequate compensation
packages (i.e., on average equivalent to one year's pay, which is four
times higher than that provided in Russia). Third, according to the
Ministry of Labor most retrenched workers were absorbed by the quickly
growing private sector within one year, a different structural
adjustment experience than that of Europe or Africa. Fourth, the state
owned enterprises in Viet Nam have not served to the same extent the
critical role of provider of social services as they have in many
other countries (e.g. FSU, Eastern Europe, China). Hence, the
liquidation of SOEs does not directly affect household access to
social services, as it has elsewhere. As a result of these four
factors, the social costs of adjustment in Viet Nam have been milder
than experienced elsewhere.
11. Nevertheless, Viet Nam is a very poor country with many
vulnerable households. Moreover, while Viet Nam's transition
experience has been much more positive than most other countries, it
does share one common problem with other transition economies: the
changing role of government coupled with fiscal restraint has resulted
in problems of financing social services including health, education,
childcare, and assistance for the most vulnerable. The private sector
has emerged to provide some social services; however, there is a great
need to strengthen the public provision of basic social services as
well as the mechanism to provide support to the most vulnerable
households.
12. Given Viet Nam's unique transition experience, the World Bank
will not focus its work on "social costs of adjustment" on those laid
off from the public sector. Rather, it will take a broader approach
to aiding the more vulnerable regions and households of Viet Nam.
Expanding access to primary education, basic health services, and
family planning services will be central goals of the initial IDA
projects in the social sectors. This will be complemented by
assistance to improve the system of inter-governmental fiscal
relations. While the government tends to focus its poverty
alleviation efforts on the design of targeted relief programs, the
inability of the poorer provinces to implement these programs -- as
well as other sectoral strategies pertaining to human and physical
infrastructure -- places inter-governmental finances as a priority
topic. As part of the Bank's ongoing poverty study, the issues of
expenditure needs, revenue retention, and transfer design will be
carefully studied with the goal of improving the design of the inter-
governmental system to enable households in all provinces to
participate in the country's economic growth. Recommendations from
this work will help improve the redesign of the budget system, one of
the reforms supported by the SAC.
13. Another key component of the Bank's strategy involves the Viet
Nam Living Standards Measurement Survey (VNLSMS), which has been
executed by the State Planning Committee with Bank technical
assistance during the past two years. The Bank and the SPC are
currently analyzing the data to identify the most vulnerable
- 5 -



households, sub-populations, and geographic regions to enable the most
effective and efficient targeting of public expenditures possible. In
addition, the Bank organized a four-part, six month training course
for policy planners from four line ministries to learn how to analyze
the LSMS data to help inform policy decisions within their sectors and
target their efforts where most needed. This training will strengthen
the Government's capacity to carry out periodic poverty assessments to
monitor the country's progress with poverty alleviation.
14. In summary, projects in primary education, primary health, and
family planning will assist the Government to develop networks through
which these important services can be delivered. Advice and technical
assistance will strengthen the system of inter-governmental fiscal
relations to ensure that all provinces have sufficient resources to
provide social services on a sustained basis. And
institutionalization of a household income and expenditure survey will
enable monitoring of poverty on an ongoing basis.
Benefits and Risks
15. The benefits of Viet Nam's transition to a market economy are
already plainly visible. Growth in per capita income during the 1989-
93 period has been stronger than at any time since reunification.
Viet Nam remains a very poor country and the expected benefits from
continued rapid growth are very high, especially reduction of poverty
and of associated problems of malnutrition and poor health. Viet
Nam's development will depend first and foremost on its own efforts,
and the reform program that we propose to support through the SAC is
very much the country's own. The expected benefit from the operation
is to strengthen the country's adjustment program in two specific
ways: (1) financial and technical assistance should result in more
rapid reform and accelerated growth, bringing benefits sooner rather
than later; and (2) features of the operation will ensure that
benefits are widely dispersed so that poverty reduction occurs more
rapidly than would result from merely relying on rapid growth to
alleviate poverty.
16. The main risk associated with the operation is that reforms will
not proceed as rapidly as planned owing to weak institutional capacity
and lack of trained staff. Design of the operation is aimed at
minimizing these risks, in that it will be accompanied by a
coordinated program of technical assistance funded from grant sources.
These TA projects will aim to train local staff and develop strong
Government institutions.
Contact Point:  Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information based on an evolving project. Certain
- 6 -



components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 7 -



