Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18704
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
GENERATION RECOVERY AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3944-JM)
December 16, 1998
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Development
Country Management Unit 3
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
US$1.00 = J$33.29$1  (1994 average)
US$1.00 = J$35.34$1  (1995 average)
US$1.00 = J$37.24$1  (1996 average)
US$1.00 = J$35.50$1  (1997 average)
US$1.00 = J$36.35$1  (1998 average)
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
(April 1 to March 31)
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 kilovolt (kV) = 1,000 Volts (v)
1 kilowatt-hour = 1,000 watt-hours
1 megawatt = 1,000 kilo-watts (kW)
I billion (bn)= 1,000 million (mn)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
ESDPP        Energy Sector Deregulation and Privatization Project
EMS          Energy Management System
GE           General Electric Co. (U.S.A.)
GRIP         Generation Recovery and Inprovement Project
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
JPS          Jamaica Public Service Co. Ltd.
LRMC         Long-run Marginal Cost
MIS          Management Information System
NIBJ         National Investment Bank of Jamaica
NRCA         Natural Resource Conservation Authority
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President:  Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director:  Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director:  Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader:  Joerg-Uwe Richter



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
GENERATION REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3944-JM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE                                  ........................................................                                   1
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................................   2
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background .........................................................  6
Project Objectives and Scope . ........................................................   7
Achievement of Project Objectives ........................................................                             8
Restoration of Electricity Service; Reduction in Generating Costs ...a..........8
Improvement of Generation Security; Enhancing System Reliability ..........9
Reform   of the Electricity Tariff System   ............................................9..........9
Improving Environmental Management ............................................9..........9
Other Objectives ......................................................... 0
JPS  and Project Finances ........................................................                                    10
Project Cost and Financing  ..........................                    ........................... . . 11
Return  on Investment ........................................................                                II
Implementation  Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ..............1........                                  I11
Project Costs and Financing  .............                          ............................ . . 11
Project Economic Rate of Return .................                           ....................... . .. II
Project Risk Evaluation ............................................                                                  12
Project Sustainability ............................................                                                   12
Bank Performance ............................................                                                        12
Borrower Performance ............................................ 13
Assessment of Outcome ........................................ . .. 13
Future Operations ............................................                                                       14
Project Operational Plan  ............................................ 14
Key Lessons Learned  ............................................ 14
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
1. Summary  of Assessments  .............                             ................................. . . 16
2. Related Bank Loans -  Preceding Loans ...........................................                          ...... 17
3. Project Timetable .................................................                                               18
4. Loan  Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual ....................... ........ 18
5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation ............................................ ..... 19
6. Key Indicators for Project Operation .................................................                            20
7. Studies Included in the Project ................                         ............................. . .. 20
8a. Project Costs ................................................. 21
8b. Project Financing .................................................                                               22
9. Economic Costs and Benefits ...............                            ............................... . . 23
10. Status of Legal Covenants .............                           ................................. . . 27
11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements   .................................... 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................        .    30
13. Bank Resources: Staff Missions .31
APPENDICES
A. Summary of Loan Objectives and Achievements .32
B. ICR Mission Aide-Mmoire .33
C. Borrower's Contribution and Comments on the ICR .37
D. Proposed Operational Plan for Jamaica: Generation Recovery and Improvement
Project .50
Map
IBRD No. 26604 - Generation Recovery and Improvement Project
World Bank User
C:\TEMP\richtbLcont.doc
12/21/98 1:39PM



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
GENERATION RECOVERY AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3944-JM)
PREFACE
1.    This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) deals with the Generation
Recovery and Improvement Project (GRIP). Loan No. 3944-JM for US$21.0 million
equivalent was approved for this Project on September 28, 1995; made effective on
March 28, 1'996; and was closed on June 30, 1998. Final disbursement took place on
August 24, 1998, at which time a balance of US$5.2million was canceled. The Borrower
was the Government of Jamaica and the implementing agency, the Jamaica Public
Service Co. (JPS). The Report was prepared by Messrs. J.U. Richter of the Finance,
Private Sector, and Infrastructure Department of the Latin America and Caribbean
Regional OfiFice (LCSFP) and M. Mitchell (Consultant), and was reviewed by Messrs. L.
Vaca-Soto, Th. Persaud (LCSFP), M. Pulgar-Vidal, and S. Goswami (LCC3C). The
Report is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); the Loan and Project
Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower
and the Implementing Agency; internal memoranda; JPS' progress reports; and
discussions with JPS and Bank staff. Preparation of the ICR began during the Bank's
project completion mission in September 1998. The Implementing Agency contributed
to this ICR by preparing an evaluation of the Project's implementation and results
(Appendix C) and by commenting on the Bank's draft ICR. The Resident Office of the
Inter-American Development Bank in Jamaica reviewed and agreed with this report.



2
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
2.    Jamaica Public Service Co. (JPS), the government-owned utility responsible for
generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity throughout the Island, received
Bank loans since 1966, which have contributed to improving and expanding JPS'
operations. Following an explosion at the Old Harbour generating plant in June 1994
which destroyed 22% of generating capacity on the system, JPS requested Bank
financing to deal with this emergency and to strengthen the system, so as to avoid the
recurrence of such incidents. The Bank approved the US$21 mn Loan No. 3944-JM
on September 28, 1995. The Bank's project was primarily a response to an emergency
program to restore electricity service, and was initiated in the context of reform
initiatives in the sector aimed at deregulation and wider participation of private
enterprise.
Project Objectives and Description
3.    The objectives were to (a) restore electricity service to normal conditions; (b)
reduce generating costs and improve generation security; (c) enhance electricity system
reliability by improving telecommunications and energy control systems and reinforcing
the transmission network; (c) improve economic resource allocation through tariff
reform; and (d) reduce and control environmental impacts associated with power system
facilities. The Project comprised (a) restoration, life extension, and upgrading of
generation units and associated facilities at the Old Harbor plant; (b) transmission system
and substation reinforcements; (c) improvement of JPS' telecommunications and energy
management systems; (d) construction and expansion of transmission lines and substation
facilities; and (e) development and implementation of environmental mitigation measures
at Old Harbour. In addition, studies including a cost of service and tariff reform study
were to be carried out. The project objectives were justified by the priority requirements
in JPS and the electricity sector at large, and were consistent with the Bank's emphasis in
the 1993 CAS on infrastructure improvement. Project design was adequate in regard to
the rehabilitation components but less so in regard to the tariff and environmental
components. At the time of project appraisal, both JPS and the Government were
strongly committed to the Project and JPS' implementation capacity was deemed
adequate.
Achievement of Objectives
4.    At loan closure, the Project's physical objectives of capacity rehabilitation, life
extension, and upgrading have been met. But system improvement through transmission
reinforcement and the EMS upgrade was not completed; tariff reform objectives were not
met as the tariff study was delayed by two years and most of the recommendations have
yet to be implemented; and important environmental components of the Project, notably
S02 emission control obligating JPS to meet Bank emission standards by end-1999 and
NRCA standards by end-2000, were not initiated. Institution-building requirements were



3
addressed in a narrow manner through training in tariff analysis and load research as well
as in EMS and telecommunications system operation.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
5.   Initially, there was rapid progress in rehabilitating and upgrading the generation
capacity. But from end-1996 onward, implementation of the remaining components fell
behind, coinciding with the Government's decision to discontinue the privatization of JPS
and to cause JPS to enter into a performance contract with the National Investment Bank
of Jamaica (NIBJ), which may have diverted JPS' attention from project implementation.
JPS was successful in improving critical operational performance targets set in the
Contract, but was unable to attain significant reductions in technical/administrative losses
and accounts receivable. JPS' financial position weakened considerably, largely because
of the absence of a tariff increase since 1991 and its commitment under the performance
contract not to raise tariffs before 2000. JPS in FY 1997/8 sustained losses of J$396mn
(US$ 11 mn equivalent) and its rate of return on revalued assets fell below 1%, compared
to a stipulated return of 8%. There was an improvement from mid-1998 onward but it
seems unlikely that this improvement can be sustained without a tariff increase.
6.    Project performance was rated "Unsatisfactory" in May 1998 because of lack of
tariff action, non-compliance with major covenants (including financial reporting) and
delays in implementing the environmental components. At the time of loan closure,
completion overall of the scaled-down (to US$66.2mn) project was about 90% but was
much less for the transmission reinforcement and environmental components. There has
been little follow-up to the cost of service and tariff reform study. While a number of
technical problems impacting on project implementation were beyond the Government's
and JPS' control, impacts related to macro-economic and sectoral policies were related to
the Government's stance. Delays in preparing an operational plan and a plan to
implement the recommendations of the tariff study, as well as the lack of follow-up on
emission control options identified in its 1996 Environmental Plan were subject to JPS'
control.
Project Risk Evaluation
7.    The SAR's risk evaluation was incomplete as it did not include the risk of
attaining tariff reform and meeting environmental objectives. While JPS managed the
generation rehabilitation components of the Project adequately and succeeded in reducing
line losses, the Government since 1996 has deemphasized energy sector privatization.
JPS' capacity to settle its insurance claim was over-estimated as this claim is as yet only
partially resolved.
Project Sustainability
8.   In the course of project implementation, JPS benefited from technical assistance
in tariff, load research, EMS, telecommunications, and environmental analysis, which
ought to strengthen its future institutional capacity. But project sustainability is uncertain
unless JPS prepares a detailed operational plan addressing physical as well as sector



4
policy (especially tariff and environmental) objectives and JPS' management commits
itself firmly to implementing this plan.
Bank Performance
9.    Bank performance is rated "Satisfactory" for project identification and preparation
and "Unsatisfactory" for appraisal and supervision. The Bank responded expeditiously to
an emergency but did not incorporate into the project design safeguards in form of a
commitment by the Borrower to implement the tariff-related recommendations within a
clearly defined period and to comply with the S02-related emission standards prior to
loan closure. Initially, the Bank and JPS had a cooperative relationship but the decision
by the Government to discontinue the privatization of JPS and to cause JPS to enter into a
performance contract instead weakened this relationship and eventually, supervision.
There were fiequent changes in task managership and a paucity of supervision missions
in 1997-98 which hampered communications. No mid-term review of the Project took
place. While communications intensified again toward the end of the loan period, no
agreements on necessary actions were reached, particularly on tariff adjustments.
Consultations with the Inter-American Development Bank took place throughout project
implementation, particularly prior to and following loan closure.
Borrower/ Implementing Agency Performance
10.   Borrower! implementing agency performance is rated "Satisfactory" for project
preparation and implementation of the rehabilitation components and "Unsatisfactory"
for the implementation of the tariff-related and environmental components and for
compliance with reporting requirements. At project initiation, the Borrower was
committed to completing the rehabilitation of generation as fast as possible, but later,
implementation of the other components was adversely affected by the Government's and
JPS' shift in priorities, financial weaknesses, and occasional difficulties in procurement.
JPS has not submitted financial statements since FY1995/6 and did not make the
documentation on its perfornance contract with NIBJ available to the Bank. Following
loan closure, JPS decided to reduce the scope of some of the environmental components,
especially emission control.
Assessment of Outcome
11.   Project outcome is rated "Unsatisfactory" in view of non-completion of major
components and uncertainty about the sustainability of project results, the successful
rehabilitation of generation facilities and the associated reduction in costs and forced
outages notwithstanding. The Project's main components consisted of physical
facilities. Technical assistance was relatively minor and except for the tariff study, was
related to the Project's fixed investment components. Generation rehabilitation was
instrumental in bringing electricity supplies back to pre-breakdown levels, and technical
assistance related to EMS/telecommunications and environmental management ought to
benefit these activities. On the other hand, implementation of the tariff study's
recommendations hinges on the Government's decision to allow tariff setting consistent
with the sector's requirements for economic and financial viability.



5
Future Operations
12.   Beyond two ongoing operations, no new operations are being considered by the
Bank. The activation of a PHRD grant to evaluate the site for the next privately owned
generation scheme is contingent upon the Government's communication, by December
31, 1998, reconfirmir.g its commitment to maximum feasible participation by private
enterprise in electricity sector development.
Project Operational Plan
13.  JPS has yet to submit a specific plan for future operation of the facilities
rehabilitated and created under the Project. Such plan should address physical as well as
sector policy (especially tariff and environmental) objectives and should include the
following measures: (a) completion of the project components by June 1999; (b)
compliance with S02 emission standards by end- 1999 and end-2000, respectively; (c)
pursuit of the operational targets set in the JPS-NIBJ performance contract; (d) reform of
the tariff system to enhance efficient electricity use; and (e) strengthening of JPS'
environmental management.
Key Lessons Learned
14.  In the interest of clarity about project goals and the priority of individual project
components, and of effective implementation, the following lessons are relevant:
(a) At project preparation: Project objectives should reflect a clear priority
ranking. For emergency operations that also pursue institutional and policy objectives,
well-defined and covenanted conditionality should be focused at the latter objectives.
Borrower commitment to sector and project objectives should be ensured prior to loan
approval, e.g., through tariff adjustments and adequate allocation of resources to the
project. Project design and concept should adequately support the project objectives,
reflecting experience with ongoing and previous projects, and should be firmly defined
to avoid delays and confusion during implementation. Care should be taken that project
components and covenants are enforceable;
(b) During project implementation: In situations of emergencies under financial
constraints, sole-source procurement arrangements may be justified. Regular supervision
including appropriately timed mid-term reviews are essential and should engage the
borrower's and implementing agency most senior officials. Bank staff permanency
during supervision should be ensured. In situations of protracted non-compliance with
major loan and project covenants, the Bank should timely exercise its remedies, including
loan suspension and cancellation, based on an assessment of the impact of both non-
compliance and the Bank's actions on project implementation and sustainability.



6
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.   Jamaica Public Service Company Ltd. (JPS), a government-owned integrated
utility with annual sales of J$10.4bn (US$290mn equivalent) and a staff of approximately
2,100 in 1997, is responsible for generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity
throughout Jamaica. Installed generating capacity in 1997 amounted to 653MW, up from
552MW in 1990, and its number of customers, 423,800 (305,800 in 1990). Peak demand
on the system is approximately 488MW, up from 323MW in 1990. Two independent
power producers, Jamaica Energy Partners (72MW installed capacity) and Jamaica
Private Power Company (62.5MW installed capacity), in operation since 1995-96,
contribute about 31% of generation.
2.    The Government in 1996 discontinued plans to privatize JPS, as it deemed two
bidders' offers insufficient. JPS in early 1997 entered into a performance contract with
NIBJ, as the Government's financial representative, for the 1997-2000 period, which
committed JPS to achieving certain efficiency targets, with tariff levels virtually
unchanged, in exchange for enhanced managerial autonomy. By mid-1998, JPS'
efficiency drive began to show positive results as plant availability was raised and
generation heat rates and labor costs were reduced. But technical and administrative
losses have remained high at more than 17% of gross generation.
3.    A boiler explosion in June 1994 at JPS' Old Harbour generating plant, the largest
on the system, destroyed 123MW or 22% of generation capacity and resulted in severe
electricity rationing for almost one year. The Government requested financing from the
Bank and IDB to restore generation capacity, strengthen transmission and the
telecommunications/ energy management systems to avoid the recurrence of similar
events, and improve environmental management and monitoring of JPS' operations.
4.    Following four Bank loans to JPS during 1966-87 and a US$0.5million Project
Preparation Facility in November 1994, the Bank approved the single-currency, fixed-
interest Loan No. 3944-JM amounting to US$2 1mn in November 1995 in support of the
Generation Recovery and Improvement Project (GRIP). The Loan became effective in
March 1996 once JPS had submitted an Environmental Mitigation Plan for the Old
Harbour plant. While primarily a response to the Government's emergency program to
restore public electricity service, the Project also was to address JPS' high system losses
and the adverse impact of lost generation capacity on JPS' financial position. Project
initiation coincided with reform initiatives in the sector aimed at deregulation and broader
participation of private enterprise, which were supported by a US$60mn Bank loan for
the Energy Deregulation and Privatization Project (ESDPP; Loan No. 3502-JM). The
Bank gave high priority to both projects because of its support to private development
and infrastructure improvement, as emphasized in the 1993 CAS on Jamaica.
5.    Because of the Borrower's non-compliance with major loan and project covenants
during the latter half of the Project and the resulting "Unsatisfactory" rating of project
implementation in May 1998, the Bank declined the Government's request to extend the



7
Loan's closing date by one year, to June 30, 1999. The Loan was closed on June 30,
1998 with a balance of US$5.2million undisbursed.
Project Objectives and Scope
6.    The Government has considered continued improvements in electricity supply at
lowest-feasible economic and environmental costs as critical to economic development,
especially for manufacturing and tourism. As part of this over-arching objective, the
Project's specific technical, institutional, and environmental objectives were to (i) restore
electricity service to normal conditions as early as possible, thus eliminating supply
shortages; (ii) reduce generation costs through lower-cost plants and upgrading of
existing facilities; safeguard the system against breakdown of installations, thus
improving generation security; (iii) enhance system reliability to reduce the likelihood of
recurrence of plant incidents, by improving the telecommunications and energy control
systems and reinforcing the transmission network; (iv) improve economic resource
allocation through reform of the electricity tariff system, and (v) reduce and control
environmental impacts associated with power system facilities.
7.    The Project comprised the following components:
(i) restoration of Old Harbour Unit 3;
(ii) restoration of Old Harbour Unit 4 boiler;
(iii) life extension of Old Harbour Unit 4 turbine generator, to defer the unit's
retirement from 2002 to 2017;
(iv) gas turbine units 3, 4, 5 restoration and life extension, to improve generating
efficiency, increase reliability, and extend their technical life units by about ten years;
(v) improvement of JPS' telecommunications and energy management systems
(EMS) from 1 970s vintage to state-of-the-art technology, to enable the systems to
manage load shedding under emergency situations;
(vi) construction and expansion of transmission lines and substation facilities
(48km of 138kV lines; two substations) to ensure reliable transmission from Old Harbour
and accommodate additional (private) generating capacity;
(vii) development and implementation of environmental mitigation measures at
Old Harbour, including (a) reduction in S02 and NOx emissions, (b) waste-water
treatment, (c) oil spill containment and prevention, (d) training, (e) rebuilding and
upgrading of the Old Harbour environmental laboratory, (f) surveys and management
plans for asbestos and polychloro bi-phenol (PCB) removal; and
(viii) consulting services for (a) implementation, management, and supervision of
the generating system components, (b) engineering and project management for the
environmental mitigation components, and (c) cost-of-service and tariff reform study.



8
8.    The project objectives were justified by the priority requirements in JPS and the
electricity sector at large, and were consistent with the Bank's emphasis in the 1993 CAS
on infrastructure improvement. The design of the Project's physical components was
adequate but was less so in regard to the tariff and environmental components. At the
time of project appraisal, both JPS and the Government were strongly committed to the
Project and JPS' implementation capacity was deemed adequate.
Achievement of Project Objectives
9.    The P'roject's physical objective of generation capacity rehabilitation has been
met. JPS' 1'993 least-cost expansion plan formed the basis for generation rehabilitation
and transmission system reinforcement. But the Project did not contribute as expected to
system improvement aimed at providing security against future breakdowns. There have
been significant shortfalls in reforming the electricity tariff system, improving EMS and
telecommunications systems, and strengthening JPS' environmental management.
Comparison of Planned and Achieved Project Components - Implementation
Milestones
Project Component             S.A.R.                            Actual
._________________       Schedule                          Schedule
Contract    Start    Completion   Contract   Start    Completion
Award                           Award
Restoration O.H. 3  June '94   June '94    Dec. '94    June '94    June '94    Dec. '94
Restoration O.H. 4  Dec. '94   Jan. '95    July '95  Nov. '94   March '95    Jan. '96
Life Extension O.H. 4  Dec. '94  March '95   July '95    Nov. '94   March '95    Jan. '96
Upgrade GT 3,4;5   Dec. '94   Febr. '95    Aug. '95  Dec. '94    Febr. '95    June '96
EMS/ Telecoms      July '95   Aug. '95    Sept. '97  Dec. '95    Dec. '95    March '99
Transmission       April '95   May '95    Dec. '97  Oct. '96   Oct. '96    March '99
Reinforcements
Environmental      July '95   Aug. '95    Aug. '96  Oct. '95   Oct. '95    June '99
Mitigation
Consulting Services   Jan. '95   Febr. '95    Dec. '97  Oct. '95    Dec. '95    June '99
Studies & Technical    March    Apr. '95    Dec. '96    Nov. '95    Nov. '95    March '98
Assistance           '95
Restoration of Generating Capacity and of Electricity Service; Reduction in
Generating Costs
10.    Restoration of Old Harbour Unit 3 (boiler and turbine rehabilitation) was
completed on schedule by December 1994, with US$7.6mn IDB financing. Restoration
of Old Harbour Unit 4 boiler, completed by January 1996, was financed by insurance
payments and a credit from the original equipment supplier. Life extension of Old
Harbour Unit 4 generation turbine, of which US$5.9mn was financed by the Bank, was
carried out by the original equipment supplier, General Electric (GE), without bidding
and also was completed by January 1996. However, the unit experienced technical
problems in 1997-98, reducing its overall availability below 80%. The upgrade of gas
turbine units 3, 4, and 5, self-financed by JPS, also was undertaken by GE during 1995-
96 on an emergency basis, after which the units returned to peaking service.



9
Improvement of Generation Security; Enhancing System Reliability
11.   The transmission system and substation reinforcement whose foreign cost is IDB-
financed, was about 64% conipleted by mid-1998 and is planned to be fully completed by
March 1999. The EMS/telecommunications Upgrade, largely financed by the Bank,
incurred considerable delays and was only 57% completed at the time of loan closure.
JPS expects this component to be completed by March 1999.
Reform of the Electricity Tariff System
12.   The Cost of Services and Tariff Reform Study responded to the need to
determine the long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of electricity supplies based on detailed
load research. The Loan Agreement envisaged that a long-run marginal cost and tariff
study be carried out by early 1996, and that JPS prepare an implementation plan and
proceed toward implementing the study's recommendations aimed at rationalizing the
tariff structure. (The preceding Power IV project had already contained a covenant on
tariff action.) The study was completed in March 1998. Its recommendations are
directed toward establishing a tariff system based on LRMC and meeting requirements
for energy efficiency, equity, revenue adequacy, and administrative simplicity.
Implementation of the study's recommendations was largely preempted by the
Govermment's decision - as part of the JPS-NIBJ performance contract - not to increase
tariffs until early 2000. However, as astep toward reforming the tariff structure, JPS
introduced in November 1998 an economic development incentive rate for industrial
consumers that shift at least 10% of their load to off-peak, which will reflect more closely
the relative cost of supplies to consumers. JPS considers to eventually pursue other
recommended measures, to the extent that these are compatible with JPS' commitment
under the performance contract not to raise average tariffs. The measures relate to (i)
compression of peak consumption (in particular, combination of fuel and energy charges,
time-of-day rates including for large-volume residential customers), (ii) high-voltage
discounts, (iii) modified residential block rates, (iv) modification of energy and demand
charges and realignment of customer charges to improve cost recovery, and (v)
cogeneration deferral rates and stand-by rates for customers of cogeneration plants.
13.   There is little government commitment to apply the recommendations of the tariff
study, especially the reduction of large-scale cross-subsidization between industrial/
commercial and residential consumers. While JPS' average tariffs are close to LRMC,
they are too low to adequately cover JPS financial charges as well.
Improving Environmental Management
14.   The environmental components were aimed at abating air, soil, and water
pollution from Old Harbour and other JPS facilities. Implementation was based on JPS'
1996 Environmental Plan, whose preparation the Bank had made a condition of loan
effectiveness. Several components were later added on (i.e., PCB removal; waste water
management; stores reorganization) which made a reallocation of funds necessary. At
loan closure, the Project's environmental components were about 60% completed and
most are scheduled for full completion by June 1999. Mainly surveys and studies were
financed involving few capital works, reflecting relatively low priority given by the



10
Borrower to these components. Asbestos and PCB surveys were undertaken and PCB
removal was completed by June 1998. Amelioration of petroleum spillage and of other
soil contamination (by means of soil removal and bundwall construction) was about 75%
completed. G'roundwater quality monitoring was carried out in 1996 and monitoring
wells were constructed. Wastewater was analyzed but a treatment plant has yet to be
constructed, planned for 1999. (Requests for proposals are currently being reviewed.)
For S02 emission abatement, JPS' Plan aims at meeting the Bank's (1988) guidelines for
point and regional emissions by end-1999 and NRCA standards by 2000. Emissions
testing is planned for early 1999 but mitigatory investment required to meet the specified
emission standards has not yet been defined nor funded, so it is uncertain whether the
investment will be done on time to comply with the relevant commitments. Noise tests
were carried out in 1996-97. Meteorological equipment for air quality monitoring has
been installed and related investigations are being prepared. Laboratory and chemicals
storage facilities destroyed during the plant accident have been reconstructed.
Other Objectives
15.  Institution-building objectives were directed at improving the operation of EMS
and telecommunications systems, environmental mitigation, and rationalizing the tariff
system, to be achieved through studies and training by consultants. A total of 230 staff-
weeks were allocated to training. The LRMC and tariff reform study contributed to
reinforcing JPS' load and tariff research program and relevant analytical capabilities.
16.  Improvements in JPS System Operating Efficiency. The JPS-NIBJ contract
established targets for the principal operational parameters including heat rates, fuel and
labor cost, and technical and administrative losses, to demonstrate that efficiency
improvements expected from privatization are also attainable under conditions of public
ownership and management. By the time of loan closure, JPS has managed to raise
operational performance, by increasing availability to over 90%; reducing the heat rate
(fuel cost) of generation by 4%; and reducing overtime-related labor costs by 39%. This
was largely achieved through technical improvements (e.g., upgrading of gas turbines and
rehabilitation of auxiliary equipment). The installation of modem EMS and
telecommunications systems while still to be completed has already contributed to more
efficient load dispatch. However, technical and administrative losses declined only
slightly and still exceed 17% vs. 14.5% envisaged in the performance contract.
JPS and Project Finances
17.   Largely because of unchanged tariffs since 1991 - in the face of inflation and
exchange rate devaluation totaling 662% and 292%, respectively, during this period -JPS'
financial position weakened considerably, aggravated by increased borrowing needs after
1995: its rate of return on revalued assets was just about 1% in FYs96-97 instead of 8%
as covenanted under ESDPP. JPS sustained losses of J$396mn (US$1 lmn equivalent) in
FY 1997/98. Substantial external borrowing was required, largely short-term (US$55mn
in FY97; US$108 mn planned in FY98). JPS was unable to finance more than 60% of
capital expenditure and additions to working capital from internal cash generation. There
was an improvement in mid-1998 when the rate of return increased but it is uncertain if
this improvement can be maintained without a tariff increase.



11
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
18.   At project initiation, JPS implemented the generation rehabilitation components at
a rapid pace. Subsequently, delays occurred in implementing the remaining components,
especially the tariff-related and environmental components. The negotiation of the
performance contract with NIBJ may have diverted JPS' attention from project
implementation. Difficulties arose in selecting the contractor for the SCADA
component, leading to additional delays. The tariff study was delayed by nearly two
years and a new tariff structure, which had been already a condition of the Power IV
project, was not implemented. The SAR envisaged project completion by December 31,
1997 but the Government requested a one-year extension of the closing date. The Project
was rated "Unsatisfactory" in May 1998 because of non-compliance with major loan
covenants such as reporting and delays in implementing major project components,
especially on tariff measures and environmental management..
19.   The project implementation schedule was probably unrealistic: 81 % of the Loan
was to be disbursed by June 1996 and 100% by June 1997. Implementation indicators as
stated in the SAR were not fully met, with shortfalls occurring primarily in regard to the
financial targets. By loan closure, the Project (which had been reduced from US$76.5mn
to US$66.2mn) was about 90% completed (100% of generation rehabilitation; 64% of
transmission and substations financed by IDB; 57% of EMS/SCADA components; 60%
of environmental components; 68% of technical assistance).
20.   Factors Impacting on Project Implementation. While several factors were beyond
the Borrower's and JPS' control (e.g., technical problems with operating the rehabilitated
units; problems with contractors), several critical factors were subject to the Borrower's
control such as the macro-economic and sector policy framework. Factors subject to JPS'
control include delays in preparing an operational plan and a plan to implement the
recommendations of the tariff study, and the lack of follow-up to the options to reduce
S02 emissions identified in its 1995 Environmental Plan.
Project Costs and Financing
21.   By loan closure, US$59.4mn of project funds had been spent, i.e., 90% of the -
reduced - project costs of US$66.2mn (the original estimate was US$76.5mn).
Reductions in project costs were attributable to cost savings for rehabilitation and life
extension of the Old Harbour plant, gas turbines, and consulting services but also the
reduction in scope of several environmental components after loan closure. For the July
1998-June 1999 period, JPS foresees expenditure on the outstanding project components
of approximately US$7. lmn, i.e., for transmission, US$3.9mn; EMS, US$2mn; and
environmental works, (US$lmn. Project expenditure through June 30, 1998 was
financed by the Bank, US$15.7mn; 1DB, US$16.2mn; and JPS' own funds, US$27.5rnn.
Project Economic Rate of Return
22.   The ERR was estimated on Old Harbour-4 rehabilitation and EMS modernization,
in line with the SAR. Costs comprise those of investment in generation, transmission,



12
and distribution, telecommunications, EMS, and environmental mitigation; attendant
technical assistance; and incremental operating and maintenance costs. Benefits include
incremental sales and reduced forced outage rates. The project accounted for about 30%
of JPS' FY95-98 investment. The EER estimate on Old Harbour-4 rehabilitation is 27%
compared to the SAR's 31%, despite lower investment (US$26.7mn vs US$31 mn in the
SAR), primarily because the ICR does not include the increase in insurance value due to
equipment rehabilitation. The EER on the EMS is tentative as significant expenditures
have yet to be undertaken and benefits will accrue later than envisaged in the SAR.
Based on available information, the EER has been re-estimated at 35% vs. the SAR's
20%, due to an apparent under-estimation of project benefits in the SAR.
Project Risk Evaluation
23.   At project appraisal, the main risks identified were considered to be well under
control. They related to (i) continued government commitment to privatization in the
energy sector, (ii) JPS' ability to reduce system losses, (iii) collection on insurance
payments, and (iv) JPS' capacity to manage project implementation. The SAR's risk
evaluation failed to include the risk of attaining tariff reform and meeting the
environmental objectives. In regard to the identified risks, while JPS managed the
generation rehabilitation components adequately and was able to reduce line losses, JPS
was not able to fully collect insurance payments despite strong legal backing. The
Government since late 1996 has deemphasized energy sector privatization, and its
continued commitment to privatization of JPS is uncertain.
Project Sustainability
24.  In the course of project implementation, JPS benefited from technical assistance
in electricity tariff analysis and load research, and in EMS, telecommunications, and
environmental management. This support ought to provide the basis for improving
operational (including environmental) management. But the Project's sustainability is
uncertain unless JPS prepares a detailed operational plan addressing physical as well as
sector policy (tariff and environmental) objectives, along the lines developed in this ICR
(Appendix D), and JPS management takes the decisions necessary to implement this plan.
Bank Performance
25.   Bank performance is rated "Satisfactory" for project identification and preparation
and "Unsatisfactory" for appraisal and supervision. In preparing the Project, the Bank
had responded to an emergency. But the Bank did not incorporate into the project design
safeguards through an appropriate commitment by the Borrower to implement the policy-
related components within a clearly defined period, especially the recommendations of
the tariff study, considering the Borrower's weak commitment in the past, and to comply
with the environmental (S02 emissions) commitments prior to loan closure, which has
made it difficult to enforce the necessary actions. The Bank's relationship with JPS
initially was very cooperative. The Government's decision to discontinue the
privatization of JPS weakened this relationship and eventually, Bank performance as
well, aggravating problems arising from project implementation delays. Supervision was
hampered by frequent changes in task managership, the last change occurring four



13
months prior to loan closure. No mid-term review on the Project took place. There was a
one-year hiatus in supervision missions in 1997-98 when supervision was essentially
handled by the Bank's resident office with little sector backup. The Bank did not
communicate in time to the Borrower that an extension of the loan was not feasible
without major improvements in project implementation and tariff policies.
26.   During the last three months of the loan period, communications intensified again
when the Bank attempted - before and after the closing date - to cause JPS and the
Government to agree to measures to comply with loan conditionality, as a prerequisite for
loan extension. However, no agreement on necessary actions was reached.
27.   Coordination with IDB. The Bank coordinated with IDB throughout project
implementation, particularly immediately before and after loan closure. An
understanding was reached with IDB on the Bank's position and course of action.
Borrower Performance
28.   Borrower performance is rated "Satisfactory" for preparation and implementation
of the technical components of the Project and "Unsatisfactory" for implementation of
the tariff-related and environmental components and for compliance with reporting
requirements. At project initiation, the Government and JPS were strongly committed to
completing the rehabilitation works at the shortest time possible. But in the following,
implementation weakened. At loan closure, the transmission/substation, EMS, and
environmental components were not completed. The LRMC and tariff reform study, to
be completed by early 1996, was delayed by two years, and its recommendations were
not implemented save for establishing a preferential industrial tariff for off-peak
consumption. Difficulties in procurement arose around the time when the privatization of
JPS was discontinued and the performance contract with NIBJ was negotiated, which
may have diverted JPS' attention from project implementation. The Borrower did not
make the documentation on the JPS-NIBJ performance contract available despite requests
by the Bank since early 1997, nor did JPS provide specific information needed to assess
the revaluation of fixed assets and its consistency with the Project Agreement. JPS has
not submitted audited financial statements since FY96 and audited project accounts since
FY97. Following loan closure, JPS decided to reduce the scope of several environmental
components, particularly the installation of emission controls.
Assessment of Project Outcome
29.   The outcome is rated "Unsatisfactory" in view of non-completion of major
components and uncertainty about project sustainability, the successful completion of
generation rehabilitation and some of the environmental components notwithstanding.
Funds were mainly allocated to fixed investment in generation, transmission, and
telecommunications, and to environmental clean-up. Technical assistance was relatively
minor and except for the tariff study, was in support of fixed investment components.
Generation rehabilitation was instrumental in reestablishing capacity at pre-accident
levels as well as enhancing efficiency, reliability, and security of generation, thus
contributing to lower operations and maintenance costs and lower forced outages.
However, at loan closure, Old Harbour Unit 4 was not yet operating at full capacity, and



14
due to delays in modernizing EMS, system security was not yet fully established.
Technical assistance related to the environmental and EMS/telecommunications
components ought to contribute to strengthening these activities. The tariff study did not
have the envisaged impact of improving the tariff system but contributed to strengthening
JPS' analytical capabilities. JPS' capacity to timely prepare financial statements and
project accoumts has deteriorated during the period of project implementation, with the
submission of audited financial statements to the Bank 15 months behind schedule.
Future Ope;rations
30.   Beyond two ongoing Bank operations, i.e. ESDPP (closing date December 3 1,
1999) and the Energy Demand Side Management Demonstration Project (GET Grant No.
05 28695-JM; closing date June 30, 1999), no operations are firmly scheduled. The
activation of a PHRD grant to identify and evaluate the site for the next privately owned
electricity generation scheme is contingent upon a communication by the Government, by
December 31, 1998, reconfirming its commitment to maximum feasible participation by
private enterprise in electricity sector development.
Project Operational Plan
31.   JPS has yet to submit a specific plan for operating the facilities created or
rehabilitated under the Project that meet the Project's original objectives, although JPS'
1997-2007 Corporate Business Strategy provides a basis for such plan. In order to ensure
that the project achievements are maintained, the following measures are required:
(a) Completion of the Project's technical and environmental components by June
30, 1999. Compliance with S02 emission standards by end-1999 and end-2000,
respectively, as stipulated in JPS' 1996 Environmental Plan;
(b) Pursuit of the operational targets defined in the SAR and the JPS-NIBJ
performance contract, especially those that thus far have not been achieved, e.g.,
reduction in technical and administrative losses and in accounts receivable;
(c) Reform of the tariff system to provide consumers with price signals
conducive to efficient electricity use, and ensure JPS' long-term financial viability; and
(d) Strengthening of JPS' environmental management, through updating JPS'
1996 Environmental Plan including dated implementation targets.
Key Lessons Learned
31.   To ensure clarity of project goals, appropriate priority ranking of individual
components, and effectiveness of implementation, the following lessons are relevant:
At Project Preparation:
(i) Project objectives should reflect a clear priority ranking. For emergency
operations that also pursue institutional and policy objectives, conditionality should be



15
focused at the latter objectives. In that, institutional and policy objectives should be
given the same priority as investment-related objectives and a link should be established
between time-bound achievements of institutional and policy objectives and related
disbursements;
(ii) Borrower commitment to sector and project objectives should be ensured
prior to loan approval, to be demonstrated among others through (a) electricity tariff
reforms to improve allocation of economic resources and financial viability of the
electricity supplier(s), given the difficulty to implement these measures after loan
approval; (b) allocation of adequate resources to the project entity, and (c) active
involvement of senior management in project matters;
(iii) The project concept and design should adequately support the objectives
and should reflect experience with ongoing projects as well as lessons learned from past
projects. The project should be designed as firmly as feasible at appraisal, the need for
flexibility notwithstanding, to avoid posterior delays in implementation. Care should be
taken that the project components and covenants are enforceable;
During Project Implementation:
(iv) In emergency situations under financial constraints, arrangements for sole-
source procurement may be justified, to accelerate implementation and reduce economic
and financial losses resulting from electricity rationing;
(v) Project supervision should be strengthened through staff permanency, and at
least two supervision missions per year should be scheduled. Aide memoires should be
negotiated with the Borrower's highest-ranking decision maker. The Government should
ensure that the Cabinet Minister responsible for the policy area impacting on the project
is available for discussions with the supervision mission;
(vi) A mid-term review should be carried out at an appropriate time to determine
the status of the project and implementation problems and to formalize agreements with
the Government on adjustments to the project including amendments to the Loan
Agreement as appropriate; and
(vii) In situations of protracted non-compliance with major loan and project
covenants, the Bank should timely exercise its remedies including loan suspension and
partial or full loan cancellation, based on an assessment of the impact on project
implementation and sustainability.



16
Part II
Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Project Objectives
Assessiment         Substantial      Partial         Negligible      Not Applicable
Categories                                    . _
Macroeconomic Policies                                                            X
Sector Policies                                                X
Financial Objectives                                           X                  X
Institutional development                                      X
Physical objectives            X
Gender concerns                                                                   X
Other social objectives                                                           X
Environmental objectives                      X
Public sector management                                       X
Private sector development                                                        X
Other                    _                                                        X
B. Project Sustainability
,ikely            |          Uncertain                       Unlikely
x
C. Bank Performance
Stage of Project Cycle  Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory
LIdentification    __X 
Preparation           _
Appraisal                                                           X
Supervision                                                         X
D. Borrower Performance
Stage of Project Cycle   Highly satisfactory  Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory
Preparation                                            X             _
Implementation                                        X
Covenant Compliance   _                                                        X
E. Assessment of Outcome
Highly                                                                    Highly
Satisfactory      Satisfactory                          Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
_~~~~~~~~~



17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans - Preceding Loans
Title                 First Power Project
Loan Number           454-JM
Year of Approval      1966
Amount                US$22 million
Objective             Help to finance the cost of two generation plants and associated transmission
and distribution facilities.
Status                Completed.
Title                 Second Power Project
Loan Number           1516-JM
Year of Approval      1978
Amount                US$ 22.0 million
Objective             Help to finance the cost of the transmission and distribution system in urban
centers along with technical assistance for improved operations and
ma   anc
Status                Completed.
Title                 Third Power Project
Loan Number           2188-JM
Year of Approval      1982
Amount                US$30.5 million
Objective             Rehabilitation of JPS' generation units, to reduce outages and improve heat rate
Status                Completed.
Title                 Fourth Power Project
Loan Number           2689-JM
Year of Approval      1987
Amount                US$ 18.0 million
Objective             Increase and improve the utilization of the generating system by expanding and
upgrading the transmission network to improve system reliability; prepare
future projects; and strengthen JPS management and engineering capabilities.
Status                Completed.
Title                 Petroleum Exploration
Loan Number           2017-JM
Year of Approval      1981
Amount                USS7.5 million
Status                Completed.
Title                 Energy Sector Deregulation and Privatization Project
Credit number         3502-JM
Year of Approval      1992
Amount                USS 60 million
Objective             Provide needed power generation capacity; create enabling environment for
attracting private investments in the sector, including the regulatory framework;
_____________________ support the Govemment's deregulation program in the energy sector.
Status                Completed.
Source: Project Files, World Bank



18
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Planned Date               Actual/estimated Date
Identification                 June 1994                      June 1994
Preparation                    June 1994                      June 1994
Appraisal                     November 1994                   November 1994
Negotiations                                                  June 1995
Board presentation             May 1995                       September 28, 1995 1/
Signing X                                                     November 13, 1995
Effectiveness                  October 1995                   March 28, 1996
Project completionr            December 1997                  June 30, 1999
Loan Closing                   June 1998                      June 1998
Notes
1/ Effectiveness delay was due to a delay in meeting two of the project's conditions of effectiveness, i.e.
(i) the preparation of the Environmental Mitigation Plan, which was forwarded to the Bank by JPS in
December 1995 anrd reviewed and approved by the Bank in February 1996; and (ii) a legal opinion
concerning project, documents, which was delivered to the Bank on March 25, 1996.
Source: Project Files and Bank Staff Estimates
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions equivalent)
Key Indicators                 FY    FY 96  FY 97  FY 98
1    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 19 95   _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _
Appraisal estimate             11.5   17.0   21.0
Actual                          -      5.8    10.6   15.8
Actual as % of estimate    L          34.1   50.5   75.2
Source: Project Files and Staff Estimates, World Bank



19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation       Estimated     Actual Starting    Estimated            Actual Completion
indicators               Starting Date  Date              Completion Date      Date
Restoration of OH3 Unit  June 1994     June 1994          December 1994        December 1994
Restoration of OH4 boiler  January 1995   March 1995      July 1995            January 1996
Life Extension of OH 4   March 1995    March 1995         July 1995            January 1996
Telecommunications/      August 1995   December 1995      September 1997       March 1999
Energy Management
Systems
Transmission             May 1995      February 1997      December 1997        September 1998
Reinforcement at                                                               (lines)
March 1999
(substations)
Environmental Mitigation   August 1995   October 1995     August 1996          June 1999
Consulting Services      February      December 1995    December 1997          June 1999
1995
Studies and Technical    April 1995    November 1995    December 1996          March 1998
Assistance
a/About 65 percent of the work was completed by September 1998.
Source: Project Files, JPS and Staff Estimates, World Bank



20
Table 6
Key Indicators for Project Operation
Indicator       FY 1996        FY 1997         FY 1998         FY 1999         FY 2000
_   SAR    ICR    SAR    ICR    SAR    ICR    SAR    ICR    SAR    ICR
Rate of Returin   6.0            8.0             8.0            8.0             8.0
on Assets (%)
Average          4.9    4.82   5.54    4.63    5.84    4.63    6.16    4.63    7.36    4.63
Revenue
(J$/kWh)
Average          33.5   37.0   35.18   36.0   36.93  36i 35  38.78   37.0   40.72   37.0
Exchange Rate
(J$/USS)                       _ _ _            _ _ _ _ _ _
Purchased         16    20.0    37      26.7    40      31      48      25.6    66    27.0
Power (%)
System Losses    17.6   16.9   17.0   16.9   16.5   17.4    16    14.8   15.5   12.8
Note: This table compares SAR-projected indicators to actual and estimated figures at the time of ICR
preparation. ICR figures for FYs 1996-97 are actuals. Figures for FYs 1999-2000 are based on most
recent JPS projections.
General Performing Indicators                        Measurement Unit
Annual electricity production                  GWh
Annual electricity purchased                   GWh
Peak load                                      MW
Power system reserve margin                    Percent of peak load
Electricity losses                             Percent of generation
Annual average service interruption per customer    Hours/customer
Numbers of employees                           Number
Employee efficiency                            Customers/employees
Sales per employee                             MWh
Generation per employee                        GWh
Average electricity tariff                     J$/kWh
Accounts receivable                            Days of billing
Cash operating margin                          Percent
Self-financing ratio                           Percent of investment and addition to working
capital
Debt service coverage ratio                    Number (operating profit plus provisions/ debt
payments)
Debt-equity ratio                              Number
Source: Project Files nd Staff Estimates, JPS and World Bank
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                 Purpose                  Status                .Impact
Long-Run Marginal      Provide the Government  Completed in March      Negligible impact at the
Cost and Tariff Study  of Jamaica and JPS with  1998.                 time of loan closure.
an efficiency pricing                          No implementation plan
system and rate structure                      submitted to the Bank.
for all categories of
consumers.



21
Table 8A: Project Costs
(in US$ million equivalent)
Item                        Appraisal Estimate                         Actuallatest estimate
Local      Foreign costs     Total          Local         Foreign        Total
costs                        costs          costs          costs         Costs
Restoration of               3.0            7.0            10.0          1.01           6.62           7.63
OH Unit 3
Restoration of OH Unit 4     2.1            18.9           21.0          0.00          20.87          20.87
Life extension of            0.0            8.6            8.6           0.00           5.91           5.91
OH Unit 4                                                                      _    _    _
Gas Turbines 3,4, and 5      0.0            6.7            6.7           0.00           6.10           6.10
Upgrade                                                                                          .
Tclecommunications and
Energy Management
System                       0.1            7.6            7.7           0.00           8.02           8.02
Transmission
Reinforcements               2.4            10 __        12.4           1.47           7.06           8.53
Environmental Mitigation
Measures   _                  1.0           0.8            1.8           0.00           1.52           1.52
Consulting Services          0.0            1.3            1.3           0.00           0.86          0.86
Base Cost                    8.6            60.9          69.5           2.48-         56.96          59.44
Physical Contingencies       0.6__  _                      2.4 ._-_--
Price Contingencies          0.0            0.4            0.4            ..                            -
Total Project Cost before    9.2            63.1          72.3           2.48          56.96          59.44
Interest During
Construction
Estimated Intcest During     0.5            3.7            4.2            0.5           6.3            6.8
Construction                                       I_              III_                              _
Total Project Cost           9.7            66.8          76.5           2.98          63.26         66.24 a/
al JPS is planning an additional expenditure of US$ 7.0 million allocated as follows: transmission and
substations (USS 3.9 million); energy management system ( US$2 million); bundwall and other
enviromnental projects (USSI.Omillion). This would bring the total cost of the project to US$ 66. 4
million. The difference between this figure and the total project cost estimated at project appraisal, without
including interest during construction (US$ 72.3 million) is USS 5.9 million which JPS attributes to cost
savings in the life extension of Old Harbour-4, gas turbine upgrading, and use of consultant services.
Source: Project Files and Staff Estimates, JPS and World Bank



22
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ millions equivalent)
Financing Source/Item              Appraisal Estimate                        ActuaULatest Estimate
Local      Foreign costs     Total         Local        Foreign         Total
costs                        costs         costs         costs          Costs
World Bank
Life Extension OH4          0.0           9.9            9.0           0.0           5.91           5.91
Telecommunications and      0.2           8.3            8.5           0.0           8.02           8.02
Energy Management
System (EMS)
Environmental               1.0           1.0            2.0           0.0           1.02           1.02
Mitigation          _
Consulting Services        0.0            1.5           1.5            0.0           0.86          0.86
Subtotal                    1.2           19.8          21.0           0.0          15.81          15.8
I
Inter-American
Development Bank      _
Restoration of OH3         3.0            7.0           10.0          1.01           6.62          7.63
Trans. Reinforcement       2.9            10.4          13.3          1.47           7.06          8.53
Subtotal                   5.9            17.4          23.3          2.48          13.68          16.16
JPS             _=                    _                         X
Restoration of OH 4        2.1            18.9          21.0           0.0          20.87          20.87
Gas Turbine Upgrade        0.0            7.0           7.0            0.0           6.10          6.10
Env. Mitigation            0.0            0.0           0.0            0.0           0.50          0.50
Int. During Construction   0.5            3.7           4.2            0.0           0.0            0.0
Subtotal                   2.6           29.6           32.2           0.0          27.47          27.47
Total Project Cost           9.7           66.8          76.5           2.48          56.96        59.44 b/
b/ See footnote a/, Table 8A. JPS will finance the additional US$7.0 million as noted.
Source: Project Files and Staff Estimates, World Bank



23
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
A. Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) on the Rehabilitation of OH Unit 4
SAR                               ICR
Methodology                       IERR on the incremental net        Same as the SAR.
benefits of investing in the
rehabilitation of OH steam unit
relative to generating power from
higher cost gas turbine units to
meet demand during the period
1995-2013.
Costs                             Investment Costs of rehabilitating   Same as in the SAR.
the OH 4 Unit
Benefits                          1. Net increase in the insurance   1. The SAR has omitted this
book value of the OH4 Unit.       benefit because it is really an
2.  Net savings in operation and      accounting value and not
maintenance costs (including      applicable to the economic
fuel costs) by using steam        analysis.
units powered by fuel oil     2.  The ICR has used the same
instead of higher cost gas        approach to fuel cost savings
turbine units powered by          as in the SAR.
diesel oil.                   3.  The ICR has taken the
3.  Savings resulting from a          incremental increase in
lower level of unserved           power available consumers
energy due to forced outage       due to the lower forced
in the system , valued at         outage rate of steam ulnits
$1.50 per kWh.                    compared to gas turbine units
and valued this incremental
increase in the availability of
power to meet demand at an
average tariff of US 12.5
cents per kWh.
IERR                              31 %                              25 %
Comments: The difference between the IERR in the SAR and the ICR results from eliminating the book value of the
rehabilitated unit as a benefit and valuing the incremental power available to meet demand at the average tariff. See
Table 9A2 for a summary of the EIRR calculation.
Notes to Tables 9AI and 9A2:
l.  Anl costs and benefits were valued in 1995 constant US dollars.
2.  It is assumed that both scenarios are meeting the same level of demand.
3.  The investment costs include rehabilitation and life extension.
4. The data for the ICR calculation is in fiscal years. It is assumed that the comparable data in the SAR is in fiscal
years as well (though not stated explicitly) because JPS apparently provided both sets of data and keeps such data on a
fiscal year basis.
5.For operation and maintenance costs without the project, the ICR used the scenario in the SAR adjusted for an
apparent error in the way the calculations were presented in Annex 54 of the SAR. These figures apparently were in
hundred US dollars instead of thousand US dollars.
4.  In calculating the incremental output available to meet demand the ICR applied the difference in forced outage
rates using gas turbines and steam turbines to the unit output data provided by JPS. .
S.  The ICR calculation of costs and benefits is based on the supply of the following data by JPS: investment costs
in rehabilitation ; operation and maintenance costs; and the forced outage rates; and unit output. Values for FY
1997 and 1998 are actual figures and that for FY 1999-2013 are projected.



24
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits (Continued)
B1. IERR on the Energy Management System
SAR                            ICR
Methodology                    Calculate the IERR on the net   Same.
benefits of investing in an energy
management system that would
result in fuel savings and a lower
level of unserved energy in the
system.
Costs                          Investment costs in energy      Same.
management equipment.
Benefits                       Savings of 10 percent of annual    Same.
fuel costs and 2 percent of the
cost of unserved energy.
IERR                           20%                            35 %
Comments: The difference between the IERR in the SAR and the ICR results from correcting an apparent
error in the SAR, which valued only the unserved energy in OH Unit 4 instead of all the units involved in
the energy management system. See Table 9B2 for a summary of the EIRR calculation.
Notes to Tables Bl and B2:
1. All figures are in constant 1995 US dollars.
2. The Energy Management System (EMS) was not completed and operating when the Loan was closed
in June 1998.. The ICR assumes the same investment as in the SAR but with a delay, since the EMS
is not expected to be completed until 1999. It has also assumed that benefits will not begin to accrue
until one year after the installation of the system (2000).
3. The ICR uses the same percentage estimates for estimating fuel and unserved energy savings as in the
SAR since actual data on fuel savings is not available.
4. The ICR analysis is based on data provided by JPS on fuel costs, output of units involved in the
system, and forced outage rates.



25
Table 9A2: Economic Evaluation of Old Harbour (OH) Unit 4
Increm.  Value of
Net      Savings in Icrem.
O&M cost Total    Savings  Unserved Unserved Total    Net
Invest.   without the O&M  in O& M   Energy   Energy   Benefits  Benefits
Costs   project   Cost    Costs    with      Savings   Constant of Proj.
Thousand Thousand Thousand Thousand Project   Thousand Thousand Thousand
USD      USD      USD      USD      MWH      USD       USD      USD
1995             13627    13627        0        0        0         0          0
1996 26012.63    15087  14628.5    431.5        0         0        0    -25554.1
1997             15999  17459.8 -1614.804       0        0 458.5396      -1460.8
1998             15389  13868.3   1322.7        0        0 -1460.804      1520.7
1999             16720  17280.7   -952.7  41578.8 10394.697   1520.7      9834.0
2000             17104  14114.1   2788.9  36600.0    9150   9834.0    12139.9
2001             18174  15704.9   2089.1  40094.4 10023.596  12139.9    12492.7
2002             16033  15916.9    -10.9  39380.7   9845.2  12492.7       9961.3
2003             17024  15663.6   1315.4  36111.4   9027.8   9961.3    10388.2
2004             18142  16081.0   1848.0  36861.7   9215.4  10388.2    11276.4
2005             18112  14938.6   3023.4  33825.7   8456.4  11276.4    11629.9
2006             19390  15435.7   3624.3  34773.7   8693.4  11629.9    12647.7
2007             20612  14009.9   6184.1  31347.0   7836.7  12647.7    14438.8
2008             20598  14760.3   5632.7  32909.8   8227.5  14438.8    14065.1
2009             22167  14165.7   7597.3  31490.6   7872.7  14065.1      15874.0
2010             22861  16348.4   6142.6  36432.4   9108.1  15874.0    15620.7
2011             23038  16465.6   6444.4  36446.1   9111.5  15620.7    15683.9
2012             24559  12456.6  11820.4  27027.3   6756.8  15683.9    18859.2
2013             25797  12456.6  13055.4  27027.3   6756.8  18859.2    20097.2
Total     26012.63   360433 285382.3  70741.7 521906.8  130476.7 185430.2 179514.7871
IERR            27%



26 -
Economic Evaluation of the Energy Management System
Inv. Costs i in 000    Annual        Annual Savings at   Annual Cost of Un- Annual Savings at   Annual Net Benefits
USD                Fuel Cost in 000 USD 2% of Annual Fuel   Served Energy w/  10% of Annual  in 000 USD
Cost               Project          Unserved Energy
in 000 USD         in 000 USD       Cost in 000 USD
SAR      ICR       SAR      ICR      SAR       ICR      SAR       ICR    SAR       ICR      SAR       ICR
1995                       54265                  0                147                0                  0
1996     4000              47288                  0                 31                0              -4000
1997     4100              49821              996.4                 99              9.9            -3093.7
1998                       59495             1189.9                 88              8.8             1198.7
1999                       64815             1296.3                343             34.3             1330.6
2000                       66837              1336.7               130              13.0            1349.7
2001                       72860              1457.2               547             54.7             1511.9
2002                       71345              1426.9               164              16.4            1443.3
2003                       76012              1520.2              3255            325.5             1845.7
2004                       80779              1615.6              4578            457.8             2073.4
2005                       82681             1653.6               4889            488.9             2142.5
2006                       88758             1775.2               5354            535.4             2310.6
2007                       95070             1901.4               4990            499.0             2400.4
2008                       98526             1970.5               4817            481.7             2452.2
2009                      106625             2132.5               5450            545.0             2677.5
2010                      112708             2254.2               6303            630.3             2884.5
2011                      116332             2326.6               6206            620.6             2947.2
2012                      124219             2484.4               6718            671.8             3156.2
2013                      130320             2606.4               7254            725.4             3331.8
IERR          20%



27
Table 10: Status of Project Covenants
Original     Revised
Coven-           Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Agreement/  ant       Status  Date           Date         Covenant Description and Comments1
Section      Type
LA/ 2.02     ADM      C                                   Borrower to open and maintain a special deposit account
in the Bank of Jamaica, for the purpose of the Project.
Comments: Borrower opened the account at the National
Commercial Bank a the request of the Ministry of Finance.
LA/ 2.06     ADM      C                                   Interest and other charges payable in arrears on May 5 and
November 15 of each year.
LA! 3.01     EXEC    CP                                   Borrower declares commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 of the Agreement;
enable JPS to perform according to the provisions of the
Project Agreement; and not take any action thiat would
interfere with such performance.
Comment: Borrower's initial strong commitment was not
sustained during the project implementation period.
LA/4.01      FIN      C                                   Borrower to maintain separate accounting records for the
(a)(i-iii)                                                project and allow the Bank to examine the records
LA/4.01 (b)   FIN     CD                                  Borrower to have project accounts and records audited
(i-iii)                                                   annually; submit the audit to the Bank within six months
at the end of the audit year; and fumish any other
information that the Bank may reasonably request.
Comments: 15 months 'delay in submitting FY 1996/97
audit to Bank
LA/6.01      EFF      C                                   Borrower to execute a Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
provide the Bank with findings and recommendations on
alternatives to meet the Bank's standards for emissions of
sulfur dioxide, pursuant to the action plan noted in section
2.07 of the Project Agreement.
Comments: JPS at end-1995 submitted environmental
action plan to the Bank as condition of loan effectiveness.
LA/6.02      EFF      C                                   Project Agreement to be duly authorized or ratified by JPS
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement be duly authorized
and ratified by the Borrower and JPS.
PA/ 2.01     EXEC    CP                                   JPS declares commitment to objectives as defined in
Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement and shall inmplement
the project with due diligence and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, power
generation, public utility, and environmental practices.
Comments: Diligence in implementation declined during
the implementation period
PA/2.05      EXEC    CP                                   JPS shall exchange views with the Bank on the progress of
the project. and promptly inform the Bank of any
condition that interferes or threatens the project's progress
or the achievement of its objectives.
Comments: JPS did not submit to the Bank the required
documentation on its performance contract with NIBJ.
'Key covenants goveming the project. Descriptions summarized from legal agreements.



28
PA/2.06 (a)  EXEC   CD        03/31/96       03/97      JPS to carry out not later than March 31, 1996, a study on its
long-run marginal costs, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank;.
Comment: Report was prepared with two years delay. JPS
accepted thefindings of the study and submitted the report to
the Bank. The Bank does not consider implementation, by
JPS, of the study's recommendations to befully satisfactory.
PA/2.06 (b)  EXEC   C                                   JPS to provide the study to the Bank for review and
comment shortly after its completion.
Comment: JPS provided the study to the Bank by end-March
1998. Joint review was undertaken in September 1998.
PA/2.06(c)   EXEC   NC       60 days                    Based on the recommendations of the study and the Bank's
after Bank                 comments on the study, JPS is to prepare an action plan,
comments                   satisfactory to the Bank, aiming at restructuring its energy
tariffs.
Comment: JPS has accepted thefindings of the study but
has not yet prepared a plan.
PA/2.06(d)   EXEC   NC                                  JPS to carry out such plan of action to restructure energy
tariffs in a manner and under a time-table satisfactory to the
Bank.
Comment: JPS-NIBJperformance contract severely
circumscribes scope for tariff action.
PA/2.07     EXEC   CP                                    JPS to prepare and furnish to the Bank an action plan
satisfactory to the Bank and NRCA to implement Part G of
the Project including measures for reducing sulfur dioxide
emission levels at the Old Harbour power plant, in order to
comply, by December 31, 1999 with Bank environmental
standards and by December 31, 2000 with NRCA standards.
Comment: JPS provided an environmental mitigation plan
to the Bank but has not initiated specific measures required
to meet sulfur dioxide reduction targets by 1999-2000.
PA/2.08     OP      NYD                                 JPS to furnish the Bank, within six months after the closing
date of the project, a plan for the project's future operation.
Comment: Plan has not yet been submitted
PA13.01     MO      NC                                  JPS to carry out operations in accordance with sound
administrative, financial and power generation, public
utilities and environmental practices, under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management.
Comment: The operational efficiency andfinancial position
of JPS have stagnated or deteriorated during much of the
project implementation period.
PA/ 3.02    MO      CP       -                          JPS to operate its plants and other facilities in accordance
with sound engineering, financial, power generation, and
public utility practices. Comment: JPS has not completed
the energy management system, considered an important
component for ensuring safe, efficient power plant
Ioperations.
PA/3.03     MO                                          JPS to take out insurance satisfactory to the Bank against
such risks and in such amounts consistent with appropriate
practice and satisfactory to the Bank.



29
PA/4.01(a)       FIN    C                                 JPS to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations
and financial condition, including separate accounts for the
Project.
Comments: LCOAA requested improvements in project
accounts.
PA/4.Ol(b)(i-iii)  FIN    CP                              JPS to have its records, and accounts audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, at the end of
each fiscal year; furnish to the Bank certified copies of
audited financial statements no later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year; and provide the Bank with any
other information concerning records that the Bank may
reasonably request.
J____________  Comment: Not complied with since FY 196/97.
Abbreviation used in Table 10: Agreements: LA  Loan Agreement; PA=Project Agreement; Status: C=Complied;
CD = Complied with delay; CP =Complied Partially; CPD = Complied Partially with Delay; and NC = Did not
Comply. Types of covenants: ADM = administration; EFF = Effectiveness; EXEC = Execution; FIN= Financial; MO
= Management and Operations; and OP =Operational Plan
Source: Project Files and Staff Estimates, World Bank



30
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
(Not applicable to this project)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of
Project Cycle        Planned a/                 Actual
Staffweeks    000 US$    Staffweeks    000 US$
Through                        --          61.1         191.9
appraisal
Negotiations
through Board
approval     l                              9.1         34.8
Supervision                                102.9        345.2
Completion                                  6.0          19.0
Total                                      179.1        590.9
a/ Not reported in data received from the Bank MIS.
Source: MIS Data and StaffEstimates, World Bank



31
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of       Month and   Days   Numbe   Staffing    Rating              Key Areas of
Project Cycle  Year           in      r of                                Concern/Problems
Field   persons  ______                                               l
Identification   September!   22      5          1 OP       Not           Physical plant condition;
and            October                           I PE       applicable.   procurement; and
Preparation    1994                              3 CON                    studies a!
Appraisal      November/   31         10         lOP,       Not           Financial condition; and
December                         I PE,      applicable.   legal framework b/
1994                             8 CON
Supervision 1  April/May      5       2          IPE        S             Physical progress; studies;
1996                             IOP                      and ftnance c/
Su~pervision 2   May 1997    12 f/   3           1 PE       S             Environmental component
lop
____               _ _ _ _   ~~~IRM
Supervision 3   May 1998      10 d/   3          lEC        U             Closing date/completion;
lop                     and financial condition ei
ITL                     and fiaca c in
Completion     October        6 f/    I          lEC        Not           ICR timing and
1998           _                            applicable.  infornation retrieval gl
Notes:
/ The project responded to major damage to OH 4 Unit, the resulting capacity shortfall, and the need for emergency
rehabilitation work. External consultant needed to support JPS staff in procurement for equipment.
bI Requiremnent for 8Bpercent rate of return not viewed by the mission as valid due to the lack of expected JPS
investments in new generating capacity. Need for modification of the tariff structure to support privatization initiatives.
Establishment of the Office of Utility Regulation to be a condition of effectiveness .
c/ OH 4 rehabilitation completed. Plant re-commissioned in January 1996. Moderate problems in studies progress and
financial performance. Non-compliance with covenant on completion of the long-run marginal cost study and
consequent delay on improved financial performance.
d/ Total duration of the mission; however, time in the field differed among team members: EC (9 days);
OP (6 days); and TL (3 days).
e/ MEF requested the extension of the closing date by one year, until June 30, 1999. The mission informed the
Government and JPS that extension would be considered only with action on the recommended tariff increase. It also
explained that without extension, the Bank would not be obliged to finance goods and services even if "no objection"
given for contracts. The Bank found electricity tariffs insufficient to meet financial objectives and determined that an
increase of at least 8 percent would be necessary.
f Mission also supervised the Energy Sector Deregulation and Privatization Project (Ln. No. 3502-JM) and the Energy
Demand Side Management Demonstration Project ( GET Grant No 05-28695-JM) .
gl The mission received some of the information required to prepare the ICR and agreed with JPS on the timing for
the ICR, the receipt of additional information required, and the coordination of ICR inputs by the Director of
Corporate Services.
Skill codes: EC - Economist; CON=Consultants; OP - Operations Officer; PE - Power Engineer, RM = Resident
Mission Staff; and TL -Task Team Leader, Rating Codes: 2-moderate problems; S=Satisfactory; U- Unsatisfactory
Source: Project Files and Staff Estimates, World Bank



32
Appendix A
SIJMMARY OF LOAN OBJECTIVES AND ACHIEVEMENTS
Loan Objectives           Loan Conditionality        Achievement by Loan
Closing
Restore electricity service to   Parts A;B;C, Schedule 3 of    Restoration of Old Harbour
normal conditions as early as   Loan Agreement          units 3 and 4 and life
possible, thus eliminating                              extension of Old Harbour unit
supply shortages                                  _     4 completed by January 1996.
Reduce generation costs     Part D, Schedule 3 of Loan  Upgrade of gas turbines 3, 4,
through lower-cost plants and   Agreement               and 5 completed by June
upgrading of existing                                   1996, 10 months behind
facilities; safeguard the system                        schedule.
against breakdown of
installations, thus improving
generation security
Enhance system reliability to   Part F, Schedule 3 of Loan  Transmission system and
reduce the likelihood of    Agreement                   substation reinforcement was
recurrence of plant incidents,                          64% completed by June 1998
by improving the                                        and is scheduled for
telecommunications and                                  completion by March 1999, 15
energy control systems and                              months behind schedule.
reinforcing the transmission
network
Improve economric resource    Section 2.06 of Project   The cost of services and tariff
allocation through reform of   Agreement                reform study was completed in
the electricity tai-iff system                          March 1998, 24 months
behind schedule, and was
jointly reviewed by JPS and
the Bank. Except for a rebate
scheme to shift load from peak
to off-peak, the study
recommendations have not
been implemented.
Reduce and control         Part G, Schedule 3 of Loan    JPS prepared an
environmental impacts      Agreement                    environmental action plan in
associated with power system   Section 2.07 of Project  early 1996, as a condition for
facilities                 Agreement                   loan effectiveness but by June
1998, overall completion was
only about 60%. S02
emission tests are due to start
in early 1999. Emissions are
envisaged to be reduced
through repowering of
generation units only.



33                  Appendix B
Page 1 of 4
JAMAICA
Generationi Recovery & Improvement Project ("GRIP" - Loan No. 3944-JM) -
Supervision and Project Completion Mission
Energy Sector Deregulation & Privatization Project ("ESDPP" - Loan No. 3502-
JM) - Supervision Mission
Energy Demand Side Management Demonstration Project ("DSM" - GET Grant
No. 05-28695-JM -Supervision Mission
Aide memoire
Introduction and Summary
1.  A World Bank project completion/ supervision mission on the aforementioned
projects (Mr. J.U. Richter, task manager) visited Jamaica during September 28 - October
3, 1998 to take stock of the current position and issues related to these projects and agree
with the authorities on steps to advance project implementation. The mission metwith
the Permanent Secretary at the Ministry of Mining and Energy, Mr. G. W. Perins; the
Chairman ofthe Jamaica Public Service Co., Prof. 0. Shirley; the President of the
National Investment Bank of Jamaica, Dr. G.M. Chen; the Director at the Planning
Institute of Jamaica, Ms. L. Palmer; the Director General of the Office of Utility
zegulation (OUR), Mr. W. Hay; and executives and senior staff of these institutions. The
mission would like to express its appreciation for the cooperation and courtesies received.
2.  The mission leamed that JPS in the course of this year has succeeded in
strengthening operational performance, as evidenced by improvements in the principal
technical parameters (e.g., availability of on-line capacity; generation heat rate; reduction
in overtime). Assisted by the decline in fuel prices, JPS managed to attain positive net
income during July-August. However, the mission did not yet get a clear picture how
these improvements are to be maintained. Also, lack of progress in reducing technical
and administrative losses and the renewed deterioration in accounts receivable since
March pose problems which the mission suggests that JPS management give high
priority.
3.  The Govenmuent expressed its continued commitment to private-enterprise based
development of the energy sector. The mission recommends that the scope, modalities,
and timetable for enhanced private participation be developed as a matter of priority, and
that legislation be amended to give OUR proper authority in the electricity sector. The
Bank is ready to cooperate with the Government in this endeavor.
GRIP
4.  Loan No. 3944-JM was closed on June 30 and the undisbursed balance of
US$5.2mn was cancelled. (The original loan amount was US$21mn.) The
telecommunications/EMS, environmental management, and transmission components
(the latter IDB-financed) of the Project have yet to be completed. The mission was
informed that project completion is envisaged for June 1999.



Appendix B
314                 Page2 of 4
5.  The mission discussed with JPS' tariff specialists the results and recommendations
of the lons-run maginal cost and tariff study. While JPS' decision to introduce an
economic incentive tariff for industrial consumers- aimed at moving loads to off-peak -
is a step into the right direction, the mission recommends that the study's other
recommendations will also be applied, especially adjustments in the tariff structure in
line with the corresponding structure of LRMC, based on improved load research.
6.  GRIP Implementation Completion Report. JPS management and the mission
agreed on the importance of a timely preparation of the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR), due to be submitted to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors by mid-
December 1998. For implementing future projects and for managing JPS overall, it is
important to identify the lessons learned from the implementation of this Project anid to
prepare an operational plan to ensure that the Project's achievements are maintained.
7.  The mission stressed that the preparation of the ICR will be ajoint effort between
JPS and the Bank. There was agreement that Mr. H. Heron, Director, Corporate Services
Division, will coordinate the preparation of inputs by JPS for the ICR. The mission
received a significant amount of information although further information required for
preaig the ICR is still pending, especially for undertaking the economic analysis of the
principal project components. The mission requests that this information be submitted by
October 15.
ESDPP
S.  The mission discussed with the authorities the prospects for reactivating the
privatization program in electricity, within the constraints of the performance contract
between JPS and the National Investment Bank of Jamaica (NIBJ). The mission
recogized the recent improvements in JPS' operations but indicated its concern about
the sustainability of these improvements, and JPS' ability to secure financing for
expansion, in the prevailing situation of national and international financial markets. The
mission also stressed that in view of the necessary lead-time for preparing a well-
designed privatization program, steps ought to be taken already prior to expiry of the
JPS-NIBJ agreement, so as not to delay this process further. The mission pointed out that
a minority participation by small-scale local investors as considered by JPS management
would help to develop the domestic capital market, but securing direct foreign investment
would be critical for transfer of modem technologies and management techniques and
long-term capital, as DFI in the current intemational financial context has proven to be
steadier than other private capital flows.
9.  OUR, supported by the Ministry of Mining and Energy, has requested financing
through ESDPP for evaluations of the current legalregulatory framework and of options
for electricity tariff regulation. These evaluations would provide the groundwork for
future sector reform. The Bank will give its no-objection to this evaluation once detailed
terms of reference and a short list of suitable consultants are prepared.
10. Hunts Bay 32.5MW Combustion Turbine Unit. The ESDPP Project Agreement
envisages the transfer of this unit to private sector operation, which has not yet occurred.
Te mission recommends appropriate action.



Appendix B
35                   Page 3 of 4
11. Undisbursed Loan Balance and Take-out Option for Private Investor. There has
been very little activity on this Project over the past two years or so. The current
undisbursed balance of US$42.5mn is largely due to the preservation of a take-out option
for the private investor to refinance CARIFA bonds maturing at end-i 999. The mission
reiterated the Bank's proposal to discuss with the investor the possibility of waiving this
option, which would result in savings of commitment fees of approximately
USSO.lmn/year. The remaining loan balance would be available for funding activities
related to the preparation of legal/regulatory reform and privatization in the energy sector
(para 6).
Energy Demand Side Management Pilot Project
12. The mission reviewed ongoing activities, in particular the solar water heating
program and paiticipation of DSM Unit staff in intemnational conferences and seminars.
A US$0.6mn no-objection request to initiate a solar water heating program for hotels is
currently being processed by the Bank. In view of the Grant's closing date of December
31, 1998, the Government has requested an extension of this closing date until June 30,
1999. (The undisbursed balance on the grant amounts to US$2.05mn.) The mission
supports this request, given that activity implementation has improved; major acivity
components critical to the success of the Project have yet to be completed; and that
without availability of the entire GET funds, supplementary funding and the
sustainability of the Activity itself would be adversely affected.
13. The mission requested additional information required for the preparation of the
annual status report on the Project, in addition to the monthly regular information.
PERD Grant fDr Electricity Generation Expansion
14. This USS0.75mn grant was extended in 1997 to finance studies for evaluating
possible sites for the next electricity generation scheme (needed by 2002), provided that
this scheme would be built, owned, and operated by a private investor. In order to
activate the Grant - which has been inactive for nearly two years -, the mission reiterates
the Bank's request that the Govemrnment conununicate to the Bank, by November 30, (i)
its confirmation that economic and sector policies will be directed toward a primary role
for private enterprise in electricity sector development and (ii) its assurance that the next
electricity generating scheme (the one to be studied under the PHRD grant) will be
offered to the private sector, under acceptable conditions. Should this communication not
be forthcoming, the mission would recommend to the Bank the cancellation of the Grant.
Audits
15. Ihe mission was informed that the JPS financial statements and project audits for
FYs 1996n and 1997/8 were not ready by September 30, as JPS had originally indicated.
The mission requests that the financial statements, project audits, and updated
infonnation on JPS' corporate business plan be submitted to the Bank not later than
November 15, 1998.



Appendix B
26                   Page 4 of 4
FOlOW-Up
16. The next project implementation completion/ project supervision mission is
planned for end-November/early December.
17.  The conclusions and recommendations of this aide memoire are subject to
confirmation by World Bank management.
Kingston, October 2, 1998
J   -Uwe Richter
Task Manager



37                         Appendix C
Page I o  L
Pae  .  kiv  111998
%4 ;m  &?4. Public Service Company, Ltd.
6 KNUTSFORD BOULEVARD, P.O. BOX 54, KINGSTON, JAMAICA
TELEPHONE: (876) 926-3190. TELEX: 2180. CABLE: JAMSERV, TELEFAX (876) 926-6710
November 6, 1998
The World BEank
ISIS Streci. N.W.
Washilngton, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Attention:    Mr. Jorg-Uwe Richter
Dear Mr. Richter
Re:   Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
Fulrtler to otur letter of October 16, 199S transmitting informationi for the Implementation
Coompletioni Repor-t (ICR) please finld enclosed. .JPSC o's "Project Revie\\ fi-olml the
Borrower's  Perspective"  of  the  recently  conicluided  Generation  Recovery  and
Improvemenit Program (GRIP) Loan 3944-JM.
For further infonnation and/or clarification please contact the undersigned.
Yours truly,
Jamnaica Public Service Co., Ltd.
Hopetoni Heroni
Dirccior. Corporatc Services
HH*jmf
DIRECTORS: PROF. GORDON SHIRLEY (Chairman), DERRICK DYER (Managing Director). PAUL E. AFFLICK,
GRACE A. ASHLEY. DR. THE HON. CARLTON DAVIS. BEVON R. FRANCIS. BASIL NELSON. DERRICK WEBB



Appendix C
38                       Page 2 of 13
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
JAMAICA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY LIMITED
Generation Recovery and Improvement Project - Loan No. 3944-JM
Executive Summary
The Generation Recovery and Improvement Project, was signed November 3, 1995, and
made effective on March 28,1996. The Project was convened in response to an incident at
the Old Harbour Power Plant on June 3, 1994, that erased 123 MW of the Company's
base load capacity (22% of installed capacity and 34% of base load capacity). This
resulted in reduced reserved margins critical for reliable system operation and
dependence on more expensive, inefficient peaking plants and island-wide forced
outages.
The Bank terminated the Project as scheduled on June 30, 1998. At that point, the project
was 75% complete with 100% completion scheduled for June 1999.
The total cost of the Project was US $76.5 million with US $21 million provided by the
World Bank, US $23.3 million by the IDB and US $32.2 million by the Company. The
foreign component of the Bank's contribution was estimated as US $19.8 million and US
$1.2 million in local costs. Total disbursement at closure was US $16.31 million. A
balance of US $4.69 million was, subsequently, cancelled by the Bank.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the Project were primarily to (a) restore normal electricity service by
replacing lost generating capacity; (b) reduce generation costs by upgrading facilities; (c)
enhance system reliability by improving the energy control system and by reinforcing the
transmission network to reduce the likelihood of future recunence of generating plant
incidents; (d) improve resource allocation through electricity tariff reforms; and (e)
reduce and control environmental impacts at power facilities.
Project Implementation Record
Below is an analysis of the factors that have affected the Project's intended outcomes.
The Project was made effective March 28, 1996, 21 months after the Old Harbour
incident. Contributing to this was the delay period between signing of the loan in
November 1995 and when it was made effective and the lengthy bureaucratic negotiation
and approval process. All the generation projects and some of the other subprojects



39              'Appendix C
Page 3 of 13
commenced well before the loan became effective and thus limited the impact of the
delay.
Owing to the urgency created by the shortfall in generation, shortcuts were taken to
procure contract services through direct negotiations with recognized vendors. This
approach reduced implementation time and resulted in the completion of all generation
subprojects by June 1996. All these contracts were completed well within the Staff
Appraisal Report (S.A.R.) cost estimates. The Life Extension OH 4 project, directly
financed by the Bank, was completed at 52% below S.A.R. estimates.
The Long Run Marginal Cost Study, aimed at Cost of Service and Tariff Reform, was
completed in March 1998. The terms of reference for this study was expanded, based on
the recommendation of the Bank's representatives, and this delayed completion of the
Study.
Adhievement of Project Objectives
Generation
Restoration of Old Harbour Unit 3 - This project consisted of the repair of damages to
Unit No. 3 boiler caused by the incident on June 3, 1994. This project also includes
rehabilitation work done on the boiler and turbine.
At the time of the incident, material was on site to carry out a rehabilitation of unit #4
under the IDB programme. Some of this material was subsequently utilized to expedite
the repair of the unit #3. Restoration was completed and the unit (MCR rating 55MW)
retumed to service in December 1994.
Restoration of Old Harbour Unit 4 - This sub-project included the supply of equipment
and services for the full restoration of the Unit as well as the control building, chemical
laboratories and stores. The project also included the installation of a new boiler unit.
This unit (MCR rating 68.5MW) was successfully restored to the system in January 1996.
Life Extension of Old Harbour Unir 4 generation turbine - This became feasible with the
June 1994 explosion at the Old Harbour Power Station, and subsequent static screening
analysis conducted, showing that the Life Extension Programme had a great investment
cost advantage over other possible options in terms of the least cost generation expansion
plan.
The contract implemented under the loan programme comprised the supply and
installation of equipment for the rehabilitation of the unit and life extension for the
turbine-generating facilities and associated systems. The remaining useful life of the unit
after completion of the Life Extension work is estimated to be fifteen years.
2



40                   Appendix C
Page 4 Of 13
Gas Turbine Units 3, 4 and 5 Upgrade - This sub-project comprises rehabilitation and
life extension of the three frame 5 General Electric gas turbines. The project included the
implementation of a high technology upgrade programme.
The gas turbine units involved are the Hunts Bay Units 4 and 5 and Bogue Unit 3. These
units were scheduled to be decommissioned by 1997/8, however, under the upgrade their
technical lifetime was extended by ten years.
The upgrading of GT # 5 was completed and the unit returned to the system on January
23, 1996, when the unit was re-synchronized to the JPSCo system. GT # 4 was completed
on June 11, 1996, when it was re-synchronized to the system. Work on GT # 3 was
completed in 1995.
Telecommunication and Energy Management System (EMS)
Analysis of the existing Telecomnmunication and EMS systems showed that they were
over 10 years old and could no longer meet JPSCo's current and near future needs as well
as the Company's optimal operational requirements.
TWo contracts were completed. The first contract included supply of a telecommunication
system consisting of a digital microwave backbone radio, fractional rate UHF digital
radios and the necessary multiplex and auxiliary equipment. The second contract
provided for the acquisition of a modern Energy Management System based on open
system architecture. The telecommunication system was completed in June 1998.
Implementation of the EMS project is ongoing and will be completed in March 1999.
Transmission System Reinforcements
The additional transmission facilities will enable reliable transmission of power frorm the
Old Harbour Power Plant. Construction of 32 kn of 138 kV line between Parnassus and
Spur Tree and 16 km of 138 kV line between Spur Tree and Kendal has been completed
and awaits interconnection to their associated substations. The three (3) associated
substations are under construction and scheduled for commissioning in December 1998.
The Old Harbour switchyard expansion was completed in 1995, in time to accommodate
the Wartsila/JEP 72 MW barge on the JPS system.
Environmental Mitigation Measures
This component includes several development and implementation measures for Power
Plant facilities, especially the Old Harbour facility. A "Old Harbour Power Station
Environmental Mitigation Measures - Implementation Plan" was submitted and approved
by the Bank.
3



41                   Appendix C
Page 5 of 13
Activities cormpleted under the Plan thus far include development of Oil Spill Prevention
and Countermeasures Plan, Chemical Management Plan and a Wastewater Management
Plan. Aspects of these plans are now being implemented including procurement of oil
spill equipment, construction of a wastewater treatment plant, stack platforms for
emissions monitoring, installation of meteorological stations to monitor ambient air
quality at power plants and construction of permanent bundwalls at fuel storage tanks.
Equipment at the Company's plants was screened to deterrnine PCB levels and
contaminated equipment removed. A total of five hundred and eighty (580) metric tons of
PCB waste was exported for incineration.
Noise levels were monitored at generating facilities and their immediate environs and
noise levels found to be well within accepted standards.
As part of groundwater management, an assessment was done on possible impacts of
plant activities on groundwater. Impacts were found to be negligible.
Asbestos Surveys were carried out at the plant facilities and all asbestos was removed.
Several plant personnel were trained in asbestos management and abatement procedures.
Upgrading of analytical laboratories at the two major plants was undertaken and included
the procurement of improved equipment for advanced testing and analysis of oil, water
and fuel being utilized by the generating units to ensure safe and economical performance
of the plant. Training of lab personnel was also undertaken.
Consulting Services
Several consultants were appointed to provide technical support, management, advisory,
and enginee;ring services under the project.
A generation specialist was appointed and provided technical and project management
assistance for the generation components of the project.
Bailey Network, a specialist firm in telecommunication and energy management systems,
was contracted to provide project management and engineering services. This contractor
was supported by a second consultant, who provided specialized local assistance and
support in implementation of the Telecommunication/EMS Improvement project.
Hagler Bailly was also contracted to develop long run marginal costs (LRMC),
specifically in respect of cost of service and to make specific recommendations for tariff
reforns. A final report has been submitted and its recommendations are noted and will be
implemented in due course.
4



42                   Appendix C
Page 6 of 13
Difficulties
The major deterrents encountered in implementing this project were as follows.
There were initial delays between Bank approval on November 3, 1995 and the effective
date of the loan - March 28, 1996. The delays were due to the difficulties in completion
of the conditions precedent. The impact, of the delay in effectiveness, on project activities
were minimized as the critical generation components were implemented utilizing IDB,
JPSCo and insurance proceeds.
Up to the end of June 1998, the Company has not received full reimbursement from its
insurers as they are still entangled in US legal courts in an attempt to determine liability
among them. There is a total of US $10 mnillion still to be received from JPSCo's claim.
Lengthy evaluations and approvals influenced the pace of project implementation,
especially with respect to the transmission and telecomrnunication/EMS subprojects. The
process was further complicated by requirements for Intemational Competitive Bidding
and pre-qualification which tends to require many more review and approval steps in the
procurement
Project Sustainability
The Bank did not extend the loan programme in June 1998, when the loan was scheduled
to end. At that point, all generation projects had been completed and the Company was in
the process of implementing the telecommunication/EMS and environmental subprojects.
With the termination of funding, the Company has continued these ongoing activities, to
which it was committed, from alternative internal resources.
In the first quarter of 1997, the management of the Company signed an agreement with
the National Investment Bank of Jamaica (NBJ) to operate the Company as a "virtual
private sector company" for a period of five years. The agreement requires management
to introduce efficiencies, improve quality, reliability of service, and profitability. Targets
were established for several key performance indicators. In support, a number of projects
are being implemented:
o Computerization/automation of meter reading, collections, fleet management, and
management information.
3 Power system reliability improvement activities.
a Fuel management rationalization.
O System loss reduction
The Company, at the end of 1997, employed 2,102 persons inclusive of 119 time-bound
employees and had a customer base of 423,788. This yields an index of 202
customers/employee (5 employees per 1000 accounts) and compares favorable with an
5



43                     Appendix C
Page 7 of 13
index of 158 in 1994, 167 in 1992/93 and international standards. The current
complement is 2,088 employees with a resultant index of 215.
Operation and maintenance costs, which are normally high, are being controlled through
a number of initiatives, including keeping wage increases within inflation levels,
maintaining staff complement at existing levels and instituting staff development
programmes.
The LRMC study, conducted under the Project, indicates that the average tariff of 12.5
US cents per kWh is in line with the true economic cost. The study indicates, however,
that there is a misalignment of the various rate categories with commercial and industrial
groups subsidizing residential rates. In order to promote long-term national industrial
growth, the Company will realign rates, over time, by way of a lower real average tariff
benefiting the commercial/industrial sector without increasing residential rates. The
Company is in the process of offering incentives to large industrial customers to shift
their consumption to off peaks for rates at up to 8 '/2 % discounts. The Company is also in
negotiation with a large industrial customer, not currently on the grid, to provide service
at rates below the existing rates for such customers.
In the medium term there is a requirement for additional capacity of 100 - 120 MW of
base-load generation. The implementation mechanism for this addition will be in keeping
with the Government's policy for the addition of capacity in the electrical sector.
Bank Performance
The Bank was very responsive to requests for disbursements and approvals, which
assisted in expediting project activities, up to Project termination. The unprecedented
action of the Bank, in terminating the Project despite a justified request for extension,
resulted in obfuscation and delays in reimbursement requests submitted in the month
prior to termnination. The Bank gives its reasons as changes in its own administration
requiring stricter adherence to the closure deadlines and the Company's non-compliance
with requirements for an adjustment to its tariff structure. The Bank's insistence on these
issues without considering extenuating factors and the progress made with other project
requirements is puzzling.
Borrower Performance
Tlhe Company continues to be hindered by inordinate delays in project implementation
especially in comparison to the S.A.R. schedule. S.A.R. estimates for procurement
activities tend not to reflect the realities of the actual bureaucratic impediments and the
implications for timely review and approvals.
The Company was able to control costs on the subprojects and where costs were
increased, it was due to expansion of project scope to reflect the perceived changes
6



44                   Appendix C
Page 8 of 13
occurring in the Company. This was true for the Telecommunication/EMS, PCB Disposal
and the Cost of Service study.
Despite all the delays and the Bank's action, the Company was able to achieve many of
the objectives and those subprojects that are outstanding will be completed within one
year of the loan's closure.
Assessment of Outcome
The main objective of the Project, of restoring generation to normality, has been
achieved. The ancillary benefits of reduced generation costs, to be accrued by lowering
plant-running costs and upgrading existing facilities, has largely occurred.
Plant reliability and security has also improved, through the implementation of several
projects external to the loan programme but in line with the Company's new mandate.
Reliability and security will improve further with the completion of the outstanding
subprojects within the next twelve months.
The Company is now realigning its tariffs to eliminate the subsidy to residential
customers at the expense of large customers in line with the LRMC Study and the loan
conditions.
Since the June 1994 incident, two major BOO generation projects has been implemented.
These BOO projects represent private generation and comprise 23% of installed
generating capacity.
A number of environmental mitigation measures, including development of management
plans, disposal of PCBs, asbestos surveys, laboratory upgrading and groundwater
assessments, have been implemented at generating facilities. These and other measures
that are now being implemented, will significantly reduced the impact of the Company's
facilities on the environment.
7



45                              Appendix C
Page 9-of 13
9w&z<  Public Service Company, Ltd.
6 KNUTSFORD BOULEVARD. P.O. BOX 5S, KINGSTON. JAMAICA
TELEPHONE; (876) 926-3190, TELEX. 2180. CABLE: JAMSERV, TELEFAX (876) 926-6710
Dccember 15. 1998
Tle World Banik-
1818 H Street. N. W
W'ashington D.C. 20433
USA
Attention: M,lr. Jora-Uwe Richter
Dear Mr. Richter
Rc: GRIP/IBank Draft Implementation Completion Report- Request for Comments
We ackn.owlcdge receipt of the draft ICR  for the GRIP loan anid your request for
cominierits.
Accordingly, pleasc find attached our comments on the draft document for your
consideration.
Yours sincerely
1-lopeton Heron
DIRECTOR, CORPORATr. SERVICES DIVISION
AtLch.
DIRECTORS: PROF. GORDON SHIRLEY (Chairman). DERRICK DYER (Managing Direcor), PAUL E. AFFLICK,
GRACE A ASHLEY. DR. THE HON. CARLTON DAVIS. BEVON R. FRANCIS. BASIL NELSON. DERRICKIWEBB



46                              Appendix C
Page 10 of 13
GRIP/Bank Draft Implementation Completion Report
JPS Review
It is noted that the ICR sent us for rcview is incomplete and therefore JPS ask that the Bank provide
the opportmity for JPS to review the ICR in its entirety (inclusivc of aUl analyses, tables, figures
and annexes), prior to publication.
Below is commcntary, by paragraph, on the draft ICR sent us:
Evaluation Summary
Para.4
The statement by the World Bank ICR that the LRJMC was completed two years behind schedule
must be viewed against the background that:
The study was divided into tiree phases:
1)  The first phase was completed in November 1996 on schedule, i.e. the derivation of long run
marginal costs for JPSCo power system.
2)  The sccond phase involved an analysis of the effects of competition and economic regulation
on elcctricity prices and financial performancc of a theoretical transmission and distribution
company in Jamaica. This phase was completed in May 1997 on schedule.
However, the World Bank's mission in May 1997 reviewed the study and at their insistence
changed the scope to include a third phase to recommend economic efficient rates in the Jamaican
context. This phase had to take the new lPS Business Plan and the Performance Contract with
NIBJ into consideration. New data had to be gathered to support the ensuing analysis. This phase
looked at a levelized tariff for the next ihree years. The revised and extended scope explains the
late finish to the LRMC study.
Para, 5
The Bank's assessment, of "improvement unsustainable without a tariff increase', is not justified by
any supporting evidence in the ICR The improvements in such areas as heat rate, generation
availability and reduction in ovcrtime expenditures are not dependent on increases in tariffs.
P-ara 6
The estimate of overall project completion at 84% in June 1998 conflicts with para. 19, of
Assessment section, which states 90/o.



47                            Appendix C
Page 11 of 13
Para. 10
The Bank's assessiment of "Unsatisfactory" for project implcmentation does not agree with their
estimatc of 84-90% project completion. If the project was 90% complete at termination it scems
unreasonable to argue that implcmentation was unsatisfactory, especially after a rcasonable request
for loan extcnsion was denied with only 10% remaining.
Para. 11
It is also unreasonable to argue that projcct outcomes were "unsatisfactory", as the bank's intended
outcomes were all substantially achieved, or o0 their way to being achieved. Even in the case of the
tariff reform, this is being done through the EDI programme and other initiatives.
Part I - Project Implementation Assessment
Para 4
The comnent that the projcct implementation is 'unsatisfactory' must be viewed against the
background that the Loan was made cffcctive March 1996 and the SAR projected completion by
December 31, 1997. The Bank also delayed the start of the project considerably.
The EMS is a three-ycar project and the fact that the Bank approved it led us to believe that the
project would have becn extended. Also there wcre delays caused by the lowest evaluated bidder,
Siemens Energy who refused to sign the contract. They unilaterally decided to increase the
contract sum and the Bank asked us to be patient with them before  going to the next lowest
evaluated bidder. This lead to further delays. This project represents 25% of the total project loanL
The Bank's changes in supervisory personnel also aggravated this situation resulling in long delays
to approve projects and important changes to contracts.
The Bank asked for a change to the scope of the LRMC study and this lead to time and cost
increases.
Para, 8. 13
The Bank's insistence that JPS has not met the objective of reducing SO2 emissions to mcet WB and
NRCA levels seems unreasonable. JPS has undertaken combustion optimization on the Old
Harbour Unit #3 & 4 and has rctired the very inefficient "A" station. These measures have
significantly reduced emissions. JPS is now developing the mechanisms to verify the actual
emissions.
There seems to bc an overemphasis on the S0z emissions with less emphasis on the other nine
activities listed in the Bank's SAR.



48                         Appendix C
Page 12 of 13
Thesc activities and their status are as follows:
1. Oil Spill Prevention Plan - Completed
2 Oil Spill Containment (bundwall) - Completed Nov'98
3. Laboratory Upgrading - Completed
4. Training of personnel - Completed
5. Asbestos Surveys and Mgt Plans - Completed
6. PCB Surveys and Mgt Plans - Completed
7. SO2 Mitigatory Measures - Met station installed and is to be commissioned.
Bids had to be re-tendered for construction of Stack Platforms.
8. Provision of Waste Water Treatment Plant - RFP prepared and to be tendcred
9. Oil Spill Countermeasures - Conlract to purchase equipment about to be awarded
It is clear from the list above, that it would be unfair to highlight one item to attribute to the failure
of all the othcr activities. To state that "....mainly surveys and studies wcre financed involving few
capital work}s..-" is clearly mislcading. The programme required four(4) capital projects and the
two major ones havc bccn undertaken with some progress made on the others and these could have
been completed within the year extension requested.
A fifth capital project which provided for the construction of a PCB processing facility was
affected by delays caused by the Bank, who lost the cvaluation report submittcd on September 16,
1997, and had to be sent another copy. When the approval came on March 23, 1998, it was already
too late, to pursue this project, as the Bank was then threatening termination of the loan
programme.
The Bank's own assessment state that the environmental mitigation programme was 60% complete,
but the ICR fails to indicate that all the budgeted fimds (US$2 million) for the mitigation had becn
disbursed. Between the construction of Bundwails (US$920,000), Laboratory Upgrading and PCB
Programmes (US $1.1 million), more than US $2 million has been spent on the Old Harbour
Mitigation Programme.
Para. 1 8
JPS need to review and comment on the Barn's ROI calculations. This section is incomplete.
Para. 19
Quoted figure of 90% should be reconciled with the 84% stated earlier for consistency.



49                            Appendix C
Page 13 of 13
Para. 20
This section implics that JPS did not tak-e all necessary actions to recover all the insurance
proceeds. This is an unfair assessment as the Company has pursued all means available to reco--er
the insurance proceeds.
The Bank should notc that further to the Bankl's last mission, JPS received a further US$t I million
in November 1998 in addition to thc sum already received. Out of a total claim of US$72 million,
the Company has received USS67 million in total. This should be rcflccted in the Report.
The Ban;k should note that the Audited Financial Statements were delayed due to the lengthy
process of revaluing the Company's assets. At the insistence of the Company's auditors, an
independent firm was employed to undertakc the revaluation- This revaluation took somc time to
complete and delayed publication of the statements



PROPOSED OPERATIONAL PLAN FOR JAMAICA: GENERATION RECOVERY AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 39443M)
(PART I)
Objectives to Sustain               Achievements and Key Issues in           Recommended Actions
Sustainability
Physical Objectives               *  Old Harbour Units 3 and 4 have been     *  Provide for adequate maintenance of the units and closely
restored to normal service. The gas       monitor the governor and burner management system of Old
*  Restore electricity service to     turbines of Units 3, 4, and 5 have been   Harbour-4 to ensure its full operationability. Ensure
normal conditions and eliminate   upgraded. However, Unit 4 has been         availability of adequate funds for operations and maintenance
power cuts                        experiencing intermittent problems with   through improved tariff policies and reduction of non-technical
the governor and burner management        losses.
*  Safeguard the system against       system, resulting in a 20 percent reduction
breakdowns due to extended use    in availability.                       *  Complete the energy management and telecommunication
systems by December 1998.
  Improve generation security and    *  The energy management system (EMS)
enhance system reliability/ control  and SCADA systems are scheduled for  *  Address the remaining activities for the EMS/SCADA systems,
systems to reduce the likelihood  completion by end-December 1998.           i.e., software development, documentation, and training      n
of generating plant incidents     Completion of these components is          courses to be held locally and abroad.                       o
essential for sustaining the operational
integrity of the JPS system.          *  For the teleconmuunication system upgrading, (a) determine the
site and complete the buildings to house telecommunications
*  IPS has not yet met all efficiency targets of  equipment; (b) prepare on-site acceptance tests plan for radio
the JPS-NIBJ performance plan.            "hops"; (c) prepare power system cut-over plan for
implementation; and (d) monitor implementation activities to
ensure timely completion.
*  Pursue efficiency improvement targets set out in the JPS-NIBJ
performance plan (i.e., power system reliability improvement;
fuel management rationalization; system loss reduction)
through computerization/automation of meter reading,
collections, fleet management, and MIS upgrade.
OQ ua
o0X
oxm



PROPOSED OPERATIONAL PLAN FOR JAMAICA: GENERATION RECOVERY AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3944-JM)
(PART II)
Objectives to Sustain              1Achievements and Key Issues in             Recommended Actions
Sustainability
ElectricJy Sector Policy Objecttves  *  The long-run marginal cost and tariff study  *  Prepare a pian for iniplementing the recomm.endations of th.e
has been completed and JPS has accepted   long-run marginal cost and tariff study. This plan should
Improve resource allocation         its findings. Average tariffs are close to the  include refining tariffs under the existing structure that will
through electricity tariff reform and  long-run marginal cost determined by the  prevail during the period of the JPS-NIBJ performance
insure the loss of base load        study but are too low to cover JPS'        contract; and changing the structure once the performance
generating capacity does not        financial charges and to ensure adequate   contract is completed.
adversely affect the environment    returns.
for increasing private sector                                               *  Govemrnment should address the tariff issue in the context of
participation in the sector     *   JPS has yet to prepare a plan to implement  plans for improving sector performance, including
the study's recommendations, notably       restructuring to increase private sector participation.
changes in the tariff structure, to eliminate  Determine whether the conditions of the JPS-NIBJ
large-scale cross-subsidization between    performance contract are appropriate in light of JPS' financial
industrialcommercial and residential       condition, the recommendations of the tariff study, and overall
consumers. These changes are important     electricity system development objectives.
to meet the objective of the tariff study,
i.e., to establish an efficient pricing system
and rate structure for all categories of
customers.
* The Government has not yet resolved
institutional issues in the sector which
affect JPS' capability to apply the
recommendations of the tariff study and
thus threaten the attainment and
sustainability of tariff objectives as agreed
under the Project.
Fd m
o-i
o x



PROPOSED OPERATIONAL PLAN FOR JAMAICA: GENERATION RECOVERY AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3944-M
(PART 3)
Key Objectives to Sustain    Achievements and Key Issues in Sustainability      Recommended and Planned Actions
Environmental Objectives                                                        *  Prepare and implement a plan to complete the Project's
*  Reduce and control the    *  JPS prepared an Environmental Action Plan. By       environmental components by end-1999. This plan should
environmental impact          loan closure, environmental components related to  include: continued removal of contaminated soil;
associated with power        this plan were only partially completed.           construction of a wastewater treatment plant; control of
system facilities.                                                              stack emissions; and air quality monitoring.
*   Completed Mitigation Activities: fuel and chemical
waste management; noise abatement, asbestos   *  In order to meet Bank standards for sulfur dioxide
abatement; PCB removal; and mitigation of soil    emissions, JPS should re-assess and apply the options
contamination.                                    identified in its 1995 Environmental Mitigation Plan, in
particular, (a) flue gas cleaning; (b) conversion to fuel with
*  Mitigation activities scheduledfor completion in   a lower sulfur content (i.e., 2.2% instead of 2.8%); (c)
1999 with funds identified: oil spill contingency  increase the stack height of Old Harbour Unit 4; and (d)
measures; completion of meteorological station.   monitor sulfur dioxide emissions.
*  Mitigation activities scheduledfor completion in  *  Identify schedule and funding to implement pending
1999 with nofunds yet identif ed: wastewater      environmental components, especially those associated with
management; soil contamination/remediation; stack  meeting World Bank Guidelines for sulfur dioxide
emissions testing.                                emissions. These activities require an estimated US$1mn
of which the mitigation measures for sulfur dioxide
*  Mitigation activities not yet scheduled and no     emissions are estimated to cost US$0.5mn. JPS has
completion date offunding identified: sulfur dioxide  indicated that it will be spending an additional US$0.45mn
emissions reduction; surface run-off abatement; plant  on these activities, or less than half of the required amount.
effluent monitoring, ambient air quality monitoring;  JPS should identify the source and use of funds to complete
monitoring/supervision plan.                      the remaining environmental components of the Project.
*  Failure to complete mitigation measures for sulfur
dioxide emissions and to comply with JPS and
NIBJguidelines would impair the sustainability of
the Project's environmental achievements and would
cause excess emissions at Old Harbour Bay.    ____
o x



78.000                                             7730'                    JAMAICA                  7700'                                   UNDER      76030'
PROPOSED CONSTRUCTiON
GENERATION RECOVERY                                                     PROJPECT  (IDB)  EXISTING
AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                                                                       69kV TRANSMISSION iNES
GREENWOOD
-1830'                           QUEENS DRIVE                                      N                    CARDIFF HILL                                                                             0      SUBSTATIONS           1830'-
BOUVE            *          MARTHA BRA_ ROARING                                                                                                                  POWER PLANTS:
/  >     _               /          \~~~~~~~~~~~~N   LAUGHIADS E-   OCHO  LOWER                                                                HYDRO
ORANGE BAY       - ----    GREAT RIVER                                                                                          -           V      __,PPRACABESSA                                        DIESEL
HAITI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ REP.~~~~~IE WIE IE
JAMAICA>                                                            /                        -tM-ELLEVUE                               \                                      *       STEAM
\      /                                he ndre         ,CAVE                                                              HIGHG             ANNOTTO BAY
0 Negril                                                                                                                   RIVERRADISE               RIVER00e
Lt                                                                                 \ rBLAC~~~           ~       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KSTONE 
\                         MAGGOTTY onWARTON ti snap d  notONIO
~~~ ;;)@                            t~~~~~~~~~ENA                         SUNNYSIDE (>\WASHINGTON BLVD\
,KENDAL                      ~~~~~~~MICHELTON\/   W. KINGS HOUSE RD\
\                         )\ICAAUA  TheWodIARIGUANABO MI                         Rio                    CONSTANT
Z SVAOanTdMANt ago L01 STEEL MILL                                                  T R                                           0             20RMINeG
-         states of any torritEoINsy,                                                                                                  BLU
COS0A    PARNAMS-- EAD   or anyHendretP                             SUNT FN
I                                             /  gRHYMESp  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OLD                      GNWH.
B10'              TH BAHLSE 20LL     HARBOUR                                                                                                      RD
90    THE BAHAh^AS   20-                                                     \          J      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BAY
CUBA                  DOMININYMU
HAITI RE.MOY
-20 MFXICO
,JAMAICA                                         Tebudre  oo
j' -BELIZE                                                   Th.oiahn and,-  -1-,
UTALA   HODUA                                               lbe on- 0hsmpd                                                                                                              10        20       30 Kilometers
E     NICARAGUA                                       Th. \Vord B-nk Group,_
Z SALVADOR                                 !                   ttso  n                                                                                                                             0rtr           0Mlsi
RICA    PANAMA                                VENEZUELA      or acceptce of such                                                                                                                                                      0'
'0      90                   81  t' COLOMBIAi --s0               boundanes                 77030'                                             77'00'                                              7630'                                   O'
1 1                   1~~~~~ P  COLOMBIA  ''7,5p           hosdois



