Page  1
                                            January 25, 1996
The Honorable
Dr. Omar Davies
Minister of Finance and Planning
Ministry of Finance and Planning
30 National Heroes Circle
Kingston 4
Jamaica
     Re: JAMAICA: Loans Nos. 2851-JM (Population and Health Project);
                             3111-JM (Social Sectors Development Project);
                             3275-JM (Road Infrastructure Planning and
                                      Maintenance Project);
                             3386-JM (Financial and Program Management
                                      Improvement Project);
                             3580-JM (Reform of Secondary Education
                                      Project);
                             3720-JM (Private Investment and Export
                                      Development Project); and
                             3944-JM (Generation Recovery and Improvement
                                      Project)
Excellency:
Please refer to the following Loan Agreements between Jamaica
(the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (the Bank) dated: June 24, 1987 (Population
and Health Project); August 8, 1989 (Social Sectors
Development Project); December 12, 1990 (Road Infrastructure
Planning and Maintenance Project); June 28, 1991 (Financial
and Program Management Improvement Project); May 7, 1993
(Reform of Secondary Education Project); April 26, 1994
(Private Investment and Export Development Project) and
November 3, 1995 (Generation Recovery and Improvement
Project).
In response to the Financial Secrerary's letter request of
December 6, 1995 to transfer the Special Accounts which are
currently maintained in the Bank of Jamaica (in accordance
with Section 2.02 (b) of each of the Loan Agreements
mentioned in the above paragraph) to a commercial bank in
Jamaica, we are pleased to inform you that the Bank hereby
agrees to amend Section 2.02 (b) of each Loan Agreement
mentioned in the above paragraph as set forth in the Annex to
this amendment letter.
Prior to the opening of each Special Account in a commercial
bank, we would appreciate it if you could provide us with the
name of such commercial bank for our non-objection in accordance
with the provisions of the amended text of Section 2.02 (b)
referred to in the Annex to this amendment letter.  In
addition, immediately after each Special Account is closed
at the Bank of Jamaica and a new Special Account is opened in
a commercial bank, please send us the pertinent banking
statements reflecting the closure and the opening of the
corresponding account.
This amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts
each of which shall be an original, and shall become
effective on the date in which the Bank has received one
fully executed original of such amendment letter.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by
signing and dating the two counterparts of this amendment
letter.  Upon your confirmation, please return one fully
executed original to us.
Sincerely,
Page  2
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Paul Isenman
Director
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
JAMAICA
By:  /s/ Omar Davies
     ______________________
     Authorized Representative
Date : Jan. 31, 1996
