Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3944-JM
                              Project Agreement
                (Generation Recovery and Improvement Project)
                                   between
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                                     and
                       JAMAICA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY
                            Date November 3, 1995
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3944-JM
                              PROJECT AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated November 3, 1995 between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and JAMAICA
PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY, LIMITED (JPS).
       WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Jamaica (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to
twenty one million Dollars ($21,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that JPS agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
       (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and JPS, the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to JPS on the terms
and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
       WHEREAS JPS, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                                 Definitions
Page  2
       Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined or referred to in the Loan Agreement and
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
                                 ARTICLE II
                          Execution of the Project
       Section 2.01.  JPS declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, power
generation, public utilities and environmental practices and,
except as the Bank and JPS shall otherwise agree, in accordance
with the Implementation Plan, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
       Section 2.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
       Section 2.03.  JPS shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement.
       Section 2.04.  JPS shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, JPS shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
       Section 2.05. (a)  JPS shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
       (b)   JPS shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by JPS of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
       Section 2.06. JPS shall:
       (a)   not later than March 31, 1996 carry out a study,
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, on JPS long-
run marginal costs;
       (b)   shortly after the conclusion of such study, furnish
it to the Bank, for its review and comment;
       (c)   not later than 60 (sixty) days after the Bank shall
have furnished to JPS its comments on such study, prepare,
based on the recommendations of such study and on the comments
of the Bank thereon, a plan of action, satisfactory to the
Bank, aiming at restructuring its energy tariffs; and
       (d)   carry out such plan of action in a manner and under
a time-table satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  3
       Section 2.07.  JPS shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank and NRCA, to implement
Part G of the Project, including, inter alia, the measures for
reducing emission levels of sulfur dioxide (SO2) at the Old
Harbour Power Plant in order to comply: (i) by December 31,
1999 with the Bank's standards set forth  in the "World Bank
Environmental Guidelines", published by the Bank in September
1988; and (ii) by December 31, 2000 with NRCA's standards as of
the date of this Agreement; and shall thereafter carry out such
action plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
       Section 2.08.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the
General Conditions, JPS shall:
       (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to
             the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six
             (6) months after the closing date or such later date
             as may be agreed for this purpose between JPS and
             the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the
             Project; and
       (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
             views with JPS on said plan.
                                 ARTICLE III
                      Management and Operations of JPS
       Section 3.01.  JPS shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and power generation, public utilities and
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
       Section 3.02.  JPS shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial, power generation and public utilities practices.
       Section 3.03.  JPS shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a)  JPS shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition, including
separate accounts for the Project.
       (b)   JPS shall:
             (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of
                   income and expenses and related statements) for
                   each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Bank;
             (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
                   its financial statements for such year as so
                   audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
Page  4
                   said auditors of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
                   and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and
                   financial statements as well as the audit
                   thereof, as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
                                  ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination;
                         Cancellation and Suspension
       Section 5.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
       Section 5.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of JPS thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify JPS thereof.
       Section 5.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                          Miscellaneous Provisions
       Section 6.01.  Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement
between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by
mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which
it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
       For the Bank:
             International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                              197688 (TRT)
       For JPS:
             Jamaica Public Service Co. Ltd.
             6 Knutsford Boulevard
             Kingston 5
             Jamaica
                                            Telex:
                                            JAMSERV 2180
       Section 6.02.  Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be executed,
under this Agreement on behalf of JPS, or by JPS on behalf of
Page  5
the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed
by its Chief Executive and Managing Director or such other
person or persons as the Chief Executive and Managing Director
shall designate in writing, and JPS shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
       Section 6.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By   /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                     Regional Vice President
                                             Latin America and the Caribbean
                   JAMAICA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY
                   By   /s/  Richard Bernal
                                                   Authorized Representative
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: General
       Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.     The following provision shall apply to goods to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B, namely,
that to the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or
more each.
Page  6
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.     National Competitive Bidding
       Works for Parts E and G of the Project estimated to cost
$1,100,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.     International Shopping
       Training materials estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or
less per contract and $100,000 equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of international shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.     Direct Contracting
       Goods and services for the life extension of the Old
Harbour Power Station unit No. 4, under Part C of the Project,
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
       Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Review
       With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to
the provisions of Parts B and C.3 of this Section, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.     Post Review
       With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.     In order to assist JPS in the carrying out of the Project,
JPS shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.  Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, JPS shall
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, JPS shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
Page  7
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$25,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank; or (c) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $25,000 equivalent or above.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                             Implementation Plan
                                           Project
 Part                                   Start  Completion
Part B             (started)            August 1995
Part C             (started)            August 1995
Part D             (started)            March 1997
Part E             September 1995       September 1997
Part F             September 1995       December 1997
Part G             August 1995          August 1996
Consultants'       (started)            December 1997
services
Studies            (started)            December 1996
