Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3944-JM
                               Loan Agreement
                (Generation Recovery and Improvement Project)
                                   between
                                   JAMAICA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated November 3, 1995
                                                         LOAN NUNBER 3944-JM
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT,  dated November 3, 1995  between JAMAICA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
       WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project; and
       (B)   the Project will be carried out by Jamaica Public
Service Company, Limited (JPS) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to JPS the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement; and
       WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
JPS;
Page  2
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
       Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the
Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
       Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
       (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and JPS of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Bank and JPS, and
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement;
       (b)   "Implementation Plan" means the implementation plan
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank
and JPS;
       (c)   "Incorporating Documents" means the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of JPS;
       (d)   "NRCA" means the Borrower's Natural Resources
Conservation Authority, established pursuant to the Borrower's
NRCA Act of 1991;
       (e)   "PPA" means the Project preparation advance granted
by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters
dated November 4, 1994 and January 24, 1995 between the
Borrower and the Bank;
       (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
       (g)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and JPS pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and JPS, and
such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
       Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount equal to twenty one million Dollars
($21,000,000).
       Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
       (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the
Bank of Jamaica, the Borrower's central bank, on terms and
Page  3
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
       (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
PPA withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all
unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the PPA shall thereupon be cancelled.
       Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
       Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
       Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
       Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable
in arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
       Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
       Section 2.08.  The Chief Executive and Managing Director
of JPS is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
       Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan
Agreement,  shall cause JPS to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of JPS
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable JPS to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
       (b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
JPS under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and JPS, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank, including those set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
       (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
       Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
Page  4
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
       Section 3.03.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall
be carried out by JPS pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a)   For all expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in
                   accordance with sound accounting practices,
                   records and separate accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
             (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                   at least one year after the Bank has received
                   the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                   the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                   made; and
            (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                   examine such records.
       (b)   The Borrower shall:
             (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) (i) of this Section including
                   those for the Special Account for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
             (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested, including a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
                   and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and
                   the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                   time to time reasonably request.
                                  ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Bank
       Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
       (a)   JPS shall have failed to perform any of its
Page  5
obligations under the Project Agreement.
       (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that JPS will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
       (c)   The Incorporating Documents shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the
ability of JPS to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
       (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of JPS or for the suspension of its
operations.
       Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
       (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower;
       (b)   any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
       Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
       (a)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and JPS;
       (b)   that the Bank has received the findings and
recommendations of a study, carried out under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, on alternatives to meet the
standards for emissions levels of sulfur dioxide (SO2) of the
Bank and of NRCA pursuant to the action plan referred to in
Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement; and
       (c)   that the Bank has received the action plan referred
to in Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement.
       Section 6.02.  The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
       (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by JPS, and is legally binding upon JPS in
accordance with its terms; and
       (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and JPS and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and JPS in accordance with its terms.
       Section 6.03.  The date February 1, 1996 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
Page  6
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
       Section 7.01.   Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
       Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
             Ministry of Finance and Planning
             30 National Heroes Circle
             Kingston 4
             Jamaica
       For the Bank:
             International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
                   Cable address:           Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                              197688 (TRT)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                         JAMAICA
                         By  /s/ Richard Bernal
                                                   Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By  /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                     Regional Vice President
                                             Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  7
                                Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated                  % of
                               (Expressed in              Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1) Goods and                   9,000,000                100% of foreign
    services (other                                      expenditures
    than consultants'
    services) for
    Part C of the
    Project
(2) Goods                                                 100% of foreign
                                                          expenditures,
    (a) for Part E              6,000,000                 100% of local
        of the Project                                    expenditures
                                                          (ex-factory
    (b) for Part G              1,000,000                 cost) and 80%
        of the Project                                    of local
                                                          expenditures for
                                                          other items
                                                          procured locally
(3) Civil works                                           100% of foreign
                                                          expenditures and
    (a) For Part E              2,500,000                 80% of local
        of the Project                                    expenditures
    (b) For Part G              1,000,000
        of the Project
(4) Consultants'                1,000,000                 100%
    services
(5) Refunding of                  500,000                 amounts due
    PPA                                                   pursuant to
                                                          Section 2.02 (c)
                                                          of this Agreement
                               __________
        TOTAL                  21,000,000
                               ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)      the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower
for goods or services supplied from the territory of any
country other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)      the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,300,000,
may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after January 1,
1995.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for training materials and services of individual consultants
under contracts not exceeding $25,000 equivalent, under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
Page  8
    The objectives of the Project are to: (a) restore
electricity services provided by JPS to normal conditions; (b)
reduce JPS generation costs; (c) enhance the electricity system
reliability by improving telecommunications and energy control
systems and reinforcing transmission network; (d) improve
resource allocation through electricity tariff reform; and (e)
reduce and control the environmental impact associated with
power system facilities.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:      Repair and rehabilitation of the steam boiler and
rehabilitation of the turbine of the Old Harbour Power Plant
unit No. 3.
Part B:      Rebuild the steam boiler, the control facilities,
the chemical laboratory and stores building and its equipment
of the Old Harbour Power Plant unit No. 4.
Part C:      Life extension of the turbine generator of the Old
Harbour Power Plant unit No. 4.
Part D:      Restoration and life extension of the gas turbines
Nos. 3, 4 and 5 at the Old Harbour Power Plant.
Part E:      Improvement of JPS' telecommunications and energy
management systems.
Part F:      Construction of transmission lines and substations
facilities for interconnections between Parnassus and Spur
Tree, and Spur Tree and Kendal, and expansion of the substation
facility in the Old Harbour Power Plant.
Part G:      Development and implementation of environmental
mitigation measures at the Old Harbour Power Plant including,
inter alia:
    (1)      implementation of sulfur dioxide mitigation measures;
    (2)      provision of a waste water treatment plant;
    (3)      implementation of oil spillage containment and
counter measures;
    (4)      provision of training on environmental protection to
JPS personnel;
    (5)      rebuilding and upgrading of the JPS environmental
laboratory at the Old Harbour Power Plant; and
    (6)      carrying out of surveys and preparation of
management plans for asbestos and poly-chloro bi-phenyl (PCB).
Part H:      Provision of consultants' services for Project
implementation, management, supervision, engineering and
studies on cost of services and tariff reform.
                                    * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                 Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.  General Definitions
    For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the
following meanings:
Page  9
    (a)      "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each
Interest Period, the aggregate principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account in such Interest Period.
    (b)      "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the
initial period, each period from and including an Interest
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest
Payment Date.
    (c)      "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
    (d)      "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount,
the first day of the Interest Period next following the
Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.  Interest
1.  The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into
Disbursed Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed
Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate based on a
floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a
fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph
2 of this Part B.
2.  (a)      From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each
Disbursed Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not
including the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to
the applicable:
                 (i)  LIBOR Base Rate; plus
                 (ii) LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)    From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed
Amount until final repayment thereof, interest on such
Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the
applicable:
                 (i)  Fixed Base Rate; plus
                 (ii) Fixed Total Spread.
3.   For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the
following terms have the following meanings:
     (a)    "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period
in which a Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the
Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of such Interest
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
a percentage per annum.
     (b)    "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest
Period in which each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
        (i)  one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
       (ii)  minus (or plus) the weighted average margin,
             for such Interest Period, below (or above)
             the London interbank offered rates, or other
             reference rates, for six-month deposits, in
             respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings
             or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to
             fund single currency loans or portions
Page  10
             thereof made by it that include such
             Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period;
             as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
             as a percentage per annum.
    (c)      "Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount,
the equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-
month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date for
such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest
rate based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the
repayment installments of such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
    (d)      "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed
Amount:
        (i)  one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
       (ii)  minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable
             on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed
             Amount, below (or above) the London
             interbank offered rates, or other reference
             rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of
             the Bank's outstanding borrowings or
             portions thereof allocated to fund single
             currency loans or portions thereof made by
             it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus;
       (iii) the Bank's risk spread applicable on the
             Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount;
             as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
             as a percentage per annum.
4.  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR
Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable
to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination
thereof.
5.  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this
Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its
borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other
than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank may modify the
basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts
of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6)
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The new basis
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not
apply to the Loan.
C.  Repayment
1.  Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15, the
first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th)
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such
Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be payable on
the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date following the
Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each installment
shall be one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part
C, if any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount
would, pursuant to the provisions of said paragraph 1, be
payable after November 15, 2010 the Borrower shall also pay on
said date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
Page  11
3.  After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of the amortization
schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                               Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)      the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
    (b)      the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c)      the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)      For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)      (i)       For replenishment of the Special Account,
                       the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
                       requests for deposits into the Special
                       Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                       specify.
           (ii)        Prior to or at the time of each such
                       request, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                       Bank the documents and other evidence
                       required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
                       Schedule for the payment or payments in
                       respect of which replenishment is requested.
                       On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                       shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                       from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                       Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                       shall have requested and as shall have been
                       shown by said documents and other evidence
                       to have been paid out of the Special Account
                       for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
Page  12
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)      if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)      if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c)      if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)      once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)      If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)      If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)      The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
Page  13
    (d)      Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
