                                   Document of
                                  The World Bank



                                                        Report No: ICR2403



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (TF-92237)



                                      ON A

                              TRUST FUND GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$13.2 MILLION

                                      TO THE

 MINISTRY OF HEALTH OF THE KURDISTAN REGIONAL GOVERNMENT OF
                     THE REPUBLIC OR IRAQ

                                      FOR A

            REGIONAL HEALTH EMERGENCY RESPONSE PROJECT



                                December 24, 2012




Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region




                                                                         i
               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective 09/24/2012)

                 Currency Unit = Iraqi Dinar
                   1.00 IQD = US$0.0009
                   US$1.00 = 1,163 IQD

                  January1 – December 31


           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

 DOH          Directorate of Health
  ECC         Emergency Coordination Center
  EDP         Emergency Disabilities Project
 EHRP         Emergency Health Rehabilitation Project
 EMS          Emergency Medical Services
  EPP         Emergency Project Paper
  ITF         Iraq Trust Fund
 KRG          Kurdistan Regional Government
KRG MOH       Kurdistan Regional Government Ministry of Health
 M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
 MOH          Ministry of Health
 MOSS         Medical Operations System Services
 MTR          Mid-Term Review
 PCU          Project Coordination Unit
 PDO          Project Development Objective
 RHERP        Regional Health Emergency Response Project
  ToT         Training of Trainers




                Vice President: Inger Andersen
              Country Director: Ferid Belhaj
               Sector Manager: Enis Barış
          Project Team Leader: Eileen Sullivan
             ICR Team Leader: Eileen Sullivan
          ICR Primary Author: Baya Benhassine

                                                                 ii
         KURDISTAN REGIONAL GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
                    Regional Health Emergency Response Project



                                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 15
  6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 19
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 20
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.............................................................................................. 21
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 26
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 27
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 28
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 29
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 30
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 31
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents................................................................................... 32
  MAP 33422




                                                                                                                                       iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Regional Health
Country:               Iraq                    Project Name:             Emergency Response
                                                                         Project
Project ID:            P107698                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-92237
ICR Date:              12/11/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                         Iraq Kurdistan Regional
Lending Instrument:    ERL                     Grantee:                  Government Ministry
                                                                         of Health
Original Total
                       USD 8.70M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 12.30M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 13.20M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agency: KRG Ministry of Health
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: NA

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/03/2007   Effectiveness:            03/10/2008         06/30/2008
Appraisal:             11/15/2007   Restructuring(s):         06/29/2010         06/29/2010
Approval:              06/18/2008   Mid-term Review:          02/14/2010         01/24/2010
                                    Closing:                  06/30/2010         06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                   Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:              Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing             Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:         Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                          Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                                                              iv
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             NA
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             NA
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      7                    7
Health                                                                93                   93


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health system performance                                             67                   67
Other human development                                               33                   33

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Inger Andersen                       Daniela Gressani
Country Director:          Ferid Belhaj                         Hedi Larbi
Sector Manager:            Enis Barış                           Akiko Maeda
Project Team Leader:       Eileen Brainne Sullivan              Jean-Jacques Frere
ICR Team Leader:           Eileen Brainne Sullivan
ICR Primary Author:        Baya Benhassine


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To assist the Kurdistan Regional Government to build capacity in the establishment of rapid,
coordinated and effective response services to health emergencies, including those resulting from
acts of violence, accidents, or natural disasters.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

N/A



                                                                                                v
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
      Indicator           Baseline Value                       Revised Target
                                               approval                        Completion or
                                                                  Values
                                             documents)                         Target Years
                                                                              ECCs did not
                                                                              exist at the start
                                                                              of project. Three
                                                                              (3) ECCs were
                                                                              built under the
                                                                              project and are
                                                                              fully functional.

                                                                               At project
                                                                               closing, the
                                                                               following can be
                                                                               noted: The
                                                                               number of
Utilization rate at the
                                                                               incidents dealt
3 Emergency
                                                                               with (emergency
Coordination Centers:
                                                                               calls answered,
number of people                           ECC functioning at ECC functioning
                                                                               dispatched, and
transported and                 0          at least 50% of its at at least 50%
                                                                               transported to
appropriately referred                      capacity (year 2)  of its capacity
                                                                               hospital) were as
by the emergency
                                                                               follows:
ambulance system
                                                                               Dohuk: 287
                                                                               Erbil: 27
                                                                               Sulaimaniyah:
                                                                               2710

                                                                             The response rate
                                                                             has increased, but
                                                                             there are issues
                                                                             with false calls,
                                                                             wrong numbers,
                                                                             system problems
                                                                             (variability in
                                                                             internet service),
                                                                             etc.
                                                                             Baseline data
                                                                             were not
Reduction in response Baseline will be                                       available at the
time: between call    collected as soon Reduction of 50%        Reduction of project start.
and admission to a      as the Project      (year 2)               50%       Average response
health facility      becomes effective                                       time in urban
                                                                             areas is 7-10
                                                                             minutes.




                                                                                               vi
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                             Formally
                                            Values (from                         Achieved at
      Indicator           Baseline Value                     Revised
                                              approval                          Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                            documents)                          Target Years
Component 1.
Construction
completed in the
emergency
coordination center             0          3 sites (year 2)     3 sites          3 completed
sites


ECC Communication
equipment in place and
                                                                                3 completed and
functioning                     0          3 sites (year 2)     3 sites
                                                                                   functional

                                                                          • 12 fully equipped
                                                                            ambulances
                                                                            delivered.
                                                                          • 17 additional
                                                                            ambulances
                                                                            delivered in May
                                                                            2012
Ambulances in place             0            12 (year 1)      12 (year 2)
                                                                          • In addition, the
                                                                            already existing
                                                                            102 ambulance
                                                                            fleet equipped
                                                                            with radio, mobile
                                                                            phone, satellite
                                                                            phone and GPS
Component 2.
Training plan finalized
                                0             1 (year 1)       1 (year 2)   1
Number of trainers
                                                                            34 ToTs trained
trained                         0            12 (year 2)      16 (year 2)

                                                                           • 21 dispatchers
                                                                           trained
Number of emergency                                                        • Lower number
medical dispatchers             0                 0            45 (year 2) trained because of
trained                                                                    higher than
                                                                           estimated cost of
                                                                           training
                                                                           • 248 drivers
Number of ambulance                                                        trained
                                0                90           600 (year 2)
crew trained in BLS                                                        • Lower number
                                                                           trained because of

                                                                                               vii
                                                               higher-than
                                                               estimated cost of
                                                               training
                                                               • 199 drivers
Number of ambulance                                            trained
drivers trained in safe                                        • Lower number
driving and                0          0           400 (year 2) trained because of
mech/maintenance                                               higher-than
                                                               estimated cost of
                                                               training
                                                               • 248 EMTs trained
Number of                                                      • Lower number
paramedical staff
                           0        150           208 (year 2) trained because of
trained in ALS                                                 higher-than
                                                               estimated cost of
                                                               training
                                                               • 20 physicians
                                                               trained
Number of physicians                                           • Lower number
trained                    0         37            36 (year 2) trained because of
                                                               higher-than
                                                               estimated cost of
                                                               training
Workshop on
emergency                                                       1 Workshop
                           0          0            1 (year 2)
management (# of                                                conducted
trainees: 16)
Number of KRG MOH
staff trained in medical                                        34 KRG MOH staff
                           0          4            4 (year 2)
emergency                                                            trained
management
Number of KRG MOH
staff trained in                                                20 KRG MOH staff
                           0          0           12 (year 2)
Emergency                                                            trained
Management System
Component 3.
Renovation of
Sulaimaniyah Blood
                           0     1 (year 2)            1               1
Bank completed

Rehabilitation of
ventilation system in
Dohuk Blood Bank           0     1 (year 2)            1               1
completed

Construction of Erbil
Blood Bank completed       0     1 (year 2)            1               1

Equipment delivered
                           0   3 sites (year 2)        3               3
and installed in the

                                                                             viii
three Blood Banks
Component 4
PCU established and
staff in place by              0                  1                  1            Completed
Project Effectiveness.
Contract between
KRH MOH and
UNOPS finalized and            0                  1                  1            Completed
signed by Project
Effectiveness.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                       IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     07/09/2009       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 0.45
  2     03/19/2010       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 2.91
  3     01/10/2011       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 7.35
                                                      Moderately
  4     03/26/2011       Moderately Satisfactory                                          7.35
                                                    Unsatisfactory
  5     10/19/2011       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  8.27
  6     05/14/2012       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 11.06
  7     07/10/2012       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 11.06


H. Restructuring (if any)
The project underwent three restructurings during the life of the project. The first restructuring
took place on June 29, 2010 to increase financing under the project (in the amount of US$4.5
million) and to extend the project closing date by one year from June 30, 2010 to December 31,
2011. This was necessary due to the shift to a more systemic development and implementation of
the Emergency Medical System (EMS) that was to be established (a computerized system). In
addition, the restructuring took into account the request of the Kurdistan Regional Government
Ministry of Health (KRG MOH) to expand the system to 11 other sites (although the key
objective was to ensure full functionality for the three major sites (Erbil, Dohuk, and
Sulaimaniyah). The second restructuring of December 27, 2011 was for a second extension of
the closing date from December 31, 2011 to June 30, 2012 due to delays in the project, and the
third restructuring was for the inclusion of the Direct Contracting method as an additional
procurement method.




                                                                                                 ix
I. Disbursement Profile




                          x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The legacy of wars and occupation: the deterioration of the Iraqi health system and emerging
new priorities

1.       Following the two Gulf wars and years of instability, the Iraqi health sector experienced
significant challenges: half of the Iraqi registered physicians had fled the country; qualified
nurses were in severe shortage; and the war and terrorism environments kept both patients and
providers from using existing health facilities, especially emergency services. This context led to
a dramatic deterioration of the national health system during the nineties that drastically changed
the Iraqis’ health status from that of a relatively advanced middle income country to a poor and
underdeveloped one: maternal mortality rose from 117/100,000 in 1989 to 294/100,000 in 1998.
Similarly, under-five child mortality rose from 90/100,000 to 110/100,000, and malnutrition
increased. At the same time, violence had become the leading cause of death of Iraqi men
between the ages of 15 and 59 and was emerging as a new public health concern.

2.       Historically, the three governorates of Kurdistan have been less developed than the rest of
the country. The Kurdish population has also suffered from large scale displacements and
isolation. Yet, the Kurdish region appears to have recovered faster from the war and has been less
impacted than the rest of Iraq by violence and insecurity.

3.      At the time of appraisal, the Kurdish Regional Government Ministry of Health (KRG
MOH) enjoyed a certain degree of autonomy from the central Ministry of Health (MOH) in
Baghdad. It managed the health services of its three governorates of Erbil, Dohuk and
Sulaimaniyah, each with its own Directorate of Health (DOH). The KRG MOH had broad
autonomy with regard to the management of health facilities, staffing and organization of health
services. Nevertheless, it remained dependent on the central MOH for budget allocation and
provision of pharmaceuticals and medical equipment.

4.      The conflict during the period 2003-2007 and other emergency events highlighted the
very limited actual capacity of the KRG MOH to respond to emergencies in the three Kurdish
provinces. Capacity was particularly weak in terms of assessing, communicating and providing
pre-hospital care. There was no effective referral system, the region was lacking adequately
equipped ambulances, and staff was insufficient in numbers and training, and was unprepared to
respond to emergency needs.

5.       The system of collection, storage and distribution of blood and blood products was also
critically impaired. There was no blood bank in Erbil, and the existing blood banks in
Sulaimaniyah and Dohuk needed additional equipment and rehabilitation. Blood was not
systematically tested for HIV/AIDS or hepatitis, and was not adequately stored. Staff members
were poorly trained on collection, management and distribution of blood, leading to potential
serious public health risks for the population.




                                                                                                  1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

6.       The PDO of the Regional Health Emergency Response Project (RHERP), as described in
both the Emergency Project Paper (EPP, Report No. 43670-IQ) and the Grant Agreement
(TF092237), was to assist the Kurdistan Regional Government to build capacity in the
establishment of rapid, coordinated and effective response services to health emergencies,
including those resulting from acts of violence, accidents, or natural disasters.

7.      The performance indicators selected to assess whether this PDO was achieved were:
        •   The utilization rate at the three emergency coordination centers: number of people
            transported and appropriately referred by the emergency ambulance system;
        •   Reduction in the response time (between the call and admission to a health facility).

8.      The project PDOs would be achieved by:
        (i) Strengthening emergency coordination and response in the three Northern
        Governorates of Erbil, Sulaimaniyah and Dohuk through establishing and equipping
        Emergency Coordination Centers (ECCs) in each of the Directorates, and through the
        creation of a reliable communication system for pre-hospital emergency services;
        (ii) Building capacity and training for medical and paramedical staff providing pre-
        hospital emergency services;
        (iii) Upgrading the capacity of existing blood transfusion services in the three Northern
        Governorates to provide a timely supply of safe blood and blood products to respond to
        the needs resulting from emergencies, as well as training their staff on the purchased
        equipment.
        (iv) Ensuring effective administration and coordination of project activities.

9.      The project was expected to achieve the following:
        •   Improved emergency medical services in terms of timeliness and effectiveness of
            response to major medical emergencies,
        •   Improved survival rates and outcomes for the patients, and
        •   Strengthened KRG MOH project management capacity.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

10.     The PDO was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

11.      There is no mention of a “primary target group? in the EPP, but the project responded to
the needs of the KRG population, which totals about 5 million people (one fifth of the population
of Iraq), and includes internally displaced people in the three provinces. It should be noted that, in
addition to serving the local population, the KRG health facilities also serve a relatively large
number of patients referred from other parts of Iraq, in particular those evacuated from the
neighboring cities of Mosul and Kirkuk.




                                                                                                    2
1.5 Original Components (as approved)

12.      Consistent with the four areas of intervention that were identified to achieve the PDO, the
project, with an estimated original total cost of US$8.7 million, included four components as
follows:

13.     Component 1: Emergency Coordination Centers (ECCs) (estimated cost: US$4.38
million total, including contingencies). The objective of this component was to strengthen
emergency coordination and response in the three Northern Governorates of Erbil, Sulaimaniyah
and Dohuk through the establishment of an ECC in each of the three Governorates, and through
the creation of a reliable communication system for pre-hospital emergency services. The ECCs
were expected to be adequately staffed with trained personnel, and would rely on an effective
communication system that would connect ambulances, health facilities and other government
agencies. The three ECCs were to receive information technology (IT) and telecommunications
equipment, and 12 ambulances were to be purchased.

14.      Component 2: Capacity Building and Training in Emergency Procedures (estimated
cost: US$0.33 million total, including contingencies). The objective of this component was to
build capacity of medical and paramedical staff providing pre-hospital emergency services. The
project would finance technical assistance for the development of emergency procedures for
health staff assigned to pre-hospital emergency services, and requisite training and retraining of
doctors, emergency medical technicians (including nurses and paramedics), and ambulance
drivers.

15.      Component 3: Blood Banks (estimated cost: US$2.22 million total, including
contingencies). The objective of this component was to upgrade the capacity of existing blood
transfusion services to provide a timely supply of safe blood and blood products to respond to the
needs. The component was to support improvements in the quality of collection, screening,
testing, processing, storage, and distribution of blood products. More specifically, the project
would provide funding for civil works, rehabilitation and equipping of blood banks as well as
training of staff. One new blood bank would be constructed and equipped in Erbil and one
existing blood bank would be renovated and equipped in Sulaimaniyah. A third existing blood
bank in Dohuk would receive equipment only, and the air conditioning system would be
rehabilitated. In addition, while it was not mentioned in the core text of the EPP, the more
detailed description of the component in its Annex 1 mentions training and re-training of blood
bank staff in order to improve the quality of collection, screening, testing, processing, storage and
distribution of blood and blood products.

16.     Component 4: Project Management (estimated cost: US$1.77 million total, including
contingencies). The objective of this component was to ensure effective administration and
coordination of project activities. This component would support the establishment of a small
Project Management Unit (PCU) within the KRG MOH in Erbil. The PCU would be a focal point
to coordinate project activities and communicate with the Bank, UNOPS (the selected
implementing agency) and other relevant agencies involved in the project. The KRG MOH
entered into an agreement with UNOPS to be the implementing agency for the project.

1.6 Revised Components

17.     The components were expanded in their scope, financing and timeline as follows:
Component 1: Emergency Coordination Centers (original cost estimate at appraisal: US$4.38
million; revised cost estimate: US$7.61 million). This component was expanded to include:

                                                                                                   3
          •   Additional consulting services for the design of the new telecommunications system
              (different than what was programmed at appraisal) and for the procurement of a
              different set of equipment (software and hardware);
          •   The cost to implement a trunked communications system was revised (from US$3.0
              million to US$6.0 million). The system requirements were revised to provide
              compatibility with both radio equipment used by hospitals and public safety agencies
              and with modern Internet Protocol (IP) based voice and data communications;
          •   IT equipment and furniture which was not included in the original design; and
          •   A public education campaign to raise public awareness regarding the 3-digit citizen
              access number in cooperation with the Ministry of Communication, the Ministry of
              the Interior, and the Communications and Media Commission.

18.     Component 2: Capacity building and training in emergency procedures (original cost
estimate at appraisal: US$0.33 million; revised cost estimate: US$0.81 million). This component
was expanded to include:
          •   Improved and expanded scope of training programs to reflect the needs of the project
              and to ensure that all aspects of the EMS were covered within the revised training
              framework; and
          •   Increased number of trained staff (from the original 293 to 1418), including master
              trainers, physicians, nurses, paramedics and ambulance drivers.

19.     Component 3: Blood Banks (original estimate at appraisal: US$2.22 million; revised cost
estimate: US$2.11 million). This component was expanded to include new IT equipment and
furniture for the three blood banks. No additional funds were needed as the equipment and
furniture were covered under savings within the component.

20.     Component 4: Project management (original estimate at appraisal: US$1.77 million;
revised cost estimate: US$2.67 million). Because the project was extended by 18 months,
additional funding was needed to cover the UNOPS management fees and the PCU’s additional
operating expenditures that were increased because of the project extension.

1.7 Other significant changes

21.      The January 2010 mid-term review (MTR) assessed that the original design for the
emergency telecommunications system was inadequate and that the technical training of the
medical emergency staff was too limited in scope. The review concluded that an expansion and
scaling up of the original design were needed to enable the project to meet its objectives. On the
basis of extensive discussions between the Bank team and the counterparts, a plan was agreed to
expand the scope of the project to ensure that the emergency medical response system was
sufficiently robust to meet the PDO.

22.     In June 2010, an additional financing grant of US$4.5 million was approved by the
MENA Regional Vice-Presidency (RVP) 1 to scale up the project’s activities and to extend the
project closing date from June 30, 2010 to December 31, 2011. The objective of this additional
financing and Level II restructuring was to enhance the project impact and allow sufficient time
to implement the expanded activities.



1
    Project Paper approved by the MENA RVP on June 29, 2010 (Report No: 55267-IQ)

                                                                                                 4
23.  Two additional Level II restructurings of a more modest nature were approved by the
MENA RVP 2 to:
         (i)  Extend the project closing date by six months, from December 31, 2011 to June 30,
              2012, bringing the total extension period to 24 months. The extension period was
              requested in order to operationalize the ECCs for the three Governorates and the
              blood bank in Erbil, carry out additional staff training, and finalize the establishment
              of the telecommunication system.
         (ii) Include an additional method of procurement for direct contracting as requested by
              the KRG MOH.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of the background analysis

24.      The background analysis supporting the project consisted mainly of lessons learned from
previous or ongoing emergency projects in the Iraq health sector, the analysis conducted to
prepare the first and second Interim Strategy Notes for Iraq, 3 and a thorough review of the scarce
data and analyses conducted on the Iraq health sector in recent years by government agencies and
international organizations. The project’s focus on one region was clearly informed by the
implementation challenges faced by the centrally-managed Emergency Health Rehabilitation
Project (EHRP, TF054404, closed February 28, 2010) and the Emergency Disabilities Project
(EDP, TF054502, closed December 31, 2010), in particular in terms of security challenges that
made effective supervision very difficult, as well as limited coordination capacity of the central
MOH. The focus on emergency response health services was grounded on recent studies
highlighting the dramatic rise of violence-related deaths, and on a good understanding of the
existing weak government capacity in this area at the time of appraisal. In addition,
implementing an emergency response system would address the need for access to emergency
health care, and would promote peace and social stability in a conflict setting.

25.      The EPP makes no mention of global good practices in the area of emergency response
services or in the area of blood bank and blood products management, let alone in a post-conflict
context. In both of these areas, the analysis in the EPP of the systems in place in the three Kurdish
provinces was very limited. Such analysis, even if limited in scope given the emergency nature of
the project, would have been useful to inform some aspects of the design, especially in the area of
blood and blood products management. However, it should be noted that this project was an
emergency project that needed a prompt response from the Bank, and therefore a shorter
preparation time and a more limited approach to in-depth reforms. Also, for security purposes, the
project team could not undertake on-site visits as often as needed to be able to assess all aspects
of project preparation. Similarly, stakeholder consultations, which normally take place during
project preparation, could not be organized due to the context. At the time of project preparation,
there were ongoing discussions with the World Health Organization concerning support to the
training of BB staff in safe handling of blood products. The project design included only training



2
Report No.: 66201-IQ; Report No.: 68675-IQ, respectively.
3
 The Interim Strategy Notes aim, among other objectives, to restore basic service delivery under the
Bank’s overarching objective of helping Iraq in institution building. In this regard, the project fits very well
with the Bank’s strategic priorities in Iraq.

                                                                                                               5
by suppliers on the use of the equipment purchased. Therefore, the project procurement plan and
project cost tables do not include line items for training of BB staff.

Assessment of the project design

26.      Overall design. Building on the Bank experience in financing projects in the Iraq health
       4
sector as well as in other post-conflict countries such as Afghanistan, key lessons have been
taken into consideration and are clearly integrated in the project design: relying on a relatively
simple and straightforward project design, with a limited number of organizations involved;
partnering with an implementing agency with sound fiduciary oversight capacity; implementing
the project at the sub-national level which eases coordination and supervision challenges that
affect the central government in the difficult security context; and strong local client ownership.

27.      Overall, the project design, incorporating these guiding principles, was sound, simple,
realistic and focused on achieving the PDO, particularly as it relates to Emergency Medical
Services. Even if it was a relatively small project (initially sized at a modest US$8.7 million), it
was expected to have high returns as health emergency response is critical in conflict and post
conflict situations.

28.      The project’s focus on three provinces ensured strong ownership and active engagement
of local decision makers (the project was developed at the request from the KRG MOH), closer
supervision and easier coordination than previous or ongoing projects managed by the central
MOH. It responded to a clear need and urgency, and was to be implemented in acceptable
security conditions which enabled the delivery of trainings within the region as well as regular
field supervision by Bank staff and the fiduciary monitoring agent in Iraq (a consultancy firm
hired by the Bank to conduct field supervision of Iraq Trust Fund (ITF) financed projects).

29.     Design of the project components. The four project components were complementary as
a whole, with an important focus on capacity building within the KRG MOH (component 2) and
support to project coordination through the establishment of the PCU and day to day
implementation of the project by UNOPS, which was contracted through a Project
Implementation Agreement (PIA) between the KRG MOH and UNOPS. However, the design
suffered from insufficient analysis of the scope, needs and costing of each component. For
example, the MTR, which included a thorough technical assessment, found that the
telecommunication equipment needs were not properly assessed at project design, and a much
more sophisticated system would make the system more robust, but with a higher cost estimate
than planned. 5 Similarly, the scope of the training and the number of trainees had to be re-
evaluated as the original needs estimates were less than half of what was actually necessary to
reach good coverage of the population for the Kurdistan region. No communication campaign for
the launch of the ECCs had been included in the original project design, and this was also
warranted and included in the restructuring.

30.     The blood bank component suffered from a design flaw. The project focused exclusively
on the physical rehabilitation and equipping of the three blood banks, with little attention to blood



4
  Other health projects in Iraq included two Post Conflict Fund projects (Rehabilitation of Karama Hospital
Burn Unit and First Emergency Assistance Program for Primary Healthcare) and two ITF-financed projects
(EHRP and EDP). EHRP and EDP were implemented the central MOH, and the two Post Conflict Fund
projects were implemented by the grant recipients, in each case an international NGO.
5
  The actual cost of the equipment eventually turned out to be much lower.

                                                                                                         6
safety per se. The project focused on the rehabilitation and equipping of the blood banks which
was an important part of ensuring a “timely supply of safe blood and blood products to respond to
the needs resulting from an emergency? (as stated in the EPP and in the Grant Agreement).
However, other key aspects were not dealt with, particularly with regard to training which could
have improved the quality of collection, screening, testing, processing and distribution of blood
and blood products?. It should be noted that at the time of preparation, it was expected that
WHO would be providing support in training of staff in blood safety protocols.

31.     Institutional arrangements. There was recognition that the KRG MOH had low capacity
in project management at the time of appraisal, and had no previous experience in working with
the Bank. The Bank rightly proposed to rely on an external implementing agency. The choice of
UNOPS in that role was well grounded, as it had already been operating in the Kurdish region
and had been implementing several projects since establishing an office in Erbil in 1994. It
clearly had implementing capacity in a challenging post-conflict environment. It also had
experience in coordinating activities with the KRG and was well positioned to build the KRG
MOH PCU management capacity.

32.      While the choice of UNOPS was well motivated, the contract arrangement between
UNOPS and KRG MOH was insufficiently supervised by the KRG MOH to ensure that UNOPS
delivered on time and on quality. On the other hand, UNOPS needed the KRG MOH to facilitate
and/or obtain inputs to the project which required the involvement, approval, and clearance from
other departments and agencies, and this took time and effort. Having the project managed
directly by the KRG MOH was not an option at the time, given weak capacity and the short
duration of the project (originally scheduled to be implemented over two years). Moreover, the
project design failed to anticipate the impact on implementation caused by divergent Bank and
UNOPS procurement procedures, which led to delays.

33.     The original institutional arrangements for the project did not sufficiently take into
account the multi-faceted aspect which would require cross-sectoral collaboration and
coordination with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Communication. For example,
the design of the ECC component did not anticipate the authorizations and other requirements
needed from other government agencies to develop the ECC communication infrastructure (radio
frequency allocation to emergency response, installation of radio towers).

Adequacy of government’s commitment

34.      The project was designed in response to a request from the KRG MOH. Ownership,
commitment and demand were strong. The Minister of Health of the KRG was highly committed
to the project at appraisal. He indicated that the reform of the emergency response system for the
Kurdish region was at the top of his agenda. Despite scarce staffing and office capacity, the KRG
MOH appointed PCU staff and allocated office space. However, the PCU staff could not be fully
dedicated to the project as they were also responsible for other projects. UNOPS made efforts to
ensure that the PCU and the KRG MOH were fully on board with the activities UNOPS was
engaged in, as UNOPS needed to obtain clearances from the PCU on several large procurement
packages, as well as training plans, construction designs, and acceptance of sites.

Assessment of risks

35.     The overall risk for the project was correctly rated as substantial at the time of appraisal.
In addition to the possibility of a deteriorating security situation, the issues at risk were mainly
the lack of experience and capacity of the KRG MOH in implementing Bank-financed projects,

                                                                                                   7
the lack of knowledge of Bank policies and procedures on the part of both UNOPS and the KRG
MOH, and the lack of coordination between UNOPS and KRG MOH on implementation matters,
including financial management. Moreover, the team rightly identified an added risk in the
process of building ownership within the KRG MOH which took time and effort, especially
during the last year and a half of the project as the KRG MOH moved toward assuming full
responsibility for the operations and maintenance of the investments made under the project. The
mitigation measures were adequate. The unforeseen risks were the potentially difficult
coordination with other government agencies, which had not been anticipated at design stage, and
the inability of UNOPS to fully carry out its mandate as implementing agency.

2.2 Implementation

36.      Change in UNOPS Team. Soon after project effectiveness, the UNOPS team changed
quite substantially. This led to some discontinuity between the original team which understood
the project, having been involved during the preparation phase, and the new team assigned to the
project for the start of implementation. The new UNOPS team did not have sufficient knowledge
of emergency response projects, and had to undergo a steep learning curve to get implementation
off the ground.

37.      Slow start. There was a seven-month delay in implementation after project launch as the
first procurement package was found inadequate due to UNOPS lack of familiarity with Bank
procurement procedures, as well as insufficient clarity regarding their respective roles and
responsibilities vis-à-vis the Bank, as defined in the PIA. In addition, the PCU initially lacked
understanding, commitment, authority and leadership in its role as project coordinator. Finally,
lack of knowledge of the technical requirements to implement an emergency response system led
to a lack of coordination and involvement by key ministries, furthering the delays in putting in
place the ECC component (component 1). This slow start was significant given the original short
two-year project timeframe.

38.      Expanded scope at mid-term. The project context changed in the second year. A newly
appointed Minister of Health was instrumental in fully engaging the three provincial Project
Focal Points in the implementation and coordination of the project. The PCU also gained in
capacity and leadership, expanding the size of the PCU and establishing an Engineering
Technical Committee. In addition, the technical assessment conducted for the MTR concluded
that the project should take a more up-to–date, realistic and system-oriented approach to
improving the emergency medical system. This led to a significant expansion in the size and
scope of the ECC component, with the adoption of a much more sophisticated telecommunication
system that required coordination with other governmental agencies (the Ministries of the Interior
and Communications). In addition, the ITF was extended which allowed increased flexibility in
extending the project. The subsequent MTR resulted in additional financing and project
restructuring that included a more robust emergency response system, a communication campaign,
expanded technical trainings for emergency medical and paramedical staff, and an 18 month
extension of the project closing date (later extended a second time by an additional 6 months).
Although this restructuring led to increased complexity of the project and further delays due to
the additional work required, it was decisive in helping the project reach its development
objective.

39.     An implementation arrangement that lacked efficacy and technical capacity. While
UNOPS clearly had a track record in implementing operations in the Kurdish region, its
performance in implementing this particular project was below par. The team composition did not
take into account the skills needed to implement this type of project (information technology

                                                                                                8
specialists, telecom specialists, procurement/financial specialist with knowledge of Bank
procedures, etc.). According to the PIA, UNOPS was to finance technical expertise as required to
meet the project needs. This was not done, and project funds were used instead to finance the
expertise needed to move the project forward (experts in emergency response
telecommunications, information technology experts, among others). In addition, UNOPS
needed to consult with its headquarters in Copenhagen on major contracts, and this slowed
implementation. The number of staff was insufficient to manage, implement, and supervise this
type of project, particularly with regard to technical aspects. The staff was only available 50
percent of the time, although in reality the team spent much more time on the project given the
implementation issues. Finally, the KRG MOH lacked a proactive approach in supervising the
work carried out by UNOPS; closer supervision might have led to better delivery of project
outputs. The actions taken to compensate for these inefficiencies included a stronger engagement
by the Bank to increase supervision to proactively support the KRG MOH and UNOPS in
implementing the project, increased missions, close follow-up, and intensive discussions with the
KRG MOH, UNOPS, and the suppliers to fully understand the requirements of the system being
put in place and the needs for implementation, operation and maintenance.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

40.      M&E Design. The M&E framework could have been improved, particularly at the time
of restructuring when the design was solidified and the outputs were better known. For example,
the first indicator on utilization rate of the ECCs and number of people transported does not
match the target of functionality of the ECCs. In addition, baseline indicators for the second
indicator on reduction in response time were not collected at the start of project (in reality, there
was only one city which had a manual record of emergency calls; the information contained in
this registry was questionable given that it only recorded number of calls received and not
whether ambulances were dispatched, or whether patients were delivered to a hospital). The
system implemented through the Computer Aided Dispatch/Automatic Vehicle Location
(CAD/AVL) can now provide the data with reports tracking the number of emergency cases,
dispatch, and transport to an emergency hospital. The system also tracks the response time,
which compares favorably to other countries in the region. The indicators for the blood bank
component refer primarily to the rehabilitation/construction and equipping of blood banks, but
not to measurements of the “safe? nature of the blood and blood products.

41.     M&E implementation. The EPP did not address in detail the M&E arrangements to be put
in place or responsibility for data collection and analysis. In 2011, during project implementation,
the Bank team recommended that the KRG MOH provide an annual operating budget plan for the
national EMS with provisions for regional EMS authorities and a central EMS authority to
monitor and evaluate EMS. The computerized EMS that was implemented under component 1
following the 2010 project restructuring provided the KRG MOH with a system-generated
monitoring system. Target numbers for personnel training were also significantly increased at the
2010 restructuring, and were based on international standards (e.g., the target number of
ambulance crews trained increased from 90 to 600). However, those numbers did not take into
account the actual capacity of the health sector to provide the required number of health
personnel to ensure full coverage of the EMS. The health sector in general had an insufficient
amount of paramedical staff, ambulance drivers, and dispatchers, and therefore the KRG MOH
was not able to recruit the full complement of trainees proposed under the project (e.g., 248
ambulance crews were trained out of the expected 600).




                                                                                                   9
42.      M&E utilization. The EMS computerized system installed in the ECCs can generate the
relevant monitoring data (e.g., emergency calls received, response time, and types of
emergencies), but at this time, it is too early to assess whether a dedicated and sustainable M&E
function is being instituted at the KRG MOH to inform decision-making and resource allocation
(e.g., the number of reported car accidents in Sulaimaniyah which could inform policy makers to
institute increased public health interventions, such as the use of seat belts, speed limits, etc.).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

43.     Environment. The project was categorized as environmental Category B. The new
construction and renovation of the ECCs and blood banks were carried out on government land
without squatters, and therefore the World Bank operational policy (OP4.12) was not triggered.
Throughout implementation, the safeguard management performance and compliance with the
OP were rated satisfactory.

44.      The implementing agency UNOPS was to apply the Environmental and Social Screening
and Assessment Framework (ESSAF) established for the project and outlined in the EPP. It did so
for: (i) the inclusion of standard environmental codes of practice in repair and reconstruction
documents of all sub-projects; and (ii) the review and oversight of any major reconstruction
works by specialists. However, it is unclear whether UNOPS applied the provision on safe waste
disposal (particularly for the blood banks), namely: “(iii) implementation of environmentally and
socially sound options of disposal of debris and medical waste,? as was specified in the EPP. The
ESSAF stipulated that UNOPS was to provide the Bank with quarterly and annual project
implementation progress reports, including relevant safeguard monitoring as required
(environmental and social impacts). The only documents available were checklists for the
construction aspects of the civil works portion of the project. This was a failing on the part of the
implementing agency and on the part of the Bank in ensuring the Recipient’s compliance with the
implementation of the safeguard policies. Therefore, the rating for safeguard and fiduciary
compliance is moderately unsatisfactory.

45.     Procurement. The overall procurement risk was rated low at appraisal. However, during
implementation, the project suffered from delays and lengthy procurement processes due to: (i)
the centralization of key procurement activities at the level of Copenhagen which required legal
clearance for large contracts and which delayed a number of activities; and (ii) differences
between the Bank’s procurement system and that of UNOPS were not taken into account at
preparation. The UNOPS reporting frameworks were later harmonized by the Bank; (iii) lack of
technical expertise from UNOPS to design the technical specifications part of procurement
documents; and (iv) lack of expertise in the KRG MOH in providing adequate specifications as
requested by UNOPS for key contracts (e.g., blood bank equipment). Throughout the project, the
procurement rating dropped from Moderately Satisfactory at appraisal to Unsatisfactory in 2011.
However, by 2012, UNOPS was able to deliver on a majority of activities and the procurement
rating was raised to Moderately Satisfactory.

46.     Financial Management. The project was financed through a grant made under the ITF
and 100 percent of the grant was disbursed through the PIA (through a UN Blanket Commitment).
While the overall financial management risk was rated substantial at appraisal, it turned out that
the anticipated problem areas were not as severe as expected (e.g., access to UNOPS project-
specific audit information, and KRG MOH-UNOPS cooperation). The interim un-audited
financial reports were submitted regularly to the Bank. The first audit report was submitted to the
Bank, albeit with delay. UNOPS has yet to submit to the Bank the audit report covering the
period from July 1, 2010 up to March 30, 2012, which was due on July 30, 2012 (the finalization

                                                                                                  10
of accounts and the audit of UNOPS has been a lengthy process). Overall, the assessment of the
financial management of the project throughout its implementation was rated as Moderately
Satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

47.      Progress in institutionalizing the EMS framework is being made but remains slow.
Medical Operations System Services (MOSS) has been created at the central level in KRG MOH,
but it remains minimally staffed and is not yet fully operational, lacking funding, leadership, and
capacity to carry out its activities of managing, staffing, supervising and operating EMS services
in Kurdistan. It has yet to put in place a full-fledged EMS strategy, including maintenance and
operations, or an effective M&E system. Collaboration and coordination with the three
Directorates of Health remains weak. The DOHs in the three governorates are continuing to
maintain, staff, and operationalize the respective ECCs, and are applying their own strategies to
ensure that the EMS is responsive in their regions (each of the Directorates is implementing their
MOSS strategy to ensure that their Directorates are covered with adequate EMS – often funding
their own requirements. The budget for EMS was not allocated by the end of June 2012, and no
dedicated budget line item has yet been designated. Finally, standard operating procedures of the
EMS had not been put in place by the end of the project. All of these issues point toward a risk of
discontinuity in EMS operations and unsustainability of the project, unless significant leadership,
efforts and support are dedicated to this initiative. As mentioned above, the DOHs would benefit
from increased coordination and collaboration among themselves to standardize the systems (both
operating and maintenance procedures), and to ensure continuity in the absence of a centralized
MOSS. On the positive side, the EMS training provided to medical staff is being introduced as
part of the core curriculum of the medical and paramedical schools. KRG MOH is committed to
scale up the EMS system framework by interconnecting 14 other cities in Kurdistan. This will
also require that the full fleet of ambulances is equipped with telecommunication equipment. The
KRG MOH has requested assistance in following through with this task as well as continuing
training and strengthening EMS overall.

48.      The KRG MOH has decided to upgrade the newly constructed Erbil blood bank to a
central blood bank for the Kurdish region, and has enlisted support from international experts to
do so. This upgrade would increase its visibility and priority within the KRG MOH and should
help its development and sustainability. However, much work remains to ensure that the three
blood banks have the systems in place for the safe management, collection and distribution of
blood and blood products, in particular, in terms of testing and analysis, as well as staff training.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

49.     Building capacity and establishing an EMS framework in response to health emergencies,
including those resulting from acts of violence and accidents, was highly relevant at the time of
appraisal for a post-conflict region such as Kurdistan, Iraq, and remained so throughout project
implementation. It remains a top priority for the KRG MOH, and supports the first pillar of the
Bank’s Second Interim Strategy Note for Iraq, namely: “restore basic service delivery?.

50.     The project design was highly relevant, sound and focused on achieving the PDO.
Introducing blood banks and distribution of safe blood into a health emergency response project
was highly relevant in the KRG post-conflict context, even if blood banks are not considered part

                                                                                                  11
of an EMS stricto sensu. The design for the blood banks did not include the minimum set of
activities needed to ensure the safe management, collection and distribution of blood and blood
products as originally envisaged in the EPP, nor on the medical waste aspect required by the
ESSAF.

51.      Implementation arrangements put in place were guided by the exceptional circumstances
in which the project was delivered in a post-conflict country. UNOPS was the agency of choice
given its presence in Kurdistan and active engagement in country activities. In addition, the Bank
team was not able to conduct supervision missions in country, though this improved over time.
Subsequent Bank missions strengthened implementation outcomes through capacity building,
technical discussions and exchanges, and closer supervision of all activities.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

52.      Overall, the Project Development Objective was achieved. The project has helped to
establish a comprehensive, computerized, coordinated emergency response system, including
three ECCs, for the three governorates of Erbil, Sulaimaniyah, and Dohuk (with call centers
servicing a new three digit citizen access/emergency number). The three ECCs are 100 percent
functional and provide a rapid, coordinated and effective response for health emergencies. The
system as it functioned prior to the project was not efficient or effective. The on-call duty
physician would take emergency calls on a specified mobile telephone number, and would call
the nearest hospital to dispatch an ambulance. This arrangement was in effect for the three main
cities of Kurdistan. The system installed under the project has radically changed this procedure to
have dedicated ECCs functional, staffed, and responsive to a three-digit emergency number, with
the ability through a telecommunication mode to dispatch medically equipped ambulances, track
ambulances from departure to destination, and delivery of the patient to the most appropriate
hospital.

53.      The target value, as mentioned above in the M&E section, does not link very closely with
the indicator on “utilization? and “number of people transported?. Through functional ECCs, the
population can make use of a dedicated emergency number, and access emergency medical
services through medically equipped and staffed ambulances. The ECCs are each fully staffed
with 1 coordinator, 12 drivers, 14 paramedical personnel and 20 call takers or dispatchers on
average. This exceeds by far the target value of one coordinator, one call taker and one driver per
site. In April 2012, the number of calls received in all ECCs was 18,419 and the response time
averaged 7 minutes. The number of incidents recorded reflects the use of the system; however,
there remain some problems with regard to the stability of the internet, incoming false calls, and
confusion between the information number (123) and the emergency number (122). Strategies
are being put in place to ensure that the response time can be kept reasonably low, such as
stationing teams in different parts of the city, thereby allowing the ambulances to reach their
destination in the quickest possible time, updating location references (in lieu of addresses which
do not exist) into the system as they become available, etc. In addition, the training of the callers
and dispatchers has been beneficial in building capacity to obtain information from callers,
thereby also reducing time spent on locating the patient, and keeping the caller calm to provide
the information needed to appropriately respond to the call. In August 2012, the number of calls
received just in Erbil increased to 122,722. Twenty-nine fully equipped ambulances were
purchased under the project and are operational. The project financed telecommunication
equipment for a total of 102 ambulances that were made available by the KRG MOH, though the
whole KRG ambulance fleet exceeds 600 vehicles. The system as established does not make full
use of its capacity. The objective of the restructured project was to introduce EMS through a
computerized system. The KRG MOH needs now to become more familiar with this system

                                                                                                  12
through experience and adaptation to the local context. For example, Dohuk put in place four
sites which have one ambulance each, and required paramedical staff and drivers. This method
ensures that the four points of the city of Dohuk are adequately covered and that patients are
reached and delivered to a hospital in minimal time. The system can be expanded once the KRG
MOH is fully knowledgeable concerning its use and operations.

54.      The expansion of the EMS system will involve coverage of surrounding towns and
villages, through improved services, increased coverage, increased system capability, updating of
the GIS system as street locations become more formalized, etc. The regional government of
Kurdistan is currently seeking additional assistance from the Bank to expand the EMS to increase
coverage to other towns in the region.

55.     The project’s training objectives related to the EMS far exceeded the targets. Two
hundred forty eight paramedical personnel, 20 senior physicians and 200 ambulance drivers have
been trained (target values were 150, 4, and 90, respectively). The trained staff have been
assigned to the ECCs, and the senior physicians, trained as Training of Trainers (ToTs), are
providing training to the health sector staff on EMS, and Sulaimaniyah is building a dedicated
training center next to the ECC to increase the number of paramedical personnel specialized in
EMS. In parallel, the KRG MOH capacity to manage the EMS has been strengthened: a
managing unit (MOSS) within the KRG MOH in charge of EMS strategy has been established to
manage EMS. The M&E system needs to be expanded to include the EMS data being provided
by the ECCs. An EMS operations manual has been handed over to the MOSS as a reference
guide.

56.     The three blood banks have been built or rehabilitated and all equipment has been
delivered, even though the Erbil blood bank was not yet operational at the project closing date.
Yet, the design of this component failed in part to achieve the outcome to: “support improvements
in the quality of collection, screening, testing, processing, storage, and distribution of blood
products?: (i) the blood banks component focused on civil works rehabilitation and equipment
and did not include technical assistance to address the quality and safety of blood and blood
products’ delivery or the upgrade of management skills; (ii) the staff training included in the
project design was only for use of the equipment, and this is what was reflected in the
procurement plan and the project costing.; and, (iii) although the requirement to dispose of debris
and medical waste during construction was included in the civil works contracts for the blood
banks, there was no broader plan included in the project to address the disposal of medical waste
produced by the operations of the blood banks. The project restructuring did not address these
safeguards issues.

3.3 Efficiency

57.      This project was prepared as an emergency operation in a country context where the
Bank team could not have access because of security reasons and where the Iraqi expertise was
not strong. Lack of reliable data, limited economic information and speed of preparation
prevented the carrying out of a financial and economic analysis. With no reliable data on
accidents and casualties, or on potential saved lives resulting from the EMS established under the
project, it is impossible to evaluate the efficiency and rate of return of the project.

58.     From a cost perspective, the use of a computerized EMS system was cost efficient in
terms of functionality (rapid information, effective call taking/dispatching), trained human
resources and had a positive impact on health service delivery. The overall cost of the EMS


                                                                                                13
system was assessed at US$6.0 million at the time of project restructuring, but actually ended up
costing half that amount as a result of the bidding process.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

59.     Overall, the project achieved its objective, despite the difficult environment and the weak
implementation capacity. The EMS component, which represented the larger share of the
investment, has been successful. The pre-hospital emergency systems are in place, the
communication infrastructure is functional, capacity has been built at the KRG MOH and
regional health directorates, training and awareness campaigns were delivered and the EMS is
being institutionalized.

60.     The blood bank component is less satisfactory. On the one hand, the new blood bank in
Erbil has been built and should be operational by the end of 2012, and the two existing blood
banks in Sulaimaniyah and Dohuk have been rehabilitated and are operational. The Sulaimaniyah
blood bank regularly tests the blood before distribution to hospitals, and provides monthly reports,
whereas Dohuk is less organized. The new Erbil blood bank director is studying different models
to ensure that the Erbil blood bank is high performing. Although the training was for use of
equipment only, training and capacity building on safe collection, management and distribution of
blood and blood products should have been part of the project design. Through the purchase of
equipment, it was intended that improvements would be brought to safe blood management
aspects. It is noted that the blood bank in Sulaimaniyah is relatively well managed and has regular
reporting procedures, but it was not possible to fully determine the overall safety of the blood
system. The project could have been more specific in assessing and identifying the gaps and
where improvements could have been brought to bear.

61.     Given the emergency nature of the project, the design was sound and focused. The
project was and remains a high development priority and highly relevant for KRG, in the
continued context of violence and insecurity. The straightforward design focused on a clear
public health priority and ensured that most outcomes were achieved, especially in the area of
EMS.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

62.      The project by its nature targeted the whole population of the region. It contributed to
establishing a solid framework for better quality of health services in the long term and, although
no data are yet available, it is expected to make a significant contribution in providing better
access to emergency services. Training provided under the project addressed both male and
female paramedical staff. The staff is now active in the implementation of the EMS system. In
addition, an outcome is that the ECCs for Sulaimaniyah and Erbil are staffed by female call takers
and dispatchers, with a number of female engineers managing the computerized system.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

63.     The extent of training that the project provided to medical and non-medical staff in EMS,
in addition to the capacity building provided to the KRG MOH, definitely contributed to
strengthening the regional government’s capacity in the management of the EMS. While project

                                                                                                14
ownership was weak at the start, the KRG MOH built capacity over time and became more
actively involved in the implementation during the course of the project. An authority for MOSS
has been created at the KRG central level, and, albeit currently insufficiently staffed, will need to
take responsibility for the continued development of the EMS to ensure that it is fully
institutionalized. The regional DOHs are engaging directly in the institutionalization of EMS
within their own directorates through sensitization of the governors and regional government
authorities.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

64.      The project focused on the three major cities of Kurdistan (Erbil, Sulaimaniyah, and
Dohuk). The project could not implement in the cities of Kirkuk or Mosul. Both cities continue
to be affected by violence and conflict. However, the unintended consequence of the project is
that the EMS system is responding to calls from Kirkuk and Mosul, and dispatching ambulances
to cover these conflict areas

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

NA

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

65.      The main risk to the project’s development outcome is that the EMS framework will not
be sustained and will not continue to benefit from full ownership, support and leadership of the
KRG MOH. As described above, the KRG MOH’s active involvement in the project has been
slow to materialize at the central level (the directorates were carrying out EMS, however, not
efficiently. Staff members have been assigned at the central level, but not in sufficient numbers,
and there continues to be poor coordination/collaboration with the directorates, particularly on the
budgetary side. There is no specific line item for EMS in the budget, and the directorates as well
as the central level are trying to manage within a constrained budget environment. Therefore,
there remains uncertainty as to the sustainability of the financial support needed to implement the
EMS framework. The Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of Health recently expressed
interest in follow up activities. To ensure the coherence of emergency service delivery, the
health system needs to rely on an assured supply of blood through improvements in quality
assurance and management.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

66.    Given the difficult country context and the emergency nature of the project, the Bank
team was able to prepare a sound operation that aimed to address priority issues in the health
system in Kurdistan. There was a strong focus on establishment of an EMS, training of KRG

                                                                                                  15
MOH staff in EMS, capacity building and project management support; the awareness campaign
for the EMS framework came late in the project. The establishment of the telecommunications
system, the number of people trained, the use of ToTs to ensure sustainability, mainstreaming the
value and need for EMS in health systems, and the initial development of a more structured
framework for EMS will strengthen the health sector to carry out effective emergency response.
The capacity of the health sector to use and integrate a computerized EMS system in an effective
emergency response delivery service can only be improved through use, institutionalization, and
subsequent expansion to incorporate all the potential functionalities the EMS system provides.
The design of the blood bank component did not receive sufficient attention, as preparation failed
to focus on good management practices to ensure the safety and quality of blood, nor were
safeguards adequately emphasized to ensure that medical waste management would be applied by
the Recipient during implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

67.       Supervision during the first year of the project had been difficult (e.g., no trips to the
field allowed), which may have led to a less than proactive approach to address delays and other
issues that arose, and which were acknowledged by the team. However, that changed
significantly in 2010 at the time of the project MTR with a project restructuring, which included
additional financing, and a clear roadmap for the establishment of an EMS system. Starting in
2010, regular missions to KRG made supervision more effective. The Bank took a more
proactive approach in supervision and expanded its implementation support. Following the
project restructuring, and faced with UNOPS’s continued inability to effectively manage the
implementation of the project, the Bank engaged more directly and intensively with UNOPS and
the KRG MOH through increased supervision missions on the ground, bringing in the technical
expertise needed, and training both UNOPS and KRG MOH on the technicalities and specificities
of EMS.

68.     Supervision was further intensified in 2011, with missions being fielded every three
months (particularly technical missions conducted by the expert from the Information and
Communication Technology Department of the Bank, with closer involvement and support of the
Country Management Unit and increased supervision funding from the ITF. During the last year
and a half of the project, the Bank team organized weekly teleconferences with the PCU and
UNOPS to track progress (July-September 2011; November-January 2012; April-June 2012), and
involved the Ministry of Planning during critical phases of the project to make sure action plans
were implemented with due diligence, and within the proposed timeline. Supervision was also
followed by in-depth supervision by the Bank’s Financial Monitoring Agent in Baghdad and
Erbil, which reported back to the Bank and the Client on progress on the ground, and followed up
with verification missions. Ultimately, despite the difficult context and the low capacity of the
implementation agency, the PDO was reached in large part due to the Bank team’s efforts and
proactivity.

69.     However, the Bank did not fully ensure that KRG MOH implemented environmentally
and socially sound options for disposal of debris and medical waste in the facilities supported by
the project, as reflected in the EPP, and did not consistently document progress in this regard. The
Bank did raise the issue of medical waste in the fleet management under EMS (how medical
waste was treated with the dispatch of ambulances, and on-the-scene treatment). The Bank had
multiple discussions with the KRG MOH on the need to have in place a system where
ambulances would be replenished with supplies, medical waste would be disposed of

                                                                                                 16
appropriately, and maintenance would be carried out on a regular basis. This was in the EMS
framework provided to the KRG MOH. At the end of the project, this system has only partially
been put in place.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

70.     Despite the shortcomings in the original project design, the Bank developed, restructured
and supervised a project that reached its objective in a very difficult context, relying on an
implementation agency that did not perform according to expectations, and with weak
government capacity. The Bank team proved capable of increasing the pace of implementation
and restructured the project to improve and better define the design with additional financing in a
way that led to achievement of its development outcomes. It also supported active capacity
building, ownership and direct implementation of the EMS (from March to early July 2012) on
the government side before project completion.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

71.      The KRG MOH commitment to and ownership of the RHERP, while weak at project
inception, has built up over time during implementation. The KRG MOH had made a compact
with the population of Kurdistan to establish an emergency response system. The KRG MOH
established and supported the PCU, even with staff only partially dedicated to the project. This
affected the speed of implementation. However, after 2011, the PCU gradually became much
more engaged. This was the first Bank-financed project in the health sector in the Kurdish region;
the PCU staff had no past experience working with the Bank, and only gradually learned about
Bank policies and procedures during implementation. However, there were teams of dedicated
doctors who were involved in the inception of EMS, and who later formed the technical
committee to implement the EMS. The KRG MOH engagement increased during the last year
and a half of the project and the staff developed a well-rounded understanding of the EMS and its
requirements. The MOSS was established, but the sustainability of this entity remains challenging,
and requires increased technical understanding of EMS, and improved management skills. In
addition, as of June 2012, the KRG MOH was still working out the details of developing a fully
operational EMS framework.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

72.       The KRG MOH contracted UNOPS to carry out the day to day implementation of the
project. As stated above, there was limited oversight of UNOPS by KRG MOH, but on the other
hand, UNOPS interaction with the KRG MOH could have been more engaging. UNOPS overall
management of the project was unsatisfactory for several reasons: (i) change in the UNOPS team
after effectiveness which led to a loss of institutional knowledge of project preparation; (i)
insufficient technical expertise and allocation of staff time dedicated to project implementation;
(iii) lack of specialized technical skills in the different areas covered by the project, which
impacted negatively on the quality of implementation (e.g., architects, EMS technical specialists,

                                                                                                17
IT specialists, procurement specialist with skills in telecommunication specifications and
computer systems, etc.); (iv) lack of knowledge of Bank procurement and financial management
procedures that led to constant delays throughout the project; (v) failure to implement the full
ESSAF (supervision of the disposal of medical waste in the operations of the blood banks, and
regular reporting of safeguards in project progress reports), and (vi) delivery of certain tasks.
Transfer of project management skills was to take place between UNOPS and the PCU. However,
this was only partially successful, due to the urgency of completing project activities on time.
Under increased pressure, UNOPS gave a major push, with the support of its Headquarters office
in Copenhagen, to complete key project activities per the November/December 2011 action plan,
and during the last four months of their contract that ended in March 2012. At the same time, the
KRG MOH made progress in taking ownership through the high level involvement of the DOHs,
and the establishment of a central MOSS.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

73.      The Government ultimately demonstrated its commitment and ownership of the project,
and provided the support needed to achieve the project outcomes. UNOPS, despite major
shortcomings, was still able to carry out the essential implementation functions needed. The
Borrower was able to take ownership of the project and operate the EMS system installed in the
three major cities. The Borrower established a central MOSS to manage the EMS system
although the MOSS may still lack the necessary coordination to allow the system to be fluid,
effective, and responsive. Nonetheless, the system is working well at the DOH level. Given the
difficult regional context, the emergency nature of this operation and the fact that the overall
development outcome was Moderately Satisfactory, the overall Borrower performance is rated
Moderately Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

74.     In uncertain, post-conflict and low capacity environments: keep the project simple
and focused on the main development outcome. In post-conflict situations and uncertain
environments, the Bank should continue to support simple, well focused, and capacity-building
operations that target high-impact issue areas. The project was a high impact operation which
supported establishment of an EMS. It did not try to address broader issues of the healthcare
system in Kurdistan, but focused on a specific aspect of it which was particularly relevant in the
Iraqi context with high rates of violent death. The success of this aspect of the project will be
tested over time, but the project successfully focused on building the foundations for sustained
impact. On the other hand, adding components that are not well linked could divert the focus of
the project.

75.      Proactive supervision and hands-on support are paramount for success in low
capacity environments. With the difficulties faced by UNOPS as the implementing agency and
lack of familiarity of the KRG MOH with the technical aspects of EMS and Bank procedures, the
project was at significant risk of not achieving its objective. The very proactive engagement of
the Bank team at the time of the MTR was a turning point and allowed the project to reach its
objective. This “engaged supervision? involved considerable hands-on advisory support,
consistent and regular monitoring of progress, proactivity in solving technical, procedural,
financial and procurement bottlenecks, and continuous contact and team effort with the
government counterparts. This is an important lesson for other operations in comparable
environments.

                                                                                               18
76.      In conflict or post-conflict projects, flexibility in adjusting project content during
implementation is advisable. Simplicity in design may not be reflected in actual implementation
on the ground, as difficulties may emerge. Flexibility in implementation may compensate for
lack of sufficient preparation time, and address emerging and critical issues, or changes in
strategic directions.

77.      Planning and investing for sustainability should be embedded in the project design.
Although the project did support the KRG MOH PCU at its latest stage, in particular with
capacity building through missions and training on project management, there was no clear plan
at the design stage to ensure sustainability beyond the project. Planning ahead and embedding this
capacity building in the project design (particularly through study tours, networking seminars on
EMS, etc.) would certainly have helped the Recipient focus on the issue of sustainability earlier
and would have reduced the transition risks after the project closed.

78.     Training and capacity building are mandatory but not enough for acquiring
specialized technical expertise. Although the project supported much staff training and capacity
building, the KRG MOH will need to rely on a core team of experts in the EMS area – it could be
one senior technical adviser to start with, preferably in a leadership position. Identifying such
expertise, locally or internationally, early in project implementation should be a priority.

79.     Dedicated expertise is still needed after project completion to ensure sustainability.
The project correctly focused on a narrow set of activities and outcomes to achieve the
development objective. But to ensure sustained impact of these investments, other
complementary activities will need to be carried out after the project completion, and this requires
dedicated expertise. Expertise is needed to: (i) build capacity of MOSS; (ii) continue in-service
and pre-service training of staff involved in all aspects of the EMS; (iii) ensure that the M&E data
needed for monitoring of the EMS is collected properly; and, (iv) strengthen the systems in place
to improve handling of blood and blood products.

80.      Solid technical knowledge and skills and management expertise are a sine qua non
in the selection process of the implementation agencies for successful project preparation
and implementation. Soon after project effectiveness, the UNOPS team changed quite
substantially, and this resulted in some discontinuity between the original team which understood
the project, having been involved during the preparation phase, and the new team assigned to the
project for the start of implementation. The new UNOPS team did not have sufficient knowledge
of emergency response projects, and had to undergo a steep learning curve to get implementation
off the ground. This necessitated close Bank supervision, knowledge transfer and capacity
building to ensure that the project would be completely successfully.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
NA

(b) Cofinanciers
NA

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
NA

                                                                                                 19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

    (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                  Appraisal Additional
                                                        Actual/Latest
                                  Estimate Financing                  Percentage of
          (b) Components                                Estimate (USD
                                   (USD       (USD                    Appraisal
                                                           millions)
                                  millions)  millions)
Emergency Coordination Centers          4.18       7.61          7.21      172%
Capacity Building and Training in                  0.81
                                        0.32                     1.32      412%
Emergency Procedures
Blood Banks                             2.04       2.11          1.37       34%
Project Management                      1.71       2.67          2.4       140%


            Total Baseline Cost            8.25       13.20     12.30       149%
Physical Contingencies
                                           0.00                  0.00       0.00
Price Contingencies                        0.45
                                                                 0.00       0.00
             Total Project Costs           8.70       13.20     12.30


(b) Financing

NA. There were no external donors for this project.




                                                                                      20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                                          Target values
Indicators                   Baseline                                                   Achieved (2012)
                                             Original (2008)           Revised (2010)
Project Outcomes
Utilization rate at the 3    0          ECC functioning            ECC functioning      ECCs did not exist at the start
emergency Coordination                  at least 50% of            at least 50% of      of project. Three (3) ECCs
Centers: number of people               its capacity               its capacity         were built under the project
transported and                                                                         and are fully functional.
appropriately referred by                                                               At end of project, the
the emergency ambulance                                                                 following can be noted.
system                                                                                  The number of incidents dealt
                                                                                        with (emergency calls
                                                                                        answered, dispatched, and
                                                                                        transported to hospital) were as
                                                                                        follows:
                                                                                        Dohuk: 287 incidents
                                                                                        Erbil: 27 incidents
                                                                                        Sulaimaniyah: 2710

                                                                                        The response rate has
                                                                                        increased, but there are issues
                                                                                        with false calls, wrong
                                                                                        number, system problems
                                                                                        (variability in internet service),
                                                                                        etc.
X% lower response time at               Reduction of               Reduction of         Baseline data was not available
the 3 centers                           50%                        50%                  at the start of the project.
than average in other                                                                   Average response time in
facilities in the                                                                       urban areas is 7-10 minutes.
governorates: between call



                                                                                                                       21
and admission
to a health facility
Intermediate Outcomes: Component 1
Construction completed in     0      3 sites   3 sites   3 sites built in Dohuk, Erbil
the ECC sites                                            and Sulaimaniyah
Communications                0      3 sites   3 sites   • 3+ sites with radio: 3 ECCs
equipment in place and                                   and 18 hospitals
functioning                                              • 3 major cities with radio
                                                         coverage
Ambulances in place and       0      12        12        • 12 fully equipped
equipped with                                            ambulances delivered;
radio equipment                                          additional 17 ambulances
                                                         delivered in May 2012.
                                                         • In addition, the 102
                                                         ambulance fleet already
                                                         existing equipped with radio,
                                                         mobile phone, satellite phone
                                                         and GPS
Intermediate Outcomes: Component 2
Planning workshop             0      1         1         • Workshop conducted
completed and
training plan finalized for
TOT program
Number of trainers trained    0      12        16        • 34 ToTs trained
Number of emergency           0      0         45        • 21 dispatchers trained
medical                                                  • Lower number trained
dispatchers trained                                      because of higher-than
                                                         estimated
                                                         cost of training
Number of ambulance           0      90        600       • 248 drivers trained
crew trained in                                          • Lower number trained


                                                                                     22
BLS                                              because of higher-than
                                                 estimated
                                                 cost of training
Number of ambulance         0        0     400   • 199 drivers trained
drivers trained in                               • Lower number trained
safe driving and                                 because of higher-than
mech/maintenance                                 estimated cost of training
Number of paramedical       0        150   208   • 248 EMTs trained
staff trained in ALS                             • Lower number trained
                                                 because of higher-than
                                                 estimated cost of training
Number of physicians        0        37    36    • 20 physicians trained
trained                                          • Lower number trained
                                                 because of higher-than
                                                 estimated cost of training
Workshop on emergency       0        0     1     • 1 Workshop conducted
management
system (#of trainees: 16)
Number of KRG MOH           0        4     4     • 34 KRG MOH staff trained
staff trained in
medical emergency
management
Number of KRG MOH           0        0     12    • 20 KRG MOH staff trained
staff trained in
emergency management
system
Intermediate Outcomes: Component 3
Renovation of               0        1     1     • 1 blood bank renovated in
Sulaimaniyah blood bank                          Sulaimaniyah
completed
Reparation of ventilation   0        1     1     • 1 blood bank repaired in
system in Dohuk                                  Dohuk



                                                                               23
blood bank completed
Construction of Erbil        0                          1                         1                       • 1 blood bank constructed in
blood bank completed                                                                                      Erbil

Equipment delivered and      0                          3 sites                   3 sites                 • 3 sites equipped in Dohuk,
installed in the                                                                                          Erbil, Sulaimaniyah (the
three blood banks                                                                                         June 2012 mission was
                                                                                                          notified that some of the
                                                                                                          equipment is no longer
                                                                                                          operational and requires
                                                                                                          maintenance/replacement).
Intermediate Outcomes: Component 4
PCU established and staff    N/C                        3 sites                   3 sites                 PCU established and staff in
in place by Project                                                                                       place at Project Effectiveness
Effectiveness
Contract between KRG         N/C                        Contract finalized and    -                       Contract between KRG MOH
MOH and UNOPS                                           signed                                            and UNOPS finalized and
finalized and signed by                                                                                   signed by Project Effectiveness
Project Effectiveness
Intermediate Outcomes: Additional Items (Incorporated in Project Restructuring)
Outline of EMS               NA                         0                         1 EMS framework         • EMS framework outline
framework (organization,                                                          prepared                provided to KRG MOH.
staffing, budget and                                                                                      Additional work is required by
protocols) prepared                                                                                       KRG MOH to adapt the
                                                                                                          framework, provided the
                                                                                                          funding needed, and required
                                                                                                          staff, guidelines, protocol
                                                                                                          development, etc.
1-2-2 citizen access         0 (no citizen access       0                         1-2-2 citizen access    • 1-2-2 set up throughout
number for medical           number in place)                                     number established in   Kurdistan, Iraq
emergencies established in                                                        Kurdistan, Iraq         • Operators: Asiacell, Korek,



                                                                                                                                         24
Kurdistan, Iraq                                                                  Newroz, Qurtel
1-2-2 media campaign           NA   0                            1               • 1-2-2 media campaign
done to educate                                                                  completed June 2012
citizens about emergency
medical services
ECCs set up with               0    3 (except for the 1-2-2      3               • 3 ECCs fully furnished and
equipment (furniture,               trunks and IP-based phone                    equipped
computers), services                system and some
(internet, electricity,             equipment and services not
etc.), 1-2-2 trunks, and IP-        planned originally)
based phone system
ECCs set up with               0    0 (CAD was not explicitly    3               • 3 ECCs with CAD system
computer-aided dispatch             mentioned in original
                                    project design)
ECCs set up with GPS-          0    0                            3               • 3 ECCs with AVL system
based tracking of                                                                (automatic vehicle
ambulances                                                                       location)
Communications                 0    0                            11              • 11 additional towns with
equipment in 11 additional                                                       radio equipment
towns                                                                            • ECC-to-town interconnection
                                                                                 planned by
                                                                                 KRG MOH
EMS workshop conducted         NA   1                            0               • Postponed at the request of
in Erbil                                                                         KRG MOH
Training centers               0    No target set                No target set   • 3 training centers established
established                                                                      in Dohuk, Erbil, Sulaimaniyah
Number of emergency            0    No target set                No target set   • 21 dispatchers trained
medical dispatchers trained
in computer-aided dispatch
Number of emergency            0    No target set                No target set   • 21 dispatchers trained
medical dispatchers trained
in radio system




                                                                                                              25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

3.1       Besides ECC statistics on calls, response time and type of incidents, there were no data
available on casualties and emergency health incidents in the three targeted governorates, either at
project start up or during implementation. It is therefore impossible to quantify any drop in
number of deaths that could have been avoided through having the new emergency system in
place. An economic analysis of the benefits of the project (which would have, for example,
estimated the “dollar-equivalent? of saved lives) is therefore impossible to make. Lack of reliable
statistics, limited economic data and speed of preparation (as the project was prepared under
OP8.0 emergency procedures) did not allow more detailed analysis at time of preparation. On the
cost side, actual costs of the ECC and growth projections are available. Under the project, goods
and services of significant value were procured in a competitive manner.

3.2     However, the benefits of the project in terms of responsiveness of the emergency health
care system, if it were to be valued in economic terms, would most likely exceed by far the
modest total cost of the project. With violence and crime as the leading cause of death of young
males, reducing response time of emergency health services clearly has a very high social return.




                                                                                                 26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
          Names                            Title                   Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Nazaneen Ismail Ali         Senior Procurement Specialist         MNAPR
Mona El-Chami               Sr Financial Management Specialist    MNAFM
Emma Paulette Etori         Language Program Assistant            MNSHD
Jean-Jacques Frere          Senior Health Specialist              AFTHE Task Team Leader
                            Sr. Operations Specialist
Virginia H. Jackson                                               MNSHD
                            (Consultant)
                            Sr. Procurement Specialist
Mario Antonio Zelaya                                              MNSUR
                            (Consultant)
                            Sr. Implementation Specialist
Vasilios C. Demetriou                                             MNSHD
                            (Consultant)
Supervision/ICR
Nazaneen Ismail Ali         Senior Procurement Specialist         MNAPR
                            Sr. Implementation Specialist
Vasilios C. Demetriou                                             MNSHD
                            (Consultant)
Mona El-Chami               Sr. Financial Management Specialist   MNAFM
Emma Paulette Etori         Language Program Assistant            MNSHD
Mira Hong                   Operations Officer                    MNSSP Task Team Leader
Virginia H. Jackson         Consultant                            SASED
Eileen Brainne Sullivan     Health Specialist                     MNSHD Task Team Leader
Jad Raji Mazahreh           Sr. Financial Management Specialist   MNAFM
Zaid Safdar                 Operations Officer                    TWICT
Claudine Kader              Senior Program Assistant              MNSHD


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD (including travel and
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                                  consultant costs)
Lending
  FY08                                        20.68                       264,431.28
                            Total:                                        264,431.28
Supervision/ICR
FY09                                          21.65                    181,617.65
FY10                                          28.05                    227,798.29
FY11                                          38.39                    313,491.58
FY12                                          34.86                    251,811.78
FY13                                          10.16                      30653
                            Total:                                    984,265.62


                                                                                           27
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

NA




                                       28
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

NA




                                                   29
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

ICR is under preparation but has not yet been received by the Bank.




                                                                      30
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

NA




                                                                    31
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank

World Bank (2008) Emergency Project Paper, Regional Health Emergency Response Project
RHERP, report No 43670-IQ

World Bank (2008) World Bank Iraq Trust Fund Grant Agreement REHERP, grant number
TF092237

Agreement, between Ministry of Health, Kurdistan Regional Government of the Republic of Iraq
and UNOPS, concerning the carrying out of consultant services for the Regional Health
Emergency Response Paper, RHERP

Project ISRs and aide memoires

Formal restructuring documents (2010, 2011, 2012)

Handover Manual, EMS Operational Manual International Medical Corps (2012)

Status of the Structure for Emergency Medical System (EMS) in the Regional Government of
Kurdistan, Iraq. Examples of Standard Operating Procedures (May 2012)




                                                                                           32
MAP 33422




            33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33422R



                                                                                                                         IRAQ
                                                                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                    MAIN ROADS

                                                                        GOVERNORATE CAPITALS                                                                         RAILROADS

                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                             GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES

                                                                        RIVERS                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                            40E                                      42E                                                 44E                                           46E                                      48E


                                       TU R K EY                                                                                          To Urmia


                                                                                                                                                            To Urmia
                                                                                                          - -
                                                                                                         Zakhu                                                                                 0          50           100       150 Kilometers
                                                              To
                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                             DAHUK
                                                                             -
                                                          Al Qamishli
                                                                                            Tig                     - 'Aqrah
                                                                                                                 Dahuk                                                                         0                  50               100 Miles
                                                                                               r R.
                                                                                                is
                                                                                                                                                                     Haji Ibrahim
                                                                                                                                                          - -
                                                                                                                                                         Rayat        (3,600 m)
                                                                                -                                        Mosul               -
                                                                            Sinjar                                                        ARBIL
                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                              Arbil
   36N
                   Euphr
                           ates                                                    -                                                                                                                                                                         36N
                                  R.                  To Dayr
                                                      az Zawr
                                                                                 N I N AW ?
                                                                                                                                                                              As
                                                                                                                                                                                   - -
                                                                                                                                                                             Sulaymaniyah                              ISLA MI C
                                                                                           Al Hadr
                                                                                                                                                                             - -                                       REPUBLI C
                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                      Kirkuk     AS SULAYMANIYAH
    S YRIAN                                                                                                                           KIRKUK                                                                           O F IRAN
                                           To Dayr
     A RAB                                 az Zawr                                                                       -
                                                                                                                     Bayji          Ja
                                                                                                                                         ba
      RE P.                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                          -       H
                                                                                        -
                                                                                       'Anah
                                                                                                                    - Tikrit
                                                                                                                 SALAH AD
                                                                                                                                am
                                                              -                                                      -             ri                                                         -   -
                                                          Al Qa'im                                                  DIN      -  -
                                                                                                                          Samarra'    n                                                To Kermanshah
   34N                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                 Al Hadithah                                                                                                                                                 34N
                                                                                                                                                                              - -
                                                                                                                                   Tharthar
 To Hims                                                                                                                           Lake                           -
                                              - -
                                           'Akashat                                                                                                           Ba'qubah
                                                                                                                               - -                            -
                                                                                                                         Ar Ramadi
                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                           DIYAL?
                                                                                                                                     Al Fallujah
                                                                                                            - -
                                                                                                        Habbaniyah
                                                                                                                                                        BAGHDAD
                                                                                                                                                       BAGHDAD
                                                                      -                                       Lake
                                                                   AL ANBAR
JORDAN




                                                                                                             Razzaza                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                              WA S I T
           To
                 Trebil
                          S            y       r      i       a         n                                       Lake                 -
                                                                                                                               Karbala                 -
                                                                                                                                                      BABIL                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                    Al Kut         Tigr
                                                                                                                                                                                                        is R.
         Amman
                                                                                                                                    -                  Al Hillah
                                                                                                                              KARBALA'                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To Dezful
                                                     D        e s e r                        t                                                                         - - -                   Al Hayy
   32N                                                                                                                                                             Ad Diwaniyah                                                                              32N
                                                                                            Nukhayb                                  An Najaf
                                                                                                                                                            -   -                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Al 'Amarah
                                                                                                                                                        AL QADISIYAH                                            -
                                                                                                                                                        Eu
                                                                                                                                                          phr                                               MAYSAN
                                                                                                                                                                ates
                                                                                                                                                                     R   .         -    Ash Shatrah                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                             As Samawah             Al 'Uzayr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To Ahvaz
                                                                                            S                                 AN NAJAF                                                         - -
                                                                                                a                                                                                            DHI QAR
                                                                                                    h                                                                                                  - -
                                                                                                                                                                                                   An Nasiriyah
                                                                                                        ra
                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                     l                                                                                                       Al Basrah
                                                                                                                          H
                                                                                                                              ij                                -
                                                                                                                                                         As Salman
                                                                                                                                   ar                                                                            AL Az Zubayr
                                                                                                                                         ah                                                                                            Umm
                                                                                                                                                       AL MUTHANN?                                              BASRAH                 Qasr
   30N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30N



                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To Ad
                                            IRAQ                                                                                                                                                                        Damman

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KUWA IT
                                                                                           S A UDI A RA BIA

                                                                                        This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
   28N

                              40E                                                42E                                                     44E                                                 46E                                            48E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       APRIL 2012
