Docuams Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4368-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt150.0 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR AN
ASRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
September 3, 1986
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENIS
Currency Unit - Tunisian Dinar (D)
First Semester
CY1985                    CY1986
US$1.00   = D  0.757                   D  0.770
D  1.00   = US$1 321                   US$1.299
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km) = 0.6214 mile (mi)
I hectare (ha) = 2.4711 acres (ac)
1 liter (1) = 1.0567 quarts (qt)
1 metric ton (ton) = 2,204.6226 pounds (lb)
I quintal (qt) = 220.46226 pounds lb)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AI       :Artificial Insemination
(Ins6mination artificielle)
ASAL     ;Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
(Pr&t sectoriel d'ajustement agricole)
BNT      :National Bank of Tunisia
(Banque nationale de Tunisie)
BNDA     :National Bank for Agricultural Development
(Banque nationale pour le developpement agricole)
CCGC     :Central Cooperative for Field Crops
(Cooperative centrale des grandes cultures)
CRDA     :Regional Agricultural Development Commission
(Commissariat regional de developpement agricole)
COCEBLE  :Central Cooperative for Wheat
(Cooperative centrale du ble)
CTV      :Local Extension Center
(Cellule territoriale de vulgarisation)
DERV     :Department of Training, Research and Extension
(Direction de 1'enseignement, de la recherche et de la
vulgarisation)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
DGR       : Department of Rural Engineering
(Direction du genie rural)
DPA       : Department of Animal Production
(Direction de la production animale)
DPSAE    : Department of Planning, Statistics and Economic Analyses
(Direction de la planification, des statistiques et des analyses
6conomiques)
DPV       : Department of Crop Production
(Direction de la production vegetale)
DRGR      : Center for Rural Engineering Research
(Centre de recherche du genie rural)
FOSDA    : Agricultural Development Funds
(Fonds sp6ciaux de developpement agricole)
IFAD     : International Fund for Agricultural Development
(Fonds international pour le d6veloppement agricole)
IFPRI    : International Food Policy Research Institute
(Institut international de recherche sur la politique alimentaire)
INRAT    : National Institute of Agricultural Research
(Institut national de recherche agronomique tunisien)
ISNAR    :International Service for National Agricultural Research
(Service international pour la recherche agricole nationale)
MOA       :Ministry of Agriculture
(Ministere de l'agriculture)
MOE       :Ministry of Public Works
(Ministere de 1'equipement)
MOPF     :Ministry of Planning and Finance
(Ministere du plan et des finances)
MTASAP   :Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
(Programme d'ajustement du secteur agricole a moyen-terme)
OC       :National Cereal Board
(Office des c6r6ales)
OEP       :National Livestock and Range Agency
(office d'elevage et du pa turage)
3MV       :Irrigation Development Office
(Office de mise en valeur)
ONH      :National Oil Board
(Office national des huiles)
PDRI     :Integrated Rural Development Program
(Programme de d6veloppement rural int6gre)
PPI      :Public Irrigation Perimeters
(Perimetres publics irriguks)
SMS      :Subject-Matter Specialist
(Conseiller sp4cialisi)
SONAM    :National Farm Mechanization Company
(Soci6t6 nationale de motoculture)
STEC     :National Fertilizer Company
(Soci6t& tunisienne des engrais chimiques)
UCe      :Production Cooperative
(Unitk cooperative de production)
USAID    :United States Agency for Internatioral Development
(Agence des Etats-Unis pour le d6veloppement international)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPIMLIC OF TUfNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan SuurX
Borrower                     The Republic of Tunisia
Amount:                      US$150.0 million equivalent
Tems:                         17 years. including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable
Interest rate
Loan Description:            The proposed Loan would support the first phase or implementation of
the Governnent's program of agricultural sector reforms, within the
framework of a general macro-economic restructuring program. The
principal objectives of the sector adjustment program are to maintain
the growth rate In agriculture in order to reduce the sector trade
deficit. within the overall macro-economic constraints on public
resources. To achieve this objecttve, actions would be taken, in both
the short and medium term, to: (i) improve the prices and incentives
framework; (ii) re-orient the public investment program in agriculture:
(iii) strengthen agricultural support services including rationalizing
the role of the private sector; (iv) improve management of natural
resources of land, forests and fisheries: and (v) build up
institutional capacity for sector performance monitoring and policy
analysis. The Government's macro-economic restructuring program Is
focusing on measures to limit growth of domestic demand (wage and
salary, budget and monetary policies), to stimulate growth of
non-traditional exports (exchange rate policies, export promotion),
and to improve the allocation and use of scarce economic resources
(interest rate policies, gradual liberalization of domestic prices,
investments and imports); it should also result in a more rapid
creation of new employment and reduced underemployment. The foreign
exchange provided by the Loan would be used to finance general imports
based on a negative list and agricultural inputs needed to stimulate
agricultural production, including fertilizer and raw materials for
its manufacture. insecticides and herbicides, animal feed, diesel
fuel, spare parts, tractors and pumps, veterinary supplies, raw
materials for the manufacture of irrigation pipes and fisheries inputs.
Benefits and Risks:          The reforms agreed under the Loan are expected to create a more
favorable environment for overall economic and sectoral growth In a
time of resource constraints. In particular, changes in the
agricultural pricing and incentives framework and publitc expenditure
priorities are expected to make the sector a more efficient producer
of import substitutes and export products. Risks relate to the length
and difficulty of the process, possible social and political pressures.
unpredictable developments in the external environrment and
uncertainties in the response of the private sector. These risks are
limited by the Government's strong commitment to objectives of the
macro and sector adjustment programs, and by the inherent flexibility
of the phased medium-tern approach.
Estimated Disbursements:    The proceeds of the Loan would be disbursed in two tranches:  US$100
million equivalent soon after effectiveness; US$50 million equivalent
after implementation of specific actions, including an overall review
of the implementation of the macro-economic and sectoral reform
programs.
Aooraisal Report:             This is a conbined President's and Staff Appraisal Report.  A detailed
Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (HTASAP) is
available on request.
Hbos                          No. IBRD 19855
No. IBRD 19856
No. TBRD 19857



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN SUMMARY
PART I     : THE ECONOMY                                                       1
PART II    :THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM                       4
A. Structural Problems and the Need for Structural Change        4
B. Recent Policy Measures Taken by the Government                6
C. The Short- and Medium-Term Adjustment Program                 7
D. Medium-Term Projections                                      11
E. Social Impact of the Adjustment Program                      15
PART III   :BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA                                  16
PART IV    :THE MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM            19
A. The Need for Adjustment                                      19
B. The Sector Adjustment Program                                22
- Origin and Objectives                                      22
- Improving the Prices and Incentives Framework              23
- Reorienting Public Expenditures                            28
Strengthening and Privatizing Support Services             34
Improving Management of Natural Resources                 43
- Building Up Sector Performance Monitoring
and Policy Analysis Capabilities                        46
PART V       THE LOAN                                                        47
A. Origin and Objectives                                        47
B. Action Program Under the Loan                                47
C. Loan Administration                                          52
D. Management, Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation          55
E. Justification and Risk                                       56
PART VI    : RECOMMENDATION                                                  59



Table of Contents (cont'd)
ANNEXES
r.    'ountry Data
II.    Status of Bank Operations
III.    Supplemental Loan Data Sheet
IV(a).    Government Letter of Economic Development Policy
IV(b).    Government Letter of Agricultural Development Policy
V.    Sector Adjustment Matrix
VI.    Table of Contents of Medium-Term Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program (MTASAP)
VII.    Production Levels and Growth Rates of Key Agricultural Products
VIII.    Agricultural Balance of Trade
MAPS
IBRD 19855 - Rainfall and Irrigated Areas
IBRD 19856 - Soil Suitability for Crops
IBRD 19857 - Location of Main Crops



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE JBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
L.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$150 million to the Republic of Tunisia to help
finance an agricultural sector adjustment program. The loan would have a term
of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report entitled "Tuni3ia - Country Economic Memorandum:
Mid-term Review of the Sixth Development Plan ([982-86)", in two volumes
(No. 5328-TUN), was distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1985.
An economic mission to review the macro-economic framework of the VIIth Plan
(1987-91) visited Tunisia in January 1986; its findings, as well as updated
information obtained at the time of appraisal of the proposed Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Loan in April 1986, and by a mission in June/July 1986, are
reflected in this part and the country data sheets attached in Annex I.
3.       Tunisia is a medium-size, middle-income country with a population of
7.5 million and a per capita income of about US$1,100.1' Much of Tunisia is
arid or semi-arid. Only 3% of arable land is irrigated, and areas where
rainfed agriculture is possible are subject to severe year-to-year fluctuations
in rainfall. Nevertheless, agriculture still occupies nearly one out of every
three Tunisians in the labor force. Tunisia's most important raw materials
are phosphates, petroleum and natural gas. Known exploitable reserves of oil
and gas are approaching depletion, and the limited new reserves require costly
off-shore drilling. Barring large new oil and gas discoveries, and given the
rise in domestic energy demand, Tunisia is expected to turn into a net oil
importer in the early 1990s. The low quality al phosphate deposits constrains
the expansion of the highly efficient Tunisian phosphate processing industry.
The country also has considerable tourism potential.
4.       Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort to develop its human
resources, paying special attention to family welfare, education, and technical
and vocational training. As a result, between the early 1960s and the early
1980s, the infant mortality rate declined from almost 160 to 79, life
expectancy at birth rose from 48 to 62 years, the adult literacy rate
increased from about 151 to about 621, and average caloric intake per capita
increased from 95% to 1211 of minimum standard requirements. An active family
planning policy pursued by the Government led to a decrease in fertility and
birth rates. Even though mortality rates also decreased, the gross
reproduction rate decreased markedly from 3.5% to 2.4% over the same period.
However, since net emigration of Tunisians abroad was sharply reduced by
restrictive measures taken in the EEC countries and Libya, the growth rate of
the labor force accelerated, a main reason for the rapidly growing, serious
LI 1985 figure at current prices and 1985 exchange rates.



- 2 -
unemployment problem. Open unemployment reached 141 in 1963 and under-
employment is extensive. These problems are particularly serious among young
school dropouts.
5.       Recent economic developments.  During the 1970s, the Tunisian economy
did well. Rapid growth in the range of 7-8Z was accompanied by substantial
structural transformation as manufacturing and tourism became more important
and their share in total exports increased. Economic performance benefitted
from substantial terms of trade gains due to the rapid price increase of oil,
allowing both consumption and domestic savings to increase and investment to
remain high (over 30% of CDP). It also benefitted from improved economic
management with a cautious shift toward a more liberal, market-oriented
economy. The inflation rate remained modest, averaging 6.1% over the decade.
The balance of payments current account deficit, averaging 51 to 6% of GDP
over the period, was easily financed, much of it by direct foreign investment,
and the debt service ratio was a low 10.7% in 1979. The only major problem
was a persistently high rate of unemployment/underemployment.
6.       The VIth Plan (1982-86) proposed a number of policy reforms to face
the consequence of rising unemployment and the progressive decline in net
energy exports. Its main objectives were employment generation, export
promotion, regional development and public sector efficiency. Investment
priority was given to agriculture, engineering industries and tourism. The
overall rate of investment was projected to decline during the Plan period.
To minimize the effects on economic growth and employment, measures were
proposed to increase the efficiency of exi0ting investments and to encourage a
shift to labor-intensive activities. They were to be accompanied by a
substantially tightened income policy, in particular cautious wage and salary
policies, and a considerable slowdown in the growth of recurrent budget
expenditures.
7.       Economic performance, however, deteriorated during the Plan period.
Oil production virtually stagnated; in 1982, a prolonged drought depressed
agricultural output and agro-industrial production; technical problems plagued
the phosphate and cement industries; and tourism and exports of manufactured
goods were adversely affected by the recession in Europe, high domestic prices
and a sizable appreciation of the Tunisian dinar vis-h-vis the currencies of
most competitor countries as well as the US dollar. The economy recovered in
1983 and 1984 due to buoyant growth in manufacturing output, stimulated by
rapidly expanding local demand. Growth was further stimulated in 1985 by an
exceptionally good agricultural crop and resumed growth in tourism, bringing
the average annual GDP growth in the first four years of the Plan to 3.7%,
compared to 6.3% targeted. This performance was nonetheless favorable in view
of the world recession and as compared with other countries.
8.       The Government was slow, however, in adjusting domestic demand to the
decelerated economic growth. Ir, contrast to the Plan's macro-economic
objectives, the investment rate remained high rather than declined, mainly due
to higb public enterprise investments in energy and transportation, while
domestic consumption expanded rapidly, fuelled by sharp increases in wages and
salaries in 1982 and early 1983. This strong demand pressure, facilitated by
rather liberal credit policies, was reflected in rising inflation which
averaged nearly 10.51 in 1981-84, compared to 8.01 over 1977-81.  It also
contributed substantially towards the marked worsening of the current account
deficit of the balance of payments which rose to 11% of GDP in 1984. The



- 3 -
Government's overall budget deficit also increased slightly from Ln average of
2.7% of GDP in 1981-82 to 3.2% in 1983-84, excluding deot amortization. This
reflected increases in recurrent expenditures due to higher wage and salary
outlays; higher subsidy payments to households and public enterprises; and
higher public investments.
9.       While the situation had not reached crisis proportions, the trend
observed during 1981-i4 clearly could not be sustained. Faced with this
deterioration, the Government started to implement a package of policy measures
aimed at stabilizing the economy as described in some detail in Part 11 below.
These measures together with the imposition of drastic foreign exchange and
import restrictions, brought the balance of payments current account deficit
back to about 7% of GDP in 1985, despite reduced exports of oil, phosphate,
and manufactured goods to Libya. While this improved the immediate situation,
the underlying disequilibrium has not been resolved, and problems usually
associated with controls, such as growing shortages of raw materials, semi-
finished products and spare parts, have appeared. Meanwhile, the budget
deficit rose to 5% of GDP in 1985 because of a slow growth in revenues,
despite a slight decline of capital expenditures in real terms. The
authorities prepared a restrictive budget for 1986, as discussed below
(para. 21).
10.      Over recent years, the Government had consulted informally with the
IMF on a wide variety of economic and financial issues, but had not asked for
financial support. Before and during the July 1986 Article IV consultation
mission, however, there were discussions with the IMF on a possible stand-by
agreement cum compensatory financing facility, which will be formalized during
a mission, scheduled for early September.
II.      Social issues.  Since Independence, the country has gone a long way
towards meeting the basic needs of its population. Over 16% of GDP is now
devoted to social programs, and the number of absolute poor declined from 17%
of total population in 1975 to 12.8% in 1980 (para. 48). This improvement was
largely concentrated, however, in urban areas. Since 1981, social issues have
faced a different context than in the 1970s, when an easy financial situation
allowed a relatively unconstrained expansion of social services. On one hand,
the Tunisian population has become increasingly aware of and sensitive to
income distribution issues, and the beneficial effects of past rapid expansion
in social services have created a demand for improved standards in social
services delivery. On the other hand, the provision of adequate social
services - education, health, urban infrastructure, housing - is being
increasingly hampered by budgetary constraints. To reduce the financial
burden of social services, the administration is reviewing the cost structure
of the various types of social services, including free or below-cost
delivery, the possible introduction of some user fees, and improved social
infrastructure management, in particular as regards hospitals. Also,
decentralization of social facilities to deprived zones will have to be
assessed carefully because costs for servicing and maintaining them could
become prohibitive.
12.      To reduce socio-economic differences, in particular between rural and
urban areas, and between workers in the modern sector and those precariously
employed in informal activities, the Government is channelling more resources
into regional development and youth employment. Integrated rural programs are
being developed to stimulate creation of productive jobs and grassroots
participation   Subsidies and credit facilities are granted for young



- 4 -
technicians to create their own enterprises and for entrepreneurs to create
new projects in underdeveloped regions. More efforts are needed, however, to
strengthen the coordination of vocational and on-the-j'b training with market
demand and to ensure that rural programs create economically viable and
sustainable assets and activities.
13.      External assistance and foreign debt.  During the second half of the
1970s, foreign borrowing was modest and a large share of foreign funds was
provided by public sources at relatively soft terms. At the end of 1979, debt
outstanding and disbursed was estimated at US$3.0 billion, or 42% of GDP; debt
service was less than 11 of export revenues. For reasons mentioned earlier
(para. 8), the balance of payments deficit has increased substantially since
then, as has foreign indebtedness. According to preliminary estimates, total
public foreign debt outstanding and disbursed reached nearly US$4.4 billion
(about 50% ot GDP) at the end of 1985 and the debt service ratio rose to about
22%. However, the Tunisian authorities bave always followed cautious debt
management policies; while the share of short-term borrowings has increased
slightly since 1980, Tunisia's overall foreign debt remains predominantly long
and medium-term, and debt service requirements are projected to increase only
slowly. During 1980-84, 60% of foreign loan disbursements were from official
sources, and nearly 31% on concessional terms. Over 70% of official
disbursements came from bilateral sources (mainly Arab oil-producing countries,
France, Japan, the Federal Republic of Germany), about 20% from the Bank Group,
and 10% from other multilateral sources. Overall borrowing terms were
favorable, averaging 8% interest and 15.3 years maturity.
14.      The balance of payments and foreign debt outlook, including Tunisia's
creditworthiness, are assessed in paragraphs 43-45 below.
PART H - THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Structural Problems and the Need for Structural Change
15.      The brief description of recent economic trends and present situation
as presented above highlights three major problems facing the Tunisian economy
today, one rather immediate, two somewhat longer term. The immediate problem
is the high and persistent deficit o( the balance of payments current account,
and the consequent rapid increase in the country's foreign debt. In 1986, the
decline in oil prices, lower tourism revenues as a result of political
uncertainties around the Mediterranean, and lower workers' remittances have
put further pressure on the balance of payments. While there is no danger of
an immediate crisis, the situation cannot be allowed to continue much longer.
The two l1:jger term, but equally important, problems are the progressive
decline in net hydrocarbon exports, requiring the development of other sources
of export revenues and import substitution (non-traditional exports, tourism,
agriculture), as well as the high and growing unemployment and underemployment
rate and the danger of an even worse trend given the high rate of growth of
the active population, at a time of lower overall economic growth.
16.      No single policy instrument can deal successfully with all three
problem areas; only a carefully balanced and timed package of different policy
measures can do so. Such a comprehensive policy package should be based on
three n.ain considerations:



(a) A return to an export driven growth strategy, as was pursued quite
successfully until 1981, is a key to the success of any future
development program aiming to achieve satisfactory economic growth
and employment creation, given Tunisia's limited domestic market1'
and the fact that most obvious import substitution industries are
already well developed. With petroleum production ceasing to be a
major engine of export growth, and export possibilities in agriculture
limited by market constraints in the EEC, manufacturing will have to
become much more export oriented than in the past, when it catered
primarily to domestic demand fueled by high petroleum revenues. This
requires fundamental changes in industrial policies so as to increase
incentives to export. Such changes are also necessary to revitalize
existing export oriented economic activities, such as tourism.
Emphasis in agriculture will be to promote efficient import
substitution in commodities such as grains, milk and meat, for which
Tunisia has a comparative advantage.
(b) A major improvement in the efficiency of resource use and allocation
is required. With the highly profitable production and export of
petroleum declining progressively, economic resources in Tunisia,
domestic as well as foreign and private as well as public, will
become increasingly scarce. Under these circumstances, the country
can only achieve a satisfactory rate of overall economic growth and
an acceptable level of new employment creation if it uses and
allocates these resources with the utmost efficiency. The
liberalization measures covering prices, investments and imports,
included in the Government's economic adjustment program, serve
primarily to improve efficiency in the private sector by gradually
introducing more competition, while proposed changes in lbudget
policies, public investments and public enterprise management would
improve efficiency in the public sector.
(c) Last but not least, economic development must become much more labor
intensive in order to create more employment in spite of lower overall
economic growth. Future increases in production should be achieved
mostly through increasing the number of employed workers and new
investments should serve mostly to create new employment. This would
be achieved through a marked change in relative factor costs, making
labor less expensive relative to capital. Macro-economic projections
indicate clearly that if real salaries had continued to increase by
4.5-5 per year, as was the case during the 1970s, and if interest
rates had continued to be largely negative in real terms, one could
not expect the creation of even half as many new jobs as necessary to
absorb the rising number of new job seekers during the period of the
VIlth Plan (1987-91). Furthermore, priority must be given to the
development of labor-intensive sectors with relativeLy low investment
costs such as small and medium enterprises, electrical and mechanical
industries, and agriculture. There is in fact a substantial
potential for employment creation in this latter sector particularly
through stimulating import substitution.
1/ Less than 10% that of Switzerland and about 5% that of Spain.



- 6 -
B. Recent Polioy Measures Taken bY the Government
17.      The Government of Tunisia already recognized the importance of such
economic adjustments during preparation of the VIth Development Plan (1982-86)
and a substantial number of concrete policy changes have been implemented over
the last few years, as detailed in this section, some of them bold and often
unpopular. These efforts need to be pursued and expanded over the coming
years, along the lines presented in Section C below.
18.      For the last three nnd half years, the Government has pursued strict
wage and salary policies. Since Jonuary 1983, when wage increases were
delinked from the cost oE living index, no general salary increases have been
granted. As a result, average real salaries have declined by more than 15%.
This decline has eliminated the main source of the rapid increase in domestic
consumption experienced during 1980-83. While the Covernment raised the
minimum salary by 10% irT July 1986, it does not plan to grant a general salary
increase this year.
19.      Exchange rate policies have become more flexible since mid-1985,
resulting in a gradual downward adjustment of the exchange rate by over 18%
vis-A-vis a basket of seven currencies between mid-1985 and mid-1986.
Together with the formal devaluation of 10% announced in mid-Aagust 1986, this
has reduced by 28% the nominal exchange rate on a trade weighted average, more
vis-i-vis the major European currencies (DM, FF), less vis-a-vis the U.S.
dollar. While the real effective exchange rate has depreciated somewhat less,
these changes nevertheless made it possible to more than offset the rise in
the value of the dinar in relation to competitor country currencies observed
over the last couple of years, and so to improve the competitiveness of
Tunisia's non-traditional exports.
20.      The Government has also started to use interest rate policies as a
more active instrument of economic policy making.  For the first time in four
years, general interest rates were raised by 1-2 points in April 1985 and by
3-4 points for the particularly low special rates in Spring of 1986. Together
with the 1.7 point decline in the inflation rate in 1985, itself a very
satisfactory achievement (from 8.2 to 6.5%), these nominal interest rate
increases raised real interest rates by 3-5 points in 1985; most rates are now
positive in real terms, in line with the recommendations of the Bank's
Financial Sector Report (No. 5263-TUN of December 16, 1985).  In agriculture.
however, interest rates are not yet high enough to cover financial and
operating costs and risks.
21.      Budgetary outlays.  As mentioned above (para. 9), 1985 ended with a
markedly worse overall budget deficit (5% of GDP) in spite of a nearly 2%
decline in development outlays, as Government revenues from oil and import
taxes declined even more substantially.  In 1986, the situation is expected to
improve gradually, in spite of a likely further decline in revenues, reflecting
lower oil prices and depressed imports. Through a number of tough measures,
the Government intends to reduce total budget outlays (net of debt service) by
some 9% in real terms. Sales taxes on alcoholic beverages and tobacco were
raised; recurrent expenditures (net of interest payments) will be reduced by
2.5% in real terms, and subsidies to households and public enterprises as well
as development outlays (net of debt amortization) will be reduced by 22% in
real terms. As a result, the overall deficit is expected to decline to 3.9% of
GDP. The substantial reductions in subsidy outlays reflect the Government's
policies of gradually adjusting the prices of goods subsidized by the budget
and the tariffs charged by public enterprises for their services.



- 7 -
22.      For several years, agricultural producer prices have gradually been
decontrolled and the ones still controlled (particularly cereals and milk)
have been raised more rapidly than inflation. As a result, by end-1985,
nearly 75% of domestic agricultural production was sold freely in the domestic
market and/or exported. While producer prices in general are not aligned with
border prices, producer incentives have improved progressively.
23.      Investment controls, while not reduced, have been streamlined, and
focused more sharply on new investment priorities. Among others, renewal
investments and investments in tourism (other than hotels) receive priority
and incentives similar to those of investments in other sectors.
24.      Export promotion.  A number of measures have been taken to stimulate
exports, streamline export procedures, establish export credit and insurance,
develop export marketing, and facilitate re-exports, in line with the
reconiendations of the Bank's Industrial Policy Mission of January 1985.
The liberalization of all necessary imports for exporting enterprises, as
announced in mid-August 1986, will provide an additional powerful stimulus to
exports.
C. The Short- and Medium-Term Adjustment Program
25.      As indicated in paragraph 9 above, the package of policy changes
implemented by the Government over the last years has shown some positive
results, particularly concerning private domestic demand and the budget
deficit; however, its restrictive elements have also created a number of
"tblems, such as the lack of essential imports for directly productive
activities. Over the coming years, two kinds of measures are of vital
importance: (a) to maintain and strengther. the positive measures already
taken; and (b) to complement these measures through changes in other fields
destined to reinforce the effectiveness of the program and minimize its
adverse effects. Included in this second group are measures to restructure
the economy through a progressive liberalization including prices, investments
and imports. This program of macro-economic adjustment measures provides the
policy base for the proposed Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL), as
well as the proposed Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan currently
under preparation (para. 53). It is described below, as well as in the
c,overnment's Letter of Economic Development Policy [Annex IV(a)].
26.      Wage and salary policy.  Maintaining cautious wage and salary policies
may weLl be the single most important policy measure to achieve a long-term
sustainable balance of payments equilibrium and more rapid employment creation;
it can also contribute significantly to achieving a rapid improvement in the
present balance of payments deficit. Wages and salaries are an important
determinant of (a) domestic demand and in consequence of import demand;
(b) the cost of production of manufactured goods and services, and consequently
of the competitiveness of Tanisia's manufactured exports and tourism; and
(c) relative factor costs and, thus, the labor intensity of future economic
activities and growth of employment. The Government is determined to maintain
the restrictive wage and salary policies started in 1983, and limit the growth
of the total wage bill to that of GDP during 1988-91, while keeping it below
that in 1986-87 (limiting it to less than the increase of the CPI), when only
the minimum wage is raised. While such measures will slow down the
improvement in the standard of living of the labor force already employed,
they are necessary and adequate to speed up the creation of new employment
and, thus, reduce unemployment and improve income distribution.



- 8 -
27.      Exchange rate policy.  An appropriate exchange rate, allowing for
competitive exports of non-oil/non-phosphate goods and services is a vital
precondition for the success of an export-oriented growth strategy in Tunisia.
The measures taken since mid-1985 have achieved this goal. The Government has
committed itself to pursuing a flexible exchange rate policy with the
objective of maintaining a competitive rate vis-i-vis its main competitor
countries. It is in active discussions with the IMF on this issue. Any
adjustments in the exchange rate will be reflected, among others, in domestic
producer prices for agricultural products.
28.      As regards interest rates, as a result of measures taken recently,
most rates are now positive. In order to maintain this situation, the
Government intends to pursue more flexible interest rate policies than in the
past, changing interest rates in line not only with the inflation rate but
also with financial and operating costs and risks.
29.      As mentioned above (para. 21), budget outlays have been cut
considerably in 1986. In the context of the VlIth Development Plan, the
Government plans further reductions in the overall budget deficit over the
coming years; in order to achieve its balance of payments and foreign debt
targets during the VIIth Plan and beyond (paras. 43-44), the Government
intends to eliminate the overall budget deficit by 1991 (see Table 1). This
objective would be achieved largely through cuts in expenditures, since
budgetary revenue is already high (nearly 31X of GDP) and likely to increase
less rapidly than GDP given declining oil incomes, low growth of imports and
the proposed reduction in many customs tariffs (para. 36), as well as the tax
incentives given for exports and regional development. Even given the planned
major Government effort to mobilize new sources of revenues (improved
collection ot direct taxes, full introduction of the VAT, introduction of
additional sales taxes on luxury goods), a gradual decline in total budget
revenues as a percentage of GDP is virtually unavoidable.
Table 1: OVERALL BUDGET DEFICIT
(In percentage of GDP, net of debt amortization)
1986                            Average Annual
1985   Revised   1987    1988    1991    Growth 86-91
Actual   Budget   ----- Projected ----   In Real Terms
Revenues                 31.8      30.6      30.0    29.0    27.0          0.2
Recurrent ex;enditures  25.2       25.2      24.0    23.0    21.0         -1.3
Capital expenditures    11.6        9.3       8.0      7.5     6.0        -2.3
Total Expenditures       36.8      34.5      32.0    30.5    27.0         -1.6
Overall deficit           5.0       3.9       2.0      1.5     -



- 9 -
30.      Under these circumstances, gradual achievement of a balanced overall
budget requires substantial reductions of expenditures in real terms as well
as in relation to GDP. These can be achieved without impairing the provision
of appropriate social and economic services by the Government, through careful
setting of priorities among budgetary outlays. The recommendations of the
Bank's Public Expenditure mission will provide an important input into this
task. For recurrent expenditures, it will be achieved primarily through two
measures: (a) a considerable slow-down in the growth of salary outlays as the
hiring of civil servants will be limited to a maximum of 2% p.a., and salary
increases will be as limited as in the private sector; and (b) a systematic
reduction in subsidies of 52 p.a. in nominal terms. Among others, the latter
is possible as a result of the public enterprise reform that the Government
started in 1985 and plans to pursue more vigorously over the coming years;
this reform will reduce the number of public enterprises and the deficits of
the ones retained. In addition, the Government is in the process of devising
new policies to focus consumer subsidies more strongly on the really needy and
do away with the present across-the-board subsidization of the entire
population (para. 49). For capital expenditures the reductions will be
achieved by reducing Government subsidies and capital contributions to the
remaining public enterprises, whose capital requirements will be progressively
covered by the development banks. Direct Government investments in sociaL and
other infrastructure would be maintained at about the present level.
31.      Money and credit policies have been quite expansionary over recent
years, with growth of money circulation (M2) exceeding that of GDP by a
substantial margin (17% p.a. vs. 14X p.a. on average during 1981-85) in spite
of comprehensive Central Bank controls. The Government intends to prevent
growth of money circulation during 1986-91 from exceeding that of GDP, and
will keep it below that under normal circumstances. Given the projected
considerable decline in the Government's overall budget deficit and, thus, in
its need for new borrowing, tighter monetary and credit policies can be
followed without hampering productive investments in the private sector.
32.      The liberalization program.  As mentioned above (para. 16), a major
improvement in the allocation and use of economic resources, as well as in the
relative incentives for export production compared to production for the
domestic market, are key preconditions for Tunisia to achieve satisfactory
economic growth and employment creation at a time of tightening balance of
payments constraints. Progressive liberalization of the economy and
introduction of more competition - domestic as well as foreign - is th.e only
effective way to achieve this. Given the fact that Tunisia's modern sector
has operated for decades in a highly controlled and well protected
environment, the necessary phasing out of controls on prices, investments and
imports can only be attained gradually. The Government is determined,
nevertheless, to complete the phasing out of controls largely by the end of
the VlIth Plan (1991).
33.      Price controls.  In addition to the ongoing gradual decontrol of
agricultural producer prices, the Government intends to abolish price controls
for all manufactured goods by 1991, with the exception of a small number of
key staples suach as bread and edible oils. In a first phase (1986-88),
controls will be abolished in well-established industries where the number of
domestic producers is sufficiently large to ensure appropriate competition.
The list of such industries, which account for about 601 of total
manufacturing output, and a schedule for the decontrol of their prices is
included in the Letter of Economic Development Policy. In a second phase
(1989-91), the controls will be abolished in all other industries. With



- 10 -
respect to those products for which price controls will continue for an
interim period, a new more flexible price control system will be introduced at
the beginning of 1987, which avoids the major shortcomings of the present
cost-plus system, such as over-investment, low use of installed capacities,
and lack of incentives to control production costs, including energy use.
34.      Investment controls.  At present, all new investments need Government
approval, including replacement investments and expansions of existing
installations. At the same time, investment incentives are provided to
virtually all approved investment projects. The Government intends (a) to
introduce a much more selective system of investment incentives, limiting them
to high priority projects (export industries, regional development, technology
transfer); and (b) to phase out by 1991 at the latest investment approval
procedures for all projects which do not receive special incentives.
35.      For this second category of projects and in line with the planned
phasing out of quanititaLive restrictions on imports of capital goods
(para. 36), the Government intends, by the beginning of 1987, to abolish
investment controls on all investments below D 200,000 and on replacement
investments not requiring a specific authorization to import capital
equipment. It will continue the abolition of investment controls during
1987-88 for other well-established industries for which the number of domestic
producers is sufficiently large to ensure appropriate competition. As
mentioned above (para. 33), those sectors account for about 60% of total
manufacturing production. Finally, investment controls in all remaining
sectors, except for investments for which special investment incentives are
requested, will be abolished during 1989-91.
36.      Import liberalization is the third essential liberalization measure
without which the effects of price and investment liberalization would remain
very limited. It is also essential to improve incentives for export
production, by making production for the local market less attractive.
The Government intends to take two sets of measures in this respect:
(a) to phase out all quantitative restrictions on imports before the end
of 1991. In line with the country's import priorities, liberalization
will start with spare parts for use in industry, agriculture, hotels,
hospitals and other services, raw materials and semi-finished
products for enterprises that export at least 25% of their output,
and capital goods for investmnat projects approved by the Industrial
Investment Promotion Agency (API), the Agricultural Investment
Promotion Agency (APIA) and the Tourism Investment Board after
October 1, L986; the first two of these were announced in August
1986, and liberalization of capital goods for newly-approved
investment projects is expected in September 1986. Confirmation of
all of the above issues will be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed Loan. These measures would be followed by liberalization of
semi-finished products for firms that are well integrated or that
export at least 15% of their output, as well as all other raw
materials and spare parts by January 1987; and of capital goods and
the remaining semi-finished products by January 1988. As a result of
the above measures, about 75% of all imports would be liberalized by
the end of 1.988. During 1989-91, all remaining quantitative
restrictions, essentially on consumer goods imports, would be
phased out;



- 11 -
(b) to reform the tariff system by reducing high import tariffs and the
disparities in the levels of effective protection between the
different sectors of the economy with the aim of achieving a lower
and reasonably uniform effective protection rate of about 25% by the
end of the VlIth Plan. To achieve this objective, the Government
intends to prepare a program of gradual tariff reductions for
impLementation over the 1989-91 period. As an interim measure, it
wilL amend the present tariff system no later than January 1, 1987 so
that there is a universal minimum tariff of 15%, all existing tariffs
between 25% and 31% are reduced to 25% and all tariffs presently
between 32% and 56% are reduced by 6 percentage points, and all
higher tariffs are reduced to a maximum of 50%. Not later than
January 1. 1988 all tariffs then being between 25% and 34% will be
reduced to 252 and all tariffs between 35% and 50% will be reduced by
9 percentage points. The Government intends to replace some of these
reduced import tariffs by domestic sales taxes covering imports as
well as domestically produced goods.
37.      The entire macro development program, as described above and in the
Government's Letter of Economic Development Policy [Annex IV(a)] would be
monitored by a Coordinating Committee (para. 160) and by Bank missions. Bank
confirmation of satisfactory progress in implementation of the overall program
would be a condition of second tranche release.
D. Medium-Term Proiections
38.      As mentioned above, the economic adjustment program is aimed at
addressing three major areas. First, the direct export promotion measures
together with the exchange rate adjustments and reduced import protection
would stimulate the growth of non-oil exports to over 6% p.a., compared to
3.3% achieved so far during the VIth Plan. Second, the pricing and investment
incentive policies aimed at raising the efficiency of resource utilization and
allocation would reduce the investment rate from 28% of GDP in the last five
years to 22% during the Vlith Plan without seriously affecting output growth,
and would 'educe the incremental capital-output ratio from the present high
level of 10 to 6.4 between 1986-91. Third, the substantial changes in
relative factor costs would stimulate the creation of new employment, expected
to average close to 50,000 new jobs p.a. or a 2.5-3% p.a. increase over the
Plan period. Even this nearly 162 increase over the VIth Plan actual figures,
however, will only permit absorption of about 70% of new job seekers.
39.      Concerning growth of GDP (Table 2), the decline in the production and
export of oil tends to overshadow at first glance the projected substantial
improvements in the non-oil sectors, particularly when compared with
historical performance. Such improvement is vital for Tunisia to achieve a
satisfactory overall growth over the coming years. Table 2 shows that even
though the average GDP growth of the VIIth Plan is slightly lower than the
VIth, the growth of non-oil industries is substantially higher (5.5% compared
to 4.4% p.a.). Agriculture's decline (from 4.0% to 3.6% p.a.) is a reflection
of the exceptionally good agricultural output in 1985; the projected 3.6% p.a.
growth of the sector is significantly better than the 1.6% achieved during the
1976-81 period. Output of the non-oil productive sectors is expected to
increase rapidly, as a result of direct measures stimulating the agricultural
and industrial sectors (improving productivity and efficiency of rainfed
agriculture, making more efficient use of irrigation, improving land use



- 12 -
policy, strengthening export promotion institutions) and indirect measures
affecting the incentive framework. Developments in the oil sector are heavily
influenced by world oil prices, as the production of small oil fields would
only become attractive if oil prices increase again substantially. The
present outlook is for production of crude to decline to 4.4 million tons by
the end of the VIIth Plan, compared to 5.2 million tons in 1985/86.
Production of associated gas would decline in parallel.
Table 2: GROWTH OF OUTPUT AND EXPENDITURES -i
(Annual growth rates in percentage)
1976-81        1981-86           1986-91
(Actuals)    (Preliminary)    (Projected)
CDP (mp)                          6.1             3.6              3.4
Agriculture                       1.6             4.0 'b           3.6
Industry                         8.9              3.0              3.6
Hydrocarbon                     (8.3)          (-0.5)           (-3.0)
Non hydrocarbon                 (9.2)           (4.4)            (5.5)
Services                          6.5             3.9              3.3
Consumption                       7.4             4.4              2.5
Private                         (7.8)           (4.5)            (2.7)
Public                          (5.8)           (4.3)            (2.0)
Gross Investment                  6.6            -4.2              3.5
Imports GNFS                    10.8            -1.8              0.2 ''
Exports GNFS                     8.5              1.1              1.9
/a  Constant 1980 prices and calculated by least squares.
lb Growth rate is affected by exceptional weather conditions.
ic Due to reduction in oil imports on account of the new refinery.
40.      The two major exports of goods, oil and phosphate derivatives, are
affected by two factors in addition to a depressed price outlook- . The
coming on stream of the refinery extension at Bizerte will reduce crude oil
exports by 1.5 million tons, as more Tunisian crude wi'll be processed
locally. While recently-completed fertilizer plants could increase exports of
phosphate derivatives by over 7% p.a., it is likely that this capacity cannot
be fully utilized in view of the projected glut in world supply, and of the
poor quality of indigenous phosphate rocks. These exports are thus expected
to grow by no more than 6% p.a. during 1986-91.
41.      In consequence, manufacturing industries, tourism and agriculture
will have to become the major engines of future export growth. Assuming that
the policy measures concerning the agricultural sector discussed in Part IV
below are implemented in a timely fashion, there should be a significant
reduction in the agricultural trade deficit. Potential export growth lies in
olives, vegetables, dates, wine and fishery products. Overall, manufactured
LI The medium-term projections assume an oil price of US$13-14 per barrel in
1986, gradually increasing to US$22 in current prices in 1990, while the
price of TSP, the major fertilizer product of Tunisia, is expected to
increase from the present level of US$120 to US$160 per metric ton.



- 13 -
exports excluding phosphate derivatives are expected to grow at 7.8% p.a.,
with the greatest potential in electrical and mechanical, textile and other
manufacturing industries. Tourism is expected to resume a more satisfactory
growth, albeit not at the rate experienced during the late 1970s. Average
annual growth of exports, both historical and projected, is shown in Table 3.
Table 3: GROWTH OF EXPORTS AND COMPONENTS
(Annual growth rates in percentage, constant 1980 prices
and calculated by least squares)
1976-81               1981-86               1986-91
(Actual)           (Preliminary)         (Projected)
Agricultural Products            2.4                  -1.1                   4.7
Crude Petroleum                  7.4                  -4.2                 -19.8
Phosphate + Derivates            2.7                   4.5                   6.0
Processed Food                  -3.4                   6.6                   4.9
Textiles                        23.7                   3.2                   7.2
Electrical/Mechanical           23.9                   9.0                  11.9
Other Goods                      6.8                   2.5                  20.3
NFS                              9.2                   2.8                   5.0
Total Exports, GNFS              8.5                   1.1                   1.9
Total, excluding
petroleum                       9.0                   3.3                   6.5
42.      Concerning imports, the pivotal role of exports in generating
economic growth will require corres.ponding increases in imports, particularly
of raw materials and intermediate goods needed for industrial growth; growth
of these imports is assumed to be at par with industrial growth, allowance
being made for the expected improvement in efficiency. The elasticity of
energy consumption would decline to 1 during the VlIth Plan, compared to 1.3
at the present time, reflecting a continued energy conservation effort being
supported, in part, by a recent Bank loan. Total energy imports are expected
to decline by 17 p.a. throughout the period, also partly as a result of the
refinery extension mentioned above. In addition to stimulating exports, the
policy measures proposed by the Government are expected to substantially
stimulate import substitution of agricultural products. The growth rate of
food imports is expected to be more than halved from 4.8% p.a. during 1977-86
to about 1.7% during the VlIth Plan, despite a rapid growth of the population
(2.5% p.a.) and of food processing industries (42 o.a.). The greatest
potential in this category includes durum and bread wheat, barley, milk and
beef. Imports of other consumer goods are likely to remain low between
1986-88, due to the impact of short-term stabilization measures, which are
expected to keep growth of domestic consumption below that of total GDP; they
are expected to pick up rapidly thereafter as growth resumes and the impact of
the liberalization program begins to be felt.



- 14 -
43.      Balance of Payments and external debt.  Emigration has slowed down in
the face of weakening demand for foreign workers in Europe, in Libya and in
the countries of the Arab peninsula, and therefore inflows of workers'
remittances are expected to decline slightly in real terms. Over the past
five years, these remittances have averaged over 161 of commodity exports,
equivalent to about 4% of CDP. Given this and the above-discussed export and
import outlook, the current account deficit is expected to decline from an
average of about US$707.0 million, or 9% of GDP in 1984/85, to about US$536.0
million, or 3.9% of GDP in 1991. In view of the depressed oil price outlook
and assuming no major new oil field discoveries, direct foreign investment is
expected to remain at the current level in real terms.
Table 4: TUNISIA - PROJECTED BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(Millions of current dollars)
(With adjustment)"
Actual                    Projected
1985          1986         1988         1991
Exports of Goods and NFS            2,678.3        2,579        3,306       4,448
Imports of Goods and NFS            3,175.6        3,354        3,922       4,918
Net Factor Services                   -52.6          -56          -80          -82
Current Account Deficit               539.2          819          682          536
Net Foreign Investment                130.6          176          197          231
Public M & LT Borrowing (gross)       653.1        1,139        1,131       1,219
Amortization on M & LT Debt           388.3          520          629          889
Public M & LT Borrowing (net)         264.8          619          502          330
Selected Financial Indicators
Debt Service Ratio (X of exports
of goods and services)               22.7           27.6         26.2         26.1
Current Account Deficit
(X of GDP)                            6.6            8.7          6.2         3.9
/a This includes the effects of the Government's adjustment program described
herein.
44.      Gross foreign loan disbursements required to finance such a current
account deficit, to repay maturing debt and to maintain reserves at a level
equivalent to I month of imports would average slightly above US$1.0 billion
annually during 1987-91. About two-thirds of this would come from official
sources, compared to 60% in the last three years. Debt outstanding and
disbursed as a percentage of GDP would increase slightly, from 50% in 1984/85
to about 52% in 1991, while the debt service ratio would be 26.1%. Average
borrowing terms are not expected to harden much. The average interest rates
would remain in the 6-7% range between 1987-91, while the average maturity
would be slightly shortened to about 13 years from the current level of
15-17 years.



- 15 -
45.      This scenario obviously depends on the policy changes to be initiated
during the next few years, in particular on a timely implementation of policy
measures to accelerate exports, reduce public investments, slow down growth of
domestic demand and liberalize the economy by phasing out regulations and
controls. As mentioned in Section B above, the Government lhas already taken
several steps in implementing such a strategy. Considering its long record of
prudent external debt management, there are good grounds to assume that Tunisia
will implement the necessary policy changes along the lines discussed above and
remain creditworthy for a continuled high volume of Bank lending.
46.      Domestic resource mobilization.  With exports growing Easter than
imports, the resource gap is expected to decline to less than 3.5% of GDP by
the end of the V]Ith Plan. This still rather high overall gap, however,
disguises a strenuous effort in savings mobilization in the non-oil sectors.
Indeed, the non-oil resource gap declines from an average of 14% of GDP in
1984185 to about 3.9% in 1991. The marginal propensity to save over the
period 1987-91 is estimated at a high 26% (in current prices), assuming
successful implementation of the structural reforms to control domestic
demand. Limiting Central Government current budget expenditures to below 21%
of GDP and capital expenditures net of debt repayment to about 6% of CDP by
the end of the VIIth Plan period should allow Government savings to finance
over 70% of public sector investment (including public enterprises), up from
43% in 1984/85, and should increase the percentage of overall investment
financing by domestic savings to over 80% on average over the period. While
this would help to reduce the pressure on the balance of payments, it also
gives a clear signal to the private sector that the public sector investment
program will not lead to a crowding out of private investments but rather will
supplement it by providing the necessary infrastructure.
47.      The medium-term framework discussed above corresponds largely with
the Government's own planning scenario for the VEIth Plan. While there are
clearly downside risks involving such exogenous factors as the growth of the
world economy, in particular in the EEC countries, and movements in
international prices, it is clear from the analysis of the recent past that
there is no alternative to the proposed export-oriented strategy. Slower
export growth would lead rapidly to sLower GDP growth, in order to keep the
balance of payments manageable. Such a situation would greatly worsen the
unemployment rate. As mentioned above, even implementation of the full
structural adjustment program will not allow absorption of more than 70% of
new job seekers during 1987-91; any lesser effort would further worsen the
unemployment situation with serious political and social consequences.
E. Social Impact of the Adjustment Program
48.      According to the latest household survey, almost 12.8% of the total
Tunisian population (823,000 persons) was living below the absolute poverty
level in 19B0.1' Most of the poor and lower income groups are located in
rural areas, followed by smaller towns; these groups account for about 14% of
the total rural population, and 12% of the total urban population. They are
largely employed in agriculture (43%) and construction (16%), where significant
underemployment exists. Over 18% of the total work force in construction, 16%
in agriculture, 14% in mining and 10% in transport are considered to be poor.
They spent almost 85% of their budget on fulfiLling their basic needs for
food, housing and clothing.
I/ In 1980, the absolute poverty level was D 60/person/year in rural areas
and D 120/person/year in urban areas.



- 16 -
49.      The Government's program of economic adjustment could worsen the
situation of the absolutely poor in two major ways: (i) through the gradual
reduction of budget subsidies; and (ii) through increases in consumer prices
triggered by changes in the exchange rate and increases in agricultural
producer prices. The present system of consumer subsidies is clearly
important to the well-being of the poorest segment of the population, as such
subsidies account for nearly 19% of their total expenditures - 20% for the
urbarn poor and 17% for the rural poor. However, the subsidies overwhelmingly
profit the better-off segments of the population, with over 60% of all
consumer subsidies going to the highest income groups, and only less than 10%
going to the absolute poor, particularly to the urban poor (6X). This
situation means that while it would appear socially and politically impossible
and undesirable to deprive the absolutely poor from the support they currently
receive, there is ample room to reduce consumer subsidies by as much as 90%
without taking away anything from the really poor. This requires that ways
and means be found to target this assistance more directly to the realLy needy.
The Government is clearly aware of this situation; it recently established a
Special Commission to study how to target and efficiently distribute consumer
subsidies, so as to gradually introduce a more focussed and less expensive
system of support for the poor as overall subsidy outlays are reduced.
50.      The adjustment program also  includes a number of important measures
designed to improve the situation of the poor: (a) the rural poor,
particularly in rainfed areas, will profit from increased agricultural
producer prices as well as from increases in agricultural production for
import substitution and exports; (b) the urban poor will profit from the
increase in the minimum wage introduced in mid-1986; and (c) both groups will
profit from the stimulating effects of the adjustment measures on employment
creation, as export industries, agriculture and tourism are all relatively
labor-intensive sectors. As the bulk of the absolute poor are employed in
sectors with a high underemployment rate, the expected more rapid creation of
new employment and decline in underemployment ought to have a sizable effect
on the standard of living of the poor labor force employed in the modern
sector. Given the fact that the informal sector will benefit little from
minimum wage changes and the other measures mentioned above, the Government
has initiated several specific programs for the support and development of
this sector (para. 12).
PART mI - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS DIN TUNISKA
51.      Since 1962, the Bank has committed to Tunisia seventy-one loans and
ten IDA credits amounting respectively to US$1,515.0 million and US$75.2
million (net of cancellations) of which forty-four loans and credits have been
fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1986. Project implementation is
generaLly satisfactory. As of March 31, 1986, overall disbursements amounted
to 57.7% of appraisal estimates, which is in line with experience in other
countries in the region. Disbursement performance for agriculture, energy,
water supply and sewerage, highway and port projects has generally been above
the country average, while longer than average disbursement delays have been
experienced for education, health, technical assistance and urban projects,
due to project-specific problems that are being addressed tbrough supervision
missions and sector discussions. In a number of sectors, important policy
changes and institutional improvements have been achieved, and autonomous



- 17 -
agencies have been created or strengthened to ensure the efficient management
of the related sectors or sub-sectors.
52.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting the
country's transition from a situation of reliance on petroleum exports to a
sectorally-balanced post-hydrocarbon era through appropriate changes in
economic policies and programs as described in Part II above, while taking
measures to increase employment and target development to low-income groups.
In support of the above, the overall objective of Bank lending is to emphasize
projects which have a direct and rapid impact on production, employment and
exports (or import savings) and which minimize Government net contributions.
The focus of lending for agriculture and industry meets this objective. In
addition to the above, proposed Bank lending would focus on improvement of
public enterprise performance, conservation and development of energy
resources, and continued support to the social sectors and operations targeted
to low-income groups. For the latter, attention would be given to increased
efficiency and cost-effectiveness of institutions and investments, and to
linkages with directly productive sectors (e.g., education reforms stressing
vocational training). We envisage only marginal lending for basic economic
infrastructure, focussed in areas where Bank guidance would still be useful,
such as rural water supply and highways maintenance.
53.      Past Bank lending emphasized support for long-term investments in
infrastructure and social development, with increasing support in recent years
for agriculture and industrial financing. Bank/IDA commitments to date are
distributed as follows: urban, water supply and sewerage, 23%; agriculture
and industry. 21% each; transport, 17Z; energy, 111; education, 5%; and health
and technical assistance, 1S each. Within the broad framework noted in
para. 52, we expect increasing emphasis on agriculture and industry, which
shouLd represent over half of our lending. In addition to recent loans for
energy conservation demonstration and urban development, and the proposed
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan, programued lending in the next couple of
years would include an Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan as well as
projects for highways maintenance, grain storage and credit lines for
small-scale industries and agriculture.
54.      Bank group lending for agriculture in Tunisia started in 1967, and to
date 17 projects have been approved for a total of US$407.9 million of Bank/IDA
funds. Of these, eight are ongoing. Performance under these projects has been
mixed reflecting the institutional constraints in the sector. The First
Fisheries Project (Cr. 270-TUN) was completed at the end of 1979, and the
Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) identified cost overruns and low loan
recoveries for boats as major problems. These problems were addressed under
the Second Fisheries Proiect (Ln. 1746-TUN), but recoveries remain a problem.
The First and Second Agricultural Credit Projects (Ln./Cr. 7791263-TUN and
Ln. 1340-TUN) financed lending by the National Bank of Tunisia (BNT) for
on-farm development. While the projects achieved good rates of return, the
continuing problem of higher interest rates on Bank funds than on Government-
supplied credit and the lack of profitability of agricultural credit
operations, as highlighted in the PPAR's for these projects, caused
disbursements to be slower than anticipated. The Third Agricultural Credit
Project (Ln. 1885-TUN) is addressing priority credit problems including the
level of interest rates and recoveries. Action has been taken to decentralize
BNT's operations, raise interest rates, and encourage improved recoveries. The
physical implementation of the poverty-oriented Northwest Rural Development



- 18 -
Project (Ln. 1997-TUN) is proceeding satisfactorily. The Grain Storage Project
(Ln. 2052-TUN) is also progressing well after inital delays and the
recruitment of new consulting engineers. Under the Technical Assistance
Project (Ln. 2197-TUN), strategies have been or are being developed for
sevural sub-sectors including farm input distribution, farm mechanization,
produce marketing, research and extension, and improved operation and
manLtenance of existing irrigation infrastructure. These strategies have
contributed to the design of the proposed operation. Implementation of the
irrigation projects - First Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (ln. 1068-TUN),
Sidi Salem Project (Ln. 1431-TUN), Southern Irrigation Project (Ln. 1796-TUN),
Medjerda/Nebhana Irrigation Project (Ln. 2157-TUN), Central Tunisia Irrigation
Project (Ln. 2234-TUN), and the recently started Gabes Irrigation Project
(Ln. 2605-TUN) - has generally been satisfactory and on schedule. The PPAR
for the First Irrigation Rehabilitation Project also found that the increased
reliability of water supply brought about by rehabilitation works carried out
under the project had a major impact on farm production and incomes in the
project area by increasing farmers' willingness to take higher risks by
planting higher value crops. Partly to avoid the need for future rehabili-
tation projects caused by lack of maintenance, the Irrigation Management
Improvement Project (Ln. 2573-TUN) is designed to support nationwide
improvements of the operation and maintenance of existing irrigation systems
as well as policy and institutional reforms to increase the efficiency and
self-financing of the Irrigation Development Offices (OMVs). The Northwest
Agricultural Production Project (Ln. 2502-TUN) will help alleviate the
constraints to increased production of cereals and livestock products in
Northwest Tunisia, inter alia by introducing an extension system based on the
Training and Visit (T&V) system.
55.      The Bank's economic and sector work will address the increasing
complexity of the macro-economic and sector problems that Tunisia will face in
the medium term, and continue to focus on strengthening the macro-economic and
sector base for our lending ptogram. However, while in the past it was mainly
devoted to the study of major structural problems, it is focussed on implement-
ing the policy recommendations of these studies through sector lending in agri-
culture, industry and trade, public enterprises and transport; it will there-
fore concentrate on the following main tasks: (a) preparation and monitoring
of the macro-economic framework of the VlIth Plan, which provides the policy
base of sector lending; (b) review of public expenditures under the Plan to
provide guidance for the neressary reductions in budget outlays; (c) assessment
of public enterprise reforms prepared by the Government to reduce their drain
on the State budget; and (d) monitoring of the agreed macro-economic and sector
policy changes. The program also includes studies on education administration
and finance, municipal finance and development, energy pricing, and the impact
of the adjustment program on various income groups.
56.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 27.81 of total commitments from
official sources to Tunisia during 1982-1984. Their share in total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1984 (including loans from private
sources) was an estimated 14.5%, and their share in debt service during 1984
was 11.7%. The share of the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed external debt
is expected to increase to about 14.7% and their share in the debt service to
about 15.7% in 1986.
57.      As of March 31, 1986, IEC's net commitments in Tunisia totalled about
US$7.5 million. IFC has supported the Economic Development Bank of Tunisia
(BDET) to foster development projects, and the National Bank for Tourism



- 19 -
Development (BNDT) to promote and invest in tourism projects.  It has Jlso
;isisted the Soci6t6 Touristique et H6teli6re (RYM), a large hotel development;
tthe Industries Chimiques du Fluor (ICF), a producer of aluminum fluoride frmn
local fluorspar for export; and the Societ6 d'Etudcs et de D6veloppement de
Sou:4s,s-Nnrd for an integrated tourism development project.  In FY85, IFC
aiiproved an equity investment in Fluobar, a project to privatize, rehabil i telt
;iiid eIxIlpand an existing fluorspar mine.  Two investments in Tunisia Ienas Ilg
Csi'!'jyinY, Llte first Leasing company in Tuniisia to provide financing to tile
irndti,strinl sector, were approved in FY85 and 86.  In FY86, IFC approved tin
-uitiy inivestment in Soclet6 Industrielle de Textiles (SITEX) which wotild lithlp
pr,-ivittize an existing state-owned textile mill, and an equity inlvestment ill
AdjWYD SA., a company which will produce pharmaceutical products from imported
;mrtivi' ingredients.
I'AitT IV - THE MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. The Need for Adjustment
In trodtLcLion
"8.      Like many other middle-inicome countries, Tunisia has experienced a
decline in the relative importance of agriculture in its economy over the past
25 years. Today, agriculture in Tunisia accounts for about 13% of GDP, 35X of
employment and 8% of export earnings, which represent sharp drops from 1960
levels of 24% of GDP, 56X of employment, and 601 of export earnings, due mainly
to the more rapid growth of other sectors, principally petroleum, manufacturing
and tourism. The performance of the sector has also deteriorated recently.
After a period of rapid growth in the late 1960s and first half of the 1970s,
when agricultural GDP grew at 8.81 p.a. (1967-76), growth slowed down to 3.3%
in the late 1970s and first half of the 1980s (1977-86).
59.      The reduced growth of the past decade has meant that Tunisia has also
experienced a widening "food gap" which has placed an increasing strain on the
balance of payments. Domestic food production has failed to keep pace with
increased demand generated by a combination of rapid population growth (2.6X),
a high rate of urbaniization (4.4%) and domestic consumer price subsidies
(US$300.0 million per year in recent years). The ready availability of cheap
food imports, subsidized both by the exporting countries and through the
overvalued exchange rate, has diverted attention from the underlying problems.
Food imports have increased by about 3.81 per annum (1977-86) and the rate of
self-sufficiency for key items has declined over the last decade (e.g., for
cereals from about 75% to 50%). Meat imports more than doubled from 1982 to
1984. If present trends continue unchecked, recent projections done by the
International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) indicate that by the year
2000 Tunisia will have a cereal deficit of almost 1.3 million tons per year
(compared to the current 0.9 million tons), a milk deficit of about 800,000
tons per year (compared to the present 244,000 tons) and a meat deficit of
abotut 200,000 tons per year (compared to the existing 57,000 tons).
60.      Agricultural exports, consisting principally of olive oil (481),
dates (14%), citrus (5%) and wine (4%), have stagnated with the result that
the proportion of sector imports covered by sector exports has fallen from 81%
in 1976 to 49% in 1985. As a result, the agricultural sector has accounted
for a rising share of the overall trade deficit (from 5% in 1976 to 20% in



- 20 -
1985). Based on current trends, without policy correction, the agricuJtural
trade deficit, currently about D 185 million per year, could, under the IFPRI
assumptions, rise to over D 565 million (in 1986 constant terms), exerting
unsustainable pressure on the already difficult balance of payments situation.
61.      The sector's overall performance has also not matched the growth of
6% p.a. in gross fixed investment in agriculture during the decade 1975 to
1985, a rate about twice as high as for the economy as a whole. During the
recent Vith Plan period too, investment in the sector was 16% of the total,
somewhat in excess of the sector's contribution to the GDP. The proportion of
total sector investment by the private sector was only 31%, significantly
below Plan projections. Investments by the public sector were concentrated in
Irrigation (42% compared to 22% in the early 1970s). As a result, most of
Tunisia's irrigation potential is now harnessed, but downstream investments
and activities to ensure optimal utilization are lagging behind. Similarly,
investment in fishing port infrastructure and processing remain largely
underutilized, and agro-industry operates at well below capacity (see
para. 80). This capital-intensive nature of investments and low utilization
of installed capacity is not sustainable in the new macro-economic situation
of fiscal resource constraints and need to rapidly create employment
opportunities. The VIIth Plan, recognizing the uncertainty in the resource
base, calls for the proportion of sector investment to shift towards the
private sector from a ratio of 31% to 501. These shifts require not only a
prioritization and adjustrment of public expenditures to focus on improved
utilization of established capacity, but also a selective reduction in the
public sector role to create the room for private sector participation, and a
shift in sector policies to provide greater incentives to private investments.
Resource Base and Structure
62.      Growth in the sector has been concentrated in the predominantly
modern irrigated sector, which covers less than 5% of the cultivated land, but
accounts for 38% of agricultural CDP. Not only has the Government concentrated
its investment resources in the irrigated areas, but approximately one tIird
of the input subsidies on fertilizer, seed and herbicide has also been consumed
in irrigated areas. Moreover, the crops produced in these areas, consisting
largely of fruits and vegetables, have not been subject to any Government
output price intervention. This combination of subsidized, capital-intensive
development and free market pricing has been very successful, and irrigated
output has expanded by 4-6% per year. Sustaining such growth under a more
demanding regime concerning fiscal resources is the major challenge facing the
Tunisian Government.
Potential for Increased Production
63.      Tunisia's agricultural potential is far from being fully realized.
The levels of inputs used to increase yields could be increased substantially
in rainfed as well as irrigated areas. In rainfed areas, especially where
rainfall exceeds 350 mm, major productivity improvements could be obtained
from widespread introduction of improved farming techniques such as shallower
land preparation using tined implements, increased use of inputs and more
intensive cropping patterns including pulses and, in some areas and for certain



- 21 -
farm sizes, integration of crop and livestock production.1' In the irrigated
areas, there is also considerable scope for yield increases-Z  and production
growtht through greater intensification in the existing schemes. Cropping
intensity iFl the areas already equipped for irrigation through public financing
averages anly 70% while it could be in excess of 100%. Over the next decade,
the impact of such measures could represent the equivalent of a doubling of
the currently irrigated areas. Considerable room for improvement remains to
be achieved for the citrus growing areas of the northeast (Cap Bon), where use
of additional water from the rivers further west could enable citrus production
to double.
Constraints
64.      The pace of achievement of this potential is geared to the speed at
which adjustments are made in macro-economic and sector policies to maintain
agricultural growth under a constrained external and fiscal environment
(paras. 8-9). Past macro-economic policies have not favored the sector's
development. The past policy of overvalued exchange rates has handicapped the
sector's growth, since it has simultaneously discouraged exports and
artificially cheapened food imports to the detriment of locaL food production.
1/ The scope for increasing yields in rainfed areas is evident from the
following estimates of present and potential yields for rainfed crops iu,
the high and low rainfall zones of northern Tunisia made by the FAO/CP
during preparation of the Northwest Agricultural Production Project (higher
yields on larger farms being mainly due to better resource endowment):
High Rainfall Zone         Low Rainfall Zone
Present   Potential       Present   Potential
---------------- (tons/ha) ----------------
10-50 ha Farms
Barley                       1.2         2.0           0.8         1.5
Wheat                        1.1         1.8           0.8         1.5
Feed Pulses                  0.5         1.3           0.3         0.6
Forage (hay equivalent)    2.8           3.8           2.0         2.5
Over 50 ha Farms
Barley                       1.5         2.5           1.2         2.0
Wheat                        1.3         2.1           1.0         1.7
Feed Pulses                  0.9         1.7           0.7         1.6
Forage, (hay equivalent)   3.5           5.0           2.5         3.0
2/  In the irrigated areas. average yields obtained compare with the best
areas as follows:
Irrigation
Dev. Offices             Results
Crop             (OMVs) Average         in Better OMVs
-- (tons/ha) ------------
Cucurbits                      8                     20
Potatoes                      12                    18-20
Field Tomatoes               25-30                  40-45
Greenhouse Tomatoes           60                     80
Apricots                      12                     20
Forage (green matter)         30                     50



- 22 -
The pollcy of subsLdlzing domestic food consumption has reinforced the import
bias, particularly when faced with fiscal contraints. Both the processing
Industries and the Government have found it to their short-term advantage to
purchase imports at the expense of providing markets to local food production.
Finally, the higher relative incentives to other sectors compared to
agriculture, notabLy industry, has made agriculture an unattractive place for
new private direct investment or in support services. Restrictions on inmports
of spares and new equipment to encourage domestic industry has led to reduced
levels of maintenance services and inefficiency in operations. Tunisin's
macro-economic adjustment program (Part II) aims to ensure that this bias
against agricultural growth is steadily eliminated. Actions compLementary to
the macro-econcmic adjustment program are needed in order to overcome those
constrrints to efflcient growth which are sector specific. The Government's
medium-term agricuLtural sector adjustment program (MTASAP), discussed in
Section B below, aims to identify these constraints and launch an action
program to resolve them.
B. The Sector Adjustment Pogtram
Origin and Objectives
65.      The main objectives of the Government's MTASAP described below were
developed in late 1985 and earLy 1986 as part of Tunisia's efforts to adjust
its economy to a more constrained macro-economic situation. For this, Bank
assistance was made available to the Government in the form of macro-economic
st:ategy discussions and assessments of sector poteatLal and policy and
institutional constraints. Consistent with the macro-economic objective of
improving the balance of payments situation and alleviating the burden on the
Government's budget, the main objective of the MTASAP is to promote greater
efficiency and economy in the increased production of agricultural products,
which can substitute for increasing imports and lead to increasing exports,
and in the use of public resources in the .ector, including enhancing the role
of the private sector in the provision of commercially-viable sector support
services. The MTASAP includes specific actions to address the identified
constraints over a six-year period (1986-91) and aims to achieve its
objectives by:
(a) improving the prices and incentives framework so that prices and price
formation mechanisms are further deregulated or linked to world
market prices and incentives made more effective. This involves
achievement within a reasonable time frame of alignment of producer
prices with world market prices and elimination of input subsidies,
and will result in better farmer response for those crops and
livestock production activities for which Tunisia has a medium-term
comparative advantage;
(b) reorienting the public investment and expenditure program towards lnw
cost, high priority, quick maturing projects and programs with lower
budgetary demands while assuring adequate funding for maintenance of
past investments;
(c) strengthening basic services in support of farmers, while privatizing
those Government services which are commercially viable, and
improving cost recovery in others;
(d) improving productivity of land use and management of the country's
forest and fisheries resources; and



- 23 -
(e) building up the sector performance monitoring and policy analysis
capabilities of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Details of the above actions and the analyses behind them are presented in a
separate Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (MTASAP) available
on request. An outline of the MTASAP is contained in Annex VI, and a summary
is given below.
I. proving the Prices and Incentives Framework (Chapter I of MTASAF)
66.      Even though the prices of -'n estimated 751 of agricultural production
are market-determined, Government intervention in agriculEure through taxes,
subsidies and price controls has a major impact on the incentives to
producers, processors and providers of services in the sector, especially on
resource allocation within the sector, among farming systems and products.
Main instruments which have been used are fixed producer and consumer prices
for basic products, marketing controls, and input and investment subsidies.
In brief, producer prices of cereals, milk and industrial crops are
administered through a variety of public and quasi-public agencies. Prices of
fertilizers and herbicides, improved seed, irrigation water and feed
concentrates are regulated, and price formation in agro-processing and
marketing is subject to a system of fixed margins.
67.      Based on available data in Tunisia and in the Bank, a preliminary
analysis has been made to assess the general effect of these interventions.
This analysis shows that:
(a) the high value of the dinar in recent years has been an important
disincentive to export development and increased agricultural
production;
(b) the sector compared to other sectors such as industry (which have
benefitted from cost plus pricing and high tariffs) has suffered from
high relative net taxation, and input subsidies have been far from
adequate to compensate for this;
(c) within the agricultural sector, the incentive patterns vary signifi-
cantly between rainfed farming, particularly cereals which are import
substitutes, suffering from low or negative protection, and irrigated
farming, especially fruits and vegetables and other exportables,
which have enjoyed relatively high positive effective protection; and
(d) price formation processes in the farm to retail market chain,
particularly in agro-industrial processing, represent significant
inefficiency and avoidable fiscal cost to the Government.
68.      Currency valuation.  The high value of the dinar in recent years has
had two major consequences for the agricultural sector: (a) it has depressed
sector exports by artificially reducing the dinar proceeds from export sales;
and (b) it has artificially stimulated food imports by making them cheaper in
relation to domestic food production. When combined with other factors such
aa reduced export markets, subsidized food exports on the world market and
domestic consumer price subsidies, it is not surprising that the sector has
experienced an increasing trade deficit (para. 60), but more importantly
overall agricultural production has been depressed by the adverse effects of
the overvalued currency.



- 24 -
69.      The value of agricultural exports (Chapter IX of MTASAP), including
processed food, declined by 1.42 per year over the 1977-85 period (Annex VIII).
Prospects for Tunisia's leading agricultural export, olive oil, are not bright
on the traditional European market due to the enlargement of the EEC to include
the world's largest olive oil producer, Spain. As a cushion, Tunisia has
negotiated a 46,000-ton p.a. quota for its olive oil exports to the EEC,
representing about 80% of the present export level. Efforts are now needed to
diversify to other markets and these efforts would require improving the
competitiveness of Tunisian exports and better incentives to exporters. On
the other hand, exports of marine products have grown rapidly in recent years,
and are now the second most important agricultural export. Although
traditional marine exports (shrimp, squid and sponges) have reached their
maximum sustainable yield, there is considerable untapped production potential
for swordfish and lobster, exports of which could generate an additional D 8.0
million per year by 1991. Strong export growth is still possible in dates
where Tunisia already accounts for 25% of the world's production of the highly
prized "Deglet-Nour" variety, the export price of which commands a 100% premium
over common varieties. However, the rapid increase in domestic consumption
has reduced the exportable surplus to only 30X of production. As supplies
increase in response to recent investments in replanting, additional earnings
from dates are estimated at D 15 million per year by 1991. Export prospects
for Tunisian citrus are also better than often thought due to the unique
quality characteristics of the "Maltaise" orange which account for virtually
all exports. Incremental citrus exports could generate an additional D 2.0
million p.a. in foreign exchange by 1991, provided export profitability is
improved to overcome the increased trading costs, 40% of which are in transport
and handling in the importing country. Tunisian wine exports, used mainly in
blending, face a difficult future because of increasing surpluses on the EEC
market. Nevertheless, encouraging exporters to shift into higher quality wine
production, Tunisia could expect to earn an additional D 1.0 million per year
by 1991. Incentives for the expansion of off-season vegetables could bring in
another D 3.0 million per year by 1991. It is estimated that total
agricultural exports could increase by about D 34.0 million per year by 1991,
enough to reduce the agricultural trade deficit by 18%. Achieving the above
export potential, however, will require the development of better incentives
for export and of new, product-specific marketing strategies and channels. To
bring this about, the Government's MTASAP relies on a flexible competitive
exchange rate policy (para. 27) and the application to the sector of temporary
measures to keep exporters from paying the high promotional costs of developing
new markets. Product-specific export strategies targeted to particular markets
would be developed through a sector export promotion action program, to be
developed based on a study, draft terms of reference for which (in the MTASAP)
were discussed at negotiations. Specific measures, the appropriateness of
which would be evaluated in the study, are, among others: (a) extending
export company benefits to agricultural export enterprises; (b) reducing
wholesale market taxes for export products; (c) eliminating taxes on processing
of export products; (d) giving agricultural import licenses to agricultural
exporters; and (e) renegotiating air and sea transport routes to increase
frequency of appropriate services for agricultural exports.
70.      The effect of exchange rate policy has also been important regarding
food imports which have increased by 5.9% p.a. These imports have always
entered Tunisia tariff-free, in consideration of the Government's policy of
low consumer prices. Two other factors combining with this policy and leading
to depressed domestic production incentives are: (a) the availability of



- 25 -
imports often subsidized significantly in the country of origin and available
in Tunisia 30-40% below world market prices; and (b) the fiscal constraints on
the Government. As a result, producer prices have been depressed below world
market prices, particularly for cereals, milk and meat.
71.      Inter-sectoral terms of trade.  The industriaL sector has been
cushioned from the effect of exchange rate policies through high tariff
barriers and favorable price formation mechanisms, whiLe agricultural products
were allowed to enter the country virtually duty-free. More recently,
restrictions have had to be imposed on imports of many industrial products
produced Locally. As a result, relative incentives between agriculture and
industry have remained strongly against agriculture, which has faced depressed
output prices, and also higher costs for inputs, often products of protected
and still inefficient domestic industries. In 1981, the Quantitative
Economics Institute of the Ministry of Planning (Institut Ali Bach Hamba)
estimated that effective protection of agriculture was about 25%, compared to
75% for industry and 35% for the economy as a whole. More recent analysis has
put the average protection level for agriculture at a low 5% in 1984.
72.      The consequences of these high inter-sectoral variations in relative
incentives for allocation of resources in agriculture have been quite serious.
Not only have the Plan's objectives of achieving a 50% share of private
investment not been attained, but also most fixed investment in the sector has
either had to be made by the Government (e.g., 60% of cold storage is publicly
owned) or had to be dependent on special investment subsidy programs covering
virtually all on-farm and marketing investments (farm machinery, buildings,
animals, pasture establishment and storage) costing D 8 million in 1985.
The administrative inertia associated with Government-financed programs is now
compounded by fiscal constraints facing the Government, and correction of the
low relative incentives in the sector is needed to ensure the adequate flow of
private resources. The Government's MTASAP relies on shifts in macro-economic
and industrial policies, particularly the reduction in high industrial tariffs,
the liberalization of prices and the price formation process, and the
introduction of a 15% minimum tariff (para. 36) to start a process of
correcting these large imbalances in relative protection. The latter would
affect the producer prices for key food imports directly.
73.      Intra-sectoral incentives.  Within the sector, production incentives
vary widely among farming systems and crops as a result of Government
interventions. Despite the generally free market environment, the Government
fixes the prices of the three major cereals, durum wheat, bread wheat and
barley, as well as of milk and some other crops. Cereal prices have
consistently been set below world market price levels even at the official
exchange rate. The Government, through the Office of Cereals, purchases
30-40% of the cereal harvest at the officially fixed producer prices:
official purchases vary from a low of 10-20% of production in the case of
barley to 60-701 in the case of bread wheat. However, prices in free markets,
particularly at harvest time in major production areas, are not always at
official prices, since, due to an active price intervention at the consumer
level, parallel markets have tended to disappear and farmers have limited
themselves to subsistence production only. PotenLial for producer price
distortion is the highest in the case of wheat, which attracts the bulk (60%
or D 160.0 million) of direct Government subsidies for food, and the least in
barley, which is virtually free from active intervention (D 2.0 million p.a.).
Although influenced by the good crop year in 1985, the 15-year growth pattern
(5% p.a. for barley, 1.4% for durum wheat, and 0.7% for bread wheat) suggests
the effects of these price interventions.



- 26 -
74.      Even at the official exchange rate, official prices are below world
market prices: in cereals, nominal protection in 1984/85 was -15% to -20% for
the wheats and -7% for barley. Despite a premium on world markets of 30-40%
tnr duirwu wheat over bread wheat, the Tunisian policy of self-sufficienicy has
led to the establishment of identical offical producer prices.  Given roughly
equal yields for the two wheats in the Tunisian North, the extra fiscal and
fozeign exchange cost of this policy (roughly D 1.4 million and 7.5 million,
respectively) needs to be reviewed against the psychological benefits ot
self-sufficiency. Citrus and potatoes, both exportables, are free from
G;overnment price interventions and their domestic prices have been 25-45%
above world market prices at the official exchange rate.  In the case of milk
and beef,'  official prices have been close to their world market
eqtuivalents, but the Government, due to its fiscal constraints and availability
of often subsidized imports, has offered little incentive to agro-industry to
buy domestic production: only 20% of the milk and 5% of the beef enter
official channels, and producer prices remain depressed (see also paras. L07-
110). Poultry production is free from output price interventions and has
grown at 20% p.a., but has been supported by strong input subsidies.
75.      On the input side, subsidies to agriculture amounted to a total of
D 69.0 million (US$95.8 million) in 1985, of which about 33% was for irrigation
water (both capital and O&M), 24% for fertilizers (superphosphate, triple
superphiosphate and ammoniwn nitrate), 23% for animal feed (maize, soybean meal
and barley), 14% for on-farm investments, 4% for seed and 2% for herbicide
(2-4-D and multipurpose). '  Unit subsidies for fertilizer have ranged from
55-70%, and those for animal feed from 15-26%; herbicides and cereal seed
subsidies have been 50% and 25%, respectively. These subsidies have been
introduced partly to compensate for the low producer prices, but in case of
products manufactured locally (e.g., fertilizers and animal feed concentrates)
part of the subsidies have often been absorbed by domestic industry since
ex-factory prices are often higher than world market prices. The subsidization
of itrigation water has strongly favored commodities like milk and vegetables
which dominate irrigated production. Animal feed subsidies have given a
stimulus to the imported concentrate-based poultry industry, but has had
adverse consequences for barley producers and mutton/lamb producers since it
constitutes a major disincentive to the increased use of forage, larger
qulantitLies of which could be efficiently produced in conjunction with cereal
production. Cereal seed subsidies have stimulated use of improved seed,
butL by their system of administration may be hampering wider distribution
(paras. 99-101).
1/ The producer price of which has been recently liberalized.
2/                                  1985 Subsidy
Amount
Input              (D million)        % of Total
Irrigation Water          23.0                33
Fertilizers               16.5                24
Animal Feed               15.9                23
On-farm Investments         9.9               14
Seeds                       2.5                4
Herbicides                  1.2                2
69.0              100



- 27 -
76.      As a result of these Government interventions in product and factor
markets, preliminary estimates of relative incentives for cereals under
different rainfed production systems give a range of effective protection from
-301 to +10%, which, An view of the average protection oF the agricultural
sector as a whole of 5%, implies a net relative protection for cereals in the
range of +5% to -351. In irrigated farming, on the other hand, levels of
effective protection are well above the sectoral average with particularly
high levels for irrigated citrus and potatoes.
77.      As a prime feature of its MTASAP, the Government recognizes that its
macro-economic policies must be consistent with and supportive of the objective
of fully developing the untapped potential of the agricultural sector and
suitable adjustments are being made (para. 64). Since an important factor in
increasing production in the higher rainfall areas is greater integration of
cereals, livestock, forage crops and pulses, and in irrigated areas, a more
intensive use of irrigated land, the primary objective of the MTASAP is to
progressively improve the prices and incentives framework in the sector so as
to encourage rainfed production of cereals, milk and meat under efficient
production systems while promoting shifts toward more efficient cropping
patterns and input utilization patterns in irrigated areas.
78.      The Government's MTASAP aims to eliminate the distortionary effect of
its input subsidy program and to rationalize its output price interventions in
order to allow world market price trends to be reflected in its sector pricing
structure. Combined with macro-economic adjustments. the relative incentives
between industry and agriculture would be brought closer to reduce current
intersectora! distortions and the large differences between incentives for
various commodities would be narrowed. The Government's ultimate objectives
are an across-the-board alignment of producer prices with world market prices
and elimination of input subsidies. In order to give farmers and consumers
time to adjust to the new price signals, these actions are beir.g phased in
over a reasonable time frame. Over three years, the system of administered
producer prices for the wheats and barley would be reshaped progressively to
reflect world market price levels plus the 15% tariff. This would specifically
involve an upward adjustment of the durum wheat price to restore the 30-40Z
differential that exists between the two wheats on international markets. The
use of this formula for setting domestic producer prices would not preclude
Tunisia from continuing to take advantage of cheap imports.
79.      For inputs, the Government's MTASAP aims to elimate current subsidies
while allowing for the temporary need to promote the adoption of new technology
among small and medium-size farmers in order to accelerate production growth.
The adjustments, spelled out in the Government's Letter of Agricultural Devel-
opment Policy (Annex IV(b)], would involve: (a) in accordance with agreement
already reached in the context of the Irrigation Management Improvement
Project, full recovery of the O&M costs of irrigation water over a period of
10 years including full O&M cost recovery on 65% of th.  -rrigated area by 1991;
(b) elimination of input subsidies on fertilizer, animal feed, 2-4-D herbicide
and improved cereal seed over a period of three to five years, depending on the
input; and (c) charging the full cost of support services which continue to be
provided by the Government until they are fully transferred to the private
sector. The Government's objective is to completely eliminate the fertiliier
subsidy by the 1990/91 crop season. In view of the input-output price
relationships prevailing in Tunisia, the elimination of the fertilizer subsidy
is not expected to adversely affect production. Crop fertilizer price ratios
in Tunisia are high and value-cost ratios reflecting crop responsiveness are
higher than the threshold levels considered necessary to induce fertilizer use.



- 28 -
As regards animal feed subsidies, the Government's program calls for their
complete elimination by the 1989/90 season. This would encourage forage
production and storage as well as more efficient use of Tunisia's extensive
rangelands in the Center and South of the country. Improved cereal seed
subsidies would also be phased out by the 1989/90 crop season (see para. 138
for details), and the justification for those to be continued beyond that date
on potatoes and other crops would be reviewed. The subsidy on 2-4-D herbicide
would be phased out by the l9B8/8s crop season, and that on multipurpose
herbicide, whose use the Government is currently promoting over 2-4-D,
thereafter. As for the commercial services provided by the public sector in
the large irrigated areas, the Government's objectives are to reach full
costing of the commercial services in Government's hands, and to progressively
transfer them to the private and cooperative sectors (see para. 95).
80.      The price formation process in agro-industry is essentially a cost
plus system and is therefore subject to extensive administrative controls.
Preliminary analysis of the reasons for low capacity utilization rates in
agro-industry leads to the conclusion that it is the price formation process
that primarily causes inefficiencies and high costs and eliminates competitive
pressure in domestic marketing. The animal feed industry has expanded from 18
plants in 1973 to 146 in 1983, but the industry is operating on 801 imported
raw materials which are subsidized by 15-26%, at only 301 of its installed
capacity. The canning industry, mostly in the private sector, has also grown
rapidly at 8.51 p.a., but demonstrates signs of inefficiency: the tomato
processing industry has a processing season of only 35 days against an
international norm of 100 and operates only at 431 capacity. Rigidity in
pricing policy which contributes to peak arrivals had led to installation of
increased daily capacity, while low plant utilization has been absorbed in the
cost plus pricing system. Similar trends are apparent in other vegetable
products (e.g., harissa at 201 utilization and fish canning at 401). The
resulting high production costs make Tunisian products expensive for the local
consumer and uncompetitive in the export market. The small sugar industry,
mostly in the private sector, supplies only 101 of the demand. The newer
plants are still operating at 20-351 of installed capacity due to inadequate
raw materials, and cube making at 35% of capacity, protected by a guaranteed
profit pricing formula. Only the export segment of the olive oil industry,
which has been influenced by the competitive pressure of export markets and
cheaper alternatives, is basically competitive, able to produce at about half
the price of EEC producers (prior to the accession of Spain and Portugal).
The Government's MTASAP recognizes the need for a review of the price formation
mechanisms from the producer to the retail level through the agro-industry.
The progressive move towards price liberalization and gradually subjecting the
local industry to competitive pressure from imports (paras. 33 and 36) should
create incentives for higher capacity utilization and efficiency, and allow
sector growth to be achieved under a situation of reduced availability of
investment resources. The price policy review (para. 131), to be executed
under TORs agreed with the Bank, would include a detailed analysis of the
effect of the policy environment on efficiency in selected key agro-industrial
activities.
Reorienting Public Expenditures (Chapter I1 of MTASAP)
81.      Public investment.  The allocations of investment resources to the
sector in the 1970s were generally below the sector's share in GDP, as other
sectors such as petroleum and manufacturing were growing more rapidly. Under
the about-to-be-completed VIth Plan, actual investments in the sector at 161
of the total have been below the original Plan estimates of 191. While total



- 29 -
public agriculture expenditures have been maintained at levels envisaged, the
decline reflects a level of private investment much below Plan projections:
only 31% of the total as opposed to 50% anticipated in the Plan.
82.      Within the sector, as the following table indicates, in the 1970s
there was an increasin2 emphasis on fully developing the limited irrigation
potential and irrigation investment reached 441 of total investment in the
late 1970s. Investment in livestock and fisheries also increased. In the
livestock sector, the shift in emphasis has been from poultry towards dairy,
and 472 of these investments were financed by the private sector. Public
investments have emphasized a rather doubtful but rapid program of importing
exotic production animals at the expense of a slower but more cost effective
cross-breeding effort. The increase in the fisheries sub-sectoral investments,
mostly in infrastructure and processing facilities, have been fruitful since
the sub-sectoral growth and exports (131) have exceeded all Plan projections.
However, capacity utilization remains low. On the other hand, investments in
forestry and soil conservation, fruit trees, research and extension, which
were seen to have only longer-term benefits, were progressively de-emphasized:
a neglect which is now beginning to constrain sectoral growth, since 401 of
extension expenditures are in irrigated areas which cover only 5Z of the
cultivable area. Investment in farm machinery increased in the 1960s and
1970s, as the newLy developed irrigated areas needed mechanization, but
utilization rates are low (para. 112). Tunisian research expenditures are
about 1.42 of agricultural GDP - much higher than other developing countries
like China, India or in Latin America. However, this expenditure is spread
out thinly over a large number of un-coordinated institutes and agencies, and
almost 601 of those expenditures are devoted to fruits, vegetables. and
industrial crops.
Table 5:  INVESTMENT IN AGRICULTURE BY SUB-SECTORS, 1962-86
(In percentage of total)
1962-71     1972-76      1977-81      1982-86
Irrigation                              27.0         22.2         43.6         42.4
Livestock                                3.9         11.5         12.0         11.0
Forestry and Soil Crnservation          25.3          9.5          7.5          8.5
Fruit Trees                             15.4         13.4          5.0          6.3
Farm Machinery                          15.8         29.1         17.5         13.4
Fishing                                  4.2          9.2          7.0          8.6
Research, Extension, Studies             8.4          4.5          4.1          3.6
Cereal Storage                            -            -            -           1.5
PDRI                                      -            -            -           1.5
Others                                   _          _              3.3          3.2
Total                              100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0
Total Amount (D million)           272.0        235.1        584.0      1,382.2
Note:  Irrigation investment includes the full cost of construction of dams,
which is carried out by the Ministry of Equipment. The Integrated
Rural Development Program (PDRI) is administered by the Ministry of
Planning and Finance.



- 30 -
83.      In view of the country's increasingly strained financial situation,
the Government's MTASAP calls for the implementation of a sector expenditure
strategy in which investments are designed to:
(a) boost the efficiency of resource use by maximizing returns on past
investment;
(b) increase efficient production of cereals, meat, milk and wood for
import substitution and dates, citrus,- fish and off-season vegetables
for export;
(c) privatize all commercially viable services and ensure a policy
framework encouraging private investments; and
(d) bring about greater labor intensity in investment (also to be tackled
by wage policy and interest rates).
This requires first the development of appropriate sub-sectoral investment/
expenditure strategies; second, the identification and preparation of specific
project pr.tDosals able to meet the above strategy and rigorous economic rate
of return and other criteria; third, to prepare for uncertain developments in
resource availability, to establish a "core" program of high priority
expenditures which would be preferentially protected in case of resource
shortfalls.
B4.      Sub-sectoral investment strategies.  Specific sub-sector strategies
consistent with this overall sectoral strategy have been developed and are
described in the Government's Letter of Agricultural Development Policy
[Annex IV(b)]. These strategies will guide project identification and
preparation for the VIIth Plan, and their main features are as follows:
(a) in grain storage, focus on rehabilitation to increase capacity and
improve the domestic collection network, and on modernization,
including bulk handling, to improve cost effectiveness;
(b) in livestock, concentrate on the development of local forage
resources to substitute for imported concentrates by developing
forage reserves throughout the country, focussing extension efforts
on the integration of Livestock with cereal production, promoting
systematic use of crop by-products such as feed (straw, bran and
by-products of the olive oil industry); strengthen the genetic
improvement program through greater reliance on cross-breeding versus
imports of purebred stock; encourage wider participation of private
individuals and cooperatives in providing artificial insemination
services; and encourage the privatization of veterinary services;
(c) in research, emphasize better coordination of expenditures on
research and focus research on priority import substitution or export
products such as cereals, livestock products, dates, citrus and
off-season vegetables; in extension, without substantially increasing
the present level of total expenditures, reorganization of multiple
commodity-specific, extension programs would permit increased
efficiency in use of operating funds, while first ensuring adequate
staffing and funding for the transportation, operation and maintenance
of existing centers; new centers would be built in rainfed areas,
with housing close to field areas;



- 31 -
(d) in forestry, increase the financial resources available for
development to arrest the loss of forest cover in order to better
mobilize the sub-sector's productive potential and reduce imports;
priority needs to be given to establishment of nurseries, to improved
means of guarding and protecting the natural regeneration areas, to
mechanized exploitation and reforestation and improved inventories
and studies;
(e) in fruit trees, encourage maintenance of existing plantations; in the
center of the country, promote the establishment of pasture within
the framework of a balanced system of livestock and fruit trees; and
favor the development of export crops such as citrus in the north,
pistachios and almonds in the center and date palms in the south;
(f) in fisheries, optimize utilization of existing infrastructure, while
holding back additional expenditure on ports, fish processing
facilities and the coastal motorized fleet; encourage the development
of strategically located inland cold storage and ice plants to develop
and exploit domestic markets for under-exploited bluefish; and
(g) in irrigation, finish downstream investments under existing projects
in order to rapidly increase the availability of water at farm level;
promote rehabilitation and maintenance of existing irrigation
infrastructure; and encourage investments designed to increase water
use efficiency.
85.      Project selection criteria.  A part (12Z) of the sector expenditure
program consists of general activities of a program nal -e which do not fall
into a project format, and those that do, except for son.e externally funded
projects, are not routinely subjected to critical evaluation of investment
strategy and economic impact. To strengthen its investment planning and
monitoring process, the MTASAP calls for the widespread application of an
improved project/program evaluation methodology to all new investments for the
VIIth Plan, improving the capacity of the DPSAE in project evaluation and
establishing a system of project monitoring and budget surveillance.
86.      All projects to be continued or started during the period of the
MTASAP will be first tested for their consistency with the above sub-sectoral
development strategies, followed by evaluation according to the following
project selection criteria. In order of priority, these criteria are:
(a) economic rate of return above 10% (based on economic pricing of
inputs and outputs, including labor and foreign exchange);
(b) positive impact on the agricultural trade balance;
(c) productive employment creation at low cost per job created (norms to
be established); and
(d)  low Government contribution to investment and operating costs.
Some trade-off between criteria may be necessary, but the minimum rate of
return would guide all project selections.



- 32 -
87.      "Core" program.  In the VIIth Plan period, which coincides with the
MTASAP, a planning figure of 22% has been established by the Ministry of
Planning and Finance for the proportion of total investments to be allocated
to the agricultural sector. An underlying assumption is of increased private
sector participation (from 31% to 502) in sector investment. This assumption
also reflects the uncertainty in the overall resource base and thus the need
to limit public investments, which are programmed to decline by at least 7-10%
in real terms. To ensure that in the event of an unexpected shortfall in
public investment funds or lack of response from the private sector, the
available resources are devoted to a coherent set of high priority and
strategically appropriate projects, the Government's MTASAP aims to have a
system of a pre-screened program of "core" projects which would be assured of
funding on a priority basis; as an indicative target, this set of "core"
projects would represent 651 of the initial indicative allocation to the
sector under the VIIth Plan. The criteria to be applied to put projects in
the "core" program would be:
(a) short gestation or remaining completion periods;
(b) small reliance on Government budgetary resources (e.g., through
greater private sector involvement); and
(c)  high priority in the overall sectoral development strategy.
88.      An analysis of the projects under implementation at the end of the
Vlth Plan confirms that completion of ongoing viable projects would account
for roughly 75% of the indicative si7e of the "core" program. The room for
introducing new projects could thus be quite limited. The Government plans to
have ready a draft list of projects and project ideas for the VlIth Plan by
December 1986, including those earmarked for inclusion in the "core" program.
The project list and the "core" would be subject to review and amendment as
feasibility and evaluation work are completed. However, the establishment of
this systematic approach to project selection and pruning of programs in case
of resource constraints would help to significantly improve the efficiency of
sector investments.
89.      Expenditures monitoring system.  Close monitoring of public
expenditure patterns during the resource constrained VIIth Plan would be
critical to ensure that available resources are used most efficiently. This
will involve monitoring sub-sectoral distribution, project-wise expenditures
and the adequacy of OhM expenditures as well as the focus of resources on the
"core" program.
90.      Recurrent expenditures.  Reduced allocations of budgetary resources
for maintenance of existing investments has been evident in the recent past.
This is especially true of the irrigation sub-sector where the burden on the
Government has increased rapidly as the network has expanded and cost recovery
from farmers amounts to only 40% of the O&M costs.
91.      As agreed under the Irrigation Management Improvement Project
(Ln. 2573-TUN), the Government's MTASAP calls for a ten-year action program to
achieve full O&M cost recovery in the Irrigation Offices (OMVs) which would
generate incremental revenue over the next ten years with a view to bringing
the 11 OMVs to a break-even self-financing level. Under the agreed program,
65% of the irrigated area would reach 1002 of O&M cost recovery before 1991
and the balance during the program period (except in a few areas in the center



- 33 -
part of the country where farmers' ability to pay may be a constraint). In
addition the Government is establishing a set of norms for the maintenance of
equipment and civil works which would serve as guidelines for ensuring
adequate funding. The list of maintenance coefficients for various types of
existitig irrigation inivestments is contained in Chapter II of the MTASAP.  The
allocationi of adequate 06M budgets in relation to these norms and actual
expenditures would be monitored with the aid of the computerized expenditure
tracking system being developed (pora. 85).
92.      Private investment and credit (ChapterIV of MTASAPJ.  Creotrr
reliance on private investment as opposed to direct public investment is a key
clement of the Government's MTASAP (para. 61).  Private activity in the sector
is guided by the Agricultural Investment Code which created a package of
incentives for private investment. Typically, farmers finance 201 of the cost
of these investments, with about 801 coming from budgetary resources in the
form of low interest loans or outright subsidies. Private investment now
accourts for about one-third of total investment in agriculture, a figure
unchanged from the Vth Plan. Apart from the tree crops and farm machinery
sub-sectors, private sector participation is the highest in the livestock
sector (562), followed by fisheries (302), and by private irrigation (131 of
the total). Most private investments are associated with lending by the
National Bank of Tunisia (BNT), a multipurpose commercial bank which accounts
for about 75X of total banking system credit to agriculture. Most of the
remaining 251 is accounted for by short-term lending by commerciaL banks. The
National Agricultural Development Bank (BNDA) handles less than It of total
banking system credit to the sector.
93.      Agricultural credit in Tunisia is financed largely by Government
subsidized special funds (FOSDA, FOSEP, FODERI) which not only are becoming a
heavy burden on the budget (a total of D 19.5 million now budgeted for 1986
including both loans and subsidies), but also by undercutting the participation
of the commercial banking sector, they create serious problems for the overall
credit system. These funds also need annual replenishment from the budget
since recoveries average less than 50% as the Government (not the BNT which
handles them) bears the risk of default.-' Liberal eligibility criteria
allow 901 of Tunisian farmers access to those special but progressively
limited amounts of funds; this, combined with the lack of development of other
credit systems, seriously affects the overall flow of institutional credit to
promote private investment.
94.      The Government's MTASAP aims to use the agricultural credit system as
a primary tool to promote greater private sector participation in agricultural
development and at the same time to reduce the budgetary burden on the
Government. Specifically, the MTASAP aims to:
(a) improve the incentives for banks to apply their own resources to
agricultural Lending, notably through a policy of interest rates
which cover the financial and operating costs at reasonable efficiency
and risks of agricultural lending, thereby enabling the shift from
public to private sector lending to take place; in the medium-term,
the Bank's preliminary estimate is that this would imply interest
rate increases of 2-4X, up to 9-12%;
(b) reduce progressively (in light of the mobilization of other resources
to support a Larger program of agricultural credit) the budgetary
1/ BNT recoveries on loans made from its own resources are above 92Z, and
those in which it shares a part of the default risk are above 751.



- 34 -
allocations to FOSDA, FOSEP and other special funds (FOSDA loans
granted rose to D 21.8 million in 1985) which have the potential to
undercut commercial credit, with the ultimate objective of better
targetting these funds to the poorest farmers;
(c)  transfer progressively to BNT and to the banking sector a larger part
of the risk assumed by the State in association with the higher
interest rates under (a) above; and
(d) apply better recovery measures, notably the "Privilege d'Etat:"
reschedule certain debts when justified by natural disaster, for
example, and stop taxing bad debt provisions made to cover the risk
of a non-repayment.
Strengthening and Privatizing Support Services
95.      The pattern followed in Tunisia has been one of strong and active
involvement of the Government and its agencies in the entire range of
marketing and support services in Tunisia. Partly because they are often not
charged at their full cost, but also because of the limitations imposed by the
financial constraints on the expansion of these services in line with demand,
the Government has reassessed the need for its continued involvement in
provision of these services. The MTASAP recognizes the benefits from private
sector involvement in the provision of commercial services, and the adverse
consequences of strong Government involvement in providing subsidized services
which discourage the private sector from participating in providing poten-
tially viable commercial services. However, in some areas such as research,
extension, disease control, and management of irrigation infrastructure, the
MTASAP recognizes the need to strengthen the quality of continued Government
involvement. Action programs have thus been devised under the MTASAP to
increase cost recovery in public services, to stimulate private sector partici-
pation in commercially viable activities like input marketing, farm mechani-
zation and some livestock services, while strengthening essential support
services such as research, extension and irrigation management which will
remain in the public domain.
96.      Input marketing:  Fertilizer (Chapter VII of KTASAP).  Tunisia is a
major producer of fertilizer, chiefly of triple superphosphate and ammonium
nitrate. Only 181 of triple superphosphate, 421 of ammonium nitrate and 83%
of single superphosphate production are consumed by domestic agriculture, the
remainder being exported. The only major imported fertl.izer is potassium.
Since 1985. when domestic production of nitrogenous fertilizer commenced, the
public sector Tunisian Chemical Fertilizer Company (STEE' has had the wholesale
monopoly for phosphate anid nitrogen fertilizers. It is at the wholesale level
through STEC that the Government subsidizes the three most widely used
fertilizers (superphosphate, triple superphosphate and ammonium nitrate).
The Office of Cereals (OC) is the main retail agency handling about 50% of
phosphate and 40% of nitrogen fertilizer distribution. The OC has played a
useful role in linking marketing of inputs with domestic procurement of
cereals, and has thus helped in developing the domestic fertilizer market from
34,000 tons in 1964 to 230,000 tons in 1984.  In this period, nitrogen
fertilizer use increased about tenfold, and phosphate fertilizer by about
4 112 times, while use of potassium fertilizer, which is not subsidized and
is imported by the private sector, has remained relatively stable at 6,000 -
10,000 tons/year.



- 35 -
97.      Retail marketing, in addiLion to OC, is done by cooperatives and the
private sector. During the VIth Plan, there has been an expansion of the OC's
network of retail outlets and this combined with absorption of OC's losses by
the Government and the controls on private sector retail margins, particularly
for the subsidized products, has led to a retail trade which has become
dominated by the OC. In 1982, only 37% of the retail outlets were in the
cooperative or private sector. In addition, the private sector has concen-
trated 70% of its outlets in the citrus growing northeast, where the major
market is for potassium, a fertilizer market relatively free from Government
involvement. As a result, many smaller farmers, not linked with OC through
grain narketing and in Lemote areas, have been without assured and timely
access to fertilizer. The growth of private retailing has been constrained by
the lower prices permitted to the public sector. For example, in the 1985/86
crop season:
Product          Public Sector Mark-up   Private Sector Margin
(D/ton) ----------------
Triple Superphosphate          2.25                      7.00
Ammonium Nitrate               3.13                      9.73
Single Superphosphate          1.25                      2.95
Diammonium Phosphate           2.25                      7.00
98.      The Government's MTASAP strategy is to improve the conditions
necessary for the private sector and service cooperatives to continually
increase their participation in fertilizer retail marketing, thereby
increasing farmer access to fertilizer and enabling the Government to
concentrate its effort to the promotion of fertilizer use in low demand areas
not likely to be of interest to the private sector. The Government's MTASAP
aims to equalize the retail mark-ups charged by the public sector with those
of the private dealers and to liberalize retail margins. In parallel,
agricultural credit institutions would introduce short-term credit programs
which permit advance purchases of fertilizer to reduce delays in delivery and
a seasonal differential in wholesale/retail pricing would encourage more
downstream storage and early purchase.
99.      Input marketing:  Certified seeds (Chapter VII of MTASAP).  Production
or imports of non-cereal seeds including vegetables, industrial crops, pulses
and fruit tree seedlings are handled predominantly by the private sector.
Adequate amounts of seed potatoes and forage seeds are imported. Overall
quantity and quality of cereal seed is adequate with genetically improved
plant material having been available since the early 1970s, as a result of
national and international research efforts. Use of certified cereal seeds
has stabilized at about 15,000 tons, after fast growth during the 1960s and
1970s. Certified cereal seed multiplication is handled by cooperatives, which
contract out the multiplication of basic seed produced by the National
Agricultural Research Institute (INRAT) to private farmers and cooperatives.
The Office of Cereals distributes certified seed through its network of
119 retail outlets, many of which also serve as collection centers for the
harvest. Roughly 61% and 82% of the land under durlum and bread wheat in the
north are now sown with improved varieties. In case of barley this figure is
only 20% although varieties suitable for the north are available. While
production and control of certified seed are adequate, the pricing and
distribution system are deficient with, on the one hand, wasteful use by larger
a;irms and, orn the other, insufficient use partly due to poor accessibility for



- 36 -
small farmers. The practice of too frequent seed renewal is encouraged by an
out-moded but once useful "seed-exchange" type distribution system still used
by OC. Under the system, farmers exchange their own grain for certified seed
on a one to one basis, up to a maximum of 2.5 tons; above this level, and up
to eight tons, it is exchanged on the basis of 115 kg grain for 100 kg
certified seed. Requiremenits over 8 tons (about 80 ha) have to be paid at full
cost. Although nominaLly the pricing is set to favor the small farmer, this
system effectively limoits the access of certified seed only to those farmers
selling their grain through OC. Total expenditure on seed subsidies rose from
D 0.6 million in 1981/82 to D 0.9 million in L985/86. The low cost of certi-
fied seed has led to its higher than necessary use, since technical require-
ments are that farmers only renew 10-15% of their seed on an annual basis.
100.          The Government's MTASAP aims to ensure that public resources are
devoted to the expanded production of barley seed and the apparent over-
consumption of cereal seed is controlled. To this end, the seed subsidy is to
be eliminated over 3 years. To ensure better access of smaller farmers to
improved seed, the Government aims to strengthen the distribution system by
introducing a system of private retailing of seed, along with other inputs.
For this purpose, the additional inspection requirements to ensure quality,
the requirements [or labelling, and other legal aspects are being studied.
A special study (draft terms of reference in MTASAP, Appendix II) is to be
launched to review the cereal and other seed distribution system including an
enhanced role in its distribution by private retailers of other agricultural
inputs.
101.     The thrust of the adjustment program for seed marketing is to phase
out the seed subsidy which only accounts for 2-3% of production costs and to
stimulate greater private sector involvement in seed marketing together with
other inputs. Measures are planned to reduce seed subsidies by about 33% per
year over the next three crop seasons. The exchange program will also be
gradually converted into a straightforward sales program.
102.     Output_marketing:  Cereals.  Production of cereals, consisting of
about 601 durum wheat, 25% barley and 15% bread wheat, has increased from an
average of around 1.0 million tons under the Vth Plan (1977-81) to 1.3 million
tons under the current VIth Plan (1982-86). Meanwhile imports have averaged
around 900,000 tons which means that the production increase has been absorbed
entirely by growing internal denmnd. For the future, unless consumption can
be curbed, cereal production must continue to grow or the country will face
increasing imports.
103.    The OC is the national grain supply agency which over the decade of
the 1970s has been forced to meet rapidly growing demand for industrially
processed grain with an infrastructure and institutional practices that have
changed little since the 1950s. Efforts to improve the grain supply were
launched under the Grain Distribution and Storage Project (Ln. 2052-TUN) and
have been focused on improving cost effectiveness in three major areas: physi-
cal facilities, financial management, and the management of supply operations.
104.    The completion in late 1986 of two port silos and several
redistribution silos designed to reduce heavy demurrage and port costs will
break a major bottleneck in the distribution circuit for imports, and
transform this circuit from largely bag to primarily bulk handling with
attendant cost savings. As a result of a study of OC's financial management
system, OC's financial functions have been reorganized, and reforms in
accounting practices have been started.



- 37 -
105.     With the recent creation last year of a Logistics and Transport
Directorate in OC, immediate improvement in practices and substantial
reduction in losses were evident in handling the peak crop of 1985/86.
106.     Completed studies have shown that the diagnosis of problems in OC's
operations management is complex. Further reforms in the management of supply
operations are clearly needed and the Government has confirmed in the context
of the Letter of Agricultural Development Policy that cereal marketing problems
will be addressed as part of the MTASAP. In support of this, action programs
are being prepared and implemented in the context of the ongoing Grain Storage
and Distribution Project financed by the Bank (Ln. 2052-TUN) and preparation
of a possible second project:
(a) Management Df buying and selling. The buying and selling of imported
grain has long been handled by OC as a completely separate operation
from the buying and selling of local grain, which has resulted in
costly inefficiencies in the transport and storage of both. A
reorganization plan has been prepared for these marketing functions
to achieve over the coming months unified direction within a single
marketing directorate. To improve import operations, OC is working
on improved tender and contract documents to provide for better
protection and improved quality control. Similarly, the system of
local purchases is to be improved by simplifying the present system
of quality premiums and penalties.
(b) Management of domestic harvest purchases. At present in many
localities OC and the two grain cooperatives1' each has its own
collection center operating in conditions that are sub-optimal both
for storage and for loading and maneuvering of trains and trucks.
OC and the cooperatives plan to achieve economies of scale in both
investment and operational costs in the domestic procurement network
in the mediium term by implementing a rationalization program.
(c) Maintenance of facilities. To overcome the absence of a tradition of
maintenance and the lack of a maintenance management structure and
technical skills, OC has decided to introduce an improved silo
maintenance system, initially by recruiting a firm, on a turn-key
basis, with gradual transfer of responsibility to OC and/or the
cooperatives.
(d) Reimbursement of storage costs. The present system of Government
reimbursement of storage costs does not provide adequate incentives
either to the OC and the cooperatives for the improvement of
maintenance or to large farms and processing mills for the instal-
lation or expansion of bulk storage facilities at their enterprises
to reduce congestion in the collection center network during and
after the harvest. Proposed revisions in the reimbursement system
that are designed to reverse these incentives have been developed as
part of the cereal marketing improvement program.
(e) Reimbursemnent of transport costs. The method currently used by the
Government and OC for implementing the Government's program of
reimbursement of transport costs for processed grain in support of
the Government's policy of a unitary national price for cereal
1/ OC has delegated to the two cooperatives the authority to participate in
harvest collection on behalf of OC.



- 38 -
products is costly. In essence, reimbursement is paid to processors
by the ton-kilometer of transport irrespective of origin and
destination. As a result, there is considerable criss-crossing of
the country in unnecessary transport from deficit regions to surplus
regions and vice-versa, the cost of which appears to be well over
US$L million per year. Alternative formulas for carrying out
transport reimbursement are now under consideration with a view to
eliminating these losses.
107.     Milk marketing (Chapter X of MTASAP).  The dairy industry has grown
rapidly (by about 22% p.a. during the 1970s) and milk production reached
293,000 tons in 1985. However, imports account for nearly 45% of consumption
and have almost trebled over the same period.
108.     The Government currently intervenes in almost every stage of milk
production and marketing. Although it subsidizes milk collection by the
processing industry, only an estimated 20% of the national production is
actually collected for processing; the remainder is consumed on farm or sold
directly to consumers. The Government also fixes the consumer prices of
different milk products sold by the organized industry. This controlled
system has a number of adverse consequences for domestic production and an
adverse impact on the sector trade balance. Since the margin between the
price at which processors must buy fresh milk and sell finished products is
narrow (20-30%), only the parastatal milk plants (STIL and TUNISIELAIT) with
access to Government subsidies collect milk while a vast number of milk
producers dispersed over the countryside do not have any assured market
outlets. More recently, imports which are often subsidized and enter tariff-
free, have become the cheapest source of supply. Given the Government's fiscal
constraints, the demand for dairy products is not met, and incentive for
domestic collection is declining.
109.     The MTASAP builds on recent Government efforts to alleviate some of
these constraints. Specifically, it aims to create a more favorable policy
environment which, by raising the import price through exchange rate adjustment
and the minimum tariff, and progressively liberalizing the pricing and
marketing of domestic fresh pasteurized milk, leaving the import-based
subsidized reconstituted milk for vulnerable groups, would keep improving
producer prices and increase the incentives for collection and processing of
domestic fresh milk production.
110.     Beef marketing (Chapter X of MTASAP).  Production of sheep, in which
Tunisia has a distinct comparative advantage, especially in lower rainfall
areas, has risen sharply in recent years in response to the liberalization of
prices in 1978.  In contrast, beef production, for which certain high rainfall
areas of Northern Tunisia have a comparative advantage, has fallen from an
average of 62,000 tons in the Vth Plan (1977-81) to 57,000 tons, the same level
achieved under the lVth Plan (1972-76). Until 1985, the Government fixed an
official producer price of beef at incentive levels, but fixed low consumer
prices and imported often subsidized imports of refrigerated beef. Given the
Government's tight financial situtation and the high value of the dinar,
buyer's incentives shifted towards imports: imports of beef virtually trebled
in Eive years, rising to over 13,000 tons per year in 1985. Under the MTASAP,
the Government intends to continue the policy introduced in 1985 to stop
subsidizing the parastatal meat company El Louhoum, and to maintain the
liberalization of the producer and consumer prices for beef. A further action



- 39 -
taken by Government is to induce higher producer prices by applying temporary
tariffs as needed against imports of refrigerated beef below world market
prices.
ill.     Farm mechanization (Chapter VIII of MTASAP).  During the 1970s, farm
mechanization progressed rapidly with the area covered per tractor dropping
from 213 ha to 151 ha by 1980.  This has resulted in a high proportion of
older tractors in the country (50% over six years old) and their consequent
greater need for parts and service. From a situation in 1982 of poor
after-sales service due to an excessive number of makes (13 makes imported and
33 others), the situation in 1985 is one of a total ban on imports of tractors
in the horsepower range produced in Tunisia. Deprived of any prospect of new
sales, importers have stopped stocking spare parts, especially of the slow
moving variety, and the local tractor manufacturer (CMT), enjoying a monopoly
position in its horsepower range (45-110 hp), has so far failed to work out
adequate after-sales arrangements with its dealers.
112.     Besides poor after sales service, the Farm Mechanization Master Plan,
prepared under Bank-financing, identified several other major issues:  (a) at
1,000 hours per year, the average annual number of hours worked per tractor in
Tunisia is low, implying considerable scope for more intensive use of farm
machinery; (b) the lack of specialized private farm machinery contractors who,
with a wider range of equipment, could make more intensive use of machinery;
this is related to the below cost pricing by public farm mechanization
services; (c) there is a lack of farm mechanization subject-matter specialists
to assist extension workers in organizing field demonstrations, especially in
the use of sub-surface tillage equipment to increase moisture conservation;
and (d) insufficient machinery repair facilities in rural areas.
113.     The Government's MTASAP calls Eor the following actions:
(a)  liberalization of tractor imports in the 45-110 hp range and a
reasonable temporary tariff for the newly established domestic
tractor plant to promote greater competition among dealers and better
after-sales service and spare parts supply;
(b)  more effective contractual arrangements between CMT and local dealers
to provide after-sales service and spare parts supplies, including
computerization of spare parts inventories by CMT;
(c)  elimination of Government control of margins on spare parts;
(d)  development of a program broken down by geographical areas and types
of machinery for progressiv?ly reducing public sector contracting
and, in the meanwhile, increasing charges to reflect the real cost of
services to avoid under-cutting of potential private contractors; and
(e)  assignment of Agricultural Machinery Subject-Matter Specialists
(AMSMs) to assist extension work on agriculture (see also para. 120).
114.     Livestock services (Chapter X of MTASAP).  Most livestock services in
Tunisia are provided by the Government, through the Animal Production
Department (DPA), the Office of Livestock and Pasture Development (OEP), and
11 other "Offices". Services include preventive vaccination campaigns, which



- 40 -
are free of charge, veterinary care which is partly paid for by the users and
genetic improvement, where the cost recovery performance and quality of service
are mixed. Due to fiscal and foreign exchange constraints, the import of
exotic production animals has been substituted by a more cost effective cross-
breeding program. Past policies have resulted in the large part of the pure-
bred herd being with the large cooperatives, and about 60% of the artificial
insemination (AI) services are focussed on these large pure-bred herds; only 8%
of the remaining herd with private fanrers is provided such services. To
support the new strategy towards expanded cross-breeding programs, and given
continued fiscal constraints, the Government policy is to ensure better cost
recovery in these services.
115.     The MTASAP focuses on the transfer of full responsiblity (and thus
achieve full cost recovery) for Al services from the Government to those
cooperatives which have large pure-bred herds. The DPA would help to train
inseminators and provide them with the necessary equipment and materials.
Public resources would in future be concentrated on a promotional campaign of
cross-breeding of the local herd, most of which is dispersed in remote
locations not viable for commercial operations.
116.     Agricultural research (Chapter V of MTASAP).  Although at 1.4% of
agricultural GDP, total expenditures on research are high compared to other
countries 1, their effectiveness in generating relevant and timely results
could be improved. Eight research institutes, 11 OMVs, 4 other offices,
1 university and six agricultural schools are involved in agricultural research
in Tunisia with the result that the national research effort has often been
poorly focused, duplicative and insufficiently coordinated. In many research
institutes, selection of research subjects is determined more by the individual
researcher's preferences, often in connection with university degree work, than
by national priorities. Notable exceptions are the cereal research program
and research by the irrigation and regional development agencies which have
benefitted from more than 70% of the total external assistance. To prepare the
framework of a stronger national agricultural research system, the Government,
in 1985, commissioned a study by ISNAR with Bank-financing. ISNAR's recommen-
dations, which are now being reviewed by the Government, identified five major
constraints on the low producti-ity of research expenditures:
(a) a lack of clear research priorities, focussed on national needs and
incorporating economic priorities; the OMVs have devoted 80% of their
resources to livestock and vegetable research, while cereals/pulses
have been neglected;
(b) the research institutes suffer from inadequate professional staff
salaries and career opportunities compared to other similar agencies,
such as universities and irrigation authorities. As a result,
professional staff turnover is high (INRAT had a turn-over of 28% in
the last two years);
(c) certain field stations are not necessary and many have excessive land
resulting in the budgetary resources being spread too thinly; and
1/ China/India, 0,5%; Middle East and North Africa, 1.1%; and
Latin America, 0.9%.



- 41 -
(d) not only are the linkages with extension weak, but research workers
do not benefit from enough contact with other research institutes,
higher education institutes, and development agencies performing
research functions. Tunisian research also has much to gain from
research findings in neighboring Mediterranean countries such as
Italy, after adaptation to local conditions.
117.     The Government's MTASAP for agricultural research thus calls for:
(a)  restructurini of the research system based on one of the seven
alternatives- proposed in the ISNAR master plan study as a means
to improve the programming and budgeting for the national research
efforts focussed on national priorities;
(b) improvement of research worker remuneration and career prospects;
(c) a decision on progressive leasing out of the excessive land held by
substations to private farmers and cooperatives;
(d) strengthening animal production, farm management economics, and farm
machinery research; and
(e) strengthening of the links between research and extension and with
other research entitites, both in and outside Tunisia.
By June 1987, the Government will decide which of the seven restructuring
options it will adopt and prepare with Bank assistance a detailed action
program covering the above points for implementation during the VIIth Plan
period (1987-91).
118.     Agricultural extension (Chapter VI of MTASAP).  A number of public
sector entities have grown up in Tunisia alongside the main Extension
Department of the Ministry of Agriculture to provide advice to farmers on the
technical, managerial and economic aspects of farming. Tunisia's 1,000 odd
extension agents operate under a total of about 25 entities, some focussing on
specific commodities (e.g., olive oil, cereals, meat, milk, wine or tobacco),
or a particular region (e.g., Northwest Rural Development Office) or for one
factor of production (e.g., OMVs in the case of irrigation water).  Roughly
50 work in irrigated areas, which represent only 5 of the cultivable area.
Extension workers in Tunisia provide multiple services ranging from input
distribution, credit applications, authorization for fuel subsidies and
statistical work. Farmers are subject to multiple sources of extension advice.
Extension services operate out of CTVs, amounting to 508, which have office
and housing as well as storage space. Sixty percent of the CTVs cover less
than 1,000 farms and the distance of a CTV from a village is about 3-30 km.
Density of extension services varies significantly from 50 farms per CTV in
the predominantly high season vegetable areas, 150 in the OMVs, and 1,000 in
the cereal-dominated North.
1/ The alternatives range from a single, unified research institute to a
coordinating committee on research. The latter is not a feasible solution
given the experience with a similar committee which has met only once since
1978. The former would represent a change too major to manage success-
fully. An intermediate system for coordinated progranming and centralized
budgeting for high priority national programs supplemented by individual
work programs for the agencies would probably be more successful.



- 42 -
119.     Tunisia's agriculture needs a clearly defined extension system and
methodology suited to its particular situation. In order to develop a plan
for strengthening the extension services, the Government has completed an
Extension Master Plan study financed under the Technical Assistance Project.
The Master Plan has identified a number of problems with the present system:
(a) multiplicity of agencies providing extension services;
(b) scarcity of updated technological messages and insufficient feedback
from farmers to the research system;
(c) ineffectiveness of extension agents who perform multiple administra-
tive functions, but have insufficient training in extension and
communications methodology; and
(d) inadequate preparation of work programs, lack of accountability for
their execution, and insufficient quality advice by subject-matter
specialists who are insufficient in numbers.
120.     Under the MTAbAP, the Government aims to implement a strengthened
extension system embodying the basic features of the Training and Visit (T&V)
System by:
(a) restructuring of extension services to follow a single line of command
from a central unit (responsible for policy, training, use of mass
media and methodology) down to the CTV level field extension worker.
In the near term, the irrigation agencies (OMVs) would continue their
separate extension programs following a uniform methodology, and
restructuring efforts would be focussed on rainfed areas;
(b) separation of other support functions from the extension function,
including, as necessary, and where feasible, appointing two agents,
one for support functions other than extension; where stationing two
agents per CTV is not justified by the level of agricultural
activities, special work programs would be established whereby
certain days of the week would be reserved for extension;
(c) changes in the function of the commodity-specific agencies to provide
subject-matter specialists (SMS) to support extension agents;
(d) introduction of a regular pattern of program development, execution,
monitoring and evaluation, including farm visits, and training;
(e) establiahment of regional research/extension commissions to provide
extension and research services with the opportunity for periodic
exchanges of updated research information and research requirements;
and
(f) encouragement to private enterprises (such as dealers in agricultural
implements and plant protection chemicals) to play a larger role in
extending tectnical and economic information.
An action plan to implement the Government's MTASAP for extension will be
prepared with Bank assistance and approved by the Government by June 1987.



- 43 -
121.     Irrigation management (Chapter III of MTASAP).  Tunisia's 235,000 ha
of land equipped for irrigation are managed by 11 OMVs created by the
Government to:  (a) operate and maintain the public Irrigation system;
(b) provide extension services for irrigated crops; (c) promote agricultural
production by offering a wide range of support services (including input
distribution, tractor services, product marketing and credit) when not
available from other sources; and (d) promote the creation of farmer groups or
cooperatives to assure responsibility for the operation and maintenance (O&M)
of irrigation systems and for commercial activities. Often located downstream
of the large dams, the OMVs have played a crucial role in the development of
irrigated production which today accounts for 38% of agricultural value
added. As their operations have expanded. however, operational inefficiencies
have become apparent and the OMVs have become increasingly dependent on
Government budgetary resources:  OMVs' own resources have grown at 6% p.a.
while Government support has increased at 24% p.a. over 1980-85, and now 65%
of the operating funds come from the Government. If the OMVs are to continue
to provide even basic services, they will have to improve their efficiency and
become more financially self-supporting.
122.     One indicator of the OMVs' operational inefficiency is that the
overall average irrigation intensity (defined as the annual irrigated cropped
area over the equipped area) is only 78% (160,000 ha over 205,000 ha in
1984). In the public irrigation perimeters (PPIs), the average intensity is
68%, while in the private perimeters it is 86%. These low utilization rates,
coupled with low water charges and low rates for other OMV services (input
distribution, mechanization, etc.) account for the high financial dependence
of OMUs on the Government budget. The cost of services, many of which could
be provided by the private sector, is often unknown, since the OMVs also lack
clear accounting and management information systems.
123.     To improve overall OMV operations, the Government has in recent years
raised water charges by 3-241 annually in real terms between 1981 and 1985.
In 1986, it has launched the Irrigation Management Improvement Project with
Bank assistance (Ln. 2573-TUN) which includes a comprehensive package of
measures which form an essential part of the MTASAP. Specifically, the
project will introduce a binomial water charge formula comprising a fixed
contribution on a per irrigable hectare basis charged to every farmer whether
he uses the water or not, and a volumetric charge based on actual water use.
Water charges will be increased by 9% per year in real terms during the
project period. The OMVs will also establish acounting systems and begin
charging beneficiaries the full cost of services rendered. The OMVs will also
divest themselves of commercial activities in favor of the private sector, and
hold new recruitments to a strict minimum necessary for efficient operations.
Funds for maintenance will be clearly identified in OMV annual budgets, and
the quality of maintenance will be monitored through performance indicators.
Incentives will be introduced for farmer groups to undertake certain O&M
activities, contractual relationships with the Government will be introduced
for selected OMVs, and the Ministry of Agriculture's monitoring capabilities
will be strengthened.
Improving Management of Natural Resources
124.     Land resources (Chapter XI of MTASAP).  Fundamental to achieving
Tunisia's full agricultural potential is better utilization of the country's
land resources. Currently land tenure patterns constrain the adoption of more
intensive farming practices in several ways:



- 44 -
(a)  With 42% of the farms having less than 5 ha and 11 having more than
100 ha, accounting for 61 ard 241 of the cultivable land,
respectively, land distribution is highly skewed. This results in
under-utilization of land on some of the larger, often absentee-owned
farms, while many of the smaller farms are not viable economically,
and there is no land tax to encourage more efficient holdings;
(b)  There is increasing fragmentation of holdings, often due to
inheritance, into small, frequently dispersed plots which are
difficult to manage intensively: an average farm consists of
4.2 plots, and about 22X of farms have 6 or more plots; only in the
irrigated areas does a system for consolidation of holdings backed up
by legislation exist;
(c)  While titles have been issued for about 3.0 million ha, the pace of
registration for the remaining 1.5 million ha is so slow that it will
take another 60 years to complete this: lack of clear title has its
adverse consequences for access to credit and incentives to invest; a
high land transfer tax also discourages land registration;
(d)  With one third of the holdings in the productive North not operated
by owners, land tenure is a critical aspect: however, land leases
are mostly verbal and cover only 1-2 years. Land leases are not
registered, and a system for cost sharing for permanent improvements
does not exist; and
(e)  About 72 of the total arable area, including some of the best land in
the North of the country, is managed by publicly owned production
cooperatives (4%) or state farms (3%) where financial results in some
cases indicate room for efficiency improvements.
125.     While some measures, including issuing certificates of possession
pending full titling, have been taken to facilitate access to institutional
credit, the Government's MTASAP recognizes that more needs to be done to
achieve more intensive land use. A basic element, on which the success of
other measures depends, is the acceleration of the national cadastre. The
Bank is assisting with this effort through the preparation of a National
Cadastre and Cartography Program. Another key component is the preparation of
legislation comparable to that existing in irrigated areas to keep the
operational size of farms in rainfed areas above certain minimum sizes through
contractual or management arrangements without affecting inheritance rights,
and to extend the period of rural land leases to 3-9 years. The Government
also plans to continue its program of transferring State-owned lands to
private parties, including leasing to private companies. A more active market
in agricultural land would be facilitated by the reduction by 50% of the 15.6%
tax on land transfers, which would also improve the extent of land
registration.
126.     Forestry resources (Chapter XII of MTASAP).  Tunisia's 0.9 million ha
of forests provide an estimated 15% of the agricultural CDP, but it is
estimated that at least 10,000 ha are being lost annually. A forestry sector
strategy paper, prepared for the Tunisian Government by FAO, has established
that the most serious threat to forests is from over-grazing by domestic stock
of the 120,000 families who live in and around the forest and have grazing
rights therein. Poor cover and growth rates result from this pressure and



- 45 -
unfavorable soil/rainfall conditions, and thus 95% of Tunisia's industrial
wood needs are imported. Fuelwood provides 75% of domestic energy and
overcutting to meet demand is further reducing the cover. In the absence of a
clear strategy to deal with this situation, the resource allocation for
forestry has diminished sharply, and annual planting for wood production was
reduced from around 15,000 to 3,000 ha since 1978. In combination wiLh low
survival rates (60%), future production is threatened, and the consequences of
this neglect on soil/water conservation is likely to be severe since 802 of
Tunisian land is already subject to erosion. A new strategy to protect and
enlarge this resource, while at the same time protecting animal feed
requirements, has been developed. This strategy calls for changes in the law
to limit grazing rights to those who live actually within the forests,
development of the forest grass lands which can increase their carrying
capacity ten-fold, selective emphasis on natural regeneration techniques in
the majority of the exploitable forest area, limiting the more costly
replanting techniques to clearly favorable areas, and use of mechanical (deep
ploughing) planting for better growth rates. Under the MTASAP, a multiple
component program of action, built around thinning and closely monitored and
regulated natural regeneration in 3,000 ha increments each year for five
years, is being prepared. This would be ready for evaluation in December 1986
for later adoption as a national plan, since other Government agencies would
play a critical role in its success. Modest increases in sub-sector expendi-
tures would be fully justified in the context of the overall expenditure
priorities. This MTASAP strategy would not only provide a modest positive
contribution (about D 1.7 million annually) to reducing the sector trade
deficit in the 3-5 year period, but would play an essential role in protecting
this critical resource base. The Government would prepare a program of
actions to implement the new forestry strategy including an amendment of the
law to regulate grazing rights, develop forest grass lands, protect and
monitor the natural regeneration of a designated 3,000 ha per year of forest,
introduce mechanical planting and other activities. It is expected that the
financing for the implementation of the evaluated program would be provided
under the VIIth Plan, since criteria (para. 86) are expected to be met.
127.     Fisheries resources (Chapter XIII of MTASAP).  Tunisia's fisheries
resources fall into two broad categories, each with their own development
opportunities and constraints. Growth of fisheries production during the last
five years has been 10.5% p.a. compared to only 6.5% annually during the
1970s. As a result, high-value, predominantly white, demersal fish, consumed
mainly in Tunis and other coastal cities, or exported, as well as Tunisia's
traditional marine exports of shrimp, octopus, shellfish and sponges, are
being exploited at about 85% of their potential. On the other hand, only an
estimated 39% of coastal pelagic species are being exploited, and the catch
has remained static. Price controls on domestic fish marketing margins have
been the main obstacle to developing the internal market and better exploit
the fisheries resources. Some high-value pelagic fish, including swordfish,
as well as some high-value demersal species, including Mediterranean lobster,
are also exportable, but are under-exploited for lack of efficient marketing
links with importers abroad.
128.     In maintaining a harmonious development of this resource, an early
change in the emphasis is needed that will give priority to utilization of
coastal pelagic species, and better exploitation of exportable high value fish.
In conjunction with its commodity specific, target market-oriented export
promotion strategy (para. 69), the Government's MTASAP plans to liberalize



- 46 -
investment and pricing controls to attract foreign investments in joint
ventures, and fully exploit fish export markets. Other measures, such as the
elimination of export taxes, would also be considered. As a well-known source
of Mediterranean species, Tunisia is in a good position to exploit particularly
the French and Italian markets, provided it can establish the necessary
marketing chatnels. Meanwhile, the Government recently liberalized domestic
fislh marketing marginis, whichl should stimulate internal marketing and fuller
exploitation of the abundanit coastal pelagic species. The Government plans to
launch a pilot project for encouraging domestic fish marketing with the
private sector involving the establishment of transport and cold storage
facilities initially along two main transport arteries leading into the
interior. Subject to meeting the project selection criteria, a full-scale
project would be included in the VIlth Plan.
Building Up Sector Performance Monitoring and Policy Analysis Capabilities
(Chapter XIV of MTASAP)
129.     One critical factor for successful adjustment in the sector is that
policy instruments and expenditure allocations adjust to changing economic
circumstances, so that the agricultural economy stays fully in line with
emerging macro-economic objectives. Within the Ministry of Agriculture, the
unit responsible for monitoring sector performance and proposing appropriate
policy responses is the Department of Planning, Statistics and Economic
Analyses (DPSAE). As the name implies, the DPSAE has basically three
functions: (a) to prepare five-year development plans for the agricultural
sector and annual budgets; (b) to collect agricultural statistics; and (c) to
carry out economic analyses of sectoral performance and special topics of
interest to the Ministry and the Government.
130.     Although plan and budget preparation are necessary activities of the
DPSAE, the often tight schedules for their tasks together with staff
constraints, both quantitative and qualitative, have led to a situation where
few economic analyses are done. The DPSAE does maintain certain performance
data, including time series on the volume and value of agricultural production,
the sectoral balance of trade and the producer prices of key commodities.
However, there has been little, if any, work done on the efficiency of
different production systems, nor has there been a systematic effort to
monitor incentive patterns or the effectiveness of input subsidies. There
also needs to be an attempt to simulate the impact of alternative price
policies on production, the balance of trade and the Government budget. A
systematic system for monitoring actual vs. planned investment and recurrent
expenditures is also needed.
131.     To strengthen the DPSAE's sector performance monitoring and policy
analysis capabilities, the first item in the Government's MTASAP is to
establish an adequate data base including not only data on agricultural
production, but also detailed cost of production data for at least the major
products under the main production systems. Data would also need to be
collected on actual CIF and FOB prices of inputs and outputs imported into and
exported from Tunisia, as well as the port handling, storage and transport
charges applied to these commodities between the border and farmgate. The
second item in the Government's MTASAP, which is also dependent on an adequate
data base, is to develop and maintain quantitative indicators of economic
efficiency and incentives for the most important crops. This analysis should
also include the principal agro-industries where there seems to be considerable



- 47 -
scope for efficiency improvements, notably through higher capacity utilization.
Thirdly, an adequate data base would enable the DPSAE to construct a simple
analytical model to simulate the effects of alternative price policy
environments on agricultural production, the balance of trade and budget.
Draft terms of reference for the design and installation of a price policy
review capability in the DPSAE were discussed with the Government at
negotiations. Another major activity of the DPSAE would be the export
promotion study (para. 144) for whiclh draft terms of reference (in MTASAP)
were also discussed at negotiations. In addition to the studies listed in
paragraph 161, the DPSAE has aLso included in its work program the identifi-
cation of areas where the Government could withdraw from input distribution
and an analysis of the profitability of agricultural credit operations.
PART V - THE LOAN
A. Origin and Objectives
132.     During the 1984 Annual Meetings, the Government requested that the
Bank consider financing of sector adjustment loans, including one in
agriculture, to help support continued reforms to improve the performance of
the economy. In June 1985, the Government completed with the Bank an
implementation review of ongoing Bank-financed projects in the agricultural
sector which revealed a number of unresolved policy issues which were
constraining their development impact and overall sector performance. The
Government as a result decided to pursue with the Bank a broad-based policy
dialogue with the objective of establishing a medium-term economic and sector
policy framework to seek financing for the proposed loan. An inter-
ministerial coordinating committee and various sub-sectoral groups working
with Bank staff designed the sector adjustment program by systematically
analyzing constraints, exploring solutions, scheduling reform action and
identifying those areas where further study was required.
133.     The purpose of the Loan is to provide the necessary financial and
technical support to the Government's program for macro-economic reform
described in Part II and the MTASAP described in Part IV. The Government's
macro-economic and MTASAP frameworks have been provided to the Bank in Letters
of Economic and Agricultural Development Policy from the Minister of Finance
and Planning [Annex IV(a) and (b)]. The MTASAP, including the immediate
policy reform actions described in this part, were appraised by a mission in
April/May 1986, and negotiations took place in Washington from August 19 to 29,
1986; the Tunisian delegation was led by Mr. Zein Mestiri, Director General of
International Cooperation. Ministry of Planning and Finance. A Loan Summary is
given at the beginning of this report, and a Supplementary Project Data Sheet
appears as Annex III. Maps illustrating rainfall and irrigated areas, soil
suitability for crops and location of main crops are attached.
B. Action Program Under the Loan
134.     Selected key policy reform actions to be taken during the first
18 months of the MTASAP would be monitored as conditions for the release of
the two tranches of the Loan. A review of the overall progress of the MTASAP
would be undertaken close to the time when the first tranche is fully disbursed
and Bank confirmation of the satisfactory implementation of the overall Program
would be a condition for the release of the second tranche of the Loan. The



- 48 -
key selected policy reform actions to be monitored as formal conditlions of
tranehe release or as dated actions are discussed below; they mainly include
iniitial adjustments in the prices and incentives framework, chlanges in
expenditure priorities and improvements in support services.
rrires r ind Incentives Framework
11%.     Specific actions for further deregulating or adjustinig the prices and
inhcentives framework Lo be taken within the time frame of the Loun woul(I aim
to acrelerate a-ind chalininel agricultural growth towards those commodities and
pro(tlction systems where TunisLa has a distinct medium-term coinparative
advantage, and mainltain this growth under the new economic environment of
budgetary constraints.  These adjustments (combined with macro-economic
reforms of Part 11) would aim to reduce the agricultural trade deficit and
improve incentives for more efficient inLer-sectoral allocation of resources.
This medium-term policy objective is fully elaborated in Part IV where the
MTASAP is described.
136.     It would begin with upward adjustment of the Government's procurement
prices for the predominantly rainfed cereal crops. As the first step in a
three-year program designed to implement the new pricing formula for cereals
and bring producer prices into line with world market prices, for which
agreement was obtained at negotiations, the Government has increased the
administered producer prices of durum wheat, bread wheat and barley for the
coming 1986/87 crop season as follows: the price of durum wheat from D 16 to
D 18.50qt, the price of bread wheat from D 16 to D 17/qt and the price of
barley from D 11 to D 12/qt.  These increases represent well over one-third of
the increase required to reach world market prices. A second adjustment, to
reach 67% of the required increase, would be made in advance of the 1987/88
crop season as a condition of the release of the second tranche. These
actions would also restore the historical premium of durum wheat over bread
wheat, thereby reflecting world market relationships. Using this formula to
fix domestic producer prices would not prevent Tunisia from continuing to take
advantage of cheap imports. Other traded agricultural products, mainly beef,
prices of which are not controlled, would also benefit from the currency
adjustment and the minimum 15% import tariff included in the macro-economic
adjustment program [para. 36(b)]. These actions, combined with the reduction
in tariffs on industrial goods (para. 36(b)J would start the process of
reducing the large inter-sectoral differences in incentives, and improve the
currently adverse terms of trade for rainfed vs. irrigated production,
particularly in association with the phasing out of input subsidies.
137.     As regards the input subsidy reduction program, the medium-term
objectives of which are described in detail in Part IV (para. 79) where the
KTASAF is presented, specific actions to be taken within the time frame of the
Loan would include increases in the administered prices of fertilizer, animal
feed, herbicides and improved cereal seed. For fertilizers, as part of its
program to eliminate the fertilizer subsidy by the start of the 1990/9L crop
season (i.e., over five years), for which agreement was obtained at
negotiations, the Government has recently increased the ex-factory unit prices
of the three subsidized fertilizers"' by the amounts needed to eliminate 11%
on average of the total subsidy in a normal consumption year. Together with
the increases in fertilizer retail margins (para. 142), this has led to a
17-27% increase in the retail price of fertilizer sold by public sector
I/ The three subsidized fertilizers are ammonium nitrate, triple
superphosphate and superphosphate.



- 49 -
agencies which account for 80% of fertilizer sales, i.e. from D 71,950 to
D 84,055/qt for ammonium nitrate, from D 57,650 to D 73,480/qt for triple
superphosphate and from D 33,520 to D 41,670/qt for superphosphate. A second
round increase designed to bring the total amount of subsidy eliminated to 33%
would be implemented as a condition for the release of the second tranche.
Larger subsidy reductions in later years would be implemented to reach the
goal of full subsidy elimination in five years.
138.     The objective of eLiminating animal feed,t' 2-4-D herbicide and
improved cereal seed subsidles by the beginning of the 1989/90 season was
confirmed at negotiations. The Governnent has recently increased the unit
prices of maize and soybean meal by the amounts needed to eliminate at least
one third of the total subsidy (in practice 52% and 371, respectively). The
price of maize was thus increased from D 101 to D 116 per ton, while the price
of soybean meal was raised from D 180 to D 200/ton. A second round increase
to reduce the subsidy on these animal feeds by 671 and an increase reflecting
the elimination of one-third of the subsidy on barley would be implemented as
a condition of second tranche release. Action on barley was not taken this
year, since it is a substitute for forage which was badly affected by the
recent drought. Siuilarly, the Government has delayed first actions to reduce
subsidies on herbicides and improved seeds to next year, since it did nat want
to reduce incentives for their use following the drought. For 2-4-D herbicide,
there would be a 50% reduction in the subsidy as a condition of second tranche
release, with a view to complete elimination by 1988/89. The Government also
plans to begin phasing out the subsidy on multipurpose herbicide beginning in
the 1989/90 crop season, after the elimination of the subsidy on 2-4-D. The
terms of the cereal seed exchange program will also be revised to phase out
the total subsidy by the 1989/90 crop season; implementation of one-third of
the necessary action would be a condition of second tranche release. With
respect to irrigation water charges. the Government has developed and agreed
with the Bank on a ten-year program for fully recovering O&M costs, including
the recovery of 100% of the costs on 65% of the irrigated areas by 1991, in
conjunction with the Bank-financed Irrigation Management Improvement Project
(Ln. 2573-TUN). This program would raise water charges by approximately
15-171 for the 1986/87 season.
139.     Public expenditures.  The key objectives of actions in this area,
fully discussed in Chapter IV where the MTASAP is elaborated (para. 83), are
to increase the efficiency of resource use by maximizing returns on past
investments, and selective reduction of public expenditures in commercially
viable activities to create the room for private initiatives. The Letter of
Agricultural Development Policy confirms that the Government will follow the
sub-sector investment strategies (para. 84) and project selection criteria
(para. 86) and the "core" program approach in the selection of projects/
programs for funding in the VIIth Plan. Specifically, the Government's Letter
of Agricultural Development Policy states that an initial list of projects and
investment programs and project ideas consistent with Lhe above approach will
be made available to the Bank by December 1986, and that additions or deletions
of projects from this list during the VlIth Plan would be based on the agreed
criteria (para. 88).
140.     Budgetary resources devoted to subsidized agricultural credit
programs which undercut commercial bank activities in the sector would be
progressively reduced, thereby reversing the upward trend of recent years
(para. 94). At negotiations, the Government confirmed its intention that the
1/ The three subsidized animal feeds are maize, soybean meal and barley.



- 50 -
lanii part of FOSDA budget allocations for 1987 wouLd be not more than the 1986
level (D 13 million) in nominal terms and that these resources would be better
targetted La Lhe poorest farmers. Confirmation that the agreed level of lDan
allocations for 1987 is reflected in the 1987 budget would be a condition of
second tranche release.  The Governiment has Indicated that allocations would
be reduced by a furthier 15Z in nominal terms for 1988.  In additioni, to
'nicourage the commercial banks to participate more aggressively in financinig
the activities of private farmers and service enterprises, the Government
woulld, 116 a condition of second troLnche release, take action satisfactory to
the Bank to start implementing its pollcy to establislh by 1991 interest rates
which cover the financial costs, operating costs at reasonable efficiency and
a reasonable share of the risks of agricultural lending (para. 94). Compared
to 1986 levels, preliminary Bank estimates are that this would iiamply interest
rate increases ranging between 0.75-1.752, up to 7.5? to 12%.
Sector Support Services
141.     The main medium-term objectives of policy reforms in this area,
discussed fully in Part IV (para. 95) where the MTASAP is presented in detail,
are to encourage privatization of potentially commercially viable activities,
now performed by Government ageacies, while strengthening "core" services,
such as research and extension for which there is no viable alternative to the
Government in the medium term.
142.     Input marketing.  To stimulate greater private sector participation
in retail distribution, the Government recently increased the mark-up charged
for fertilizer retaiLing by Government agencies to align their retail level
prices with those allowed to the private sector retailers, at levels considered
adequate to interest the private sector. Agreement was obtained at negotia-
LioIls in the context of the Government's Letter of Agricultural Development
Policy that the Government would also complete the identification of zones
where the volume of activity is such that the Government could withdraw from
the distribution of inputs, including seeds, so that private retailing of all
key agricultural inputs in at least two zones could be launched before June
1987, without prejudice to the objective of privatizing and liberalizing input
marketing throughout the country as soon as subsidies are removed. Finally,
prior to the release of the second tranche, the Government would update the
fertilizer retail margins for inflation, ensure that public sector agencies
charge the full costs of purchasing and distributing fertilizer, and announce
fertilizer margin liberalization to take effect as of January 1, 1988. The
Government has also indicated that it would remove remaining obstacles to
multiple input marketing by dealers as of that date. The Government's role
would then be limited to determining ex-factory prices based on FOB prices and
reduced subsidy levcls.
143.     The Government's agreement was obtained in the context of the Letter
of Agricultural DeveLopment Policy (draft terms of refcrence are included in
the MTASAP) that the cereal seed exchange program, which limits the
distribution of seed to farmers in contact with OC, would be reviewed, and a
study to replace this by a private retailer-oriented distribution system would
be launched before June 1987.
144.     Export marketing.  Ti, realize Tunisia's untapped potentiaL for
increased agricultural exports (para. 69), draft terms of reference for a
sectoi export promotion strategy, including product-specific export strategies
targetted to particular markets, were discussed at negotiations; the
Government's Letter of Agricultural Development Policy indicates that an



- 51 -
action plan to ensure the implementation of the strategy would be developed
and discussed with the Bank by June 1987. The draft terms of reference for
this exercise are included in the MTASAP.
145.     Agricultural research.  With the ISNAR master plan completed and its
findings scheduled to be reviewed by December 1986, the stage is now prepared
for setting in motion a series of actions to improve the effectiveness of the
resources devoted to agricultural research. Agreement was obtained at
negotiations in the context of the Government's Letter of Agricultural
Development Policy that the key decisions which await the Government (for
details, see para. 116; briefly, choice of the institutional structure,
definition of priority research themes, reform of the station network, and
preparation of national work programs and budgets) would be accomplished
before June 1987. As an essential first step toward strengthening the
research system, and as a condition of second tranche reLease, the Government
would increase the remuneration of agricultural researchers to an adequate
level following guidelines acceptable to the Bank.
146.     Agricultural extension.  Similar to the research master plan, the
agricultural extension master plan is scheduled to be reviewed by the
Government by December 1986. Implementation of a comprehensive reform program
would thus follow beginning in 1987; measures likely to figure in it it.clude
new organization struLtures, clear allocation of subject-matter specialist
(SMS) functions, training of extension workers in communications methodology,
and strengthening the link between extension, research, the farming community
and agro-industry (see para. 120 for details).
147.     Agreement was obtained  at negotiations in the context of the Letter
of Agricultural Development Policy that an action plan, including financial
aspects, to implement the master plan would be prepared and approved for
implementation before June 1987. An essential feature of the reform program
would be the unification of extension services starting with rainfed areas,
and prior to the release of the second tranche the Government would designate
the lead extension agency with appropriate responsibilities and personnel in
rainfed areas to achieve this.
148.     Farm mechanization.  Purchase of mechanization equipment by public
sector agencies for servicing farmers has been reduced; however, cost recovery
remains poor, and the supply of spares and of the full range of tractors to
meet needs is constrained (see para. 111). The Government recently required
the OMVs and other public agencies still renting agricultural equipment to
charge the real costs of their mechanization services, in order to ensure an
appropriate environment for private initiatives. The minimum rates are the
same as those charged by SONAM, which has recently set new rates after cost
accounting studies. The Government has also indicated, in the context of its
Letter of Agricultural Development Policy, that it intends to withdraw from
mechanization services in those regions and for those services where the
private sector can adequately take over, and that this policy would be put in
motion by June 1987 after the identification of such regions and services.
149.     In addition, imports of spare parts for the agricultural sector have
recently been liberalized, and as a condition of second tranche release, the
Government would authorize the import of 5X of the annual needs of tractors in
the horsepower range manufactured in Tunisia (currently 45-110 hp); by
introducing an element of competition, this should lead to some immediate
improvement in after-sales service and spare parts availability, pending full
liberalization of tractor imports by January 1, 1988 as part of the macro



- 52 -
program. In practice, the Government plans to implement the initial 5S
liberalization by January L, 1987. In preparation for the full liberalization,
tractor importers would be required to meet certain criteria which the
Government would define in a proposal to be submitted to the Bank by September
1987. The criteria should include: (a) the existence and operation of an
adequate number of retail-Level agencies with trained staff to offer
after-sales maintenance services; (b) availability of an essential stock of
spares to keep the tractor fleet they represent in working condition; and
(c) demonstration of availability of adequate financial resources for working
capital needs to operate the after-sales service facilities; at a minimum,
availability of a commercial bank line of credit to finance the maximum
estimated working capital needs. Both spare parts and tractor imports would
be financed under the Loan.
Improving Management of Natural Resources
150.     Forestry.  Agreement was obtained at negotiations in the context
of the Government's Letter of Agricultural Development Policy that, by
December 31, 1986, the Government would prepare an action program to implement
its new forestry development strategy.
151.     Fisheries.  The Government recently liberalized domestic fish
marketing margins, thus paving the way for increased internal marketing.
Sector Performance Monitoring and Policy Analysis
152.     To strengthen the capacity of MOA to analyze the impact of the
changing macro-economic environment on the sector, especially in the critical
areas of pricing policies and expenditure priorities, the Government would
strengthen the capacity of the DPSAE by upgrading its analytical tools and
skills to keep agricultural prices, subsidies and expenditure patterns under
continuous review. Agreement was obtained at negotiations in the context of
the Government's Letter of Agricultural Development Policy that a price poLicy
review would be undertaken before June 1987, aimed at better quantification of
the effects of proposed price policy changes on such key aggregates as
agricultural growth, fiscal balance, the sector trade balance and rural
incomes and employment. In addition, the export promotion study (para. 144)
would be carried out and the expenditure monitoring system (para. 89) would be
set up by that date (June 1987). The technical assistance needed for effective
execution of these tasks and others is being sought from bilateral sources.
Draft terms of reference (in the MTASAP) were discussed at negotiations.
C. Loan Administration
Eligible Goods
153.     The proposed Loan of US$150.0 milLion would finance the foreign
exchange cost of imported goods, of which US$60.0 million (40% of the total)
would be allocated for general imports using a negative list,1' while
US$90.0 million (60 of the total) would finance a list of priority imported
inputs and raw materials for domestically manufactured inputs needed for the
agricultural sector, as follows:
1/ The items not to be financed include goods financed by other sources and a
specific list of excluded items, such as military or para-military items
and luxury goods such as tobacco, precious stones and jewelry, gold and
nuclear reactors and parts.



- 53 -
Item                                         Indicative Amount
(US$ million)
(a)  General Imports [not including those under (b)J         60.0
(b)  Imports for the Agricultural Sector:
(M)    Fertilizer Raw Materials
and Potassium Fertilizer                       25.0
(ii)   Spare Parts, Tractors and Pumps
(not transferable)                             15.0
(iii)  Diesel Fuel (maximum allocation for
petroleum products under the Loan:
US$30.0 million)                               15.0
(iv)   Animal Feed                                      20.0
(v)    Insecticides and Herbicides                       3.0
(vi)   Fisheries Inputs                                  6.0
(vii)  Veterinary Supplies                               4.0
(viii) Raw Materials for the Manufacture
of Irrigation Pipes                             2.0
Sub-total:                       90.0
TOTAL:
Procurement
154.     Procurement of imports by the private sector, including both general
imports and imports for the agricultural sector, would be made following
regular commercial practices, except when any one contract is US$5.0 million
or more, in which case international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with World Bank guidelines would be used. Procurement of imports by the
public sector, including both general imports and imports for the agricultural
sector, would be done by ICB except in the case of contracts costing below
US$2.0 million each, up to an aggregate of US$15.0 million, which would be
awarded on the basis of comparison of written quotations solicited from a list
of three suppliers eligible under Bank guidelines. Procurement of fertilizer
raw materials and potassium fertilizer, tractors, animal feed, petroleum
products, pumps and raw materials for the manufacture of irrigation pipes
would be grouped whenever possible into packages suitable for ICB. Items
which the Bank considers of a proprietary nature, expected to total no more
than US$5 million, would be procured by negotiated contract, following
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Bidding documents, bid evaluation
reports and proposed awards of contracts procured through ICB would be subject
to the prior approval of the Bank. For the rest, the Borrower would furnish
to the Bank, prior to the submission of the related withdrawal application,
such documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to
support the withdrawal of funds from the Loan account in respect of such
contracts. In view of the Bank's policy on the procurement of hazardous
materials, assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government would
prepare and start implementing a program of measures acceptable to the Bank
designed to ensure safe handling and storage of potentially hazardous
agricultural chemicals used for plant protection and weed control.



- 54 -
Disbursement
155.     The Central Bank of Tunisia would have primary responsibility for
administering the proposed loan. Disbursements from the Loan account for both
general imports and agricultural inputs and raw materials would be made
against 100l of the foreign cost of eligible imports. Disbursements for
contracts procured through ICB would be made against fully documented
withdrawal applications. Disbursements for other items would be made on the
basis of statements of expenditures (SOE) from the Central Bank detailing
individual transactions in a given period, together with a certification of
payment of the amounts involved. and of their eligibility under the Loan.
Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by the Bank of Tunisia and
made available for review to Bank supervision missions. Applications for
withdrawal would be consolidated and submitted in amounts not less than US$1.0
million. The allocations for spare parts, pumps and tractors would not be
transferable and there would be a US$30.0 million maximum on financing of
petroleum products. In order to accelerate disbursements, a revolving fund
(special account) with an initial deposit of US$35.0 million (corresponding to
four months' payments expected to be made through the revolving fund) would be
established at the Central Bank. Replenishments would be made either once a
month or when half of the revolving fund has been utilized. The Loan is
expected to be fully disbursed within 18 months of effectiveness. The Closing
Date would be June 30, 1988. In order to ensure a smooth flow of necessary
imports, retroactive financing of up to US$15.0 million for eligible
expenditures made after May 1, 1986 would be included. No disbursements would
be made for potentially hazardous agricultural chemicals until the program of
measures mentioned in paragraph 154 is put into effect.
Accounts and Audits
156.     The Central Bank would maintain records of all transactions under the
Loan in accordance with sound accounting practices. Not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, all accounts, including the
special account (revolving fund), would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports would include a separate opinion with
regard to the claims submitted to the Bank on the basis of SOE and state
whether such claims have been effected in accordance with the Loan Agreement.
Release of Funds and Tranching
157.     The proceeds of the Loan would be made available for withdrawal in
tvo tranches, the first of US$100.0 million upon Loan effectiveness, the
second of US$50.0 million when the conditions for its release have been met.
Disbursement would be made for either general or agricultural imports on a
"first-come first-served" basis. The conditions for the release of each
tranche would relate to the implementation of specific measures which are
crucial to the execution of the overall macro-economic and sector adjustment
programs. Besides these measures, the Government has already demonstrated its
conuitment to the objectives of the macro-economic and sector programs by
taking key actions in recent months, for example currency adjustment,
announcement of a first round of import liberalization, budget cuts,
agricultural producer price increases, reductions in input subsidies, full
cost charging for Government mechanization services and liberalization of
domestic fish marketing margins.



- 55 -
158.     The macro-economic reform actions which would be supported and
monitored under the Loan are as follows:
(a)  prior to e'ffectiveness:  confirmation that the Government has taken
all necessary measures to remove restrictions on imports of spare
parts for use in industry, agriculture, hotels, hospitals and other
services, raw materials and semi-finished products for enterprises
that export at least 25% of their output, and capital goods for
investment projects approved by API, APIA and the Tourism Investment
Board after October 1, 1986 [para. 36(a)]; and
(b) prior to second tranche release: Bank confirmation of satisfactory
progress in implementation of the overall program 'para. 37).
159.     The sector specific actions expected to be supported and monitored
under the Loan are:
(a) Prior to effectiveness: establishment of the Coordinating Committee
(para. 160).
(b) Prior to the release of the second tranche:
(i) revision of administered producer prices and of input prices to
achieve the targeted adjustments and subsidy reductions for the
1987/1988 crop season (para. 136-138);
(ii) confirmation that FOSDA loan allocations for the 1987 budget
have not exceeded D 13 million, and that action satisfactory to
the Bank has been taken to start implementing the Government's
policy to establish by 1991 agricultural interest rates which
cover the financial costs, operating costs at reasonable
efficiency, and a reasonable share of the risks of agricultural
lending (para. 140);
(iii) updating of fertilizer retail margins for inflation, selling by
the public sector of fertilizer at prices adequate to fully
cover the costs of purchase and distribution, and announcement
of fertilizer retail margin liberalization to take effect as of
January 1, 19B8 (para. 142);
(iv) designation of a lead extension agency for rainfed areas with
appropriate responsibilities and personnel, to achieve gradual
unification (para. 147);
(v) authorization for the import of 51 of the annual needs of
tractors in the range manufactured in Tunisia (para. 149);
(vi) increase in the remuneration of agricultural researchers to an
adequate level following guidelines acceptable to the Bank
(para. 145); and
(vii) Bank confirmation of satisfactory progress in implementation of
the overall M!TASAP (para. 134).



- 56 -
D. Management, Coordination. Monitoring and Evaluation
160.     Management and coordination of the adjustment program, including both
its macro-economic and sectoral components, would be the responsibility of a
Coordinating Committee composed of representatives of the key ministries
involved in the execution of the overall adjustment program, including the
Ministries of Planning and Finance, Agriculture, Industry and Commerce, and
the Central Bank. Establishment of the Committee would be a condition oE
effectiveness. Analytical and monitoring support for the committee work would
be provided by the DPSAE in the Ministry of Agriculture. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that a semi-annual report on the implementation of
the macro and sector adjustment programs would be provided to the Bank, and
that there would be an exchange of views on the status between the Government
and the Bank. The sector program would be monitored on the basis of the key
policy performance indicators provided in Appendix III of the MTASAP.
161.     Given the short disbursement period of the Loan, the precise impact
of the adjustment program would be difficult to measure at the time of final
disbursement. Evaluation efforts are thus expected to focus on: (a) ensuring
the establishment of an adequate data base to assess the magnitude of the
response over the medium term; and (b) undertaking special studies of the
initial effect of key adjustment measures to ensure that any necessary
corrections are made promptly. Special studies planned, the execution of
wbich would be the responsibility of the DPSAE, would include:
(a) monthly surveys of regional markets to determine the free market
prices for cereals, milk and beef not sold to Government or
parastatal marketing agencies, following implementation of the first
stage of the Government's new output price policy;
(b) analysis of the supply response to higher cereal, milk and meat
prices;
(c) demand for fertilizers, animal feed, seeds, and herbicides following
the implementation of the first phase of the Government's import
subsidy phase-out program; and
(d) planned vs. actual expenditures by sub-sector using the new
computerized expenditure monitoring system.
These studies are described in the MTASAP and were discussed at negotiations.
E. Justification and RUik
162.          The package of macro-economic adjustment measures, which
provides the overall economic environment for implementation of the MTASAP, is
expected to have a favorable impact on economic growth in general, and on the
allocation and use of economic resources, the balance of payments and the
public finance situation in particular. It should result in higher exports of
goods and services, higher private investments, higher employment creation, a
decline in the ICOR, a gradual decline in the balance of payments current
account deficit, and in the overall budget deficit. Any comprehensive
adjustment program of this size and complexity necessarily entails some element
of risk. The strict limits on domestic demand might not be maintainable due
to social, political and economic pressures (too rapid increase in salaries,



- 57 -
too rapid growth in domestic credit and money circulation and less rapid than
expected reduction in the budget deficit). The growth of non-oil/non-phosphate
exports might be slower than expected for exogenous as well as indigenous
reasons (worse than expected world market conditions, political troubles
around the Mediterranean, insufficient export incentives, excessive domestic
demand). Higher than expected domestic demand combined with lower exports
would put heavy pressure on the balance of payments, jeopardizing the program
of gradual liberalization, particularly of imports, which is a key element in
the overall adjustment process.   While these risks are real and unavoidable,
they are limited by: (a) the Government's clear commitment to the adjustment
program, as expressed in the basic policy documents underpinning preparation
of the VIIth Plan and clearly presented to the recent congress of the ruling
political party; and (b) the proposed gradual approach to change, which
permits the economy to adapt to the new policies steadily, but progressively
within a realistic time period.
163.     The sector adjustment measures included in the MTASAP are expected to
have a favorable impact on sector productivity and on both the balance of
payments and fiscal deficits. Some of the benefits will only be realized in
the longer term. Although none of them lend themselves to detailed and
accurate quantification at this time, all are vital to the process of
adjustment and development.
164.     The favorable balance of payments impact would stem from increased
profitability of efficient import substitution, notably of cereals, milk and
meat, and improvement in export incentives and strategy. The availability of
higher producer prices for cereals resulting from a better alignment of output
prices with world market prices, and from price liberalization in other areas
should induce a substantial production response resulting in foreign exchange
savings, the magnitude of which will depend on weather conditions and timing
of the implementation of the proposed reforms over the next few years.
Although the gradual reduction of excessive protection of irrigated areas over
7-10 years would result in somewhat higher production costs for the producers
of export crops, these should be fully offset by the impact of the more
flexible exchange rate policy on producer prices and efficiency improvements
expected in the production of these commodities. Increased efficiency in the
processing of agricultural commodities, as a result of changes in price
formation processes in agro-industry, would also offset the effects of increase
in input prices. Although most of the benefits from actions in the forestry
sector would only be felt in the longer term, these would make a small but
positive contribution to reducing the sector trade deficit in the medium term
too. They would also have a positive effect on the country's resource based
on environment.
165.     Greater efficiency in the use of budgetary resources as well as
direct budgetary economies would be achieved through the adjustment program.
A reorientation of public expenditures towards the new sub-sectoral strategies
(focussing on lower cost, quicker maturing and less controlled development
approaches), and the creation of an environment conducive to private
investment, would ensure the maintenance of growth despite public expenditure
constraints. Improvement in the low capacity utilization of past investments
in irrigation, fisheries, farm mechanization and agro-processing would permit
higher production responses with lower incremental investments. Direct
budgetary savings would result from the phased reduction in input subsidies.
The net fiscal effect of these reductions after allowing for higher producer



- 58 -
prices for certain commodities, would depend on the pace at which these
increases are passed on to consumers. Without consumer price increases, the
agricultural input and output price adjustments would be fiscally neutral.
Other direct budgetary economies would be achieved through limitations on
FOSDA, accompanied by improved loan recoveries. Full charging for farm
mechanization and marketing services by parastatals should raise about D 1.5
million annually. Savings in the transfer of the responsibility for AI
services to cooperatives would, however, be absorbed in the costs of an
expansion of the cross-breeding program.
166.     Benefits from the sharper focus of research expenditures on national
priorities, from a well organized extension service, from improvement in
management of input distribution, and from measures in land, forestry and
fisheries, would be somewhat longer term in nature, but no less significant
for technology improvement, which is crucial to Tunisia improving on the
productivity of its agriculture. Overall, the adjustment program would ensure
that Tunisian agriculture can at least sustain the 3-4Z p.a. growth in the
years ahead, under the new economic conditions, and maximize its contribution
to reducing the balance of payment and fiscal deficits and providing rural
employment opportunities.
167.     The risks facing the agricultural sector adjustment program relate to
the length and difficulty of the process, unpredictable developments in the
external environment and uncertainties in the response of the private sector
to the program. While Tunisia's record in implementing reforms agreed with
the Bank is satisfactory, the magnitude of the adjustments needed and inter-
relationships between them create some risk about the pace of implementation
and maintaining the integrity of the reform package. Actions on input subsidy
reduction have to be coordinated with adjustment, not only on producer prices,
but also with the overall reduction in industrial tariffs to maintain sector
incentives. In these circumstances, maintaining the fiscal objectives and
ensuring reasonable food prices would pose a major challenge to those managing
the adjustment program. Weather is another potentially important factor which
might affect the pace of implementation of reductions in input subsidies. The
response on the export front is contingent on actions by Tunisia's trading
partners and competitors, and how the private sector would respond to the
changing environment is difficult to predict with precision.
168.     The design and management of the adjustment program has built in
features to minimize these risks. First, essential linkages with macro-
economic actions are an integral part of the design. Second, the specific
actions are to be taken over a short 12-18 month period for which uncertainty
is less. Third, the phased approach to implementing the MTASAP inherently
permits flexibility and adjustments between phases, in light of sectoral and
macro-economic developments for which the institutional capacity for policy
analysis and monitoring is being strengthened.



- 59 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
169.    'I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and I recomaend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed Loan.
Barber Conable
President
Attachments
September 3, 1986
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 8
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
TUNISIA
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
Recent    Mid-income    Mid-income
1961       1973    Estimate    NA & ME           LAC
AREA
Total land area (thou eq km)    163.6        163.6      163.6
Agricultural (% of total)         42.1        44.4       47.1
GNP PER CAPITA (US)                                      1270.0      1136.1     1782.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)         4630.0     5412.0      6981.0
Urban pop. (% of total)           39.5        47.2       54.1        49.3       68.9
Population growth rate(%)
Total                                       2.0         2.4        2.8         2.3
Urban                                       4.2        328         4.1         3.S
Life expect. at birth (yrm)       50.8       55.5        62.2        59.9       65.6
Population projectIons:
Pop. in 2000 (mill)                                     9.9
Stationary pop. (mill)                                 18.1
Population density per sq km
of agricultural land              67.3        74.5       90.7       105.2       53.5
Pop. age structure (%):
0-14 yrs                        46.6       45.2        40.5        43.9       38.7
15-64 yra                       49.8       51.1        55.6       52.7        57.1
65 and above                     3.6        3.6         3.9         3.4        4.3
Crude birth rate (per thou)       44.2        37.0       32.2        39.5       30.1
Crude death rate (per thou)       16.7        12.6        9.1        10.4        7.7
Total fertility rate               7.0         6.1        4.6         5.6        3.9
Infant mort. rate (per thou)    146.5       118.2        79.4       94.0        56.1
Child death rate (per thou)       30.0        23.9        7.6        12.1        4.3
Famfly planning:
Acceptors, annual (thou)        15.0       43.8
Users (X of married women)                   6.4       41.0        27.2       46.2
FOOD. HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Index of food production per
capita (1974-76 * 100)            88.8        94.7       82.5        89.1      105.2
Per capita supply of:
Calories (% of requirmnts)      96.5       107.7      120.9       117.5      109.3
Proteins (grams per day)        59.2       67.9        74.7        76.2       65.0
Pop. per physician (thou)          8.0         6.4        3.9         4.6        1.3
Pop. per nurse (thou)              1.1         1.0        1.0         1.3        1.2
Pop. per hospital bed (thou)       0.4        0.4         0.5 a      0.7         0-4
Access to safe water
(% of population):  Total                  49.0        63.0       71.3        66.3
Urban                  92.0       97.0        94.9       77.0
Rural                  17.0       25.0        53.6       44.8



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 8
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
TUNISIA
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
Recent    Mid-income    Mid-income
1965       1973    Estimate    NA & ME            LAC
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)         1167.9      1305.6      1781.2
Female (%)                        6.5         7.9         8.9        11.4        22.3
Agriculture (%)                  49.1        40.1        35.0 a      39.2        31.8
Industry (X)                     21.4        28.4        36.4 a     25.7        26.0
Participation rate (7:
Total                            25.2        24.1        25.5        25.8       32.3
Male                             46.2        44.2        45.9        45.3        49.2
Female                            3.3         3.8         4.6         5.9        15.4
Age dependency ratio                1.0         1.0         0.8         0.9         0.9
HOUSING
Average s1ze of household:
Total                             5.1         5.5
Urban                             5.1         5.5
Rural                             5.1         5.6
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total                            24.0        34.2
Urban                                        6B.2
Rural                                         6.0
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                   91.0       100.0       113.0        93.5       107.3
Male                  116.0       121.0       125.0       107.1       109.7
Female                 65.0        79.0       102.0        79.7       105.8
Secondary: Total                 16.0        23.0        33.0        44.7       49.1
Male                 23.0        33.0        40.0        52.9        44.5
Female                9.0        13.0        26.0        35.5        46.7
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                          55.6        4t.0        36.1        29.4        29.8
Secondary                        26.9        24.6        20.3        19.5        16.3
Pupils reaching grade 6 (%)                    67.4        96.7        75.9        55.2
INCOME. CONSUMPTION. ANO POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)            170.2       295.0       494.6      719.9       999.0
Percentage of private Income
received by:
Highest 10% of households
Highest 207                                  42.0
Lowest 20%                                    6 .0
Lowest 40%                                   15 0
Est. absolute poverty income
level (USS per capita):
Urban                                                   204D0b
Rural                                                    97.0 b
Est. pop. below-absolute
poverty Income level (%)
Urban                                                    20.0 b
Rural                                                    15.0 b
Passenger cars/thou pop.           11.1        16.7                    10.2        45.8
Newspaper circulation
(per thousand population)          17.5        22.2        39.0        35.3        94.9
EPO dUly 1986
Not avalloble
Not. Group erages are Populatlon wolght.d. Country coverage depends on data avellabillit and la nai unIfrrn. Unless otheawlse
noted. 19M rtes to any yar beteen 1062 and 19l6 1073 baeon 1970 and 1976; and moart ment ntimtne between 19t2 and 1955.
a 1960. b. 1971.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 8
3 Definitions of Social Indicators
The definition of a particular social indicator may  Turalfrrilitt rate - The average number of children
vary among countries or wiLhin one country over    thut would be born alivc to a woman during her
time. For instance, different countries define "urban    lifelime if during her childbearing years she were to
area" or "sore water" in different ways.           bear childrcn ul euch age in accordance with prcvail-
ing uge-specific fertility roles.
AREA (thousand square kilometers)                  lntanr (age 0--1) mortalityv rare * Number ol' infants
Totil- Total surface area comprising lund area and  per thousand live births who die before reaching one
inland waters.                                     year of age. in a given year.
Agricultural (percentage of total) - Estimate of agri-    C/i/d (age 1-4J morrality rate - Number of deaths
cultural area used for crops, pastures. market and  of children, age 1-4. per thousand children in the
kitchen gardens or to lie fallow. as percentage of    same age group in a given year. For most developing
total.                                             countries thesc data are derived from models using
information on infant mortality rates.
GNP PER CAPITA (USS) - GNP per capita esti-    Family planning - acceptors. (thousands) - Annual
mates at current market prices, calculated by the  number of acceptors of' birth-control measures re-
conversion method used for the World Bank Atlas,    ceived under the auspices of a national family plan-
1986.                                              ning program.
Family planning - users (percentage of married worn-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                    en) - Percentage of married women or child-bearing
Total population - mid-Year (millions)             age who are practising. or whose husbands are
Urban population (percentage of total) - Different    practising, any form of contraception. Women of
countries follow different definitions of urban popu-    child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49.
lation. Such differences may affect comparability of    although for some countries contraceptive usage is
data among countries.                              measured for another age group.
Population growth rate (percent) - total and urban -
Annual growth rates of total and of urban popula-    FOOD, HEALTH AND NUTRITION
tions.                                             Index offoodproduction per capita (1974 - 76 = 100)
Life expecrancY at birth (years) - Number of years a  - Index of per capita annual production of all food
newborn infant would live if prevailing patterns of    commodities. Production excludes animal feed and
mortality for all people at the time of its birth were    seed for agriculture. Food commodities include pri-
to stay the same throughout its life.              mary commodities (for example, sugarcane instead
Population projections                             of sugar) which are edible and which contain nu-
Populotion in 2000 - The projection of population    trients (for example, tea and coffee are excluded).
given total populaLion by age and sex, fertility and  Commodities include nuts. fruits. pulses. cercals.
the demographic parameters of mortality rates, and  vegetables, oil seeds. sugarcane and sugar beets.
migration in the base year 1980. until the population    livestock, and livestock products. Aggregate produc-
reaches a stationary state.                        tion of each country is based on national average
Stationary population - The projected population  producer price weights.
lcvel when zero population growth is achieved: i.e.,    Per capita supply of calories (percentage oJ require-
the birth rate is constant and equal to the death rate.    ments) - Computed from energy equivalent of net
the age structure is stable, and the growth rate is    food supplies available in country per capita per day.
zero_                                              Available supplies comprisc domestic production,
Population density, agricultural land - Population per    imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net
square kilometer (100 hectares) of agricultural area.    supplies exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agri-
Population age structure (percent) - Children 0-14  culture. quantities used in food processing. and loss-
years. working age 15-64 years, and people of 65   es in distribution. Requirements were estimated for
years and over as percentages of population.       1977 by the Food and Agriculture Organization
Crude birth rate - Annual livc births per thousand  (FAO) based on physiological needs for normal
population.                                        activity and health considering body weights. envi-
Crude death rate - Annual dcaths per thousand      ronmental temperature, age and sex distribution of
population.                                        population.



ANNEX I
Page o4of S
Per capira supply aJ /prtilein (gramzs per duy,) - Protein    Industry (pereen:i - Labor force in mining. consiruc-
contelt of per capita net supply of rood per day. Ner.   tion, manuracturing and electricity. walcr and gas as
si ipply Lf food is dcfined as above. RcuWrcmenis for    a percentage of total labor rorce.
ill counlrics established by United States Depart-    Particpation rate (percent) - total, male, andJ fruak
mcnt of' Agriculture provide for minimum allow-    - Participation roles are computed as the percentage
;ances of 601 grams of' total protein per day and 20  of population of all ages in the liabor force. These arc
grams ol animail and pulse protein. Thes standards  based on International Labour Office (ILO) daia on
are lower than those or 75 grams of total protein and  the age-sex structure of the population.
23 grams of animal protein as an average for Lhe   Age dependency ratio- Ratio of population under IS.
world. as proposed by FAO.                         and 65 and over, to the working uge population (age
Population petr physician - Population divided by  154@).
number of pract:sing physicians qualified rrom a
mcdical school at university level.                HOUSING
Population per nursing person - PopulaLion divided  Average si:e of household (persons per household) -
by number of practising graduate nurses. assistant    total, urban, and rural - A household consists oF a
nurses. practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.  group of individuals who share living quarters and
Population per hospital bed - Population divided by  nain meals. A boarder or lodger may or may not be
number of hospital beds available in public and pri-    included in the household for statistical purposes.
vale, general and specialized hospitals, and reha-    Percernage of dwellings with electricitv - ru/al. urban,
bilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments    and rural- Conventional dwellings with electricity in
pcrnanently staffcd by at least one physician. Es-    living quarters as percentage of all dwellings.
tablishments principally providing custodial care are
not included.                                      EDUCATION
Access to safe sater (percentage ofpopulation) - total,    Enrollment Rates
urban, and rural - People (total, urban, and ural) with  Primary School Enrollment - towal, male andJemale
reasonable access to safe water supply (includes treat-  - Gross cnrollment of all ages at primary level as a
ed surface waters or untreated but uncontaminated  percentage of primary school-age children. While
water such as that from springs, sanitary wells, and  many countries consider primary school agc to be
protccted boreholes). In an urban area a public foun-    6-l1 years, others have wider age groups. Differ-
lain or standpost located not more than 200 meters    ences in country practices in the ages and duration
from a house may be considered within reasonable    or school are reflected in the ratios given. For some
access of that house. In rural areas reonable acce  countries with universal education, gross enrollment
would imply that members of the household do not    may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are youn-
have to spend a disproportionate part of the day   ger or older than the country's standard primary-
fetching water. Absent and incomplete responses, and  school age.
large varialions between countries, may affect the   Secondary School Enrollment - roral, male and
%alidity of the overall results or the country and    female - Computed in a similar manner. but includes
regional comparisons. In addition. certain definitions  pupils enrolled in  vocational. or teacher training
and classifications such as urban and rural, reason-    secondary schools. for pupils usually of 12 to 17
able access to safe water in rural arcas, safe water  years of age.
sources (when they are not subject to laboratory     Pupil-reacher ratio - primarr. and secondary - Total
control) vary considerably from county to country    students enrolled in school divided by the total
and thus affect comparability of the data.         number of teachs.
Percenage pupils reaching grade six - The percen-
LABOR FORCE                                        tage of a cohort of 1,000 pupils starting primary
Total labor force (millions) - Economically active    school that persist into grade s.x.
persons. including armed forces and uncmployed but
excluding housewives and students. Definitions in    INCOME, CONSUMPTION, AND POVERTY
various countries are not comparable.              Energy consumption per capita (kilograms of oil equi-
Female (percent) - Female labor force as a percn-    alent) - Annual consumption of commercial pri-
tage of total labor force.                         mary energy (coal and lignite. petroleum, natural
Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming,    gas, and hydro, nuclear and geothermal electricity).
forestry. hunting and fishing as a percentage of total    Private incomw distribution - Income (both in cash
labor force.                                       and kind) accruing to percentile groups of housc-



ANNEX I
holds ranked by total household income.           Estimated absolute poverty Income level fUSS per   aierof 8
Passenger cars rper thousand pcpulationa  Includes    capita) - urban and rural - Absolute poverty income
molor cars seating rewer than eight perons: ex-    level is that below which a minimal nutritionally
cludes ambulances, heares and military vehicles.  adequate diet plus essential nonfood requirements
Newspaper circuaflion (per thousand populaton) -    are not lffordable. These estimates are very approx-
Average circulation or "daily general intrest news-    imate measures or poverty levels. and should be
paper." defined ab a periodical publication devoted    interpreted with considerable caution.
primarily to recording general news. It is considered  Estimnated pOpUlaIIon be/oIt abso/ute poverr; ineome
to be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.    level (percenf) - Percentages of urban and rural
populations who live in 'absolute poverty."



TUNISIA -  COMI1C  IHDICATOlt                                        ANE 61
a'sq. & o 
hAnuist Growth Rates
Amount                                              (at 1930 prices)
(million U0                                Actual                          Pp ..         Pr@ mted
liuJicatur                 at current prices)
_ 19J4.         1979    1960    198a    1962    1953    1-894           1963       19lt      1991
NAI OWAI ACCWUNTS-
Croam  domestic product  1/             7,951.1          6.b      7.4      ' 5.3    -0.1    4.9    S.5         4.5        0.3      3.1
AKriculture                            1059.2         4.B      9.9      6.5   -10.3       2.5   13.3       1.0        -9.9      3.5
Indust ry                            2.411.8         10.8      9.0      6..      0.5      1.3    3.2         1.1        I.E.     3.8
Sorvires                              3.414.4          8.4     7.7      6.6      2.4      3.9    5.0         4.3        3.0      3.4
UonsuugiLlon                            b.387.4         4.0    12.7        1.4     3.2       1.3    4.4        3.8        3.7      3.1
lross inveetnmet                        2,501.4          6.3      0.9    15.1       1.5    -4.3   12.0       -16.2      -13.8      3.2
KaportL  of goods4 end IWS              2,720.1         21.5     0.0    3J5    -6.9         1.4    2.4         l.b        5.8      5.0
LuportL  of goods and WGS               3.1b58.4       15.1      4.5    13.0       0.9    -I.e    5.2        -14.2        4.5      3.4
(rons natioNal produCt                  8,013.9         6.9       7.9      S.7     0.3      5.0    5.1         3.4        0.1      3.7
Grose national savings                  1,626.5         15.2    .4.7      0.3    -9.4       0.0    a.2         1.7      -14.3      6.0
PRICES
COP deflator (1130 * 100)                              18.6   100.0   111.4   128.1   140.0  149.5           336.9
Etchsnge rate                                         2.4b0   2.4b9   2.O02      1.693    1.4i3  1.287       1.198
Shars of CDP at mrket prices (2)                                    Least Square Srovth rate(Z)
(at current Prces) 2a                                           (at constant prices)
3971       197b       1981       1963       1966       1991    1971-76          1976-_1         1963-611         1986-91
Gross domestic llroduct /I  IW.0         10         100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0        7.1            6.1              3.6              3.4
Agriculture                19.4       178        13.17      12.3       13.3       13.4       6.3             1.0             4.0              3.6
Industry                  20.5       25.2       32.0        30.2       31.0       33.Z       8b             6.9              3.0              3.b
Servicer                  47.1       44.U        41.6       44.0       43.2       42.9       7.1             1.5              3.9             3.3
Conuymption                    80.5       77.3       76.2       80.2       83.7        78.9       B.9            7.4              4.4              2.5
Grose inv-stsunt               21.5       }0.7       32.3       28.1       24.5        22.0       3.9            6.6             -4.2              3.5
Experts of loods and IFS    24.1          29.1       41.4       35.4       27.5       33.7        7.1            5.5              1.1              1.9
Imports of goods and IFS    20.1          37.0       49.j       44.3       35.8       34.5      11.6            10.68           -1.6              0.2
Cross national product         99.0       90.7      100.8      101.2       99.5       99.6        7.0            b l.             3.3              3.4
Net factor incom               -0.4       -1.3        0.8        1.2       -0.3 S      0.4        1.5           -1.5            -18.6              2.0
Crose ntional aevings          19.1       21.4       24.6       21.0        15.S      20.6      -2.3             4.2              1.2              7.4
As I of GOP
(at current prices)
197b       1931       1963       1964       195
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                        =
Current revenue                                                 26.1        29.3       31.3       32.6       31.4
Current expenditure                                             19.9        21.5       23.1       24.7       25.2
Surplus (*3 or deficit (-3                                       6.9         7.8        8.1        7.9        6.2
C&pitml expenditure 3/                                          11.8        15.3       15.2       16.5       15.6
Foreign financing                                                1.0         1.0        1.7        2.3        3.2
1971-76         1976-81          1981-16          199e-91
LJFILKr INUll AtJRS
GNP per capita growth rat. (2)                                   5.0             3.6              0.4              1.4
1 1lt                                                          2.7              5.2            10.0               1.4
Marginal savings rate                                           -0.0             0.1             -0.2             0.4
Import elasticity                                               1.6              1.8            D0.5              0.0
I I \orld lank Atlas Methodology.
Ii  COP at market price% and components at factor cost.                                                                  EUa CPQII-C
di  Projecced years in constant prices.                                                                                 July 1986
1/  Includinu thr debt morttzstion.
TVblISlb



1L13IA - EXTERNAL lEADS                                               A3Ul 1
1Pm1. f of 8
4n3110. growth Kate.
Amouni                                                        (at 1980 rricea
(milie.I 1s11U                                 Actual                                Prel.         ProjetLd
at r4rrwet prices.
Indicator                           1914                 1979     19H0    1961       It82     Its]    1914           1915         10         11
tXTINFtAL T 9 23
hlports ol goods                     1.l60I.                18.0    -0.4       4.3    -a.9       3.9      0.'          -2.1           7.3      5.1
Petrolmm                            79".9                22.9      2.2    -2.)   -20.9         0.e    -1.7           -2.3           0.0    -9.4
Agricullure                           92.7               11.4   -21.1    13.3   -33.3   -13.4          39.5         -14.1           5.0      4.0
Uther prkmaries                      102.7                e.I   -18.2    121.    -13.6        21.8    -1.6           -1.2          14.7    14.2
Hanulecturiniti                     34e9.7               13.l       2.5    1313    11.3         .a    -1.4            0.5          12.9      h.l
Imports of giods                    3.232.5                15.9      4.3      11.7    -0.9    -2.9        *.4         -17.4           *.7      3.4
food                                4b7.3                17.4    -7.0    2W.1    -1.1         20.7      2.b         -24.J          15.9      1.1
Putrul.u-                           372.0                12.1      7.9    -1.7    4..9         3.0      7.3           0.9           2.9    14.3
Iniemedist. gueds                   990.YO               20.2    11.0        3.6    12.4    -4.b        7.9        -13.3          12.3       3.4
Capital 8oals                       539.3                S9.9    -2.2    40.9    1I.6   -19.5           1.6         -32.5           0.9      2.14
Qlutirn                              563.9                8.4       9.3      6.e b     .1    10.B    -3.9            -7.1          -0.1      2.3
Price Index
PRICZIS
ExparL price ind..                                       74.)   100.0   9s.3    61.0          7J.7    7S.7           73.3 J0.3    99.3
ILpaut pricr ind..                                       62.1   100.0    93.4       64.5 )     0.0    73.7           78.7         78.9   111.6
Term. of trade  ,ndem                                    90.9   100.0   105.2   103.0    93.4    9b.1                93.7         77.1    U.6
Ceo it ion of hwrcbfthdnde Trlid  (2)                                    Isut Iuare Crewth late (Z)
(ant             rice)                                               (at cohtaut e i )
1971     1976             .! J9J1   196       Itt1                     I971-7b      1979-31     1 -61-b    2966-91
lepartm of gooad                         100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                               S.0           .1         O .2         0.2
Petruleum                            27.9    42.3    53.3    44.7    23.1            3.9                        3.4          7.4        -4.2        -19.8
Agricalturv                           12.b      4.5      3.1      4.4       6.0      b.2                        4-4          2.4        -1.1          4.7
Other prierle.                        21.3    11.1       4.4      4.8      9.3      10.0                        2.9          0.5          1.3        15.4
ranulseturiog  L                     39.2    42.1    39.2    49.1    b4.b    74.9                              P.2         11.1          4.6         7.1
Impurts of goads                         100.0   10.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                              14.2         10.4         -2.9        -0.3
Food                                  19.b    12.3    11.4    13.9        14.9    14.9                         -1.9         11.9        -0.9          1.7
Petraleum                              3.b    11.1    19.3       11.1      e.3      4,1                        30.3         17.6        -5.8        -17.4
Inte.ediatm  goods                   30.1    23.9    2e.1    29.9    37.9    40.7                              12.1        10.2          1.9          2.9
Capital oads                         27.7    31.9    25.4    23.5    21.6    20.0                             19.0          4.9        -3.9         <. 5
otherv                                19.0    15.8    15.4    19.5    19.6    20.b                            1.1          11.4          0.6         1.2
Share of Trade with              Share of Trade witb                Share of Trade witb               there of Trade witb
iFdustr;-l CoJuntriestn          De IODjineCaurtrie   1Z)                Oi'l j rtersj               Cntrally P1-r.d Cmueuries (2)
1r70   IITjIS7  W   91           I170 T975 IIee- 11                 Ii in7s19WD i9                    1970  1S75  193   1964
N' CI hill OF' IEADE
l..p4irts                 70.3  60.1  93.7  7b.9            4.9  21.7  25.4  14.5              13.9  11.1   4.6   7.7            9.4 *.1   0.4   0.9
h,  ,,t                   S 15.9  79.5  91.8  90.7          7.1  10.9   7.7  11 .               0.7   9.3   7.5   3.9            6.3   3.1   3.0   1.9
1.. 1-1    r o..d prcessaing, phbephates derivativs,  chemical, textile, mechanical and electrical industries.
136r* CPU-C
July 1936



T UNItI A -  ALANCE OF FAIT3  EmNAL CAPIAAL A8  DTll                               X T
(millia. uub at currant pries)                           Paet il *t1i
1976   --t9-197i0    W9     191        1982      1983       19 3     l
IIALAI11 OF PAIEiNTS
Net balance ofgoods 4  morite                   -41b.7   -356.0   -472.6   -bb5.3   -790.8    -637.2        -880.l  -549.5   -531.4   -552.2
Exports of gooda & gervice                   1,479.5  3137.5  3.912.3  3,946.5  3,477.9   3.309.5    5,136.7  3,004.2   2919.6   4678.2
Ieports of g.ods & marvice.                 1,896.2  3,493.5  4 ,34.9  4,61.8  4,268.7   3,946.7    6,022.8  3,553.7   3751.0   5630.3
Nat tranaters                                     -0.1      10.3     58.5      18.2     23.4       11.9       10.9      10.7      12.1     16.4
Current account balance                         '417.2   -345.6   -414.1   -b5U.0    767.4    -625.2        -875.1   -538.8   4139.3   -335.8
biraet private inventmant                        102.6      50.9    236.0    317.2    402.2       223.8      206.0    130.6    175.7    230.7
(rint.                                            53.2      50.7     41.5      20.3     19.0       25.3        23.6     24.0      25.1     11.4
HLT loan. (nat)                                  25t.6    373.7    215.1    275.8    315.0        345.5       323.1    251.6    620.0    332.0
Official                                       127.4    3B3.4    12b.5    207.4    258.2        152.3      106.8    149.8    486.1    419.7
Private                                        131.Z    135.3     83.1      b8.4      56.9      193.1      221.3    101.9    133.8    -87.6
Utter capital                                    3l.9        5.7     13.b    -78.6    -53.2       -15.9     -163.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Changs in ramerves C- iapiibe increase)           33.7   -124.0    -4.9    -91.7    -27.1          14.7      149.5    132.6       0.0    .34.3
Intern.tional r ervam                           273.0    357.9    422.9    514.6    541.7         527.0      377.5    244.9    244.9    412.3
Reservem/laperta                                   1.8       1.2      1.2       1.3      1.5        1.6         1.1      0.8      0.0       0.9
Actual        p_el.
1976      1979       1980     1931       1932       1983     1934        1935
URUSS ulS8tlcszRSDEl
Otlicirl grants                                      33.2       10.7      41.5      20.3       19.0      25.3       28.6      21.0
Gross disburecrpnta .,f MLT Inans                   243.0      639.3     562.2    647.2      b69.7      875.1      747.0     766.6
CUnc.esionel                                        101.5      142.4     207.7    240.5      267.2      169.1      159.1     309.5
Biluteral                                        92.6     141.5      199.8    233.4      250.0      146.1      145.7     254.1
IDA                                               8.9       0.2        1.0       1.1       1.0        -         -          -
Othrr mullilateral                                0.0        0.7       7.9       6.D      16.2       23.0       13.4      55.4
Nnii-c,neesei.mal                                   141.5     496.9      33.5    40b.7       402.5      706.0      587.9     457.1
Private                                          71.6     378.3      Z25.3    238.9      Z73.3      436.8     279.2      178.7
official export credits                           9.9      49.b       53.5      65.9      25.2       93.4     208.7      141.1
3i8R                                            25.3       55.4       51.1     69.4       31.8      89.6       83.0     118.0
Ucler  ultilar-ral                               30.2      13.7       22.6     32.5       21.7       36.2      12.D       19.3
EIIENAL DEBT
Debt Dutatanding and Diabureed                  1.182.4   3,021.0   3,229.6  3,321.3   3,555.9   3,353.4   3,774.b   4,3157.2
Official                                       976.2   1,854.7   2,033.6  2,175.3   2,395.3   2,537.2   2.6W.Y   3,246.0
IIIRD                                        127.3      232.0      269.0    319.6      375.6     434.2      480.9      53P.2
IIU                                           64.1       67.3       67.9     67.5       67.0       67.3      6e.2       65.4
Other                                         784.3   1,554.7   1,701.7  1,73.12   1,952.4   2.036.0   2,133.6   2,642.4
Private                                         206.4   1,166.8   1,191.0  1,146.5   1.163.1   1.321.0   1.093.9   1,111.2
lli'li.bursrd debt                              1.133.0   1,369.6   2,010.4  2.14B.4   2.112.5   2,303.3   2,41233   2,012.8
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service parmnts                         98.9      316.3     431.4    518.2      488.8      568.8      656.6     652.5
Interest                                         37.0     162.8      216.1    204.9      199.7      196.5     243.1      Z45.1
Payenta as 7 exports                                6.7       10.1      11.0      13.1      14.1       17.2       20.9      21.7
Payments as 2 GNP                                   2.2       4.4        4.9       6.1       6.0        6.9        8.2       7.9
World Dank bhar. of:
Debt outatandint                                 10.5        7.7       8.3       9.6      11.3       11.2       12.7      12.4
Disbursemaents                                   10.4       3.7        9.1      10.7      12.2       10.2      13.3       15.4
Debt Service                                     16.6      10.1        8.5       8.2      10.7       II.Z       11.9      14.1
Awrage interest rate of new Loans iS)               S.5        7.2       6.7       8.0        7.6       8.2        3.9        7.9
Official                                          4.3        5.b       5.9       6.9       7.1         -         -          -
Private                                           7.9       9.8       10.5      12.7       9.4         -         -          -
Average  aturity of new Loans (yesre)              16.3       15.8      17.3      15.4      16.6       13.7       13.4      17.1
Official                                         20.4       19.4      19.4    1.2        20.2         -          -         -
Private                                           3.6       9.2        9.2       5.8      10.2         -
An 2 of Debt Outteanding
at lld of Host Recent
Year (1934)
1EBT STRUClUIN
Ntturity atructure of debt outatandin,g ()
Amortization due within 5 years                                          43.3
,jortization due within 10 years                                         77.6
,IrrLret etructure of debt outstanding (2)
Interest duI  within first year                                           4.0
I' Numbers ay not add up due to rounding.
tENEM CPII-C
'".I S/8l                                                                    August 1936



AH 11
PEp =of 2
fl blUM  W1  mm  Iw          WINM   IN ISIA
A. AaM.a'r uS sa UwIS A  iA 05511S OA of IMfl 3. 1198b) /t
U6$S Million
Loan or                                                                                              n  (leas
Credit                                                                                           Cancellatioi)
isider    Y'ii           lbrra                                                            Fl*        LM    LkIdisburlwd
1nL-lRuur lAxans anid  rditi FULly DiUbariu                                              4bd.94      75.15
II-All    198          epublic OL DMILi;L          tAurjal Mords (Chird Iliglasa)         J2.U                  i.d7
Ls75      1979       Republic ot [imiiia            &'corul Urban Swurlage                Zb.5U                 1.U9
11t       1979       Republic ot Daniei             Secund Urban IheaMLopMnE               I.0L)                Z.17
1746       1979       Republic of Danilia           Suea  FiLusrids                      28.5U                12.95
tho        195)       RepubLic At Damisli           Suthern Irrigation                    25.O0                II.UI
1797       198       Uffice des t[rts Nacuaiax    Gat   rt                                42.5U                 9.98
1841       1980        epublic of DTnisia           Fourth HiiAts                         30.50                ib.43
1mt.      195U       9sc Liedt Rluiiemie de
1'ilWctricitt et du Gtz       Secanl NaturaL  asa Pipelin           37.0                 14.21
MOIS       190U       due Nstionale de TuiiLe   'h1ird Agricultural Credit                JU.WJ                 5.90
1901       91        Republic of runisia            rourat  Education                     26.00                21.ttl
l9        d191        Rqpublic of 'l1nisia          Smull-scale Indusry  ievelopmext      3U.W0                16.9Y
1997       1981      Hepublic of LUnwia             Northwest AuraL Oeveloprst            24.0U                14.d1
2003       1981       Sacidt   miusinne tde
l'ElectricitA et duC Gaz      Third Power                           37.5U                4.70
05         1981       lepublic oz Tunisia          HImlth and ftpulatLin                   12,50                9.82
2U52       1'm1       lepublic of runi"s            Qrain Diatributi.o  at Storage        3d.W                 21.71
2108       1982       Republic ot Danisia           Fifth Hijmay (0il Moads)              35.50               23.b3
2113       1982       Hof?                          8lectrical ad Mieclsuical Industries  30.50                13.11
2134       1962      SIIEE                          Sixth Witer Supply                    30.50                 5.72
Jl7        1982       Republic of binisia           Irrigtisn lelquinit                   22.U0                17.35
2197       1982       RepubLic of Tunisia           Tedchical Aistance                     4.50                 2.99
2223       1983       Republic of runuia            Urbra Deelopia  111                   25.WU                21.98
2230       1983       Republic of Tbnisia           &rcaian V                             27.00                25.48
2234       L983       Republic of aunis             Central bnia Irrigatian               16.50               11.2H
2255       1983       RepubLic of Tuniia            Urban Secrage 111                     34.au                32.16
228        1983       Republic of unisiua           Sfa Flood PRotection                  25.0U                22.32
2301       1983       SILUBA                        Tndu try (IV) Foandry                  16.MM               12.07
2346       1984       Republic of tUnisia           Minin Tedcnicl Ass iarna              13.40                11.45
2308       1984       RepubLic of Tunisi            Seventh Water Supply                  50.00                47.61
24M9       1984       Republic of lDnisis           Second Urban Tra;port                 3J.U0                32.92
2455       1984       Soc idcd Dnisine de
lELectricith et du Gar        Fourth  bwer                          38.70               38b.)
2502       1985       Republic or Tuniuia           North West Agricultural Production    l.0                  15.UU
2512       1985       Republic of Tunisia           Export Idastries                      5U.U0                5U.O0
2554       1985       RepubLiLc ot Dnisia           Second Electrical and Mechnical        54.U0               54.0W
mikstries
2573       1985       Republic of Tunisia           Irrigation Hangamt lqnrvurt    22.00                       22.00
2hO5       1985       Repblic of Raisin             Ubes IrigatioL                        27.70                27.70
UDAL                                                             1,481.04      75.15   h63.20
Of iuich hba bor  rpaid                                            260.31      9.84
Total now outatig                                                t,220.73     b5.31
Aunt Sold                             23.38
of  nich hba been repaid            14.33
Total -w held by Bank and WA b/                                  16197.35      65.31
Total Undibusred                                                                      663.2b
al  tkms not jIrcluItdergye  Conervation Osiamtration Project (LAMt No. 21359ltJN of July 18, 198b for $4.0 million)
and the Fourth Urbon LXvelo.mnc Project (LOan No. 2736-US of July La, 1986 for $30.2 million).
bl   Prior to exdrrge rate adjusowut
Septeber 2. 1986
lOols/I



AIUELI
rUge 2 of 2
STATERMNT OF IFC INVESTIENTS IN TUNISIA IAS OF MARCH 21 l.61
Yart                Dhl atgr                        Tinp   f   uliness                       haunt of USS Million
Loa            Equit          To
1963                NPK Engrais                      Fertilizers                          2.2             1.5          3.S
1966                Socliti Nationale
d'Investissement (now lOfT)   Oev. F;nance Co.                                       0.6          0.6
1969                COFIT Tourism (now SNOT)         Dev. Finance Co.                     a.o             2.2         10.2
1970                BDET                             0ev. Finance Co.                                     0.6          0.6
1973                Socidtd Touristique et
iotelibre RYH SA                Tourism                              1.6             0.3          1.9
1974                Industries Chimiques du Fluor  Chemicals                                              0.6          0.6
1975                Soc iti d'Etudes at de
OeveloppWemnt de Sousse-Nord  Tourism                               2.S              0.6          3.1
1978                ODET                             Dev. Finance Co.                                     1.2          1.2
198S                Socliti Tunhsienne de Leasing  Leasing Co.                                            0.5          0.5
19e5                Soc iti Minhire de Spar
Fluor et de Sarytine
(Fluobar)                      mining Co.                                           44          -0i
Total Gross Commitnents                                              14.1             8.4         22.5
Less cancellations
Terminot ions, Repayments
and Sales                                                          fl.2              1.1         1.
Total Commitments now
held by UFC                                                          0.9              6.6          7.5
Total Undisbursed                                                    oJ o1
to    In FY56 investments in SoclitA Tunisienne de Leasina and SocidtA Industrimlle des TeXtiles (SITEXI were
approved.  In addition. an 1nvestnent in udtyiJS     was approved but not yet signed.
10615/4



ANNEX III
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Supplementary Projectt Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                  About 12 months
(b)  Project preparation responsibility:             Government/Bank
(c)  Project first identified by Bank                July 1985
(d)  Bank appraisal mission                          April/May 1986
(e)  Negotiations                                    August 1986
(f)  Board presentation                              September 1986
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                  October 1986
Section 11: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Working with a Government Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee to
monitor adjustment measures.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness and Release of First Tranche (US$100.0 million)
[See para. 158(a) and 159(a)]
(b) Conditions of Release of Second Tranche (US$50.0 million)
[See para. 158(b) and 159(b)]
(c) Condition of Disbursement for Potentially Hazardous Chemicals:
Design and start-up of a program of measures acceptable to the Bank
designed to ensure safe handling and storage of these chemicals
(para. 155).
255 7E/p65



ANNEX IV(a)
Page 1 of 11
Republic of Tunisia
Confidential
The President                                           September 1, 1986
World Bank
Washington D.C.
LETTER OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Dear Mr. President:
Within the framework of preparation of the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan and the Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan, I have
the honor to set forth below Tunisia's principal development policy goals for
the period 1986-91.
After 15 years of rapid economic development, during which much
economic and social progress has been made, Tunisia is currently going through
a period of adapLation to the post-hydrocarbon era, a transition that is
particularly difficult because of recent events such as the sharp decline in
oil prices, difficulties in exporting phosphates and phosphate derivates, the
rise in the price of sulfur, and the decline in Tunisian workers'
remittances.
To cope with this situation, we have, as you know, adopted a strategy
oriented toward the rapid growth of non-oillnon-phosphate exports, the
recovery of agricultural production, and the containment of domestic demand.
In this way we intend to ensure continued growth and the creation of new jobs
while preserving a tolerable and sustainable external balance.
To this end, a number of measures have been impltmented over the past
few years, of which the following are the most significant:
-    wages were delinked from the cost-of-living index in 1983 and since
then the minimum wage has been increased only once by about 10%;
-    the Government's investment budget was reduced by close to 11 in real
terms in 1985 and by around 221 in 1986;
-    a flexible exchange rate system was adopted; together with the 101
change in the exchange rate of the Dinar, announced in mid-August
1986, this made it possible to absorb the rise in the value of the
dinar in relation to the currencies of partner countries and to
improve competitiveness on the export markets;



ANNEX IV(a)
Page 2 of 11
-    deposit and lending interest rates were increased and have mostly
become positive in real terms;
-    the prices of products subsidized by the Caisse Ginfrale de
Compensation were adjusted, leading to a gradual decrease in
compensation coats with a consequent reduction in budgetary subsidies;
-    producer prices of agricultural products were increased, in
particular for cereals, livestock products and olive oil, to
stimulate and promote production in this priority sector;
-    investment approval procedures on small and medium-scale industrial
projects were simplified and decentralized;
-    an export credit insurance system was established to provide security
for exporters and encourage them to explore new markets;
-    the export prefinancing mechanism was revised, raising the ceiling
from 10 to 201 of the value of the export and extending the terms
from 90 to 180 days;
-    lastly, export incentives were strengthened within the framework both
of the law on export industries and of the law on encouragement of
the manufacturing industries.
Thanks to these policy changes, accompagnied by a reduction in
imports, we have been able to bring about significant improvements in the 1985
financial situation. In particular, we have achieved:
-    an increase In non-oil/non-phosphate exports of 41 at constant
prices, against an average of 1.51 over the period 1982-1984;
-    a marked reduction in the current balance of payments deficit, which
fell from 10.91 of GDP in 1984 to less than 71 in 1985;
-    a reduction in inflation to 7.81 in 1985 against 8.61 in 1984 and
13.61 in 1982;
-    a limitation of the net consolidated State budget deficit to a level
(St of GDP) virtually in line with the budget.
Preliminary estimates for 1986 indicate a further slow-down in the
rate of inflation to about 6.61, and a slight decline in the consolidated
budget deficit to about 3.9% of GDP. However, as a result of the sharp
decline in oil prices, depressed tourism demand because of political
uncertainties around the Mediterranean. and the serious drought, the current
balance of payments deficit is likely to worsen in 1986 to about 8.5-9% of
GDP, requiring a higher than expected inflow of foreign resources.
Over the coming years the stabilization effort will be consolidated
and strengthened to enable us to deal successfully with the two major problems
still facing Tunisia, namely that of balance of payments equilibrium,
resulting principally from the foreseeable decline in foreign exchange
earnings, and that of unemployment and underemployment resulting from rapid
growth in the active population.
We therefore intend to continue our efforts to curb the budget
deficit and current balance of payments deficit so as to contain the external
debt within limits compatible with our repayment capacity.
At this level, and although the goals of the VIIth Plan have not yet
been established, we intend to introduce a development plan for the next five



ANNEX IV(a)
Page 3 of 11
years based on an annual increase in non-oil and non-phosphate exports of 7 to
8%, at constant prices, and real GDP growth of 3.5 to 4%, resulting in a
gradual decline of the net budgetary deficit and a marked decrease in the
current balance of payments deficit (from 10.9% of CDP in 1984 to around 6% in
1988 and under 41 in 1991).
To achieve those goals, we intend to vigorously pursue policies aimed
at restricting domestic demand and promoting exports. More precisely, we
intend to accelerate the policy of gradual liberalization of the economy, in
particular as regards imports, prices and investment8, so that by 1991 we
shall have abolished most of the administrative controls in those areas. We
also intend to strengthen domestic competition by bringing down import duties
and reducing disparities in the effective protection levels of the various
branches of economic activity, and to ensure the competitiveness of export
products by pursuing a prudent and moderate wage policy and maintaining a
flexible exchange rate system.
These various structural adjustment measures, which are listed in the
attachment to this letter, together with an implementation schedule, should
lead to a marked improvement in the general economic environment and an
increase in the effectiveness of the sectoral reform measures being
implemented in the agricultural, industrial and external trade sectors, or in
the course of preparation in other key sectors such as public enterprises,
energy, transportation, education, etc.
It goes without saying that the policy, which we have designed for
the purpose of adapting our economy to the post-hydrocarbon era, will be
facilitated if the Bank will give favorable consideration to our request with
respect to the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan and the Industrial and
Trade Policy Adjustment Loan, and will support our medium-term adjustment
efforts with other sector loans.
We appreciate the discussions we have had with the Bank and hope to
continue to exchange views in the future.
Very truly yours
151 Ismail Khelil
Minister of Planning and Finance



ANNEX IV(a)
Page 4 of 11
Attachment
September 1, 1986
THE MACROECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        The basic strategy underlying the Government's macroeconomic
adjustment program reflects its objective of maintaining economic growth and
speeding up employment creation by stimulating non-oil/non-phosphate exports,
achieving a more efficient utilization of domestic resources and promoting
savings through more rigorous demand management.
2.        To achieve these objectives, the Government intends to pursue its
course of macroeconomic policy adjustment in eight areas: wages and salaries,
the exchange rate, the budget, interest rates, credit and monetary policies,
and price, investrment and import liberalization. The action program in each
of these areas is summarized below.
3.        Wages and salaries.  Given the decisive role cautious wage and
salary policies play in any effort to control domestic demand, improve
international competitiveness and ensure more rapid employment creation, the
Government decided in 1983 to delink wages and salaries from the
cost-of-living index; in consequence, the minimum wage has remained unchanged
during 3 1/2 years from January 1983 through July 1986, and average salaries
have declined by nearly 15% in real terms during the same period. The
Government will pursue these wage policies, limiting wage increases to
productivity growth and to the financial situation of each enterprise.
In July 1986, Government raised the minimum wage by 10% but it has
no intention to increase the minimum wage on average by more than the
inflation rate during 1986-1987. During the remainder of the Vllth Plan
period, it plans to follow a minimum wage policy which ensures that the growth
of the total wage bill will not exceed the growth of GDP at current prices.
4.        Government Budget.  Recognizing the importance of reduced budget
deficits in restoring internal and external financial stability, the
Government introduced a program of reducing budget deficits in 1985 and 1986.
It is determined to follow through on this effort so as to reduce the
consolidated budget deficit, net of debt repayment 1/, from 51 of GDP in 19P.5
to 1.51 in 1988 and practically to zero in 1991. In spite of declining oil
revenues, the Government is determined to maintain the budgetary savings rate
at around 6% of GDP, while reducing the share of public investments in GDP,
particularly by cutting the Government's contributions towards public
enterprise investments. The detailed measures envisaged to achieve these
targets are mentioned in Annex I to this atcachment.
1/   Including Chapters I and II of the Government's Budget, the Special
Funds, the Treasury operations, and the non-budgeted operations financing
direct investments by the Government.



ANNEX IV(a 1
Page 5 of 11
5.        Interest rate policy.  Thanks to the interest rate increases in 1985
and 1986 and the drop in inflation, the Gr'-'ern.ent has ensured that most
interest rates are now positive in real te..as. During the period of the VIIth
Plan, the Government will maintain flexible interest rate policies deslgned to
ensure positive rates on most deposit and lending operations. The exceptions
will be limited to certain credits for low-income groups, such as parts of the
loans granted by FOSDA, FOPROLOS, FONAPAN, FOPRODI and FODERI, and certain
forms of high-priority lending such as seasonal credits, export prefinancing
and the financing of renewable energy resources.
Furthermore, to improve the efficiency and viability of financial
institutions, the Government intends to pursue its simplification of the
interest rate structure and relaxation of existing regulations. To this avail
a detailed program of action will be prepared and discussed with the Bank
within the framework of preparation of the VIIth Plan, expected by April 30,
1987.
6.        Monetary and credit policy.  The Government is firmly committed to a
monetary and credit policy that is consistent with declining budget deficits
and investment rationalization; this implies that during 1986-91 the growth of
the money supply will be kept within a range whose upper limit will not exceed
the growth of GDP in nominal terms.
r.        Exchange rate policy.  The Tunisian Government is aware of the
importance of this instrument in regulating external trade. Accordingly, it
introduced in 1985 a flexible exchange rate system, which made it possible at
first, to absorb the rise in the value of the dinar in relation to
competitor-country currencies. The situation improved further in mid-August,
1986 when the exchange rate was depreciated by 10S via-i-vis a basket of
foreign currencies. This improved the competitive position of Tunisian
products by about 28Z compared to the situation prevailing at the end of June
1985. The Govenment will continue this flexible policy so as to maintain an
appropriate level of competitiveness for Tunisian products. It also agrees
that any exchange rate adjustments will be reflected in the administered
producer prices for agricultural products.
8.        Price Controls.  The Government has for several years pursued a
policy of gradual decontrol of agricultural producer prices. This policy will
continue and will be extended to the manufacturing srector. In particular, the
Government intends, over a period of three years (1986-88), to phase out all
price controls in well-established industries where the number of domestic
producers is sufficiently large to ensure appropriate competition. A detailed
timetable for phasing out price controls is presented in Annex II to this
attachment.
Between 1989 and 1991, the Government intends to abolish price
controls in all other industries in close coordination with the liberalization
of imports, with the exception of a few key staples (such as bread. semolina
and oil) of which the price must remain regulated for social reasons.
In the event of monopolistic agreements, however, the Government
would reserve the right to intervene to reestablish satisfactory competition.



ANNEX IV(a)
Pange 6 of 11
9.        With respect to those industrial products for which the price will
remain regulated over the short or medium-term, the Goverument intends to
introduce a more flexible price control procedure on January 1, 1987 that
would allow the enterprise to change a price unilaterally, by reference to
agreed parameters, and to apply the new price following a reasonable time
lapse, provided there is no justified objection on the part of the Government.
To this end, the Government will-with assistance by the World
Bank--devise rapidly the operation formulas to be used by entrepreneurs in the
various industries. These formulas must be geared to the appropriate
utilization of installed production capacities and the adequate control of
production costs.
10.       Investment liberalization.  In the context of a system of gradual
decontrol of the economy, the Government intend. to phase out the control (by
API, APIA and the Tourism Investment Board) of investments not eligible for
special incentives or benefits. in parallel with the liberalization of prices
and of external trade, within the framework of a new investment incentive
policy.
The Government has decided to abolish by the end of 1986 all
controls on investments below DT 200,000 and on replacement investments not
requiring a specific import authorization for capital equipment and not asking
for special investment incentives; it intends to continue this process in 1987
and 1988 with a view to the abolition, in parallel with the overhaul of the
incentive system, of the approval requirements for other well-established
industries for which the number of domestic producers is sufficiently large
to ensure appropriate competition.
The approval procedure will be maintained for all investment
projects that are asking for special investment incentives linked to transfers
of technology, regional development and exports.
In early 1989 the Government is to start on a program leading to the
abolition, by 1991. of investment controls in all remaining sectors, except
for investments asking for special investment incentives.
11.       Import liberalization.  Cognizant of the importance of import
liberalization in improving domestic resource use and allocation and, in
general, in helping to achieve the country's development goals over the next
five years, the Government reaffirms its intention of gradually liberalizing
imports. It intends to effect this decontrol by two principal means:
reduction of quantitative restrictions and rationalization of import duties.
12.       (a)  Quantitative restrictions.  In mid-August 1986 the Government
abolished all restrictions on imports of raw materials and semi-finished
products for companies exporting at least 251 of their turnover as well as of
spare parts for use in industry, farms, hotels, hospitals, and other
services. It intends to abolish before end-September 1986 all restrictions on
imports for newly approved investment projects and for raw materials used in
the manufacture of pharmaceutical products.
Not later than January 2, 1987, Government intends to abolish
restrictions on all other spare parts and raw materials, as well as on



ANNEX IV(a)
Page 7 of 11
semi-finished products for companies exporting at least 15% of their turnover
and for those that are reasonably integrated.
Not later than January 2, 1988, it plans to lift import restrictions
on capital goods and semi-finished products, with the exception of a list of
products which are used exclusively in poorly-integrated plants to be
discussed with the Bank.
Starting in 1989, the Government will introduce a program leading to
the abolition, by 1991, of the remaining quantitative restrictions, mainly
those on consumer goods.
13.       (b)  Import duties.  In line with its concern to promote exports,
and to ensure greater efficiency of resource allocation, the Tunisian
Government intends to gradually reduce import duties and to lessen the
disparities in the levels of effective protection between the various sectors
of the economy, the goal being to achieve a reasonably uniform effective
protection rate of around 251 by 1991.
To this end, it aims to introduce, on January 1, 1987, within the
framework of the 1987 Eadget Law, the following changes in customs duties:
-    a raise in the minimum duty to at least 15s;
-    a reducuction of all import duties to a maximum of 50s;
-    reduction by 6 percentage points in all duties between 26 and 551
with a minimum not falling below 25t; with the possibility of
deferring some of these reductions by up to one year after
discussions with the Bank, in case a Tunisian enterprise suffers
serious damage as a result of exceptionally large increases in
imports and with the aim to provide that enterprise somewhat more
time to adapt.
However, the Government reserves the right to introduce additional
consumption taxes on products of which the local production or import is
regarded as a luxury or a waste of resources, so as to absorb all or part of
the loss in revenue resulting from the revision of customs duties.
It also agrees to continue this process in 1988, introducing on
January 1, 1988 a new import duty reduction of 9 percentage points on duties
between 26 and 50X, oTnce again with the possibility of offsetting certain
losses in revenue by consumption taxes, and over the long term to incorporate
the "Taxe sur la Formalite Douaniere" (TFD) intc the actual customs duties,
for purposes of simplitication.
Lastly, the Government intends to prepare before the end of 1988 a
program of further gradual tariff reductions so as to achieve the objective of
a 251 effective protection rate by the end of 1991.
14.       Monitoring and orogress reporting.  Progress on the implementation
of the program described above will be monitored by the Government and
reported to the Bank every six monthF.



ANNEX IV(a)
Page 8 of 11
ANNEX I to Macro-economic
Adjustment Program
Targets for Government Budget
(a)       Government revenues shall not be less than:
30.02 of GDP in 1987;
29.0% "  "   '  1988; gradually declining to
27.0% I  "   "  1991.
(b)       Recurrent expenditures shall not exceed:
24.02 of GDP in 1987;
23.0% "  "   "  1988; gradually declining to
21.02 "  "   "  1991.
Ic)       The growth in the number of civil servants employed shall not exceed
21 p.a. during 1986-91. The average civil service wage rate shall not grow by
more than the inflation rate during the period 1986-87, and shall not increase
Easter than private sector wages during the period 1988-91.
(d)       The aggregate amount of all subsidies included in the Government
budget shall decline by at least 5X p.a. in nominal terms over the period
1986-91, with the Govenment making every effort to reduce it even more
rapidly, among others through targeting household subsidies increasingly on
the poorest segment of the population. One consequence of this policy is that
the increase in producer prices for agricultural products proposed in the
medium-term agricultural sector adjusLment program would be reflected as much
as possible in consumer prices.
(e)       Amounts included in the Government budget for development outlays,
net of debt repayment shall not exceed:
8.0% of GDP :n 1987;
7.51 "    "  "  1988; gradually declining to
6.02 " f "      1991.
The Government intends to make a sectoral and sub-sectoral
allocation of investment funds within these global limits as part of the
preparation of the VlIth Development Plan. The resulting investment program
will be assessed and discussed with the Bank at the time the report of the
Public Expenditure Review mission will he discussed.



ANNEX IVta)
page 9 of 11
ANNEX II to Macro-economic
Adjustment Program
Price Liberalization Time-table
September 1, 1986
Building materials excluding lime, cement and sanitary appliances
Textiles excluding undergarments and articles made out of jute
EMI
-    car parts including batteries
-    hardware
-    TV antennas and parts
Canned sardines
Miscellaneous industries
-    plastic articles
-    graphic art
-    watches
-    joinery finishings in wood
-    cork articles
-    chandeliers
-    footwear and accessories
-    tannery products
-    packing materials of paper and cardboard
-    printed articles
-    small-wares
January 2, 1987
EMI
-    control wire and meter transmission cables
-    electrical and telephone cables
-    refrigerators and cooking-stoves
-    boilers
Carpentry
Glue
Inks
Liquid detergents
Tires and rubber articles



ANNEX IV(&)
Page 10 of 11
ANNEX II to Macro-economic
Adjustment Program
July 1, 1987
Soap excluding perfumed soap
Food products
-    canned tuna
-    canned tomatoes
-    canned harissa
-    yogurt
-    cheese, excluding soft cheese
-    beverages
Furniture
Fertilizer
-    phosphoric acid
-    hyperphosphate
-    superphosphate, triple superphosphate
-    dicalcium phosphate
-    mono amonium phosphate, diamsonium phosphate
-    complex fertilizer
January 2. 1988
EMI
-    sound making equipment and parts
-    taps and faucets
-    bicycles and motorcycles
-    batteries and miscellaneous articles
Animal food
Chemical products
-    paint, varnish
-    perfumed soap
-    detergents
-    essential oils
-    linseed oil
-    perfumes
-    insecticidec and pesticides



ANNEX IV (a)
Page 11 of 11
ANNEX II to Macro-economic
Adjustment Program
July 1. 1988
Household articles in inox and aluminium
Copper articles
Joinery finishings in aluminium
Electrical motors and transformers
Tomato paste
Canned vegetables and fruits



ANNEX IV(b)
Page I of 15
GOVERNMENT LETTER OF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT POLICY
September 1, 1986
Mr. Barber Conable
President of The World Bank
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. President:
1.        Following the exchanges of views that have taken place between the
Tunisian Government and the World Bank in connection with preparation of an
agricultural sector adjustment operation, and in the context of our economic
discussions and agreements on a macro-economic adjustment program, I should
like to set forth below the main orientations of our development policy in the
vital agricultural sector of Tunisia's economy.
2.        Agriculture occupies an important place among our economic and
social development priorities and has always received sustained attention on
the part of the public authorities. Agricultural policies have yielded
encouraging results in terms of agricultural production, particularly fruit
and vegetable production, representing almost half of agricultural GDP. This
success has been achieved due to the important investments in irrigation,
which represents less than 5% of cultivated land but accounts for 38t of
agricultural GDP. We are concerned, however, that growth in the rainfed
sector, which provides the bulk of our basic food products and from which the
great majority of our rural population earn their living, has lagged behind
growth of domestic consumption, giving rise to a steadily worsening food
deficit and a corresponding deterioration of the agricultural trade balance.
This trade balance is now in deficit by about D 185 million (US$220 million)
annually. This figure could be reduced by more intensive utilization of our
existing agricultural potential.
3.        We have already begun a program to address the obstacles to the full
development of this potential, as described in the attachment to this letter.
Our efforts are designed not only to improve our trade balance, but also to
contribute to the growth of the economy, reduce demand on the Government
budget and increase Government revenues.
4.        In implementing the Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Program, the Government attaches particular importance to the integration of
our agricultural policy into general economic policy and to questions of
efficiency and optimal utilization of our limited resources. Particular
priority will be given to measures to improve productivity, enhance the
effectiveness of our production incentives policy and optimize the
Government's activities from both the organizational and the financial
standpoints. We will also limit Government intervention to those areas where
it is essential and justified.



ANNEX IU(b)
Page 2 of 15
5.        We intend to strengthen inter-departmental coordination rno as to
ensure proper monitoring of the execution of the program. As in the case of
the other projects which you are financing, we will send you a report
periodically regarding the measures taken.
6.        So that we can achieve both our macro-economic a...d bector
objectives, we would ask you to consider making a quick-d4abursing loan to
Tunisia in order to support the agricultural adjustment program. S'ety
percent of this loan would finance imports of inputs requiced ior the p.ogram,
with the remaining 402 covering the Government's general impo:t program.
7.        Please accept the assurances of my highest consideration.
SiRned by the Minister of Planning and Finance
Attachment



ANNEX IV(b)
Page 3 of 15
Attachment
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(1986-1991)



ANNEX IV(b)
Page 4 of 15
1.        The Government's medium-term policy objective for the development of
the agricultural sector is to strengthen the contribution of agriculture to
overall economic growth, balance of payments and budget equilibrium and
employment creation, particularly through greater incentives to private
initiative and a liberalization of economic activity in the sector.
2.        Priority will be given to increasing production of agricultural
products in which Tunisia has a comparative advantage, notably cereals, meat,
milk, and export crops.
3.        To achieve these objectives the Government intends to introduce a
medium-term policy based principally on:
(a)  a greater role for market forces in our price policy allowing
greater incentives for the production of import substitutes
(cereals, meat, milk) and export crops (olive oil, citrus, dates,
fish and off-season vegetables);
(b)  improving the effectiveness of our public investment and expenditure
policy, as regards both capital and operating expenditure, to these
production objectives;
(c)  improving support services to production, particularly research and
extension activities, and transferring to the private and
cooperative sector commercial activities currently undertaken by the
public sector, such as the distribution of inputs, management of
cold storage depots, milk collection and regional mechanization
services, at a pace compatible with the need to preserve and
strengthen the services provided to agriculture;
(d)  encouraging intensive utilization of land and of natural forest and
fish resources;
Ce)  enhancing the capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture to monitor
agricultural performance and analyze alternative development
policies for the sector and monitor their effects.
I.        PRICE POLICY
4.        As regards its price and subsidy policy the Government has, since
1980, been following a policy of freeing and adjusting producer prices and
eliminating subsidies, with a view to creating a favorable environment for
privatization and liberalization of economic activities in the sector.
5.        Currently producer prices for most agricultural products are free
and are therefore determined by market forces. For staple food products, the
prices of which are controlled, a policy of incentives has been adopted.
Cereal prices have been doubled and the price of milk more than doubled, while
the producer price of beef has been freed in a similar fashion to that of
sheep meat.



ANNEX IV(b)
Page 5 of 15
6.        As regards consumer prices, a differential was introduced between
fresh milk and reconstituted milk and successive increases were made in the
price of milk which is no longer eligible for subsidies from the General
Compensation Fund.
7.        In parallel with our policy of adjusting producer and consumer
prices, input subsidies, although they still exist, have been steadily reduced
since 1980. Thus fertilizer prices have risen by 55%, those of animal feed by
200%, and charges for irrigation water by 43% on average.
8.        During the period of the VIIth Plan, the Government intends to allow
a greater role to market forces to encourage the production of import
substitutes (mainly cereals and livestock products) in which Tunisia has a
comparative advantage, and to support and promote export crops. To achieve
this objective, the Government will continue to adjust the prices of
controlled products and inputs so as to bring them closer to world market
prices, with . view to freeing them, with the exception of a few product;.
Specifically, the program envisages:
(a) For products the prices of which are controlled for social reasons:
producer prices for these products will be brought closer to their
world market equivalents, taking into account exchange rate
movements. A price differential will also be re-established between
durum wheat and bread wheat so as to reflect their relative
international values. For livestock products, the liberalization of
the market for beef and the fixing of producer prices for milk will,
if necessary, be accompanied by measures to protect local production,
taking into account any subsidies provided in exporting countries.
(b) For products whose prices are free: the level of prices will be
derived from the law of supply and demand, without market
intervention to fix ceilings.
(c) Input subsidies: The Government intends to pave the way for
liberalization by progressively reducing subsidies so as to align
the prices of fertilizers, animal feed, seeds and herbicides with
world market prices, at a pace compatible with the need to preserve
incentives for agricultural production, and promote technical
innovation. For water charges, there will be progressive recovery
over ten years of the direct operating and maintenance (O&M) costs
of irrigation systems according to the conditions laid down in the
Irrigation Management Improvement Project which provide for 100%
recovery of O&M costs on 65% of the irrigated area by 1991.
9.        The reduction in subsidies will be accompanied by appropriate
changes in the level of producer prices, our objective being to use price
policies for agricultural products to encourage the growth of economically
efficient and profitable production activities and to establish a level of
protection for the agricultural sector that is more consistent with that
prevailing in other sectors of the economy. In this context, and in
accordance with the macro-economic adjustment program, a minimum 15% tariff
will be applied to imports, which will be taken into account in fixing the
prices of controlled products.



ANNEX IV(b)
Page 6 of 15
(d) Our policy for the promotion of agricultural exports is to achieve 4%
real growth over the next Plan, based mainly on the diversification
of markets for traditional exports, given the anticipated constraints
as regards the EEC. In addition to measures at the macro-economic
level (exchange rates) and fiscal and financial incentives the search
for new markets will be intensified and administrative procedures
simplified. Particular emphasis will be given to research and
development activities in the export subsectors.
U.        PUBLIC INVESTMENT AND EXPENDITURE POLICY
10.       Investment policy during the  IlIth Plan will be adjusted to the
objective of developing agricultural production. The Government will raise
the priority of the sector and intends to allocate about 22% of total
investment to agriculture. The strategy for allocating these resources will
emphasize the need to:
(a) improve the efficiency of investments by achieving higher returns on
the use of existing resources;
(b) emphasize those investments which have a favorable impact on the
balance of paynients, i.e., production of cereals, milk, meat and
wood for import substitution and dates, citrus, fish and off-season
vegetables for export;
(c) encourage the private sector, in the context of liberalization, to
undertake commercially viable agricultural services which are
presently being administered by the public sector;
(d) reduce the share of the public sector in the financing of
agricultural investment projects during the VIIth Plan; and,
(e) create productive jobs through investments which have a relatively
Low investment cost per permanent job created.
11.       To fulfill these expenditure objectives in the agricultural sector,
the Government will develop a method which is available to all participants in
the identification and implementation of agricultural investment projects.
This method requires the development of appropriate subsectoral investment
strategies; a list of projects or project ideas which meet a set of selection
criteria which are consistent with the overall sector expenditures strategy; a
core program of investments, i.e., some 65% of the nominal investment program,
which would be preferentially protected in case of financial constraints; and
a monitoring system to control the flow of expenditures by the Ministry over
the VIIth Plan period.
12.       Specific subsector 6*rftegies consistent with this overall sectoral
strategy will guide project identification and prepa-ation for the VIIth Plan,
and their main features are as follows:
(a) For cereals, develop a plan for long-term sector development and
promote its execution during the VIIth Plan; in grain storage,
rehabilitate and increase the local storage capacity; begin handling
and storage of grain from farmers in bulk.



ANNEX IV(b)
Page 7 of 15
(b) In livestock, concentrate on the development of local forage
resources to substitute for imported concentrates by developing
forage reserves in areas with low opportunity costs, focussing
extension efforts in the north and on the integration of livestock
with cereal production; promote systematic use of crop by-products
as feed (straw, bran and by-products of the olive oil industry);
create an appropriate storage network and develop forage areas with
a view to protect against climatic risks; strengthen the genetic
improvement program through greater reliance on cross-breeding
versus imports of purebred stock; initiate a development program for
camels; encourage wider participation of private individuals and
cooperatives in providing artificial insemination services; and
encourage the privatization of veterinary services.
(c) In research, modify the institutional system of research to seek
better coordination of expenditures on research efforts; and focus
research on priority import substitution or export products such as
cereals, livestock products, dates, citrus and off-season vegetables
as well as in the areas of agricultural machinery and farm management
practices; in extension, while avoiding a substantial increase in the
present level of total expenditures, reorganize the commodity-
specific, extension programs to permit increased efficiency in use
of operating funds; ensure adequate staffing and funding for the
transportation, operation and maintenance of existing centers;
establish new centers in rainfed areas; put into action the result'
of the Master Plans for research and extension and prepare a
national proiect for investment in research and extension.
(d) Increase the financial resources available for forestry development
to arrest the loss of plant cover in order to better mobilize the
subsector's productive potential and reduce imports: priority needs
to be given to establisment of nurseries, to improved means of
guarding and protecting the natural regeneration areas, to mechanize
exploitation and reforestation, and improved inventories and studies.
(e) In tree crops, encourage maintenance of existing plantations, in the
center of the country, promote the establishment of pasture within
the framework of a balanced system of livestock and tree crops;
favor the development of export crops such as citrus in the north,
pistachios and almonds in the center and date palms in the south;
improve the quality of olive oil which is exported; reconvert old
olive stands to more productive activities, e.g., pasture, almonds,
where olive yields are low.
(f) In fisheries, improve the use of existing infrastructure, in the
major ports by carrying out marginal investment to make ports more
functional; provide incentives to the private sector to develop the
marketing and transport of blue fish in the interior of the country;
increase the catch of quality fish for export; make more intensive
use of the existing tfeet by better management and more effective
incentives to the private sector.



ANNEX IV(b)
Page 8 of 15
(g)  In jrr gstt,n, further develop downstream investments under existing
projects, particularly in the north, in order to increase the
availability of water at farm level; promote rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing irrigation infrastructure; encourage
investments designed to increase water use efficiency; and develop
spate irrigation techniques, complemented by tubewell development in
central Tunisia.
13.       To strengthen the investment planning and monitoring process, the
Ministry of Agriculture needs to install an improved system of project
evaluation for all new investments. This implies improving the capacity of the
DPSAE in project evaluation and establishing a system of project monitoring
and budget control. In addition to meeting the goals and directions of the
subsectoral investment strategies, all new projects for the VIIth Plan would
be evaluated according to an agreed selection criteria between the Government
and the Bank. In order of priority, these criteria are:
(a) economic rate of return above 10%, which is based on economic
pricing of inputs, outputs, including labor and foreign exchange;
(b) positive impact on the agricultural trade balance;
(c) significant employment creation at low cost per job created;
(d) reduced Government contribution to investment and recurrent costs;
and
(e) favorable impact on under-developed regions -- centralwest,
northwest, southwest -- particularly in the case of large projects.
Some trade-offs between criteria may be necessary, but the minimum rate of
return would be necessary for all projcts to enter the list for implementation
during the VIIth Plan.
14.       The concept of the "core" program of investment projects is based on
the contingency that Government may not have sufficient funds to carry out the
nominal expenditures program agreed for the VlIth Plan. In the event of a
shortfall in financial resources during this period, the Government would
protect a "core" investment program in the agricultural sector of some 65% of
the nominal investment amount. The criteria to be applied to place projects
in the core program would be the following:
(a) short gestation of the remaining completion periods;
(b) reduced demands on the Government budget; and
(c) high priority in the overall sectoral development strategy.
15.       In planning the allocation of public funds to the agricultural
sector account will be taken of the need to ensure the oroper functioning of
completed projects. To this ef'ect maintenance iiorms will be established f;:
the various kinds of inwestment and public services.



ANNEX IV(b)
Page 9 of 15
16.       As regards private investment, the Government promulgated in 1982 an
agricultural investment code containing a range of fiscal and financial
incentives. Private companies were authorized to undertake projects in the
private sector and the State leased certain publicly-owned land on a long-term
basis in order to e,icourage investment and intensification of agricultural
production. During the VlItlh Plan, the Government will continue to give
priority to private investment in agriculture by encouraging the banking
sector to increase its role in financing agricultural activities. The
Government has already established a National Guarantee Fund to assist small
and medium-scale farms, has strengthened cost recovery methods and has raised
interest rates, which are now positive in real terms. Our action plan for the
period 1986-91 contains tthe following main points:
(a)  improving the mobilization of the banks' internal resources
(specifically, by encouraging rural savings) and moving steadily
towards enhanced fungibility of the funds for agricultural credit;
(b)  progressively reducing, as a function of the mobilization of other
resources and 's improved recovery performance, State budget
allocations for the credit part of FOSDA, FOSEP ar,d other special
funds with the ultimate objective of better targetting of the
resources of these funds;
(c)  progressively transferring to BNT and the banking sector part of the
risk guaranteed by the State;
(d)  applying the cost recovery methods taken, particularly "le privilege
de L'Etat," rescheduling some debts where justified, for example in
the case of natural calamities, and studying the possibility of tax
relief for the provision for doubtful agricultural debts made by the
banks to cover the risk of non-payment;
(e)  increasing the interest rates permitted for agricultural lending
operations to provide coverage of the financial costs, reasonable
operating costs and a reasonable part of the risks involved, such
Levels to be reached by 1991, further to the recommendations of an
analysis of the profitability of agricultural credit operations;
(f)  defining the eligibility of small and mredium-size farmers for bank
credit, taking their incomes into account among othei hings so as
to give an increasing number of farmers access to ba..;. 4redit; and
(g)  harmonizing terms, conditions and procedures for making loans to
agriculture and fisheries.
mI.       SUPPORT SERVICES
17.       As regards the marketing of inputs, the Government is conmitted to
the objectives of liberalizing and privatizing it as soon as subsidies are
eliminated, and by so doing, to disA:.gage itself from these activities. To
this end, it has already taken measur-s designed to encourage the private and
cooperative sectors to increase their participation in this activity. Resale
margins for fertilizers were raised from 5S to 10% in 1985. Our objective is



ANNEX IU(b)
Page 10 of 15
to liberalize them and to create the conditions enabling the private and
cooperative sectors to be more active in the distribution of agricultural
inputs and thus to reduce public sector intervention in this area. Charge
policies for services provided by the public sector will aim to recover costs,
thus permitting these services to be undertaken by the private sector.
18.       Within this framework the price of irrigation water will be adjusted
over the next 10 years to recover the costs of operating and maintaining the
network, according to the conditions laid down in the Irrigation Managemeut
Improvement Project, including 100l recovery on 652 of the irrigated area by
1991. These measures will promote greater water savings and intensified
irrigation and will help to improve the financial situation of the irrigation
authorities (Offices de Mise en Valeur -- OMVs).
19.       Furthermore, and in accordance with the macro-economic adjustment
program, the quantitative restrictions on imports of capital goods for
agriculture will be phased out and will be entirely eliminated by the
beginning of 1988 at the latest, including 52 of tractor needs in the
horsepower range produced in Tunisia by the start of 1987. Remaining state
machinery services will be withdrawn from regions and services where the
private sector can adequately take over. This policy will be put in motion by
June [987 after the identification of such regions and services.
20.       A number of research and extension centers have already been built
in the various regions of Tunisia, and master plans are being prepared; the
training and visit system is being tested under the Northwest Agricultural
Production Project (Loan 2502-TUN). The Government's policy is designed to
strengthen agricultural research through the introduction of a pricrity
program, coordination of activities through centralized budget programming,
and a better status for researchers. As part of the VIIth Plan, it is
intended that extension activities be restructured with a view to establishing
a unified nationwide :;ystem.
IV.       NATURAL RESOURCES
21.       As regards land policy there are still a number of constraints on
the development of agricultural production, namely fragmentation, the lack of
titles for a certain number of farms, the legislation on rural leases,
insufficiently intensive farming of collective lands, and the absence of
appropriate legislation regarding the consolidation of rainfed land. The
Government is already working to solve these problems. Since the beginning of
the 1970s land consolidation measures have been applied in 45,000 ha of
irrigated areas, while 1 million ha of collective lands have been transferred
since Independence to 75,000 small private farmers. More recently the
Government has introduced a program for the long-term leasing of certain public
lands to development corporations and private companies, and has prepared
integrated development plans for a large number of state-owned holdings. The
Government's medium-term program calls for the continuation of transfers of
collective lands to private hands and for the introduction of measures designed
to encourage land consolidation in rainfed areas. The issuing of certificates
of possession will be accelerated, cadastral work will be stepped up and
measures to encourage intensified farming, such as extending rural leases,
will be studied. The program for the forestry sector aims to increase the



ANNEX IV(b)
Page 11 of 15
exploitation of the sector's productive potential and to safeguard forests by
more effective management of certain regeneration areas. Prices for cork and
esparto grass will be adjusted and investments will be made in equipment,
training and organization in order to achieve a significant increase in wood
production during the VlIth Plan.
22.       The program for the development of fish resources aims to encourage
fish exports and to promote bluefish on the domestic market so as to further
exploit the available resources of this species.
V.        AGRICULTURAL PERFORMANCE MONITORING AND POLICY ANALYSIS
23.       Finally, the program aims to strengthen the Ministry of Agriculture's
capability for analysis of agricultural policies and processing of statistics.
This capacity will be upgraded with a view to launching a detailed agricultural
price policy review, studying the relationships between agricultural policies
and selected macro-economic options, introducing a computerized system of
monitoring sector expenditure, and undertaking special studies to evaluate
agricultural policies. This analytical work will provide the Government with
the means to regularly monitor the medium-term agricultural development program
and to make adjustments as necessary.
24.       The attachment to this program contains a timetable of key actions
to be taken to implement the above prograw. The Government's agricultural
import program for the next two crop years (1986/87 and 1987188), designed to
support the development of the sector, is also attached (Table 1).
2236E/p3-11



ANNEX IV(b)
Page 12 of 15
Attachment
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM. 1986-1991
Tinetable of Key Actions
Actions                                         To Be Completed By
1.   Adjustment of producer prices to world market price
levels                                                         July 1988
2.   Eliminatiin of fertilizer subsidies                            July 1990
3.   Elimination of animal feed, 2-4-D herbicide
and improved cereal seed subsidies                           July 1989
4.   Presentation to Bank of an initial list of projects
and investment programs and project ideas consistent
with the overall approach to agricultural expenditures
with additions or deletions from the list during
the VIlth Plan to be based on agreed criteria                December 1986
5.   Start of private retailing of agricultural inputs
including seeds in two zones where volume of activity
has been 4dentified as such that the Government can
withdraw from input distribution, without prejudice
to the objective of Liberalization of input marketing
in the country as soon as subsidies are eliminated           June 1987
6.   Realization of a study to replace the cereal seed
exchange program with a private retailer-oriented
distribution system                                          June 1987
7.     Implementation of an export promotion strategy
including product specific export strategies
targetted to particuLar markets based on an
action plan                                                  June 1987
8.   Decision by the Governmeat on research issues (i.e.,
choice of institutional structure, definition of
priority research themes, reform of the station
network and preparation of national work programs
and budgets)                                                 June 1987
9.   Government approval of an action plan to implement the
extension master plan                                        June 1987
10. Preparation of an action plan to implement the new
forest development strategy                                  December 1986
11. Equipping the DPSAE with a price policy review
capability following previously established terms
of reference                                                 June 1987
12.  Setting-up of the expenditure monitoring system                 June 1987
2236E/pl_



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT PROGRAM. 1986-91
Imoort Proaraim for Aariculturail inputs for Crop Years 1936i/37 and 198711S
Identi-                                        Main              Procurement    Annual                          Projection for               Projection for
fication                                      Importer(s)         Procedure(s)   Imports    CIF Price                1986/87                  1986/87  1987/55
Number    Description of Goods                                                    (Tons)       (0/Ton)         t0 000)  iuS$ 00e)            (D 000)  (USS 000)
Field Crops and Irriaation Crops
31.14 Anoniumn (for the manufacture SAEPA (Arab Ni-   International
of nitrogenous fertilizers        trogenous Ferti-  Competitye
used in Tunisia's agri-          lizer Company)    Bidding                55.000         124           6.820        9.342           13.640      13.614
culture)
Sulphur (for phosphatic          SIAPE (Phosphoric         n
fertilizers, idem)               Acid and Fertili2er
company)
ICH (Maghrebian Chem-  0
ical Industry)                          35,000         113           3,955       5.417            7.910       10.834
Potassiin Sulphate               STEC (Tunisian
Chemical Fertili-
2er Company)
SCH (M6grine
Chemical Company)                       5000          161              805       1,102            1,610       2.204
07.12 Seed Potatoes                     OC (Cereals         International        17,000        2S5            4,335       5.938            8.670       11,376
Office)             competitive
bidding or at
least 3 quotes
for contracts
below US$2.0 million
Forage seed                      OEP (Livestock
and Range Agency)
GR. FOUPAST (Grain.
Forage and Pastoral)                           (various                600          822            1,200       1.644
ODESYPNO (Northwest                            products)
Rural Develop-
ment Office)
38.12 Insecticides and herbicides   Private                 International
(or the raw materials to         companies           competitive bid-                                                                                      o 
manufacture them)                OC (Cereals          ding or normal                                   4.300        5.890           8.600       11.781  
Office)             procedures/at least                                                                                   .
3 quotes for
contracts below                                                                                      ci.o 
US$5.0/2.0 million



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
MEDIUM-TERN AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM. 1986-9l
Imoort proaram for Acricultural Ilnuts for Cray Years 1596/87 and 1987/88
Identi-                                      Main              Procurement    Annual                        Projection for               Projection for
fication                                    Importer(s)         Procedurec5l   Imports    CIF Price              1986/87                 1986/87 A 1987/88
Number    Description of Goods                                                 (Tons)       (D/Ton)        (o 000)  (uSS 000)           (0 000)  (US5 000)
Livestock
10.15 Maize                            DC (Cereals        International
Office)            competitive        200.000         55          17,000      23.288          34.000      46.576
Private            bidding
Comani aS
23.13 Soybean neal                     OC (Cereals        International
Office)            competitive
Private            bidding            100.000        175          17,500      23,973          35,000      47,946
Companies
Vaccines                        Central Pharmacy  International
competitive
bidding or                                        365        So              730       1,000
normal proce-
dures/at least
3 quotes for
contracts below
US$S5.0/2.0 million
CMV (Vitamin-mineral            OEP (Livestock
eompounds or the raw mate-    and Range                  U                                            300         411             600         822
rials to manufacture them)    Agency)
Private                                                              400         S48             S00       1.096
Companies
Animal genetic material         OEP (Livestock           N
and Range                                                            730       1.000           1,460       2,000
Agency)
Private                                                              150         205             300         410
Purebred Cows and Bulls         OEP                 International                                   2,500       3.425           5,000       b.850
Competitive Bidding
p4(1
oo 
0   , C
U'



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTIURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM. 1986-91
Imoort Prooram for Aaricultural InDuts for Cron Tears 19a6i/7 and 1987/88
Identi-                                       Main              Procurement    Annual                          Projection for               Projection for
fication                                     Importer(s)         Procedure(s)   Imports    CIF Price               1986/87                  1986/87 & 1987/85
Number    Description of Goods                                                   (Tons)       (D/Ton)         (D 000c)   US$ 000)          (0 000)  (4US  000)
F1sheries
Rofpe                            Private Copanies Normal procedures    120                              660         90g            1,320       1.103
Nets                                 *               for contracts below                                880       1.205            1.760       2.410
Cables                                               US$5.0 million         445                         932       1.277           1564        2.554
n*oks                                                                                                    so          6s              10o          136
Floats
Hardware                             *                                                                   70           96             140          192
Timer for ships                     *                                      200                         400         548              800       1.096
Steel
2.992       4.098           5,984       8.196
Geneal
ODesel Fuel                      ETAP (Tunisian    International
Petrole,u  Activi- Conipetitive       200,000         110          22.000       30.136          44.000      60.274
ties Enterprise)  bidding
Spare Parts                      Private Companies Normal proce-
dures for con-                                  8.760       12.000          17.520      24.000
tracts below
US$5.0 million
Electric Hotors                                      International                                      500         Gas            1,000       1.370
competitive
Pumps                                                bidding or normal                                1.500       2.055            3,000       4.110
procedures/at
Raw Materials for the                                least 3 quotes                                   1.500       2.058            3.000       4.110
Manufacture of Irrigation                          for contracts
Pipes                                              below UStS.0/2.0 
million
TOTAL                                                                                                m7n1i                      fL   2m
2236E/pl4-6



Table 1
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (ASALI
MEOIUM-TEM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTlhENT_PROGRAM It_LAS&AP
Policy Recomnmndations and Action Proaram
I. Prices and Incentives
Policy             Government                                               Outstanding                  Hediun-Term Adjustnment                 Short-Term Measures
Area               Objectives             Measures Already Taken              Issues                        Program (1986-91)                          (1936/87)
Prices and   To Improve the prices   (1) 61 'slide' in the              (1) Stagnation of exports,    (l) Implement a strategy For    (1) On the basis oF an ongoing
tncentiies   and incentives system.  exchange rate; fiscal             of agricultural products.         promoting agricultural exports  study, prepare a prwmtion
especially for produ-   incentives for new                                                to achieve 4S annual growth         strategy for agricultural
cers, so as to achieve  export-oriented                                                   during the new Plan, by taking  exports that takes each product
the objectives assigned companies; studies by                                             specific measures in relation   into account and is targeted at
to the agriculture        CEPEX and the Ministry                                          to different products and           specific markets; examination
sector under the tIlth  of Agriculture to prepare                                         markets so as to increase           by the authorities of the
Plan (development of    an export strategy.                                               exports of both traditional         conclusions of the studies and
export-oriented                                                                           and new agricultural products   decision by the Government.
production and import                                                                     within the scope offered by
substitutes, increased                                                                    the EEC market.
efficiency and
employment creation).
(2) Producer prices for    (2)(a) Under-protection of    (2) Introduce a price policy    (2) Improve the relatively
cereals. milk and beef           duruin wheat and barley in  that encourages producers to    inadequate protection for the
raised by amnunts exceed-        relation to world prices;  grow products in which Tunisia  cereal sector and raise the
Ing Inflation since 1981;        Ib) world market diffe-    has a comparative advantage            Drices of durtn  wheat and
consumer prices for              rential between prices        and which would Improve the         barley so that they correspond
cereal products. milk and        for durar and bread wheat  sector's trade balance, taking  to non-subsidized world prices.
beef raised in recent            Is not being reflected In  world prices and exchange rate
years, premiwn for fresh         domestic prices;              fluctuations into account.
milk as opposed to               (c) Imports of powdered    Refine this policy on the
reconstituted milk.              milk and beef subsidized   basis of a permanent system
by exporting countries.    for analyzing the impact of
policies for agricultural
producer prices.
Strengthen Protection against
measures for temporary
reductions in export prices
of powdered milk and beef in
exporting countries.
(3)(a) Adoption of a 10-year  (3) Subsidies on inputs                (3) Pursue measures to reduce
program for the recovery   are a financial burden and             Input subsidies (animal feed.
of Ohm costs of irrigation a waste of money.                      fertili2ers, seeds and herbi-
networks as part of the                                           cides): continue the program
agreements made under                                             to recover OaH  costs of
the Irrigation Hanagement                                         irrigation networks.
Improvemunt Project; a:
(b) Gradual reduction of                                                                       e
subsidies for inputs
(animal feed, fertilizers,
7574EIp1                                                                   seeds and herbicides).
'0<C



Table 2
Page I of 4
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN IASALI
MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AOJUSThENT PROGRAM (INASAPI
Policy Recwmundations And Action ProaraM
II.  Public Exendituru
Policy            Goverrwent                                             Outstanding                 Mediun-Term Adjustment                 Short-Term Measures
Area              Objectives             Measures Already Taken             Issues                       Program (1986-91)                        (1996/87)
Public       ({) Increase the pro-   (1) Proposed l956 invest-  (1) Need to define investment (1) Sector Investment Strateov  11) FfD5A: Government would
EtAenditurtl tivity of the public   mrnt budget (Titre I) cut  strategy for medium-term for              (a) Increase efficiency of   agree to separate the loan
investment p!ogram in   by 102 from 1955 level in  each major subsector.                       resource use:              portion from the subsidy por-
agriculturr in terms    current prices.                                                    (b) Promote export earning   tion of the FOSOA program and
of the Goverrnent's                                                                            and import saving acti-  develop a plan to shift the
objectives for the                                                                             vities (e.g. fish,         risk of lending to the bank-
sector (export promo-                                                                          cereals, meat and milk   ing sector.
tion and efficient                                                                             productionO;
import substitution                                                                       (e) Increase labor intensi-
to improve the balance                                                                         ty of expenditures
of payments, and sus-                                                                          (e.g. through more
tain growth and employ-                                                                        appropriate interest and
mrnt creation,                                                                                 wage rate policies):
(d) Shift comnerclal activi-
ties out of public into
private sector (e.g.
turn FOSDA's credit
functions over to bank-
ing system. priVati2e
leasing): and
(e) Avoid delays in project
implementation.
(2) Suhsectoral Investment        (2) OL g Irricati: Government
Stratenies: Irrination            should reinstate the Irrigation
(a) Complete existing pro-   Management Improvement Project
jects where viable;        in the budget for 1987 and seek
(b) Improve management of    to find ad hoc funds for start-
water use at regional    up in 1986.
and farmer levels; and
Cc) Have new project met
acceptable economic
rate of return.
Lvestock:
(a) Develop a strategy for
production by special-
i2ing breeder sheep/
cattle in central and
southern regions and
fattening in northern
reg4ons;
h0l
%I    .



Tabl  2
Page 2 of 4
REPUBLIC QF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT LOAM (ASAL)
MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL St          RSGRAH (KTASAPI
Policy Recommendations and Action Proaram
II. Public Expenditures
Policy            Government                                             Outstanding                 Mediun-Term Adjustment                Short-Term Measures
I e?a            Objectives            Measures Already Taken             Issues                       Program (1986-91)                        (1986/87)
(b) Emphasize Investment In
the private sector: and
(c) Improve support services
i.e., research, extension,
training. animal health.
Research IL Extnsi1on:
(a) Train and hire subjnet
matter specialist and
eke the available to
extension agents;
Cb) Ilrove eeuipment at
existing research and
extension field sta-
tions; and
Cc) Construct new extension
centers and provide ap-
propriate nu ber of
vehicles and gas to
operate the effeetive-
ly.
Forest
la) Carry out new forest
surveys;
(b) Rehablittate existing
forests;
(c) Increase production re-
forestation;
Cd) Introduce -ood energy
conservation; and
(e) Ste the loss of forests
to desert encroactent.
Fruit Trees:
(a) Make credit available on
appropriate terms and
grace periods to prcote
private sector Involve-
ment;
(b) Redirect PAN program to
planting forests and
installing pereanent                                  I'
pastures; and
C



Page 3 of 4
REPUBLrC OF TUNI5A
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTKENT LOAN (ASAL)
MEDtIUM-TERH AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AOJUSTMENT PTMARAN INTASAPI
Policy Recommenndations and Action Prooras
II. Public Exoenditures
Policy            Goverrnent                                             Outstanding                 Iedits-Terr  Adjustment               Short-Tern Heasures
Area              Objectives             Measures Already Taken            Issues                       Program (19S6-91)                        (1916517)
lc) Ierave morket identifi-
cation on forelgn
warkets.
Fisheries:
(a) make more efficient the
existing investments in
terms of ports. boats.
and equipment:
(bh  Increase infrastructure
of coastal fishing;
(el Provide cold storage
services; and
(d) Proiote private-public
sector. joint ventures.
grain Storang:
(a) Rehabilitate priary
silos which receive
grain directly from
farzers;
Lb) Provide modern etu1p-
ment for handling.
cleaning and storing
grain;
(c) Begin to convert grain
systen to bulk handling;
(d) iMprove rail spurs to
silos.
(2) Reduce the burden   (1) Cutting back and post- (1) Cost recovery of loans    (2) Agree on following criteria
of Investaent and Re-   poning of development pro- and sound banking practices;            ia) economic rate of return
current Expenditures    jects; and (2) reducing    (2) shifting OLM costs of                    (ERR)" above oppor-
on the budget of the    recurrent expenditures         irrigation onto users.                   tunity cost of capital
central Goverrnent.       budget for 1986 over 1985.                                            (OCC) (10-in%);
(b) high net earnings;sav-
ings of foreign ex-
change;
(c) high private sector
mwployent creation                                  a
with low investment
cost;                                               a



Table .2
Page 4 of 4
REPttLIC OF TUNSTA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (ASALI
MEDIUM-TERM ACRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM tITASAPI
Poler RennJmmantions and Action Prodr-
II.  Public EX  odituru
Policy            Goverruunt                                             Outstanding                Hedium-Term Adjustment                 Short-Tern Measures
Area              Objectives            Measures Already Taken             Issues                       Program (1986-911                        (1986/87)
(31 Identify a set of   Goveriuent has set the        Lack of agreed set of                (d) low central Govenwnet  (3) Set nMs for recurrent-ex-
criteria for seleCtion  objectives for the            criteria for project                     budget contribution       penditures to efficiently  ain-
of the most appro-       WlIth plan.                  selection.                               to inwestment and         tain existing Investments and
grtati   projects for                                                                          recurrent costs: and    works. e.g. puing stations.
the Vllth Plan.                                                                            (e) speed of project exe-
cution and realization
of benefits.
(4) Strengthen capacity                               (4) Lack of centralized sys-                                       (4) Introduce a computerized
of Ministry of Agricul-                               stem  for monitoring project                                       sstem for monitoring cost and
ture to monitor expen-                                costs and expenditures.                                            expenditure in OPSAE.
ditures.
(5) Finalize list of projects/
project ideas meeting subsector
strategy and project criteria-
(6) Prepare a list of *core-
projects ani.mting to no *are
than 65t of Initial Plan allo-
cations based en agreed criter-
ia (quick production respanse.
low budSetary cost and pasture
employment impact.
11 Based on economic pricing of unskilled labor. mjor Inputs and outputs.
2S74EIp2-5
C
C0



Rbkle
Page 1 of 5
RIPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTlENT LOAN (ASALI
HtDSLUH-TERH ASUZLTURAI SEC11R AOJUSTJIIT FRA  (nA
Policv Recommendations and Action Procrtw
111.  Irriaation Manacement
Main Problems        Reasons                      Effects               Measures Already Taken      Action P;ogrm Under Project"'  Medium-Term Objectives
A. Resoure
Water         1. Large and very small 1. Goverrment.; invest-    1. Rehabilitation of irriga-  1. Introduction of a binmi1al   1. Increase irrigation inten-
available    land holders not using  ment in irrigation tnfra-  tlion networks and improved    water charge formula including  sity to adequate levels (lIOM)
in Public    water resources inten-  structure not being           extension service under         (a) a fixed contribution on a   in particular in the perimeters
Perimeters   sively because of land  adequately exploited and   Bank's Irrigation Rehabili-   per-irrigable ha basis charged  of the northern areas. dhtch
CPPI).       related constraints.    production potential not   tation Project (tn 1068-TUN)  to every farmer whether he uses represent about 60  of PPI-s
located In   labor availability and  achieved.                     induced an estimated 25t in-  the water or not and represent- total irrigable areas.
northern     pricing policies.                                     crease in water use In          ing the minima desirable w3ter
part of the                                                        Medjerda and Uebhana Perl-    use; and (bi a voluetric term.
country      2. IneFficiencies in                                  meters to current levels.
is under-    water deliveries are                                  These efforts are being Pur-  2. Governaent's conntment
utilized     a disincentive to                                     sued under the current          (Poltcy letter] to pursue its
(60  In     water use.                                            Hedjerda/Uebhana Irrig. Pro-  efforts to imple_nent the 1935 
average).                                                          jeCt (Ln 21S7-Tim) and new    1963 Agrarian Reform La.s for
3. Areas newly                                       measures under proposed pro-  PPI and limit the size of land
converted from                                        ject would have synergetic    holdings.
rainfed to irrigated                                  effect.
(PPI of Jendouba).
B. gm
Financial
Autonom
t. amV
Financial
SituatZQn
1. All OHVs  1. Low water charges    1l.Meavy and increasing      1. Largely because of Sa-    1. Iinroavints in OHs opera-  1. Increased financial aultn-
largely de-  low tarrifs far other   burden an Government's        projects, water charges hawe  ting efficiency.                    a y of QWs resulting in a
pendent on   OPVs services (input    budget.                        been substantially increased                                     decrease In Govt. tperating
Govt. sub-   distrtbution. mechani-                                 (about lOOt) since 1980.       2. Increase in water charges   subsidies.
sidies for   zation services. etc.).                                                               tariffs for other OMVs- services.
their opera-
tions: sub-
sidies repre-
senting more
than 60 of
operating 
costs In 1982.                                                                                                                                                  ae
I/  Matrix for program to be ivplemented under the Irrigation Management Inrovem rt Project (LIn. 2573-TUi).



Page 2 of S
REPUBLIC OF TtMISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (ASALI
IMEDIUM-TERH AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT POGRCAN (NTASAPI
Poli1ev Reconmundations and Action Proaras
I11   Irricatlon Ianamemnt
Main Problems        Reasons                     Effects               Measures Already Taken      Action Program UWder Project        Mediu-Term Objectives
Recoverv
I  Low       1. Slow and IneFfec-    1. Very low participation                                    1. Govt.'s cxmitment (Policy   1. Recovery of invest  nt costs
levels          tive apDlication          of farmers In PPIs to                                      Letter) to pursue imple-          as provided under Agrarian
irrigation      of Agrarian Reform        the financing of irri-                                     mentation of Agrarian             Reform Laws.
investment      Laws, which provide       gation infrastructure                                      Reform In Pls and collect
cost             for adequate invest-    cost.                                                        land betterment levy.
recovery.       ment cost recovery
mechanism and levels.
2. Low       1. Water charges too    1. Water charges Currently 1. Recovery of water charges  1. indexation of water aiarges. 1. Recovery of at least lOOt of
levels of       low and not deter-        covering only 30-60%        due from farmers is         2. Increase of 9S in real terms    full Irrigation OLm costs
irrigation      mined in function         (average 5sn) of irri-      excellent (about Io0).         of water charses during           within far ers  ability
OCM cost         of farmerslability       gaiton OAK charges.         Water charge levels             project period,                  to pay.
recovery,       to pay.                2. Need for awnual opera-      increased by about lOOt    3. Introduction of binoMial
ting Subsidies from         since 1980.                    formula for water charges
Gov't to Offices WOW/u)                                     (except in oases projects).
for irrigation OLH                                      4. Privilege d'Etat for the
activities,                                                recovery of fixed term of
water charges.
S. Introduction of systematic
monitoring by OHVs of repre-
sentative crouifarm budtets
I of faruers' ability to pay.
I. Cost      1. Inadequate             1. OHVs' margin not suffl- 1. Cost accounting to be set  1. Setting-up cost accowiting   1. Beneficiaries to bear full
recovery of     knowledge of real         clent to cover costs.       up by Kairouan and OOTC        system within OHVs,               cost of OHes' cnmmrctal
0HVs' com-      cost oF services.    2. Need for annual opera-        Offices under Baik's        2. Beneficaries to bear full         services.
nercial ser- 2. Services seen as          ting subsidies from         Central Tunisia Irrigation    costs of SlVs services.         2. Gradual divestiture by OW's
vices (In-      promotional tools         Government.                 Project (Ln. 2234-TUN).    3. Govt's camita ent and              of comercial services  hitch
Put distri-     with farmers not                                      to determine real cost         agreant on criteria for           can be provided by private
bution           requtred to beer                                     of services.  These OWs        divestiture by OHVs of            or cooperative sectors.
machinery        full cost.                                           to charge full cost of          their comnercial activities
services),                                                            services.                       (Policy letter).
IV
r
C



Table 3
Page 3sof 5
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT LOAN IASALI
HEDIUM-TERH AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT POGRAM EMTASAPI
Policy Racanmmndations and Action Proora
IIr.  rrrication ManaaMnt
Main Problems        Reasons                       Effects               Measures Already Taken       Action Program Uder Project          meJdum-Term Objectives
C. Relation-
shiOVsX
Farmns
1. Lack of   1. OMvs In charge of    1. Heavy OHVs' adminis-    1. Establishment. under Banks 1. Simplification of adminis-   1. Establishient of active UUAs
intermdiary    hater delivery and          trative and technical        Central Tunisia Project.        trative controls over and          dhtch could assume technical
structure        management down to        machinery.                   of Ug facto UUAs in the         operating procedures of            and financial responsibility
between OQV      field level.           2. Increase in OMrs             perimeters of Kairouan          existing WUAs.                     for water  ardeint.
and farmers. 2. Lack of incentives        0GM costs.                    and OOTC; definition of    2. Definition of legal frame-           maintenance of infrastrtc-
for farmers to        3. Lack of far-ers' parti-    a legal framework for now          work for establish  ent           tire and replactMt of
group themselves         cipation in investment        style WUAS and for              of new. s aller. more             SO   equipment.
to undertake part        decisions or In water         possible contractual            flexible WAts.                 2. Gradual divestiture of OWif
of water management      management and infra-         relationship between         3. Introduction of incentives        oF CLM of damitrem
activities.               structure maintenance.       WUAS an  OMYs.                  (water charge discount) for        irrigatior.
3. Existing WAs are                                                                       farners' groups to undertake
large, adminis-                                                                        part of 004 activities.
trative bodies,                                                                     4. Establishlnt of new
heavily controlled                                                                     tUlLs to be aoe of Ofvs'
by Gov't services.                                                                     performance Indicators.
0. Rulatlon-
1. Lack of   1. Operating subsidies  1. Lack of incentives           1. Bank projects and super-   1. Setting-up cost accounting   1. OHVs to be cost effective.
clarity and      granted globally and    for GOvs to be cost            viston provtding the            system within OCfs.             2. Adequate control by Goivt
specificity      not by cost center.       effective.                   mechanism for better         2. OHVs' operating budget to          over OHHs' use of resources.
in Govern-   2. Grey areas in the    2. Financing of OUL  an            Gov't control over              be presented by cost/          3. Maintenance of infrastruc-
ment finan-      definition and            investment budget and        participatins OPVs.             activity centers.                  ture & equipment done on a
ing of OMVs'    financing of               vice versa.                                               3. Operating subsidies to be          regular  effective mamer.
operations.      investments/UN         3. Shortage of funds for                                        activity-specific and not
activities.              activities which are                                          transferable between
3. Lack of cost              not considered to                                            activities.
iccounting system.       require icmediate                                          4. Identification of a special
4. Lack of monitoring        attention                                                    maintenance ite  in OHWs'
of OHVs' activities       (maintenance).                                               budget.
and use of resources
by Governrmnt.
00
5!



Table 3
Page 4 oF 5
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (ASALI
MIIUM-TERH AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM IKTASAPI
Policy Recommendations and Action Proaram
1II. Irrigation Management
Main Problems        IZnasons                      Effects                Measures Already Taken       Action Program Under Project         Medium-Term Objectives
2. Lack of   1. Lack of planning        1. No medium-term deve-    1. Bank projects providing    1. Introduction on a pilot              1. OHVs to develop medium-term
mediuLm-term     capabilities in OMVs    lopment strategy.               the Framework for medium-       basis of "contrats-plan  for    plans and strategies to meet
development      and Gov't services.  2. No basis to judge per-          term planning of partici-       selected OMVs; definition          clearly identified develop-
plans/objec- 2. OKVS operating more        formance or to define         pating 01Vs' activities.        of medium-term development         ment objectives set by
tives for        like administrative       policies.                                                     plans for all OHVs to cover        Goverment.
OMVs.            services than auto-                                                                     the period of Tunisian new
nomous enterprises.                                                                     Development Plan (1987-91).
2. Definition of monitorable
targets and performance
indicators.
3. Strengthening of hinistry
of Agriculture planning
capabilities.
3. Lack of   l. Lack of planning/    1. Lack of Gov't control                                         1. Strenthening of MOA's          1. Active Gov't involvement
efFective        monitoring capabili-    over OHVs' use of                                               planning and monitoring            in setting objectives for
Govt. con-       ties in the suPer-        resources and produc-                                         capabilities.                      OMVs and monitoring their
trol over        visory ministries.        tivity.                                                    2. Setting-up of an effective         performance.
OHVs.         2. Absence of efficient                                                                    HIS within OHVs.
MIS within OMVS.
E. OHms
1. Account-                             1. Accounting/financial    1. Problem identified through 1. Definition of basic. stan-   1. Efficient MIS to senerate
ing princi-                                statements not reliable,   independept audits of              dard accounting principles         reliable and timely
ples and                                   not produced on time          ONVs participating in           and procedures; procedure          information as basis for
procedures                                 and not presented in          Bank projects.                  manual and staff training.         decision-making by OHVs
not clearly                                standard format.                                           2. Establishment of reliable          and Gov't.
deFined.                                2. Lack of sound basis                                           opening financial statements
for decision-making.                                         for each OMV.
2. No Man-                                                                                            3. Definition l setting-up of
agement In-                                                                                              efficient HIS: training of
formation                                                                                                staff.
System (MIS)                                                                                          4. Management control/internal
audit established in the
OHVs selected for centrats
de plan' experiments.
3. General
lack of Cost                                                                                                                                                        3
conisc i us- 
nc%s.                                                                                                                                                                'Ol
'0 C



Table 3
Page 5 of 5
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN tASAL1
MEDIUM-TERN AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PRDGRAM (KTASAP1
Policy Recommendations and Action Program
III. Irrtaatton Nanraement
main Problems        Reasons                       Effects               Measures Already Taken       Action Program Under Project         Medium-Term Objectives
4. Staff in  1. Govt's decision to   1. InflatedJ cost of ONVS                                       1. Govt's comuitment (Policy    1. Increase productivity of
general too      provide employment;       services.                                                    Letteri to limit recruitments  ODVs' staff to reduce cost
ntmerous A       local pressure.        2. Quality of services                                           to strict minim., necessary       of services.
underquali-  2. UeVs' lack of cost-        nut satisfactory.                                             for efficient operations.
Fied; lack       consciousness.         3. Difficulty to define                                      2. oefinlition by each OHV of
of critical  3. Salaries offered by        and implement personnel                                       a medium-term target for
technical S      OKVs cannot compete       policy & to manage                                           desired staff composition &
ranagerial       with private sector       staff.                                                        structure and of strategy
skills.          for valuable tech-                                                                      (non-replacement of departing
nical/managerial                                                                       staff, training. etc.) to
skills.                                                                                reach target within specified
4. Inadequate financial                                                                   timeframe; evolution toward
incentives for                                                                         target to be included as
stafF to reward                                                                        performance indicator.
performance.
S. Political/social
power of National
Workers' Union.
6. Lack of training
programs.
5.Inadequate l. Low priority given   1. Rapid degradation of    1. Training programs ini-            1. Funds for maintenance to be  1. Adequate maintenance of
maintenance      to regular main-          infrastructure and           tiatad under Bank                clearly earmarked In OMVs         existing infrastructure and
of irriga-       tenance in compa-         need for successive and    projects.                          annual budget.                    equipment to avoid need for
tion infra-      rison with new            costly rehabilitation                                     2. Quality of maintenance to be    rehabilitation.
structure B      investnents/              of existing works                                            monitored through perfor-
electro-         rehabilitation.           and equipment.                                               mance Indicator.
mechanical                                                                                           3. Training of OHVs' technical
equipment.                                                                                               staff.
4. Mediut-Term contracts to be
signed by OHVs with special-
ized firms for maintenance
of complex MEN equipment and
training of ONws staff.
2574E/p6-10
inll



Page 1 of z
REPuBLlC OF TUNIS5IA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSThENT PROGRAM INTASAPI
Sector Adlustmuent Proarar
IV. Agricultural Credit
Medium-Term Adjustment                     Short-Term Measures
Policy   Government               Measures                                                       Program - 1986-1991                             1936-1937
Area      Objectives           Already Taken                   Outstanding issues                   (Priorities)                                (Priorities)
Agric.   Encouraging   1. Raising of interest           l. Inadequate resource mobiliz-   Implementation of an Action                 (a) Freezing FOSGA budget allocations
Credit   the banking         rates by 0.75S to 22          ation for agriculture (e.g.    Plan aiming at:                                  in 19B7 at the same level as In
sector to          in 1985.  Rates are           rural savings) and inefficient 1. Improving the mobilization                   1936 in nominal terms and
increase its      now positive in real           use of available resources            of banks internal resources              reducing tnem by ISt In 1938
role in            terms.                                                              (rural savings) and improving
mobilizing                                                                             the Financial efficiency of
resources and 2. Enforcing collection    2. High cost to the Government                agricultural credit operations   (b) Preparing an action plan
In providing      of arrears, a improv-          of subsidies provided through         through increased Fungibility            by source of funds on the fin-
credit to          ing recovery perform-         FOSDA and other special funds         of funds                                 ancial viability of agricultural
farmers           ance.                                                                                                         credit operations (1910-B5
3. Inadequate risk sharing           2. Phasing out Goverrnment budget            performance and 1986-91
3. Restricting FOSOA/FOSEP                                             allocations to FOSDA credit               prospects) and implementing the
credits to small and    4. Low recovery rates                       functions and to other special           reconmendations made
medlum farmers/fishermen                                            credit funds while mobiliaing            on margins (spreads) risk-
s. Need to revise spreads on             other resources for institutional    sharing and recovery systm
4. Making operational the        agricultural credit                   credit                                    (06/87)
National Guarantee            operations as an incentive
Fund (FNGI for small          for the banking sector to         3. Transferring part of the risk
and medium farmers            finance agriculture                   assumed by Government to GNT
and to the banking sector, and
6. Need to define small and              revising agriculture lending
medium farmers eligibility            procedures
to institutional credit by
according sufficient weight    4. Implementing the recovery
to their  incone                     measures taken. rescheduling
certain debts when justified
7. Proliferation of Agri-                (natural disasters) and
cultural credit programs              eliminating the tax on
with different requirements           provisions for bad agri-
and complex procedures               cultural debts
IV
00
B



Table 4
Page 2 oF 2
RIPUQLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AOJUSTMENT PROGRAM (HTASAP)
Secter Adiustment Preoram
IV. Aericultural Credit
medium-Term Adjustment                    Short-Term Heasures
Policy   Government              Measures                                                      Program - 1986-1991                            1986-1987
Area     Objectives           Already Taken                   Outstanding issues                  (Priorities)                               IPriorities)
AgH'e.                                                                                          S. Increasing banks margins
Credit                                                                                             (spreads) on aor. credit
operations and maintaining
positive interest rates In
real terms by instituting
a mechiism for yearly
adjustment
6. Defining the eligibility
oF small and nmdtuu
farmers to institutional
credit by according sufficient
weight to their agricultural
net revenues In order to
reach a larger number of
small and wmdium
farmers through Bank credit,
and to provide special Govt
financial assistance to low-
income farmers.
7. Harmonlzing terms and conditions
for subloans supplied to farmers
by a lead bank system
2574E/pl 1-i
.-



Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSThENT LOAN (ASALI
MEOIUJM-TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM INTASAPI
Policy Recommendations and Action Proaram
V. Acricultural Research
Policy            Goverment                                             Outstanding         Medium-Term Adjustment           Short-Term Measures
Area              Objectives           Measures Already Taken             Issues                Program (1986-91)                   (1986/7)
AGRICULTURAL Allocation of finan-   Preparation of Agricultural  Near-absence of            Restructuring of researCh    Selection of research
RESEARCH      cial and manpower        Research masterplan.            plannins and         based on one of several         priorities. (1986)
resources to researCh                                   programming.          alternatives proposed in
priorities in accord-                                                         the INSAR masterplan study.
ance with national                                      Duplication
and regional develop-                                   between various       Improve internal discip-
ment objectives.                                         institutes and        line over research             Coverruent to accept
agencies,            workers, encourage              and Implemnt propos-
teasork. provide for           als for improved
Lack of staff        monitoring of progress          salary and career
Increase research                                       motivation.  high   of research activities            structure for aoric-
productivity,                                           turnover of           and establish indepen-          cultural research
experienced staff.  dent periodic evaluation,    staff. (1956)
Insuffitcent flow   Improve internal technical
of up-to-date        and financial mfnagemnt
research results    and provide for greater          Selection (19561.
to farm coumjnity.  flexibility In procurewent   acceptance (1936)
and disbursement proc-         and subsequent prOe-
Inadequate Insti-   edures.  ImWrove research    ressive iuplement-
tutional contacts   staff travel allowances.         ation of restruct-
with extension.                                      uring proposal.
(1983-9I1 
Lack of monitoring  Establishient of regional
and evaluation.      extension/research              Determine size and
Ceui ttees.                    location of substations
Excessive size of                                    roquired for research
field stations       Decide on use of excessive   In next 10 years.
and consequently.   land of substations possibly
imalanced use        rent to private farmers.
of budgetary
resources.
Diproved fertilizer    Estabitshment of 5 soil                                 Strengthen and coordinate
use.                     chemistry laboratories with                           INNAT, OPVI Soils Depart-
USAIO Assistance.                                    ant regional fertilizer
and soil testing program.                                               f
ow



Page 2 of 2
REPUILIC Of TUN1SIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTaR ADJUSTMENT LOAN AMSAL)
MEDIUM-TER4 AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM INTASAPI
Pol1ev Recomnhndations and Action Proarm
V. Aoricultural Research
Policy            Goverment                                            Outstanding         MediuwTmeru Adjustment          Short-tern Measures
Area              Objectives          Measures Already Taken             Issues               Program (1986-91)                   (1916/7)
AGRICULTURAL Improved                 Detailed proposal on Farm    Inadequate re-          Establishment of Farm          Decision on farm
RESEARCH     machinery use.           Machinery Research Centre    search on animal    Machinery Centre within            machinery center.
animal production,      in Agricultural Mecha-          production. far.    the framework Of Lhe
nizatian Hasterplan Study.   machinery. farm        Agricultural Research
management           Institutions.  Strengthen
economics.           Animal Production Research
by arranging research
contracts.
Strengthen farm anarLagent
economics research.
Improved dissemin-                                      Insufficient use    Preparation of Progress
ation of research                                       of field stations   reports by all research
results.                                                due to lack of       institutes and regular
vehicles and too    dissemination of research
low indemnties       sumaries to all agencies
for staff travel.   responsible for extenston.
with recwuumndati ws
on release of information
to farmers of prior
local adaption testing.
Publication of Research
Journal upcn to publications
by staff and all Institutes
and Agencies.
Improved manpower                                       Insufficient part-  Periodic consultations          Increased research
mobilization for                                        icipation of         betwmn Research Agency or   under contract within
research in Higher                                      Academic Staff and  Conc1il and Agricultural        the proposed restruc-
Agricultural Educa-                                     students in coor-   Education Institutes to         turnd institutional
tion Institutes.                                        dinated research    reco--end research topics    framework. 19171
activities.          for teaching staff and
students. Greater financial
allocations for research by
Agricultural Education
Institutes (IHAT and ENSA's).
ZS74E/pl3-4                                                                                                                                                         4!



agse 1 at 2
AGRICUELTURAL SECTO ADJUSTHENT LOAN IASALI
NfUiHl-TER1 AMUTCUS   dPfOGa  aITASAP
Policy UeesunaiogadAction Proarn
VI. Aericultural Extunclon
Poll cy           Goverrent                                           Outstanding         Nei cs-Ters Adjustment         Short-Ter. itasures
Area              Objectives          Measures Already TakEn            Issues               Prograg  (19S691)                   (ffl)n
AGRICULTURAL Improve the flow of    Preparation of Agricultural  Iultiplicity of          Restructuring of Extenston  DOsigption of Lead
EXlINSIOQ    up to date lnformatton Extension MaSterplan Study.  agencies Providing  ServiCes with Central unit   Ageacy aw  Sfernfent
to farmers on tech-                                    extension services  for Policy. Training. ume    decision an Extensitn
nical economic.         Establishtent of network       wMich often          of muss media. methodology.  restructwing. phasing.
institutional and       of extension centers.          overlap.                                            selection a' priority
inrbeting aspects of                                                                                       areas. staffing. equip-
tht far. unit. in       Improved extension feth-       Insufficient up-    Separate field officers         *nt reiir,ets and
order to increase       odology In N.W  Rural          dating of technical tasks on Input distribution  methodology.  Special-
agricultural produc-   Development Project             Information for      statistical data collection. ised services to
tion with emphasis      (Loan 1997 TUN. NhW. Asr-   dissemination amon  technical support to credit  orovide subject _tter
on priority cammod-    icultural Production            farmrs.             lnstitutions and other         speclalists for axee-
ities and areas.        Project (Loan 2502 Tis).                            administrative duties from   ution of extenion
and to Increase         Gabes Irrig. Project                                the technical advisory         progra    at regional
farm 1nc.               (Loan 2605 TUN*.                                    service to farmrs.             level. with ,   pasis on
priority areas depending on
imrove the return       Establishment of extension   Insufficient           Establishment of Regional    economi  and Financial
flow of informot1on    unit for irrigation             regular contacts    ExtensionlResearch Cimel-    criteria.  Improved
to agricultural res-   methods in lower Nedjerda    with Research and  saons witn responsIbility    _ethodology to inclade
earch and to agricul-  Valley.                         insufficient return to provide extension and        T & V ele_nts.
tural policy makers                                    flow of informt ton research servtces opoor-
on the constraints      Training of extension starf  to Research about   tunity for periodic updating
facing farmers,         and provision of technical   farmer's               of relevant research infor-
assistance through USAID-    constraints and       etion  n the one hand and
assisted projects. West       about reactions on  with identified research
Cermn. Belgian and Dutch    new research            requirernts on the other.
technical assistance.          findings.
Training of extension         Often Insufficient
staff in comunication         training of exten-  Encourage private enterprise.
methodology undertaken by    s1on staff in          such as dealers in plant
various Projects receiw-      cwRuw,ication         protection cheicals. fruit
ing World Bank and IFAD       techniques.           tree and vegetable seedling
Financing and by DPV.                               nurseries, farm  achinery
importers and producers, to
Separation of extension       Multiplicity of       play a larger role in
and input supply tasks        taSkS to be           furnishing technical and
in iedjerda Project,          provided by          economic Information, and to
ILn. 2157 TUNI.               extension staff.    participate in training                                                   C



Page Z oF 2
REPULIC orF UNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT LOAN EASAL)
MEDIUM-TEAM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM IMTASAPI
Policy Reacmundations and Action Prooram
VI. Agricultural Extension
Outstanding                                             Medium-Term Policy
Sub-Sector        ObJectives              Main Issues         Measures Underway or Taken            Recoffnndations                   ASAL Action
AGRICULTURAL                                                                                   activities such as safe
EXTENSION                                                                                      handling of agricultural
chemicals, farm mchinery
raintenance and operation.
lnrove extension        Cooperative Control                                    Technical staff of Control
support to agricul-      Office to provide both                                 Office of Cooperatives to be
tural cooperatives.      managerial and tech-                                    integrated in Extension
nical advice.                                          Service.
2574C/p15-6                                                                                                                                                          S
3e



Table 7
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSThENT LOAN IASALI
MEDrUM-TERM ArRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM I(TASAPI
Policy Recamuendations and Action Program
VII. Input Marketina
Policy            Government                                             Outstanding                  Medium-Term Adjustment             Short-Term Measures
Area              Objectives             Measures Already Taken             Issues                       Program c19a6-91g                      (1996/7)
INPUT         Increased economic use  Establishment of 3 labs    Relatively low levels               While liberaliuing retail
MARKETING    of Fertilizers.            for soil analpsis and        of fertilizer use,               margins, promote additional
initiation of systematic   including K.                      licensing of private
soil fertility monitoring.                                   retailers.
Reduce waste in use                                    Inadequate density                                                 Provide training in stock
of Improved cereal        Establishnent of 12          of retail outlets.                                                 management of inputs.
seed.                     bufferstock warehouses
by STEC.                     Predominance of single                                             Provide training in handling.
Increase accessibility                                 wholesale agenry.                                                  labeling and safety aspects
of cereal seed to all                                                                                                     of plant protection chan-
farmers.                  Establishment of 14          Insufficient availability                                          ieals  Promulgate legislation
distribution centers         of CAP.                         Agricultural Credit Instit-        on non-adherance to safety
by OC.                                                       utions to consider issuis;         reconendations.
input credit for advance
Premotional action by        Concentration of fer-           purchase of fertilizer prior    Expand and intensify regional
STEC to recruit private    tilizer demand prior              to harvest of current year's    fertilizer experiments and
retailers.                   to planting.                    crop to reduce delays in           related soil fertility monitor-
delivery.  Government to          ing to provide farmrs with
Excessive use of cereal         allow differential retail          more detailed fertilizer
seed by large farmers           pricing to encourage early         recommendations.
and insufficient use            purchase.
by small farmers.                                                  Include advice on economic
Study and implement improve-    aspects in fertilizer
Insufficient attention          ments in the excnange system    recommendations.
to safety recomnen-             of seed distribution and en-
dations in storage              large the role of retailer of   Extension service to en-
and handling of plant           inputs to reach snell and          courage use of seed and
protection chemicals.           mediun farmers and eliminate    fertilizer drills for more
excessive use of wheat seed.    economic use of Inputs. and
construction of low-cost
Achieve better balance between  on faru storage facilities.
availability of barley seed
Budwood collections being  Insufficient quality              vs. wheat seed.                    Completion of budwood collec-
established by public and  and quantity of dm-                                                  tions.  Increase of m_rgins
private sector.              estic fruit tree                Study possibility of exports    in particular of grafted
seedling production.            of seeds of vegetables and         seedlings of apples. pears.
other specialized seeds.          apricots. pistachios from
adequately inspected
nurseries.
Execute seed marketing    ag
study.
2574E/pl7



Fage 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMEXT LOAN EASALI
MEOIIM-TER  AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTnENT PROGRW   NTiASAPl
PolicY Recamendations and Action Proaram
VIII. FarM Mechanization
Hediim-Term Policy
Sub-Sector        Objectives              Main Issues         Measures Underway or Taken            Reeomendatlons                    ASAL Action
FARM        Improve efficiency   Inadequate research          Agricultural Mechanization        Assignrnt of Agricultural        Training and appoint ent
MECHANI-    of existing farm       and extension on           Masterolan Study completed        Machinery Subject Matter          of first 4 AMK's 11957).
ZATION      machinery.  Reduce   optimal methods of           In 1985.                          Specialists (AKSs) to
production Cost and  tillage, seeding                                              assist and direct extension
improve output        and other cultural                                           work on agriculture. inCh-
through introduc-    practices.                                                    anization, training of
tion of Improved                                                                   AMSi's abroad.
technology.
Preparations for agricultural   StrenLthening of Research          Decision to be taken by
mechanisation experiments         and Experimentation. notably   Snverlment on Institut-
in 3.W. aEricultural Produc-    on land preparation. seeding   ional frawersk of Farm
Project (Loan 2SO2 TtUl.          fertilizer application.          iaehinery Research Centre.
Consultant under recruitment                                       and the timing of Its
Trials on sall-scale mechan                                        establishiint. I1936)
isation In 1.W. Rural Devel-
opment Project (toan 1997 TUN).
Improved farm         Insufficient after                                           Satisfactory and effective        Lifting of import
machinery after       sales service and                                             contractual arrangeents with  ban of tractors
sales service.        lack of competition                                           local dealers to provide         produced by CtT
for tractors of                                              after sales service and spare  and issuing of Impnrt
45-110 HP range.                                             parts supplies to be made        permits for limtsed
Uncertainty over                                             conditional for extension of   number of ekes.
responsibility for                                           CIT construCtion concession    annual review of eakes
after sales service        Improved availability             and other firm's import          to be allowed for
between tCT factory       of spare parts.                    pe'rits.  Government to          imports tobe  sated on
and dealers.                                                 encourage CIT and other          objective criteria.
agents to conAterize             11917)
spare parts inventuries.
Improved availab-    Delays in permits for    Liberalizatton of spare              Adequate definition of spec-   aonoint ad-hoc
ility of spare        spare parts imports be-  parts not eanufactured in            ifications of spare parts        ca ittee to stuy
Parts.                cause of insufficient    Tunisia. Decefler. 1985.              anufactured in Tunisia in       spare parts issua.
details describing                                           periodic list of prohibited    (1986)
locally manufactured                                         imports to avoid delay of
Parts which can not                                          imports of not locally pro-
be 1iported.                                                 duced parts.
Temporary disappearance                                      Allow differential pricing  f o
of parts in peak demnd                                       spare parts throu~gut the                                         3e
period.  No differentiation                                  year.  Eventual elimination of                                    
in eargins between fast                                      Goverrnint control of ergins.                                     -
and slow moving parts.                                                                                                           i
b: 
. <



Page 2 of 2
PPUIr OF TISISIA
AdRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOA (ASALI
MEOIU(-TEU4M AGRICULTURtAL SECTOR ADJUSThIV ums3AMi INIASAPI
Polter RecoCWendations and Action Proirm
VIII. Farm Mechaninatin
Policy           Gowerrnent                                          Outstanding         medium-Ter Ad;iatment          Short-Term  easures
Area             Objectives          Measures Already Taken            Issues               Progra  fll9 -91J                  (19UGfm
FARM         Increase effictency                                Private Farm Machin-      Review of credit and fiscal   Indentification bj
HECHAN-      of contracting and                                 ery Renting enly          facilities for ron-farwing    APIS of potential
IZATION      promte contracting                                 done on part-time         enterpreneurs.  AMewd fiscal  private entrbrwen-
services by special-                              basis by farars           and credit policy, If needed, eurs %to are willing
ised private                                      having u%cess caoacity   to prwcte rno-farming            to imnest in fare
entrupeneurs or                                   As a result of part-      entrepeneurs or contractors. mcainrry contrfwting
associations.                                     t1i  renting, onl,                                        and sumfssion of in-
farmers in the vicinity                                  vustbwr  proposals to
are servted; generally                                   agricultural credit
no full range of imp-                                    institutiors vid bws.
loeants is acquired
and machinery is not      Review of geogruahical areas  Revie  of areas ads-
used at full capacity    and types of machinery for    mutely serne  by
during optimal period    which public sector contract- private contracto-s
of work.                  ing can be redched 1n order   and retreat of ptlic
to encourag  expanmim of       far. machinery serwices
Public Sector Farm        private sector contracting.   fro those areas.
bachinery Renting         Avoid subsidized contracting  C=ntrcting fees by
Charges do not cover      for remote and sall farmers  Om's to reflect
full cost of invest-      by publie sector agencies,    full cost Including
ments and oxerations.    Establish differential fees   overheads an at
especially hen serv-    which take into consid-          least an ali- Int
ing remote farmers or    eration distane of machirn   to SfA  levels.
scattered far. parcels   displacement. scattering of   (IS9)
which cauSe far.          customers. and  allress and
mchinery to be less       dispersion of parcels. in
efficient.  Private       order to reflect real Cost of
renters often charge      service and to avoid under-
lo"er fees as equip-      cutting of potential private
went is often close to   contractors which my provide
being fully depreciated the required services.
Increased efficiency                              Insufficient repair       6overnumnt to cicawrae         Pronse tecimncal assist-
of repair facilities                              facilities In rural       develomet banks and credit  ance credit vi training
In rural areas.                                   towns.                    instituttons to lenwtify       to im rove farm rac-
credit projects to improve    in*err twir servce
technical standards of repair of pravat* uwtshops.
workshops.  Goverrwnt to                                            T
provide technical advice md
training.
25141/plu-' 



age lof 4
hEPUWIC OF TISISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR A4NTS1ET LOAN EASALi
ltEDItH-TER AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AODTJJST  P10AMm  IMTASAIu
Policy REccomndations and Action Proc
IX   Outcut rketina
Policy           Govermnemt                                           Out.tanding                 Mediu_-Ter. Adjustiunt            9wt-Ter. Pa5swes
Area             Objectives            Measures Already Taken            Issues                     Program (1J6-91)                       uS7)
OUTPUT       Export                   Establssnt of Conittee High Taxes and social               Agricultual exporte  to           AGpliation d law
MARKETING    Promotion of             on Export Monitoring        security charges reducing      benfit frm  expor cpy             W4-26 to existins
Agricultural             (Ministry of National       competltiveness of Tunisian   benefits or tO chose legal        caopfies 419671.
Cmanodities by           Econawy).                   Agricultural Export Products. changes bases an law 34-20-
Government                                                                                                           Int-roae swt cost
Measures.                Agricultural Marketing      Insufficlent incentives for   Reduce or eliminate whole-       rtbates of MMt ewpt-
Study. OPSAE  195SM6S).    potential exporters.            sale maret Ulzes for             ed pruate 4hulg-Dec- SI
export prodcts.                  Is rebates in 197.
Fiscal encourageTnt
for new export cm-                                         Reduce taxes on urocessifu       6raAl re ttion and
panies (Law 84-201.                                        of citrus and otter export       total elisinattiw  in S
products.                        yr's of uvloeer s
Elimination of need for                                                                    s5bre In htalth insawuxre
export license of certain                                 Rtvise b3se of CuStinS            ard social security
perishable products,                                       charges for citrus.              coWtrtibAitU
(Mit -n 1967. total
Export servtce for out                                     Give exclusive imWpt lic-        egitnation In 19913.
of season vegetables                                       ences for horticultural
at SOCOTO.                                                 products to horticultural        Ehwination of the at
e>porters.                       'mie amts tax lIPS)
Jmlr-Eec. 16).
El va'ste cttsts ctarga
am Wariceltsral p-oducts
(July-Ca. 86).
Euiparters to &loly for
uricuItural eewt WwtiIs
h19flh fellome by vtiaIng
of 'wM   licercas for SSS
of ,3h:e at eits  (1hI7
ultimtelY eetars shmli
be allam  to import fruits
"t wegetables avthrt
restrictions 11991 .
V
-C



Pg 2 of 4
REPUBLIC OF TtmISTA
anhwtmea  sicme atisssuLOArN IASALI
MFEDIUM-TERH AGIICLTURALI SECTOR AJET PGM   HTASAPI
Poliev Recemndatians and Action Ptrara
IX.    tobut maketing
Policy           Government                                             Outstanding                 iedius-Term Adjustnrit           S9t-lem  measures
Area              Objectives            Measures Already Taken            Issues                      Progra (191-91)                       (1984/7)
OUTPUT       Reduce cost of                                        High cost of transport          Study uaritime and air            Execute trasbort
MARKETING    exports.                                              due to low-level of             transport to increase fre-        study ihily-kc. K)
export quantities.              zWey and select mst a4-
ropriate mes of transport-    Ge nereit  to force
Lack of regular calls an                                         FrakbJbunlsian *flqpping
Tunisian parts by shipping                                       Cnference to serve
companies.                                                       Tunisia cn basis of
identified reeds (19875.
Lack of preferential air-                                        Gove.rm.a   to regotiate
freight rates for perish-                                       preferw,tial air freight
able products.                                                   rates for perisiable
prDducts. (1987)
Expa pruftwutial air
freight rates for perish-
able prodScts. (19171
To stimulate agro-       Authorization for            High cost of production.       Analysis and restructuring        Preparation of balance
industries by their      producers to determine       protection by irort tariffs, of hey industries In lire          sheets anO  details of
subjection to            sales price on cost plus   low level of utilization and  with structural adjntmeot            cost for:
market forces,           basis for certain domes-   inefficient operations of        objectives.                       - the sugar factories
to strengthen their      tic products reduction       some processing plants.                                          - the olive oil agency low)
their competitive-       of subsidies: salary                                                                          - ML
ness. and eliminate      adjusteents linked to                                                                         - TUILSIELAIT
their dependence on      financial perforaunce of                                                                      - EL LOLWJDM
protection and           each enterprise.                                                                              -  iTEC
subsidies.                                                                                                               (196)
Authori2ation of Imports
of those products of                                                                          Preparation of restruct-
which domestic produc-                                                                        u-ing plans for the key
tion Is Inefficient.                                                                          if11ustries ani their
sequst  iEpl   lati n.
Protection m*y reain
agaist Foreign duing
practices. (19871
IUlementatiwn of restruc- -u
turing. (115-9l)           ao
0



Page 3 of 4
fRffiLYC Of TIIsIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT LOAN (M5AL)
MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AIXUSThENT PROGRAM (HTASAPI
Policy Rerenrandatians and Action Proaram
IX.  Outout darketinh
Policy            Goverrnmnt                                             Outstanding                 Heolum-Ter. Adjustment              Short-Term Measures
Area              Objectives             Measures Already Taken             Issues                       Program (1986-91)                      (19gS/?)
OUTPUT        Reduce cost and           Promote use of carton        Too heavy and costly                                               Study packaging (1936)
MARKETING    improve quality of         containers with standard   packing material.                                                    and establish standard
export comModities        dimension suitable for                                                                          packaging norms (1937)
such as citrus.           use on pallets for most                                                                         in collab-ration with
agricultural export                                                                             local industry.
products except potatoes.                                                                       Eventually liberalization
of packing material
imports. with poSSIbly
a tartff to offset
foreign export
subsidies (19S8-91).
Eliminate the principle           Preparation of a list of
of guaranteed profits.            agro-Industrtes thiCh have
operated on the basis of
guaranteed profits. and the
budgetary cpnsequences
Replace the ban on imports        for the State since
of processed food item            1975 (1986)
which are locally produced
by a system of Imoort             Study for each concerned
tariffs.                          industry the impact of the
lifting of guaranteed
profits. (July-Dec- 86)
Preparation and subsequent
implmentation of elimin-
ation of guaranteed profit
system. (1987)
Publication of custos
tariffs for imported
agricultural comodi-
ties. (1987)
*0
o 
C 
e c



Table9
Page 4 of 4
REPURLrC O! TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (ASALI
MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT PROGRAM IHTASAPI
Policy Recommendations and Action Prosram
IX. Output Marketing
Policy            Government                                              Outstanding                 Meciuim-Term Adjustment             Short-Ternm Measures
Area              ObJectives             Measures Already Taken             Issues                       Program 11986-91)                       (1986/71
OUTPUT        Strengthening of key    Establishment of APIA           Existing Institutes are not   Preparation of programme             Identification of agro-
MARKETING    institutions for           and API to control and        adequately equipped to          of specific investments.           industrial investment
;tructural adjust-        promote agro-industrial      initiate, implement and                                            projects (198ly .
ment to promote           Investments.                 recormended policy changes.
agro/Industries.
Establishment of                                             Centrallie analytic                Preparation and public-
institutions for prom-                                       and monitoring respon-             ation of an information
otion and monitoring                                          sibility in a single              manual for prospective
of exports.                                                   agency and provide this           Investors and business-
with appropriate staff            men: preparation of
and budgetary resources.          a small number of
viable inlvestment
projects (1986).
Initiate promotion of
specific agro-indust-
rial projects by
national and foreign
investors (1987).
Prepare coherent
export Strategy for
all agricultural
exports (19871.
Amalgasate functions
of monitoring and
evaluations of agric-
ultural exports now
carried out by differ-
ent agencies (1986).
2574E/p20-3
pa
it
ha



Table 10
REPtELIC O3F TMISKA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAM (ASAL)
HEDIIUH-TERF AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT PROGRAM IHTASAPi
Policy Recomnendaticns and Action Proarma
X. Animal Production
Policy            Goverrnent                                            Outstanding                 Medium-Term Adjustisnt             Short-Ters Measures
Area              Objectives            Measures Already Taken             Issues                       Program (1986-91)                     (1986/lI
ANIMAL        Increase animal prod-   Renting of UCP land to        Potential for animal         Goverment to prmote independent
PROOUCTION   uction on cooperative   private companies.             production at cooperatve  management and decision eaking by
farms (UCPS).                                         farms (UCPsJ in the North  rusaining LUCPs.  Provide technical
1nsufficiently used.        and managerial advice through
restructured extension service.
Integrate staff of present control
office in restructured extension
service.
Phase out Public Sector Bourj El Amrn  Farm no        OEP animal productior        Assess performance of existing DEP
management of state       longer managed by OEP.      farms not adequately         farms.  Prepare Dlan for renting
animal produ-tion farms                               managed.                     to private or cooperative entitles.
now managed by OEP.
Promete fair competi-   Subsidies to STIL and         Private dairy processing                                                Wubuit private and
tion between dairy       El Lauhoum discontinued.   plants and meat                                                           Public sector equally
Processing Dlants        New private company plants merchants receive unfair                                                  to p rbl t sarketlng
and marketing            allowed to sell domestic   competition fraxn Public                                                  and subsidy measures.
entities.                milk higher prices.          sector.
Improve academic                                      Veterinarians not            Include animal production                  Appoint a4-0oc
training,                                             sufficiently trained         and management courses in                  conmission to pre-
in animal husbandry.        curriculum of faculty of                   Pare curriculu
veterinary Secence.                       proposal.
Improve animal health   Veterinarians allowed to   Public Veterinary               Increase cost recovery of                  Encourage veterin-
services and reduce      carry out private practice Service unable to              public animal health service.              arians to estab-
Government expendit-    and serve custaoers           serve totality of            tncluding prophylactic and                 lish private
ures on animal health   outside of Govermnent         clientele and requir-        preventative imuinization                  Practice.
services.                office hours.                 Ing large budgetary         campaigns.
support.
Oecrease expenditures   Natural breeding organized Overlapoing responsib-          Integrate OPA and ODP breeding services Introduce cost
of Al and natural        by NW Rural Development    ilities in cattle              into a single entity, starting at          recovery progrum.
breeding services.       Project.                     breeding.  Support           regiona1 level.                            Enworage private
(both Al and                                                           and cooo rate
private) between OEP                                                   breeding services.
and CPA.                                                               In order to replace   d
piblic services. o
2574E/P2*
5!C



Table 11
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSThENT LOAN (ASALI
MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTO3R ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM IKTASAPI
Policy Recorewndations and Action Prograr
XI. Land Tenur
Policy           Government                                          Outstanding         tedium-Term Adjustment          Short-Term Measures
Area             Objectives           Measures Already Taken            Issues              Program (1986-91)                  (156/7)
LAND TENURE  Rewerse trend towards  Consultant Study,            Land fragmentation  Preparation of legislation to                               Legislation to be
smaller and disper5ed  December 19S5                                    maintain the farm holding of                               preceded by legis-
parcels in order to                                                     a mininmn farm sire as a                                   lation on rural
preserve farm holdings                                                  single unit through contract-                              rents and by study
as economically viable                                                  ual rental or ranagement                                   of minijLm viable
units.                                                                  arrangements without affecting                             size of holding.
inheritance or property rights.
Encourage intensif-    Preparation of draft        Insecurity of                                            Land tenancy
ication of land use    land tenure                 land tenancy                                             legislation to
and long-term imorov-  legislation.                                                                         be submitted to
ements of productive                                                                                        Council of
potential of land                                                                                           Ministers.
resources of rented
agricultural holdings.
Increase registration                              Incomplete land                                          Reduction oF           Amount to be
of agricultural                                    registration                                             agricultural           determined by the
property transfers.                                                                                         property transfer      Ministry of
tax.  Amount to        Finance. Ministry
cover at least         of Justice, and
the legal fees to      Ministry of Public
cover tosts.           Ubrks.
Promote economic land                              Absence of land                                          Preparation of
use through taxation                               taxation                                                 draft land tax
of agricultural                                                                                             code.
property .
2574E/p25
CI
II



Table 12
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT PROGRAM (HTASAP)
Policy Recommendatlons and Action Proaram
XII. Forestr
Policy             Medium-term Adjustment           Actions Proposed under
Area               Government Objectives            Action already Taken            Outstanding Issues              Program (1986-91)             ASAL I (1986 and 1987)
Fgrestry         Improve management of             Preparation of forestry          Failure to: recognize        Implementation of a plan of    Launching a program.
forestry and conservation        development strategy and         forestry as a source of    action to improve forestry's   agreed with the
WaaLer A Soil    of water and soil in support   project by FAD Trust Fund           medium/short-term growth   contribution to the national   Bank, to assure the
CriservatiCn     of sectoral objectives.           team and Tunisian counter-    and import substitution;   economy, by restoring                  regeneration of
parts.  New tariffs for         prevent over-grazing,         regeneration of nature or         approximately 3,000
wood and wood products          which causes destruction   degraded forests and                 ha/year oF forest and
introduced.  qadgjorestiegr   of forest and reduces           increasing forest production,  to increase funding of
under revision.                 production; and relate        conservation of water. soil,   forest development and
funding of forestry and    fauna and flora. reforesta-    water and soil conser-
water and soil conserva-   tion with fast-growing              vation operations
tion to tntir contribu-    plantations and pasture             according to prior-
tion to agricultural         Improvement.                      ities established by
production.                                                    the 1985 forest
development strategy -
Liberalizing prices
of cork in the medium-
term. Code Forestier
to be enacted early
1987.
25 74E/p26
M
C'U



Table 13
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT LOAN (ASALI
MEDIUM-TERN AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AO3USThEMT -PROGRAMi IKTASAPI
Policy Recomiwndations and Action Procram
XIII. Fisheries
Policy            Government                                            Outstanding                Mediwu-Term Adjustment             Short-Term Measures
Area              Objectives            Measures Already Taken            Issues                       Program (1986-91)                     (1986/7)
FISHERIES    Establish a Fisheries   General orientation            Unbalanced development policy Prepare masterplan for             Preparation of Terms
Development Strategy.   For public enterprises        in the subsector.               fishing development and          of Reference for Haster-
in 7th Plan period.                                         management.                       plan Study. including
resource evaluation. in
particular dersal.
(19863
Approval and execution
of Kasterplan Study. (1987)
Analyse study and prepare
investment program. (1990)
Increase contribution   Increase of retail            Insufficient incentives         Initiate pilot retail            Prepare pilot marketing
of Fisheries to the      margins for blue fish        for traders, absence            marketing project limited         project (June 86).
economny.                I198), marketing             of retail network and low       to two penetration zones,         approval and start of
program in areas around    consumption levels in the        mainly for blue fish.             pilot project with
main cities and the         interior.                       Assure supply by SDPH  CNP        press and mass media
Interior.                                                   and CRP.  Ensure iprww-           publicity (July-Dec. 86).
tional credit for retail-
ers.  Lift restrictions          Assess results and
on profit taking.  If             provide financing for
necessary. provide temp-          distribution network
orary compensation to             along penetration
suppliers to enable them          axis in the interior
to sell at cost price.            (1987L
Low consumption of             Promote consumPtion of            Introduce large cans
canned fish.                   canned fish.                       (1 and S kg.). (1987)
Lack of variety in pro-        Encourage private bus-            Preparation of pilot
cessing and consumption        iness to produce new              project for trial
of fish-based foods.           types of fish-based               production and sales
processed food (fish-             (July-Dec. 86).
cakes, sausages,                 approval and execu-
pre-cooked meals.)                tion (1987). assess-
ment. financing and
large scale  ples- 
entation 11988-913.
2574EIpZ7                                                                                                                                                        a



Table 13
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT LOAN (ASALI
MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSThENT PROGRAM INTASAPI
Policy Recommendations and Action Prnorui
XIII. Fisheries
Policy            Government                                             Outstanding                 Mediun-Tern Adjustment             Short-Tern Measures
Area              Objectives             Measures Already Taken            Issues                       Program (1986-911                      (1986/7)
FISHERIES    Increase exports.         Abolition of need for         Insufficient detailed           Export promotion of new           Export warket study by
especially of new        export licenses.              knowledge of absorp-            products with a potential         CEPEx for fresh. proc-
products.                                              tive capacity of                export yalue of 0 8-9 million   essed and carmed fish.
foreign markets for                                               promotional sales and
fresh and processed                                               sampling by SOP1 with
fisheries products.                                               FOPREIEX support (July-
December 86).
Reduction of export tax    Insufficient export
6 to 32 0985).               Incentives.                     Export support                    Elimination of export tax
for nwie export products,
subsidized air and sea
Cooled and frozen food                                                                          freight rates and seasonal
marketing study by CEPEX                                                                        sp3ce reservation for
(1985).                                                                                        air freight (July-December S6)
SOS subsidy of freight
costs (FOPRODEX, 1985).
Preparation of quality       Absence of adequate             Quality improvment                Application of quality legis-
control legislation.         quality control.                                                  lations  Training of Process-
ing industry persmuiel.
Exteisive work to Prcomte con-
servation on ice on coastal
boats and direct processing on
trawlers. Imsroewent of
packing. (July-Dece ber 1986)
2574E/p28
C'



latle 14
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AOJUSTHENT LOAX (ASAL)
MEDhIL-TERM AGRICULTIURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMFMT PROGRAM (KTASAPI
PoliC' Recommendations and Actton Pracrm
XIV. Sector Monitorina
Government                                                Problems Still      Medisa-Ter. Adjus tnt            Short-Term Measures
Subject                Objectives           Measures Already Taken                 To Be Solved          Program 119*6-913                   (9lSfn)
gqIiturina sector Upgrade the means    Monitoring of production and   Insufficient analpti-  Formulate proposals with a    Carrnp Gut a rewies of agriaul-
porformance and   available to the        expenditure: survey at the       cal resources.           view to changing price          tiral Price policift
apalsnitsf         Ministry of Agri-    farm level.                                                 policy in the light of the
5sLtoral           culture (OPSAE) to                                                               results of a review of
Dol] ^;ires.       monitor sector                                                                   agricultural price policies.
performance and
propose appropriate
policies.
2574E/pZ9
CI
of



ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (MTASAP)
Table of Contents
Page No.
INTRODUCTION                                                    1
Chapter I        PRICES AND INCEiTIVES                                           12
A. Past Performance                                            12
B. Past Price Policies                                         14
C. Price Policy Constraints                                    17
D. Recommendations                                             19
E. Expected Effects                                            20
Chapter II       PUBLIC INVESTMENTS AND EXPENDITURES                             22
A. Introduction                                                22
B. Review of VIth Plan Period, 1982-86                         23
C. Investment Strategy for the Upcoming VIIth
Plan Period, 1987-91                                     37
D. Actions to Increase Budgetary Efficiency                    44
E. The Project List and Core Program                           53
Chapter III      IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT                                           56
A. The Irrigation Sub-Sector                                   56
B. Irrigation Development Agencies (OMVs)                      59
Chapter IV       AGRICULTURAL CREDIT                                             68
A. Introduction                                                68
B. Evaluation of the Current Situation                         69
C. Future Prospects for Agricultural Credit                    76
D. Policy Reforms in Agricultural Credit                       82



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 3
Page No.
Chapter V       AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH                                        83
A. Background                                               83
B. Major Issues                                             91
C. Proposed Policy Reforms                                  91
D. Research Institutes and Agencies                         93
Chapter VI      AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION                                      103
A. Background                                              103
B. Major Issues                                            110
C. Proposed Policy Reforms                                 111
D. Major Agencies Responsible
for Agricultural Extension                            112
Chapter VII      INPUT DISTRIBUTION                                         125
A. Fertilizers                                             125
B. Other Agricultural Chemicals                            127
C. Seeds and Seedlings                                     128
D. Prices and Subsidies                                    132
E. Major Issues                                            133
F. Proposed Policy Reforms                                 135
Chapter VIII    AGRICULTURAL MECHANIZATION                                  151
A. Current Situation                                       151
B. Major Issues                                            158
C. Proposed Policy Reforms                                 159
Cha?ter IX       AGRO-INDUSTRY AND EXPORTS                                  169
A. Summary                                                 169
B. Background                                              174
C. Domestic Market                                         183
D. The Export Market                                       207
E. Export Situation and Outlook                            237
Chapter X        LIVESTOCK                                                  243
A. Principal Characteristics                               243
B. Services Furnished by the Administration                244
C. Government Policies                                     248
D. Livestock Sub-Sector Production                         251
E. Medium-Term Reform Program                              257
F. Livestock Development Strategy                          264



ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3
PaRe No.
Chapter XI       LAND TENURE                                                 3L6
A. Current Situation                                       316
B. Major Issues                                            322
C. Proposed Policy Reform                                  323
Chapter XII      FORESTRY AND SOIL CONSERVATION                              331
A. The Forestry Sub-sector                                 331
B. The Proposed Forestry Strategy                          337
C. The ASAL Action Program                                 339
Chapter XIII    MARINE FISHERIES                                             351
A. Fisheries Development During VIth Plan                   351
B. Analysis of Results of VIth Plan                        352
C. Chief Constraints Obstructing Development               357
D. Proposed Medium-Term  Priorities                        364
E. Proposed Policy Reform Actions                          365
Chapter XIV      SECTOR PERFORMANCE MONITORING AND POLICY ANALYSIS           372
A. Background                                               372
B. Recommendations                                         372
Appendix I       POLICY REFORM MATRICES BY SUB-SECTOR                        375
Appendix II      TERMS OF REFERENCE OF STUDIES                               405
Appendix III    KEY POLICY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                            411
2236E/pl7-9



ANNEX VIZ
TUNISIA
ACRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Production Levels and Growth Ratim a  or Key Agricultural Producta
lVth Plan          Vth Plan          Vlth Plan         Past 15 Yearn
(1972-76)          (1977-81)           (1982-8b)        J1972-86)t,
'OOOt     S        'OOOt     S         'OOOt     %       'GOat      %
(------------------------- (per annum) ------------------------
Cereals                 1,116.4   4.4        993.6   7.3       1,303.0   4.9   1,137.6    2.2
Durum wheat          704.0   7.4         654.8   5.6        723.0   1.4       693.9    1.4
Bread wheat          151.4  (9.4)        111.6   8.0        182.0   9.7       148.3    0.7
Barley               261.0   7.5         227.2  12.6         398.0  10.3      295.4    5.1
Fruits                  1,090.4   5.2      1,028.2  (0.8)    1,064.1   2.9   1,060.9    0.8
Oil olives           625.6   5.5         521.0  (3.8)       490.0  (0.1)    554.2   (1.1)
Dates                 50.6   6.1          51.8  (0.5)         55.8  (4.9)      52.7    1.4
Citrus                L19.2  13.3        188.6   3.8         193.8   2.3      167.2    5.8
Almonds               21.4  14.5          32.6   8.3          41.0   8.9       31.7    7.8
Vegetables                892.6   6.0      1,116.6   4.1       1,330.0   4.8   1,113.1    4.4
Potatoes              97.0   4.2         L15.0   7.9        141.0   4.4       117.7    4.1
Tomatoes             228.8   9.7         304.0   5.2         379.6   6.5      304.1    5.8
Peppers               96.8   3.7         124.8  (0.3)       127.6   7.3       116.4    2.9
Melons/Watermelons  195.6  11.1          258.0   5.1         319.6   3.3      257.7    5.8
Livestock                 680.5   7.5        867.9   8.1       1,475.4   6.4   1,079.0    7.9
Cattle                 56.8  10.3         61.6  (5.1)         56.9   2.3       57.3    1.0
Sheep                 60.9   4.4          57.4  (2.0)         66.8   6.7       61.7    1.3
Poultry               21.4  14.1          50.7  15.8          57.2   0.2       41.3   10.8
Milk                 225.4   8.0         257.4  (1.5)        293.2   6.1      258.7    3.2
Fish                       41.6  10.5         56.7   3.4          74.8   8.8       57.7    6.5
Coastal                16.8  12.4         22.8   0.6          29.9   8.4       23.2    6.5
Deepsea                 8.3   6.8         10.6   2.9          17.0  11.2       12.0    7.1
/a Calculated by least-squares method.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Planning and Economic Analyses (DPSAE).
2236E/p20



TUNISI1
4RJCuiJURAL_CCIgR AAJUf lICAN
gi icu I tur a I 0 lancc .or ITrc
1976    1977    IQ71)    1979    19A1       llHI    19112    1952    1984    1iQlu   GlowLh RA41/0
(I.. poo annuml
(D million. 1910 consLAnt Lormh)
A9L1LUIIWL&LSLDAE.l    9&A         7'i.  ua . .5   101.0    61.5    99.5    78.5    61.3    93.5    82.9                (1.4)
Olive oll             52.7    34.3    45.4    51.7    22.7    45.0    44.3    1*1.0    38.4    26.9                 (5.3)
ri!h                   6.7      6.9    10.0    11.4    12.4    ID.        12.2    19.0    17.5    18.7             12.0
DsOh,%                 3.1      l.5      2.2     b.2      4.5    13.9       6.0     9.6    12.2    12.7             16.2
Citru                 -2.6      2.6      8.1     3.1      3.U      4.4      2.9      3.9      3.8     6.5            6.2
wine                   6.7      2.9      5.1      2.7     3.9      3.1      3.2      2.1      2.0      3.5         (10.2)
&r_SILvL  lmnrts   117.7   123.1   132.7   169.1   Ib7.6   2081.2   164.3   210.6   242.8   170.2                        5.9
Cercals               28.9    46.1    54.8    69.5    69.5    77.9    70.1          H9.6   109.7    52.2            10.3
Milk                  12.8    14.5    10.6    19.5    16.0    25.1    16.0    16.6    15.5    17.2                   3.4
c.attlo                3.9      4.6      2.9     4.4      5.6    15.1    13.1    16.1    19.5         8.2           lb.1
Me.at                  0.0      2.1      2.2     2.9      3.2      6.1      3.3      6.7    13.6       8.1          26.5
CAID.La.w mDD.           (22.6)  (47.1)  (46.2)  (65.1) (106.1) (108.7)  (85.8) (149.3) (149.2)  (57.3)                (17.6)
/a  CalculaLed by lea.t   iquarer method.
2236E/p21



TUNISIA              Ir
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
RAINFALL AND IRRIGATED AREAS
r  Tab     b' dCAP BON
6' Mm;An  7/>jr JYrgrba 
;~ ~~~~~~~~~~r  Anjol       Ai r|Doo.8 
'a-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
| I=lero<Eb~~           ~    ~~~~Be& Ar  /  '0ol
Faks ~ ~ ~  a
,5o~~~~T Conhi                    1'M                                                         ,
3g60
,elil Af;real   /    O    \
35{i6/                                        ,  -  t             \ | ; .
KEKKEINA IS.



.4,.~~~~~~~~.
.i         a /                                                          o                                                               w_Maia 
f-i~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w
-34'      )                    \fLgache                                                       \  94
Tozeuur                                                                                         Houmi S;zA
JEUA L
Irrigated  Area                                                       ..
C%rc  t'C'taYwrEJrbr   rrn rrJ Crs    isUr sre botpt7w rs t.a.  isy 0C
^. '"-;Srl^s#;>^ivu,^}> rtS*wt zr               -   -e    t   Boundaries of Agricultural Regions                                                -
-~       Annual Average Rainfall in mm.             --
\  TUNISIA                      gf;:-iZjl-;':f   Freshwater Lakes
.-- . Chotts (Saltwater Lakes)                  K            Tt,                                I   -
Rivers                                                                               . j
Main Roads
A   F  R  I C  A- ManRos                                                                            /                        __
.  - - - -  Railways                                                                               J1
.  - .  6   International Airports                       \
Ports                                                      .
-*-. -   International Boundaries                                                                 4-
Remad.
0     20      40    60      so    10O                   /                          *        e               i
c                                                                   KILOMETERS
.C.A.   ..   .                                     so                                  l                             *    lie



8'                        g..                                                1 ;
T U N I S I A
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SOIL SUITABILITY FOR CROPS
0    20   40   60   80   100                 7 Z E
KILOMETE RS
[37_                                                                                                   CAP BON          31
r                               D- IKeliba
'   -  dirnooqE -.                                OJA diNbBEUL
<                     o    4kr Mc............  
[w  -       w. -    t 0   X   - w fs    -'                                               36s
(~Kaioo.gn.roVXONASTIR
zi                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~35'



z 1 t() Y   ierionav          /     z -       -I 4t#       -      0             =i         == 
Mzzoiuno       i-
I                                                                                            Sklo ,  G
.-                        Rer S                                 ^      ;X -9 /l/- 
2:e9~~~~.~                                   Fes. sI,rubs ra'SeIo\
to    NC %                   j--- >                           ro c-p  -tw                                                                               . \  4      0tKS
3 41                       40che~~~~~~~~2Te   r01~mbnd  i~anutcrp 
\    /        \. G        B          AnnuaL  fra I             j               tr-.X's^                             ~    ILr
\~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~ .~I \       l-akes                                                \      
('4.      (ii'~~To iu
nq ~ ~      ~     ~     'AT _q *S                                                                                TATAQUINE^s :  <>w     s   
--~~T  i*IA                    Se               *_   f    gau:ge raiwa-y.--.i                                                                                    /  ',.' .
ALGER-J A  .  I                                                    or--   V.
SPA N<  n-         >~~~~~~~~~~ -.> IAnnueratonal boundareswtlsglid                                              ;-  
(;  ~ ~ O.                                                                                                     tceJaa             // X*0SltEle  //$
( TU   IA      a oo                                                                                                          Ka -Nrr- gue  orar  6 
ALGERIA ~   ~      ~     ~      ~~~ 'j  ")+               ninainiaiors42mz 
> h l I B Y 4 Pro~~~~~~Vinmcbural rops                                                         |                                                           0.) 
A. .31'                               n   wit annual crop.s s
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _    _  _A_      _  _ _    _ _Tree_Cr_                _ _  __co_          _ _  __ned_ _with_ro_                        _ge_     _   4



TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOCATION OF MAIN CROPS
I           .-    ,                      ,      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
-        7                 ~~~BARLEY                            -'-                             RA
3o,  |,}'\s >@     @ ie,8   *SOU5SSE                                                        SOit-- )7   ; 5U SSE   U.L
- < .! -MAHIBA                                                               MAHD ( ( IBA
\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~L                         r - TTO!E*\' .-     ,aw-,  :a
S'     ;.-                  1'<                        2'E1Jt                                                  /Z
7   t   A;e o  t er e ne a r  S Eo         } |Me S8t a r a re o r                             e o 
<                    Rf  i-  ,- > ' 



:    t-                                                   0    dI)'-Sj XEGETABLGETABES
>.  f , gX                            WHEAT~~~SUSS    w-0 iW              ,             -         . INDAUSTDRIALw
,  .     , <.    J  f                                      *  ..            -      .      s                              w.4. CROP
?W-  -       <---- m1 %/                                                                                ..
\ ,,ir X ? ( 1 ~LIBYA  , (LIY
j~.                   .2                                                                                              17  --.' .,
Tunisto                  .-.. Province boundaries
\          -~~~~~International boundaries
'as o.r ^ds r.fw r7.  ~~~~e is it a.@P. . ilS              Kiometers 0A20        40R60 C0b10
cs                                           t   /                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~                         ~~~~~~~~Miles 0  20  40   0  
_ _                                     .                                .                             _ si~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:



