Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9308
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SFCTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2754-TUN)
JANUARY 23, 1991
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not o.therwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At Project Appraisal (1986): 1 Tunisian Dinar - .7940 US Dollars
February 1990:                 1 Tunisian Dinar - .9005
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Januarv i - December 31
W-1IGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)   0.6214 Mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha) = 2.4711 Acres (ac)
1 liter (1)   1.0567 quarts (qt)
1 metric ton (ton) = 2,204.6266 pounds (lb)
1 quintal (qt)   220.46226 pounds (lb)



Fm OTICIL  uS OILY
THE WOILD BANK
Wanhington. DC 20433
USA
00Ke rd DOr«iv-GeG-Cl
January 23, lS91
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - TUNISIA
Agricultural Sector Adiustment Loan (Loan 2754-TUN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Tunisia - Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Loan (Loan 2754-TUN)", prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North
Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document ha à restrictwd distribution and may be uad by recipients onny in the Perfotmance
of their ofimcial dutia. Its contents may not otherwiee bc disclosed without W«ld Back authontuion.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISTA
ACRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 2754-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface     .    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  i
Evaluation Summary.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . ii
PART I: REPORT OF THE BANK
Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
The Medium-Term Economic .djustment  Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                2
Bank Support  for  the Adjustment  Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              3
The  IMF Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                3
Economic and Sector Work   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 4
Accomplishments  of the Adjustment  Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               4
Macroeconomic  Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              5
Stabilization Measures   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            5
Liberalization programs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            5
Agricultural  Sector  Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             6
Prices  and Incentives  Framework  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          6
Public  Investment  and Expenditure  Program  . . . . . . . . . .                         8
Sector  Support Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           8
Management  of Natural Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           9
Sector Monitoring and Policy Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . .                            9
Failures  of the  Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
Impact of the Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
The Macroeconomic  Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
The  Sector Component   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    il
Implementation  and Monitoring  of the  Loan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
Disbursement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...    13
Cofinancing        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
Records  and Audits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
Supervision  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
PART II: REPORT OF THE BORROWER .. . . . . . 17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
PART   III:  ANNEXES   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  19
Annex 1:  Conditions of ASAL Package and Actions Taken . . .           19
Annex  2:    Analytical  Data  -     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    35
Table 1:  Output Pr?.;s under ASAL . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Table 2:  Input Prikes under ASAL..             . . . . . 36
Table 3:  Disbursements .  . .  . . . . , .  . . . . . . . 37
Annex 3:  Statistical Annex -  . . . . . . . . . . .  . .       .38
Table 1:  Loan Data  . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Table 2:  Cumulative Loan Disbursements   .       . . . . . . . 33
Table 3:  Mission Data . . . . . . . . . .       . . . . . . . 39
Table 4:  Follow-up on Adjustment Operations



GLOSSARY
A?2         Agence pour la Promotion des Investissements
(Investment Prome.ion Agency>
APIA        Agence pcur la Promotion des Investissements Agricoles
(AgricuI;ural Investment Promotion Agency)
ASAL        Agricul'_ural Sector Adjustment Loan
EFF         Extended Fund Facility
CEPEX       Centre de Promotion des Exportations
(Export Promotion Center)
CGC         Caisse Générale de Compensation
(General Subsidy Fund)
CMT         Complexe Mécanique de Tunisie
(Tunisian Mechanical Complex)
CRDA        Centre Régional de Développement Agricole
(Regional Center for Agricultural Development)
DGPDIA      Direction Générale de la Planification du Développement et des
Investissements Agricoles
(Directorate for Development Planning and Agricultural
Investments)
DPSAE       Direction de la Planification, des Statistiques et des Analyses
Economiques
(Directorate of Planning, Statistics and Economic Analysis)
FOB         Free on Board
FOPRODEX    Fonds pour la Promotion des Exportations
(Export Promotion Funds)
FOSDA       Fond.s Spéciaux de Développement Agricole
(Agricultural Developm-nit Fund)
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
HEM         Hydro-Electro-Mécanique
(Hydro-Electrical-Mechanical)
ICB         Interrational Competitive Bidding
IMIP        Irrigation Management Improvement Project
IMF         International Monetary Fund
ITPAL       Industrial Trade Policy Loan
MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
OC          Office des Céréales
(Cereals Agency)
OMV         Office de Mise en Valeur
(Irrigation Development Agency)
ONH         Office National de l'Huile
(National Oil Agency)
PERL        Public Enterprise Reform Loap
PI          Périmèere Irrigué
(Irrigated Perimeter)
PPI         Périmètre Public Irrigué
(Public Irrigation Perimeter)
MTASAP      Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
NPC         Nominal Protection Coefficient
SONAM       Société Nationale de Motoculture
(National Farm Mechanization Company)
SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
SDPM        Société pour le Développement des Produits de la Mer
(Sea Products Development Company)
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
STEC        Société Tunisienne des Engrais Chimiques
(Tunisian Chemical Fertilizer Company)
STIL        Société Tunisienne Industrielle de Lait
(Tunisian Industrial Milk Company)
TD          Tunisian Dinars
TPS         Taxe sur les prestations et services
(Tax on benefits and services)
WUA         Water User Association



iUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 2754-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Loan in Tunisia for which loan 2754-TUN in the amount of US
$150 million was approved on September 18, l9E5.  The Tunisian Government
obtained co-financing in the form of a Dutch grant of NL 20 million (US$9
million) and a KFW loan for DM 27 million (US$17 million). The loan closing
date was extended by one year to June 30 1989 (one year behind schedule). The
last disbursement was made on October 17, 1989, at which time the loan account
was officially closed.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations and the Country
Operations Divisions of EMENA (Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during a mission in January
1989, and is based, inter alia, on the Initiating Memorandum, the President's
Report (P-4368-TUN), the loan agreement, supervision reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower and internal Bank documents.



- iii -
TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 2754-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.         During the mid-1980s, Tunisia's economic situation was weakening
steadily (paras. 1.02-1.05). In response, the Bank supported the Government
in the preparation of a medium-term adjustment strategy both at the
mnacroeconomic and the sector levels (para. 2.01). At that time, there was no
IMF program in place, nor was there a SAL. Thus a sector zdjustment loan was
prepared which supported both a macroeconomic and a sector program (paras.
3.01-3.02).
2.          The macroeconomic reforms focused on: the introduction of a
cautious wage and salary policy, maintenance of a competitive exchange rate,
upward adjustment of interest rates, decreases in the budget deficit,
reductions in growth of the money supply, liberalization of the economy
including abolition of price controls, the introduction of investment
incentives for high priority projects, elimination of quantitative
restrictions on imports and reform of the tariff system (para 2.02).
3.          The sector level reforms targeted: improvement of the prices and
incentives framework, reorientation of the public investment program,
strengthening of basic support services for farmers and privatization of those
that were economically viable, improvement of natural resource management and
the build up of sector monitoring and analysis capabilities in the Ministry of
Agriculture (para. 2.03).
Implementation Experience
4.          Performance under the adjustment program was excellent.  All of
the loan conditions and virtually all of the key actions attached to the
Letter of Agricultural Development Policy were fulfilled either on time or
early (para. 6.01).
5'          At the macroeconomic level, the dinar was devalued by 10% in
August 1986.  This, combined with depreciation of the currency during 1987 and
1988 resulted in a competitive real exchange rate through the period covered
by the loan. Wage policy was cautious, public investment declined as planned,
interest rates were largely liberalized and-monetary and credit policy was
tightened. Producer prices were decontrolled for a group of industries, and
progress was made on tariff reform. A new investment code was also prepared
(paras. 6.01-6.10).



iv -
6.         Prices.  At the sector level, important strides were made in
moving the prices of inputs and outputs toward their world price equivalents
while offering the same minimum protection afforded to other import competing
sectors. Target prices were calculated for each product based on a moving
average of world prices. Adjustments toward these targets were conditions of
the ASAL and they were all met or exceeded (paras. 6.11-6.15).                0
7.          Investment and Credit.  The Bank and the Government reviewed the
public investment program and established a core program of priority
investments based on mutually agreed upon project selection criteria. The
process was begun to shift public investments out of commercially viable areas
to leave room for the private sector. Budgetary allocations to FOSDA, the
subsidized credit program, were cut and interest rates were raised closer to
market levels (paras. 6.16-6.17).
8.          Support Services.  Fertilizer margins were liberalized, although
most public sector agencies did not raise their margins in response.  It was
impossible to tell whether or not they were practicing fullcost recovery due
to the lack of cost accounting practices. Nonetheless, there was a
significant increase in the number of private traders competing with public
fertilizer distributors. Authorization was given for the importation of
tractors in the horsepower range manufactured in Tunisia and the institutional
structure for both research and extension was completely reorganized, leading
to the preparation of a Bank project to support these efforts (paras 6.18-
6.20).
9.          Natural Resources.  A pilot program for the forestry subsector was
developed which was eventually supported by a Bank project (para 6.21>.
10.         Sector Monitoring and Analvsis.  A USAID-supported project was
implemented in the Ministry of Agriculture to provide training for staff and
consultants who would work with the Tunisians on a number of policy-related
tasks. Also several models were developed by the Bank and a consultant to
enable the Ministry staff to do certain types of analytic sector work. This
component of the program was extremely successful (para 6.22).
Il.         There were several minor problems that arose during implementation
of the loan. These included considerable delays in transmission of the audit
reports for the loan; the first and only report was not received until
September, 1989, almost two years later than scheduled. There was also a
delay in development of the export strategy, but this was eventually
accomplished. Of more importance were the difficulties the Government
experienced in "developing and implementing" a program to ensure risk-free
maintenance and storage of dangerous agricultural chemicals. The Government
did issue a circular providing operation guidance to implementation agencies,
but legislation never emerged from the General Assembly (paras. 7.01-7.03).
Results
12.         At the macroeconomic level, the depreciation of the Dinar helped
restore the competitiveness of exports, as did curbs on wages. More prudent
money and credit policy reduced inflation and demand restraint measures



v.-
lowered the budget deficit, but unemployment continued to rise. Government
revenues fell as a result of lower tariffs and imports remained low despite
liberalization (paras. 8.02-8.05).
13.         On the sector side, the droughts of 1938 and 1989 have made it
difficult to undertake a simple avaluation of the program's impact. As a
consequence, modeling techniques have been used in an attempt to calculate
what would have been the outcome had the policy reforms not occurred. The
results should be viewed cautiously, particularly in light of the short time
series of data available. The analysis showed that the price and tariff
reforms would generate: higher growth for the commodities analyzed by 3-4% per
year, net budgetary and foreign exchange s.vings of 16 and 12 million per year
respectively, and a positive impact on income with most benefits going to
farmers producing durum wheat with low-input techniques, using integrated
livestock systems, and producing under rainfed conditions. Since these tend
to be small farmers, the distributional consequences would also be positive.
Liberalized fertilizer margins have led to greater private activity in the
market, introducing greater reliability of supply for farmers and, in some
cases, lower prices (paras. 8.06-8.10).
Sustainabil itv
14.         The reforms supported by the ASAL were really only t'  beginning
of a larger adjustment process in Tunisia.  The Government has remained
committed to its medium-term program, and the Bank has continued itu support
through subsequent adjustment loans (the ITPAL, the SAL, the ASAL-II and the
PERL). In particular, ASAL-II has successfully built on the results of ASAL-
I. While implementation of the reforms under the SAL has been slower than
expected, there is no evidence that the Governiment intends to abandon any of
the adjustment initiatives it has undertaken under the program.
Findings and Lessons Learned
15.         Probably the most critical determinant of the success of the ASAL
was the Government's commitment to the adjustment process. Financial and
technical assistance support from the Bank were welcome, and the reforms
probably went faster and farther than they otherwise would have because of
Bank participation, but the medium-term program always belonged to the
Government.
16.         Other lessons learned from the implementation of this loan were
less important, but useful to bear in mind for the preparation of future
loans. For example, requiring legislation to be passed by the National
Assembly is risky because the Administration cannot control the political
process. Also, conditions should be easily verifiable. Requiring full cost
recovery when there is no cost accounting systems in place makes evaluation
difficult, if not impossible. Finally, the loan agreements should be written
to allow for flexibilit in the case of unforeseen events (requiring price
adjustments to world pr .es instead of price increases would avoid-problems if
local price suddenly become higher than world prices).



TUNISTA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2754-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION .;EPORT
PART Is PROJECT REVIEW FROM BAiZK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Backgroun
1.01        During the 1970s, the Tunisian economy performed well.  It
benefitted from the substantial terms of trade gains caused by the rapid
increase in oil pricAs, and from fairly good economic management. Over the
decade, inflation averaged iust above 6% and the budget and current account
deficits both remained between 5-6% of GDP. In 1979, debt outstanding rotaled
42% of GDP and the debt servica ratio was equal to 10.7X.
1 02        A number of factors served to dampen this performance in t;.e early
1980s. A prolonged drought depressed agricultural output and agro-iidustrial
production in 1982, tourism and exports of manufactured goods were adversely
affected by the recession in Europe and by a sizable appreciation of the
Tunisian dinar vis-à-vis most competitor countries. Net emigration of
Tunisians abroad vas *hiarply reduced by restrictive measures taken in the EEC
countries and Libya, contributing to a growing serious unemployment problem.
Open unemployment reached 14% by 1983. Nonetheless, over tbis same period,
demand was fueled as a result of high goverrnment investment, sharp increases
in wages and salaries, and liberal credit policies. While the economy
improved somewhat in 1983/84, the government was slow to adjust domes,.ic
demand to lower output growth. This led to a rise in inflation (nearly 10.5%
between 1981-1984) and a worsening of the current account deficit (11% of GDP
in 1984).
1.03        By 1985, debt outstanding had risen to 50% of GDP and the debt
service ratio to 22%. Drastic foreign exchange and import restrictions
brought the current account deficit back to 7% of GDP, though underlying
disequilibria had uot been resolved. Growing shortages of raw materials,
semi-finisheu products and spare parts appeared. In 1986, the current account
deficit inc eased again. Oil prices were declining at the same time the
volume of hydrocarbon exports were falling, political uncertainties in the
region were reducing revenues from tourism, and workers' remittances were
down. Unemployment continued to rise. The situation was not yet a crisis,
but it clearly could not be sustained.
1.04        In the ag,icultural sector, a number of structural problems were
emerging, many of these exacerbated by problems at the macroeconomic level.
Growth in agricultural output fell from an average of 8% p.a. between 1967-
1976 to an average of 2.8X p.a. between 1977-1986'" and growth in food demand
was outstripping domestic supply, putting pressure on imports. Consumption
was fueled by the demand measures mentioned above, rapid population growth
(2.5% p.a.) and a high rate of urbanization (4.4% p.a.), and further
encouraged by significant subsidies orn basic foodstuffs. The overvalued
exchange rate-biased consumption toward imports and discriminated against
exports of agricultural commodities. Restrictions on imports of spare parts
and new equipment intended to encourage domestic industrial production
resulted in reduced maintenance and led to inefficiency in agricultural
operations.
. Based on lea«t squares growth rates.



- 2 -
1.05        Withie the agricultural sector itself, there were a number of
constraints to development. Negative protection rates and worsening terms of
trade with other sectors, particularly industry, made agriculture and related
support services unattractive for new private direct investment. The capital
intensive nature of existing investments limited possibilities for employment
creation in the sector.   Support services were controlled to a large degree
by the Government. These~ operations were often inefficient, wasting resoucces
for the economy' at large, and frequently resulting in interruptions of supply
to farmers.
2. The Medium-Term Economic Adjustment Program
2.01        By late 1985 and 1986 the Government began to develop a
stabilization and reform program for the whole economy. Its objective was to
correct the imbalances that were developing in the economy ehile taking
special measures to provide for employment generation, export promotion,
regional development and public Lector efficiency. Investment priority was
given to agriculture, engineering industries and tourism. The strategy was to
reduce the overall level of new investment while increasing the efficiency of
existing investments, to encourage a shift to labor-intensive activities, to
tighten incomes policy, and to significantly reduce the growth of recurrent
budget expenditures.
2.02        The macroeconomic reform program developed at that time included
specific measures aimed at progress in a number of areas: a cautious wage and
salary policy to achieve more rapid employment creation and to reduce overall
demand in the economy; maintenance of a competitive exchange rate vis-à-vis
principal competitors; u- fard adjustment of interest rates in line with
inflation and the costs a:.d risks of lending; further decreases in the
overall budget deficit; reductions in the growth of the monev supplY so as
not exceed the growth of GDP; progressive liberalization of the economy and
introduction of more competition (domestie and foreign); abolition of Drice
controls for all but a few specific investment and agricultural products;
introduction of a system of investment incentives, oriented toward high
priority types of projects; gradual elimination of all quantitative
restrictions on im: -rts before the end of 1991 and reform of the tariff system
by reducing high import tariffs and the eliminating disparities in the levels
of protection between the different sectors of the economy.
2.03        The Government concentrated its initial sector-level retorm
efforts in agriculture with the development of what was called the Medium-
Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program or MTASAP. The objectives for the
sector were to promote greater efficiency and economy in the production of
agricultural commodities and in the use of public resources allocatad to the
sector. To meet these objectives, the Government began to develop a sector
reform program to:
-     improve the prices and incentives framework, bringing input and output
prices into line with world prices and eliminating disparities in
effective protection across sectors;



-3 -
-     reorient the public investment and expenditure program by favoring
investments which would have a positive impact on the balance of
payments, creating permanent jobs through low-cost investments, and by
encouraging the private sector to undertake activities provided at that
time by the government;
-     strengthen basic services in support of farmers while privatizing those
which were commercially viable;
-     improve productivity of land use and management of forestry and
fisheries resources; and
-     build up the sector performance monitoring and policy analysis
capabilities of the Ministry of Agriculture.
3. Bank Support for the Adjustment Program
3.01        The ASAL was introduced to assist the Government in the
development of the MTASAP and to provide support for the first phase of its
implementatior.. It was the Bank's first adjustment operation in Tunisia, and
while it was an agricultural sector loan, it was unusual in that it was
introduced without a prior IMF program in place. Partly because of this, the
ASAL included an important macroeconomic component in addition to the program
of reform in agricu±ture. The Bank's Industrial Trade Policy Loan (ITPAL)
followed close on the heels of the ASAL. Both loans were designed to suppGrt
the same macroeconomic program as well as their respective sector programs.
Their macroeconomic components were implemented and supervised simultaneously.
These operations marked a turning point in the Bank's lending program to
Tunisia, which shifted strongly in favor of adjustment lending at that time.
These two loans were followed soon after with the Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) in 1988, the ASAL-II in 1989 and the Public Enterprise Reform Loan
(PERL), also in 1989.
3.02        In late 1985 and early 1986, the Bank and the Government engaged
in numerous macroeconomic strategy discussions and undertook a joint
assessment to examine the potential of the agricultural sector and to identify
the policy and institutional constraints that it faced. As a result of these
collaborative efforts, the Government decided to pursue wit.h the Bank a broad-
based policy dialogue with the objective of establishing a medium-term
economic and sector policy framework that would be appropriate for World Bank
financing. An inter-ministerial coordinating committee and various sub-
sectoral groups working with Bank staff designed the sector adjustment
program.
4. The IMF Program
4.01        Although the Government had consulted with the IMF or, various
economic and financial issues prior to 1986, the IMF's financial support was
not requested until after the Government had agreed with the Bank on an
overali adjustment strategy. Formal discussions between the IMF and the
Government for a stand-by arrangement began in mid-1986 and the IMF provided



technical advice to the Government on exchange rate policy.   After the IMF's
approval of the macroeconomic stabilization measures and medium-term strategy
described earlier, a stand-by arrangement from November 1986 to May 1988 for
the equivalent of SDR 104 million (75% of quota) and for purchases of the
equivalent of SDR 115 million under the Compensatory Financing Facility (CFF)
were made available to Tunisia. This stand-by program was successfully
completed in 1988. The IMF then continued its support to Tunisia with an
extended arrangement (EFF) for the equivalent of SDR 207 million which was
approved in July 1988. During the preparation of the EFF, which largely
coincided with the preparation of the SAL, the Bank and the IMF worked closely
together and agreed on the overall medium-term program.
5. Economic and Sector Work
5.01        The process of developing the medium-term sector adjustment
program involved clarifying objectives, analyzing constraints, identifying
areas that needed further study, exploring solutions and prpposing reform
actions. Economic and sector work, undertaken by the Ministry of Agriculture,
the Bank and consultants during the loan period played a critical role in this
process. The studies completed include the following.
-     Historical Trends in the Agricultural Sector;
-     Institutions and Instruments for Price Intervention;
-     Profitability, Protection and Comparative Advantage;
-     Price Determination and Marketing of Agricultural Commodities;
-     Case Studies: Agro-Industries;
-     Development of Agricultural Exports;
-     Analysis of the Seed and Seedling Subsector;
-     Expenditure Review of the Agricultural Sector;
-     Agricultural Pricing, Marketing and Incentive Policies for
Structural Change; and
-     Agricultural Products, Marketing and Agrolndustries.
Even for the studies that it did not directly undertake itself, the Bank
played an important role in the identification of issues requiring further
examination, the drafting of terms of reference, analytical support and
discussion of the results. Two of the studies were required as key actions
under the loan. Three of the studies were performed by the Bank, two are
currently embodied in formal reports. Complete references for all of the
studies are contained in the endnotes.
6. Accomplishments of the Adiustment Program
6.01        Performance under the adjustment program was excellent.  All of
the loan conditions and virtually all of the key actions attached to the
Letter of Agricultural Development Policy were fulfilled either on time or
early11. Approximately two-thirds (57 out of 89) of additional
recommendations made by the Bank but never formally incorporated into the loan
I The minor exceptions are discussed in paras. 7.01-7.03.



-5-
package were also carried out within the relatively short time-frame of the
ASAL. The specific conditions of the loan, as well as the key actions
attached to the Government's Letter of Agricultural Development Policy and the
additional Bank recommendations are all listed in Annex 1.
Macroeconomic Program
6.02        The initial phase of the ASAL focused on improving the
macroeconomic framework, because many of the constraints on the agricultural
sector were at that level.  The Government implemented a number of important
measures to begin the macroeconomic reform process, and these actions became
key for the later success of the sector program. Satisfactory progress on the
macroeconomic plogram was a condition of second tranche release, with specific
targets on a number of issues described in the Government's letter of economic
development policy. In fact, the Government took a number of key steps even
before Board presentation (see Annex 1).
6.03        Stabilization Measures.  One of the most important steps taken at
the beginning of the program was the depreciation of tha dinar during 1986
including a 10% nominal devaluation in August 1986. By the end of 1986,
together with the 5% decline in the value of the dinar during 1985, the total
depreciation of the real effective exchange rate against a basket of
currencies amounted to 17.5%. Smaller adjustments in the exchange rate
continued in 1987 and 1988, maintaining a competitive real exchange rate.
6.04        The Government continued its cautious wage policy, (although the
minimum wage was increased by 10% in July 1986 for the first time in three
years), and real average salaries declined by 2.9% in 1987 and rose by only
1.2% in 1988.
6.05        Public investment, sharply reduced in 1985-86, continued to
decline in 1987 largely contributing to the fall in total investment as a
share of GDP from 23.5% in 1986 to 20.3% in 1987 and to 18.8% in 1988.
6.06        Interest rates, which were brought up to positive levels in real
terms during 1985-86, were also largely literalized. On January 1, 1987, 75%
of lending rates, with the exception of those for agriculture, exports, small
and medium enterprises and ernergy efficiency projects were set free, and about
two-thirds of interest rates on commercial banks' deposits were decontrolled.
6.07        Monetary and credit policy was also adjusted as reserves-increased
with the sharp improvement of the balance of payments from 1.3 months of
imports in 1986 to 2.8 months by the end of 1988. The Central Bank reduced
net credit to financial institutions by TD 140 million in 1987 and by a
further TD 283 million in 1988 as the liquidity of the economy (deposits,
capital accounts, and other items) increased. These decreases were
accompanied by small declines in Central Bank credit to the Government.
6.08        Liberalization proerams.  Parallel to the stabilization.measures,
the first phase of liberalization policies was launched at the end of 1986 and
beginning of 1987. In this initial phase, and in order to avoid price hikes
caused by monopoly-pricing, producer prices were decontrolled for a group of



- 6
well-established industries where conditions for domestic competition were
present. The import liberalization program started quite cautiously, leaving
virtually all import restrictions on domestically produced goods in place.
Thus, imports liberalized in 1986-87 consisted of raw materials, intermediate
capital goods and spare-parts essential for domestic producers whose imports
had become restricted in 1985-86. In 1986, as an additional incentive for
exports, firms exporting more than 25% of their turnover were allowed to
freely import all of the inputs that they needed, and this policy was extended
to firms exporting a minimum of 15% of their turnover in 1987.
6.09         Tariff reform advanced more rapidly than the elimination of non-
tariff restrictions. Tariffs were compressed from a range of 5%-235% to ai
range of 15%-50% in 1987 and 15%-41% in 1988, and all other import taxes were
eliminated or incorporated in tariffs. Moreover, rates within this range were
reduced and made more uniform to reduce the disparities in tariff rates for
different sectors.
6.10         As part of the liberalization program, and as a,condition of the
ITPAL, a new investment code was prepared which became effective in August
1987.
AEniçultural Sector Program
6.11         Prices and Incentives Framework.  One of the most important
objectives of the MTASAP was to gradually move the prices of agricultural
inputs and outputs toward their world price equivalents while offering the
same minimum protection afforded to other import competing sectors, and to
introduce an averaging formula to prevent all of the volatility in world
Frices from being passed directly to the farmers. At the time the loan was
developed, prices of both agricultural outputs and inputs (fertilizers,
improved seed, herbicides and livestock feed) were below world prices and
fixed on the basis of a cost-plus methodology. The medium-term program called
for linkage with world market prices to be achieved by the end of the medium-
term program (1991)'/, and interim targets were set for attainment during the
loan period. Since output prices diverged more from world prices than input
prices, this measure was intended to both promote efficiency in the allocation
of resources, and to stimulate production.
6.12        The Governiment made important strides in increasing prices under
this section of its reform program.  Output prices for durum wheat, bread
wheat and barley were raised by 12.6%, 3.5% and 6.3% in real terms
respectively for the 1987 crop year and by 8.3%, 6.7% and 11.4% in real terms
respectively for the 1988 crop year. Nominal protection coefficients rose
I Linkage was to be achieved by aiming at a moving average of world
prices  for each commodity plus certain cost adjustments (see Annex 1 for
details).  The length of the moving average varied depending on the commodity,
but always included a price for,.çcast for the year for which the price was
being set and several previous years. The historical prices were adjusted for
inflation and converted into dinars at the competitive exchange rate.



- 7 -
from .89, .98 and .82 for durum, bread wheat and barley respectively between
1980 and 1985 to 1.04, 1.03 and .90 in 1988" for the same crops. The
objective of the ASAL was to have the producer prices approach the formula
prices in three years. Prices for the 1987 crop were to be adjusted by at
least one-third of the difference between their 1986 levels and the formula
price estimated for the 1987 crop year; and in 1988 by at least two-thirds the
difference between their 1986 levels and the formula price for the 1988 crop
year. In fact, as shown in Table 1 of Annex 2, the price adjustments exceeded
this requirement both years by up to 12%.
6.13        One of the features of using such an averaging formula is that it
introduces some stability into the movement of producer prices. In an era of
extremely volatile international prices for agricultural commodities, this can
be attractive. Another, related feature is that the formula transmits
international price signals with a lag. Depending on the previous trend in
world prices, the formula can indicate that producer prices should be raised
when, in fact, they already exceed world prices or vice versa. The former
situation occurred in Tunisia in late 1987. Nominal protection coefficients
comparing producer prices to actual world prices were extremely high due to
plummeting values for basic grains on the world markets (NPCs were 1.37, 1.27
and 1.29 for durum, bread wheat and barley respectively). However, producer
prices remained below their formula estimates because world prices had been so
much higher in the previous four years (NPCs equalled .95, .99 and .81 for
durum, bread wheat and barley respectively when producer prices are compared
with their target formula prices). At the time, the Tunisians were more
concerned about creating incentives for agricultural production than about the
budgetary costs of further price increases. Thus, for the 1988 crop year,
they raised producer prices even higher. When compared to the formula, durum
and bread wheat were virtually on target (NPCs of 1.04 and 1.03) while barley
lagged a bit (NPC of .90). Despite this increase, international prices rose
enough by the end of 1988 that producer prices for durum and bread wheat were
closer to world prices than they had been in 1987, and barley prices actually
fell below international standards (NPCs using actual 1988 world prices were
1.11, 1.04 and .98 respectively).
6.14        A lesson can be drawn f    this experience with regard to the
wording of the loan agreement. The conditions called for the Tunisians to
increase producer prices by the difference between 1985/86 producer prices and
the formula estimates for the years in question. It was not foreseen at the
time that a situation of implicit taxation of the agricultural sector could
become one of over-protection. In fact, it could have been the case that
producer prices in 1987 exceeded the formula estim< . and the Tunisian
authorities would have had to decrease producer prices to follow the formula
estimates. This did not occur, however, the loan agreeme- should have simply
required "adjustments" in the price and not specified a particular direction.
6.15        Prices for all of the inputs covered under the program were also
raised significantly during the loan period. The specific conditions differed
by commodity and are described in Annex 1, but essentially involved increases
' When producer prices are compared with the moving average formula.



in the official prices to better align them with a moving average of world
prices. All of the conditions of the loan were met and retail prices at the
farm level moved considerably closer to their world price equivalents. Table
2 shows the price adjustments and the targets for each commodity. The
enormous progress on this front for the 1987 and 1988 seasons was made easier
by the fact that the large increases in input prices were overshadowed by
still larger increases in output prices and there were no significant
complaints from farmers for whom the vast majority saw their net returns
increasing. Increases in input prices were suspended for the 1989 season due
to the severe drought in 1988 (cereals production was just over one-third of
normal and one-sixth the level of the previous year). Unfortunately, however,
world prices for certain commodities (particularly soy meal and maize) rose
dramatically that year, resulting in large increase- in their unit subsidy
costs. Under ASAL-II the Government expects to resume input price increases
for the 1990 season and to gradually eliminate all of the input subsidies by
1992.
6.16        Public Investment and Expenditure Program.  With regard to public
expenditures and credit, the medium-term program called for (a) improving the
efficiency of public investments through the use of project selection criteria
and subsector investment strategies developed in collaboration with the Bank;
and (b) reduction of public expenditures in commercially viable areas to leave
room for the private sector and to reduce the burden on the budget. To this
end, the Government submitted a list of project ideas and potential investment
programs to the Bank in late 1986, on the basis of which a joint ir.vestment
review was undertaken. By mid-1987, the Government completed its VIIth Plan
defining a core program of priority investments that would be protected in the
event of resource shortfalls. The Plan was based on the ideas that had been
generated in the context of the investment review and it conformed with the
subsector strategies that had been developed with the Bank.
6.17        The medium-term program also called for reform of the existing
credit policy toward the agricultural sector. The existing system (or
actually set of systems; about 30 special credit programs were launched during
the 1980s) inhibited the development of a private banking sector and allowed
for extremely low levels of repayment.  Toward this objective, the Government
reduced its budgetary allocations to the loan component of its principal
subsidized credit program, FOSDA, to TD 13 million in 19Ei and by another 15%
in 1988 to TD 11 million. It also raised subsidized interest rates for
growing season loans from 6% to 6.75% in 1987 and to 7% in 1988; and for
medium- to long-term loans from 6% to 7% in 1987 and to 7.5% in 1988.
6.18        Sector SupRort Services.  The MTASAP called for an updating of
fertilizer margins and for full cost recovery on public sector sales of
fertilizer in order to permit competition by the private sector. In fact, the
Government went a step further and, before second tranche release, announced
that it would liberalize fertilizer retail margins altogether in January 1988.
An "official decision" was published stating that public sector agencies would
apply margins that completely covered their costs. Later inspection revealed,
however, that while the public agencies understood that they could raise their
margins, they never actually did. Moreover, it was impossible to determine
the degree to which they were actually practicing full cost recovery because



- 9 -
none of the relevant agencies engaged in cost accounting. Many of these
agencies consider that covering direct costs (e.g., storage and transport)
constitutes "full cost recovery." The lack of cost accounting makes it
virtually impossible for them to attribute indirect costs (e.g., overhead and
administration) to their margins. Nonetheless, by late 1987, there was ar
increase in the number of private retailers selling fertilizer by
approximately 300, implying that, while there is still more progress to be
made on this issue, the objectives of the condition are genera]ly being
achieved.
6.19        The MTASAP also called for the Government to authorize imports of
5% of the demand for tractors in the horsepower range manufactured in Tunisia.
Demand had been estimated at approximately 2000 tractors by the appraisal
mission, implying approval to import 100 tractors, but the Tunisians reduced
this demand estimate to 700-1000 as a result of the severe 1986 drought and
the sharp increases in tractor prices following the devaluation of the dinar.
The supervision mission accepted this revision and agreement was reached that
imports of 50 tractors would be permitted. International competitive bidding
was undertaken for this procurement and the tractors were imported.
6.20        The MTASAP also laid out a plan for improving the institutional
structure for agricultural research and extension and for increasing the
remuneration of agricultural researchers. As a result of the dialogue with
the Bank in this area, the Tunisian authorities decided to completely
reorganize both the research and the extension institutions, revise their
mandates, streamline their operations and improve the quality and relevance of
the services they provide. These reforms included a significant increase in
the status and pay of agricultural researchers.  The momentum arising from
these reforms led to the preparation of a research and extension project with
the Bank to support such activities.
6.21        Manazement of Natural Resources.  The ASAL called for the
development of an action plan for the forestry subsector. On the basis of
this plan, as well as the on-going dialogue and investment review with the
Bank, these actions were eventually developed into a pilot program for the
sector which the Bank supported with an independent forestry project.
6.22        Sector Monitoring and Policy Analysis.  A number of steps were
taken as part of the medium-term program to enhance to capacity of the
Ministry of Agriculture to monitor the impact of different policy changes on
the sector and to undertake the kind of analysis necessary to evaluate new
policy recommendations. The Office of Development Planning and Agricultural
Investments (now the DGPDIA, formerly the DPSAE) in the Ministry of
Agriculture developed a project (called the Agricultural Policy Implementation
Project) which was financed by USAID to provide training for staff and
coo.sultaqts who would work with the Tunisians on a number of policy-related
tasks. Several models were also developed with the help of consultants and
the Bank that enable the staff of the DGPDIA to do this kind of sector work.
This component of the program has been extremely successful to the point where
the DGPDIA is now capable of undertaking fairly sophisticated analysis by
itself.



- 10 -
7. Failures of the Program
7.01        The discussion in the section above certainly indicates that
compliance with the specific conditions of the loan and the key actions
attached to the sector policy letter was excellent, though in several
instances less progress was made than originallv envisaged. In two cases, the
Government eventually kept its agreements, but the delays were significant
enough to cause concern. One of these cases involved the requirement to
submit timely audit reports to the Bank. The implications of the delay are
described in detai: in para. 9.04.
7.02        There were also delays in developing an action plan that would
serve as uhe basis for an export promotion strategy. The implementation of
such a strategy was a key action in the Government's sector policy letter. In
fact, a first study was not completed until June 1987 and by second tranche
release, no further progress had bepn made.  Nonetheless, the Government has
remained committed to pursuing this issue and had a number of specific
commodity and export market studies done by the APIP project. These were
completed and presented at a Government sponsored workshop in May 1989. The
Government's strategy is still being developed on the basis of these reports
and the ensuing discussions, though the loan has been closed.
7.03        Finally. the Government experienced some difficulties with the
covenant in the loan agreement requiring development and implementation of a
program to ensure risk-free maintenance and storage of dangerous agricultural
chemicals used against pests and weeds. In fact, draft legislation was
prepared and submitted to the Bank for review and comment. The legislation
was amended to take the Bank's positions into account and an Administrative
circular was prepared to provide guidance to the relevant implementation
agencies. However, final legislation did not emerge from the General Assembly
during the timeframe of the ASAL. Promulgation of this law has become a
condition of ASAL-II.
8. Impact of the Program
8.01        There are a number of difficulties in trying to judge the impact
of an adjustment program. Obviously, the impact of any such program will be
spread over a period of time and an examination of the immediate results can
only be expected to yield partial answers. Also, a number of the policy
measures undertaken have effects that are not quantifiable. Moreover,
exogenous events can be expected to mask or exacerbate much of the impact of
the reforms. Measurement problems are particularly difficult in trying to
analyze policy changes in the agricultu,al sector because the weather is'such
an important factor and its effects are so difficult to model accurately.
Nonetheless, a general evaluation of the program's impact is presented below.
The Macroeconomic Component
8.02        The substantial depreciation of the dinar in August 1986 helped
restore the competitiveness of Tunisian exports and increased the relative
price of capital goods with respect to wages.  It also set the stage for



- il -
carrying out the liberalization program that began in 1986, since it provided
an initial, across-the-board increase in the competitiveness of domestically
produced import substitutes which facilitared the removal of quantitative
restrictions and the reduction of tariffs. The restraint on wages and
salaries curbed domestic demand and further improved the competitiveness of
Tunisia's exports while the more prudent credit and monetary policies kept
inflation contained ai 7.2% in 1987 and further lowered it to 6.3% in 1988.
8.03        The demand restraint measures mentioned in paras. 6.04-6.07 above
helped reduce the government deficit to 3.0% of GDP. The unemployment rate,
however, continued to rise in 1987 (exceeding 14%), and employment in the
manufacturing sector declined slightly. The negative short-run effect of
demand restraint measures on employment, particularly the sharp fall in total
investment, outweighed the impact of declining real wages.
8.04        Despite lower tariffs and the removal of quantitative restrictions
on a group of products, imports remained low in 1987, as described earlier.
While tariff revenues declined as a result, the budget deficit also fell due
to reductions in expenditures. The first phase of import liberalization had
the effect of improving the environment for import substituting firms by
increasing the availability of foreign inputs rather than introducing import
competition to domestic industries which remained protected with quantitative
restrictions. Producer price liberalization did not have a negative effect on
inflation as sluggish domestic demand eased inflationary pressures.
8.05        The new investment code eliminated the need for authorization of
all investments with the exception of those seeking special incentives. It
also improved the transparency and consistency of all incentives available for
foreign and domestic investments. Elimination of investment authorization
requirements was an important step in increasing the role of market forces and
encouraging the development of a competitive domestic industry.
The Sector Component
8.06        The impact of the agricultural sector program is more difficult to
evaluate than that of the macroeconomic program. An examination of actual
changes in variables of interest during the period of Tunisia's adjustment
program would be extremely misleading simply as a result of weather patterns.
Cereals production in 1987 was 208% of the previous 20 year average due to a
year of extraordinarily high and well-spaced rainfall with ideal temperatures.
In contrast, production the following year was only 32% of the same average as
a result of one of the worst droughts in Tunisia's history. Clearly these
weather patterns had an important impact on input use, farm income, the
Government budget and balance of payments and it is difficult to separate out
the weather effects from other effects. At this early stage in the program,
the only meaningful way to assess the expected impact is through the use of
calibrated prediction models. Such instruments were developed under ASAL I
and used to prepare for its follow-up (ASAL-II). The actual situation in 1989
has been examined to analyze how it compares to what might have been the case
had the ASAL policy measures not been implemented, given our understanding of
farmers' responsiveness and behavior toward multiple price changes, using a
multi-market model and a set of farm-level models. In fact, the only policy



- 12 -
changes that could be modeled in this type of framework were the changes in
producer and input prices and in the minimum tariff.  It was not possible to
evaluate institutional reorganization or the rest of the macroeconomic reforms
in this manner.  Obviously such an exercise neglects a number oF important
initiatives undertaken under the medium-term program and is, by definition,
extremely partial. Moreover, the results cannot be interpreted too rigidly,
given the inherent uncertainty associated with this type of modeling.
Nonetheless, the insights on direction of change and possible orders of
magnitude of the loan's impact on a number of variables are still valuable.
8.07        The analysis indicates that the impact of actual price and tariff
policy changes already achieved under the MTASAP as compared to a "without
adjustment" scenario would be as follows:
(a)   aggregate growth of the commodities analyzed'/ higher by 3-4% p.a.
due primarily to strong increases in the cereals subsector; and a
shift in the structure of cereals production with higher-value
durum gaining relatively more than either bread wheat or barley;
(b)   net budgetary savings of almost TD 16 million per year, primarily
as a result of reductions in input suosidies and the introduction
of a 15% minimum tariff on imports of agricultural products and
inputs;
(c)   a savings in foreign exchange of approximately TD 12 million per
year due primarily to reduced imports of cereal grains; and
(d)   a positive impact on income by 0.5-6.5% p.a., depending on the
region, with most of the relative benefits going to farmers who
produce durum wheat using low-input techniques, use integrated
livestock systems instead of pure-bred systems, and produce under
rainfed instead of irrigated conditions. Since these tend to be
small farmers, the distributional consequences would also be
positive.
8.08        Unfortunately, there are no data which could be used to measure
the impact of using more rigorous project selection criteria on ICORs or on
agricultural growth and production. However, due to the expenditure review,
the investments defined in the VIIth Plan were more consistent with the
strategy outlined in the Government's medium-term adjustment program than they
otherwise would have been.
8.09        The impact of liberalizing fertilizer margins was mitigated by the
fact that very few public agencies actually raised the margins they applied
I These include: cereals (durum wheat, bread wheat, barley), milk, meat
(beef and mutton), fruits and vegetables, and hay, representing approximately
50% of sector output in 1988. Since this is not and exhaustive coverage of
Tunisia's agricultural production, these growth rates should not be
interpreted as representative for the entire sector.



- 13 -
for retail sales. Higher margins would have had a slight negative impact on
production and farm income, but a positive impact on the development of
private sector input distribution networks. In any case, the mere
authorization of private sector participation in this activity seems to have
been sufficient to stimulate considerable growth of private retail trade for
inputs without raising prices. Moreover, these additional services have been
extremely beneficial to farmers, providing them with alternatives when the
public agencies fail to offer adequate supplies.
8.10        It is difficult to quantify the impact on the Tunisian economy of
allowing 50 additional tractor imports. Clearly the impact on the
agricultural sector was positive as the import prices were below the prices
offered by the local manufacturer (the Complexe Mécanique de Tunisie or CMT).
While CMT's sales were probably reduced as a result, it must be recognized
that these were sales of tractors that would have cost the economy more than
their opportunity cost to produce.
9. Imolementation and Monitoring of the LOan
Disbursement
9.01        Disbursements under the loan were much slower than expected.  The
loan was made effective in November 1986 and full disbursement of the first
tranche was planned for April 1987. By that time, however, just over 40% of
the first tranche (and about 31% of the total loan) had been spent. In fact,
the first tranche was not completely disbursed until May 1988. The closing
date of the loan had to be extended twice to allow the Tunisians adequate time
to use the funds from the second tranche.
9.02        The reasons for this delay can be linked almost ertirely to
unexpected changes in the macroeconomic situation. As shown in the table
below, the forecasts for the current account at the time the ASAL was prepared
(and even a year and a half later when the SAL was prepared) were for fairly
large deficits in 1987 and 1988.
CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT
(In millions of current dinars)
--Projections--
ASAL        SAL        Actual
1987           NA      -144.6        -98.6
1988       -682.0      -471.2       +22.9
CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT
(As a share of CDP)
1984     1985      1986     1987      1988
-10.9     -7.1      -8.0     -1.0     +0.2



- 14 -
The exceptionally good performance in 1987 and 1988 was due primarily to
exogenous events that were not foreseen by the Tunisians or the Bank at the
time the loan was prepared. In 1987, the cereals harvest was twice the
average and three times that of the previous year. Total exports far exceeded
expectations, perhaps due to a delaved effect of the 1986 devaluation and to
strong demand in Europe, and rose by 14% in 1987 (after increasing by only
5.2% in 1986) at the same time imports fell by 4.2%. Despite the poor
agricultural crop in 1988 a number of other factors were more than offsetting.
Overall exports rose by 19.5% in volume. This export performance was due
'fn part to the opening of the border with Libya, raising exports to that
country to $US 400 million (12% of total exports) from zero the year before.
Tourism grew by 12.1% between 1987 and 1988 as a result of a return to
political stability in the region.
9.03         There were several other difficulties that delayed disbursements.
First, the Tunisians have a system of international procurement that differs
from ICB and which they believe is superior.  It involves non-simultaneous
"consultations" with suppliers to inform them of bidding opportunities and
r.egotiations with the selected supplier for a final price, neither of which
are permitted when Bank funds are used. Continuing discussions with the Bank
over this practice were not specific to the ASAL but did cause some delay in
disbursement until agreement was reached to use ICB for goods procured under
the loan.   Second, the loan included a positive list of goods eligible for
financing which was comprised of eight strictly defined categories. While it
was a good idea to have a positive list and to ensure that the loan proceeds
were used to finance inputs into the sector, the categories were defined
narrowly and the result was that severa' categories were easily depleted while
others were scarcely used (see Table 3 of Annex 2). Over the course of the
loan, several reallocations were made among these categories to facilitate
complete disbursement.
Cofinancinz
9.04         The Dutch Government made a US$9 million grant to the Tunisian
Government to support the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program. These funds
werc administered by the World Bank and were completely disbursed by the end
of 1986. The Tunisian Government also entered into an agreement with
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW) on December 29, 1987 for a loan in an
amount of DM 27 million to co-finance the MTASAP uith the World Bank. This
loan was administered by the Germans.
Records and Audits
9.05         The loan agreement provided for regular maintenance of the
necessary accounts to register the expenditures financed by the loan. It also
stipulated that there would be account verificatLon at the end of each fiscal
year and that an audit report would be transmitted to the Bank within six
months of the termination of each fiscal year. Official reminders about the
audit reports were made bv Bank staff and included in the Aide-Memoires during
each supervision mission.  The first audit report, however, was not received
until September 1989. There mav have been some initial confusion on the part



- 15 -
of the Tunisian authorities about these due dates, since the original dates
were postponed as a result of the delays in disbursing the first tranche.
However, problems of timely audit reports in Tunisia have not been specific to
the ASAL. In this case, the delay in providing the audit report to the Bank
was costly for the Tunisian Government. The report uncovered errors in
converting foreign exchange values of some US $ 680,000 which the Tunisians
will have to repay to the Bank. If the loan were still open, these funds
could have been reprogrammed for future disbursements. Unfortunately, the
loan was clos2d by the time the Bank had received the report and was able to
discuss the issue with the Government, meaning that the funds must be repaid
but cannot be ubed by the Tunisians for any other purpose.
Supervision
9.06         Supervision of the macroeconomic program was carried out by the
Programs Department in conjunction with its supervision of the ITPAL (Industry
and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan) which followed the ASAL by four months and
supported the same macroeconomic reforms.  The bulk of the supervision (65
staff weeks) was allocated to monitoring the agricultural component of the
loan. Above and beyond the specific conditions of the loan, there were the
reviews of progress of the overall program on both the macroeconomic front and
the sector front. There were also the studies listed in para. 5.01 above,
which all required technical assistance and support to ensure they were
completed on a timely basis.



- 17 -
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Translation from the original dacument in French)
THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
For several years, the Bank financed only investment projects in
the agricultural sector, such as those relating to irrigation, credit,
production and rural infrastructure. It was only in 1986 that t'ne Bank made
its first loan to support an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program covering
the whole of agriculture and designed to increase its ccntribution to overall
economic growth and to the reduction of the balance of payments and budget
deficits, through a set of agricultural policy measures and reforms.
All the measures and reforms proposed under this medium-term
Program were discussed by the Government and the Bank.  The Bank's appraisal
and supervision missions enormously facilitated the task, and made a
considerable contribution toward clarifying many issues relating to execution,
both as regards operations and disbursements.
THE BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
By adopting the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program, the
Government seeks to improve its policy for encouraging producers by
establishing appropriate prices, to redirect its public sector investment
program, and to strengthen agricultural support services, including
rationalization of the role of the public sector in input distribution and
product marketing.



- 18 -
Since execution began, the Government has demonstrated its
commitment to the restructuring of the sector by adopting a series of measures
for implementing reforms and upgrading the sector's performance.
Throughout this period, cereal and milk prices have steadily
increased to international levels, fertilizer prices have been revised,
research and extension have been restructured, interest rates have been
raised, and fertilizer distribution margins have been liberali.ed.
Ail these measures are in line with the program strategy.
However, they cannot produce their results in the short term, and it will be
necessary to wait in order to evaluate their real  mp11act.
In fact, important progress has alreacy 'Jeen made, and will soon
reach a successful conclusion, provided that all ecor;^mic agents coordinate
their efforts to ensure that t1.is strategy can achie;.? its objectives.
A.        TSHED UNDER THE PROQ'5 ,M
The preparation, appraisal and execution o.f -:he Program have
caused links to be established amoiig a number of agencles belonging to
different departments, and this has helped define hypotheses and actions.
This was particularly important because the reforms in question were
structural, and such measures often involve several parties, such as CGC, ONH
and OC, which sometimes have conflicting objectives.



- 19 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATlON
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 16
CONDITIONS OF ASAL PACKAGE AND ACTIONS TAKEN
Actions Taken Prior to Negotiations
Policv Area                                     Action
1.  Increase retail margins for             1.  Public sector retail margins
fertilizer sold by Government               were increased to align with margins
agencies to bring them into line            allowed the private sector.
with private sector prices and to
bring these to adequate levels.
2.  Charge real costs for the rent           2.  The charges of OMVs and other
of agricultural equipment from OMVs         public agencies for renting
and other public agencies; the costs         agricultural equipment were raised
to be calculated separately, if             to cover actual costs.
available, otherwise according to
SONAM rates.
3.  Increase to 50% the margins on          3.  The margins on domestic fish
domestic sale of fish.                       sales were liberalized.
Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
1.    Part of condition of second           1.  Government expenditures were
tranche release (see 1. below).             reduced by TD 60 million or 3% below
the original appropriations.
2.  Part of condition-of second              2.  Sales taxes on luxury goods were.
tranche release (see 1. below).              raise by about TD 60 mnillion.



-20-
Annex 1
Page 2 of 16
Policy Area                                     Action
3.  Part of condition of                    3.  The Government announced the
effectiveness (see 1. below).                first phase of the import decontrol
program, including elimination of
quantitative import restrictions on
two of the three categories foreseen
as a condition of effectiveness:
spare parts for industrial
(including agricultural) use; and
raw materials and semi-finished
products for enterprises that export
at least 25% of their output.
4.  Increase producer prices for the         4.  Prices were increased by 50% of
1986/87 crop season to reflect               the differential plus the 15%
relationships on the world market           minimum tariff.
and eliminate over 25% of the
differential to reach world market
prices plus the 15% minimum tariff
proposed under the macro program.
5.  Make first round reductions in          5.  First round reductions in
subsidies on agricultural inputs.            fertilizer and animal feed subsidies
were made and in areas where there
was no action, a commitment was made
to do as a condition of second
tranche release.
6.  Raise fertilizer margins to a           6.  Margins adjusted to adequate
level adequate to avoid undercutting        levels.
by the public sector and to promote
private sector interest in marketing
agricultural inputs.
Conditions of Effectiveness
l.  Remove restrictions on imports          1.  Restrictions on two of three
of spare parts for use in industry,         categories removed before Board
agriculture, hotels, hospitals and          presentation (see 4. above)
other services, raw materials, and          restrictions on capital goods for
semi-finished products for                   investment projects eliminated
enterprises that export at least 25%        before effectiveness.
of their output, and capital goods
for investment projects approved by
API, APIA and the Tourism Investment
Board.
2.  Establish and maintain a                 2.  Coordinating Committee was
Coordinating Committee.                      established.



- 21.-
Annex 1
Page 3 of 16
Policy Area                                     Action
Conditions of Second Tranche Release
1.  Make progress satisfactory to            1.  Bank review established
the Bank on overall macroeconomic           satisfactory progress based, among
program, with specific targets for           other things, on: a) Government
1987 outlined in the Letter of              receipts equal to 32.2% of GDP,
Economic Development: a) central             recurrent expenditures equal to
Government receipts should be no             26.3% and budgetary developmenr
less than 30% of GDP, b) recurrent          expenditures equal to 8% of GDP.
budget expenditures should not
exceed 24% of GDP, and c) budgetary
development expenditures should not
exceed 8% of GDP.
2.  Increase producer prices for             2.  Price increases exceeded those
durum, bread wheat and barley by 67%         required by the loan by 0-12%
of the difference between the                depending on the commodity (see
1985/86 producer price and a five           Table 1, Annex 2).
year moving average of FOB prices
plus insurance and freight, plus the
15% minimum tariff.
3.  Increase the weighted average            3.  Price increases more than
prices of the four principal                 adequate for the weighted average
fertilizers by 33% of the difference        and up to 23% more than required for
between the wholesale price in               individual fertilizer (see Table 2,
1985/86 and a three year moving             Annex 2).
average of FOB Tunisia prices.
4.  Increase the prices for maize            4.  Prices were increased by 98%,
and soybean meal by 67% of the               100% and 104% of this requirement
difference between the factory sales         for soybean meal, maize and barley
price in 1985/86 and a three year            respectively (see Table 2, Annex 2).
moving average of the FOB price.
plus insurance and freight, plus
management costs of the Office des
Céréales, plus the 15% minimum
tariff and the price of barley by
33% of the same difference.



- 22 -
Annex 1
Page 4 oe 16
Policy Area                                      Action
5.  Increase the price of 2-4-D              5.  The price increase exceeded this
herbicide by 50% of the difference            requirement by 43% (see Table 2,
between the wholesale price in               Annex 2).
1985/86 and a three year moving
average of the FOB price, plus
insurance and freight, plus
management costs, plus the 15%
minimum tariff.
6.  Increase the price of improved           6.  Prices were increased by 23-35%
seed for durum, bread wheat and              more than this requirement (see
barley by 33% of the difference               Table 2, Annex 2).
between the wholesale price in
1985/86 and the cost of production.
7.  Take initial steps to implement          7.  Interest rates were raised by
the Government's policy to establish         0.5% for medium-term and 0.25% for
by 1991 agricultural interest rates           short term ratesin August 1987.
which cover the financial costs,
operating costs at reasonable
efficiency and a reasonable share of
the risks of agricultural lending.
8.  Confirm that the 1987 budget              8.  Budget allocation cut to TD 13
allocation for FOSDA's loan program          million.
does not exceed TD 13 million.
9.  Update fertilizer margins for            9.  Fertilizer margins were
inflation, and announce that margins         completely liberalized, announcement
will be liberalized by Jan. 1, 1988,          was made, full cost recovery
ensure that fertilizer sold by                difficult to ascertain due to lack
public sector agencies is at prices           of cost accounting.
adequate to fully cover the costs of
purchase and distribution.
10.  Authorize the import of 5% of           10.  Authorization given and
the annual needs of tractors in the           tractors imported.
horsepower range manufactured in
Tunisia.
11.  Designate a lead extension               11.  Direction de la Vulgarisation
agency for rainfed areas with                 created in the Direction Générale de
appropriate responsibilities and              la Production Végétale and
personnel.                                    designated as lead agency.
12.  Increase the remuneration of            12.  Remuneration was increased and
agricultural researchers to an                career status was upgraded.
adequate level.



- 23 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 16
Policy Area                                     Action
13.  Make satisfactory progress in           13.  Progress was determined to be
implementing the overall MTASAP             satisfactory based on actions taken
(including key actions and other            as described in all sections of this
Government reforms outside the               annex.
specific loan package.
Particular Covenants and Actions Taken
1.  Develop and implement a program          1.  Program developed but
to ensure risk-free maintenance and         promulgation of law delayed.
storage of dangerous agricultural            Issuance of law is a condition of
chemicals used against pests and            ASAL-II.
weeds.
Kev Actions
1.  Make a second round of                   1. Prices for barley, bread wheat
adjustments in producer prices to            and durum wheat were raised to 94%,
align them with the world price              100% and 104% of target respectively
formula by July 1988.                        for the 1988/89 crop year.
2.  Make a subsequent round of price         2.  Prices have not yet been set for
adjustments so as to eliminate               the 1990/91 season.
fertilizer subsidies by July 1990.
3.  Make a subsequent round of price         3.  Subsequent prices increases
adjustments so as to eliminate              undertaken but subsidies not
subsidies on animal feed, 2-4-D             entirely eliminated due to severe
herbicîde and improved cereal seed           drought coinciding with high
by July 1989.                                international prices.  Next target
date set for 1992.
4.  Present to the Bank a list of            4.  List was submitted.
projects and investment programs
consistent with an agreed upon
agricultural public expenditure
strategy.
5.  Establish an expenditure                 5.  System developed with the Bank
monitoring system.                           and established in the DPSAE (now
DGPDIA) of the Ministry of
Agriculture.



- 24 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 16
Policy Area                                    Action
6.  Allow private retailing of              6.  Private retail activity allowed
agricultural inputs including seeds         and begun.
in two zones where the volume of
activity is such that the Government
can withdraw.
7.  Make decisions on outstanding           7.  Research program completely
research issues such as: the choice         reorganized and supported by new
of institutional structures;                Bank project.
priorities for research themes;
reform of the station network and
preparation of national work
programs and budgets.
8.  Approve an action plan to               8.  Extension program completely
implement agricultural extension            reorganized and supported by new
master plan.                                Bank project.
9.  Undertake a study to replace the        9.  Study completed.
cereal seed exchange program with a
private retailer-oriented
distribution system.
10.  Implement an export promotion          10.  Study completed making
strategy including product specific         recommendations for strategy.
export strategies targeted to
particular markets based on an
action plan.
11.  Approve an action plan to              ll.  Action plan approved and
implement the new forest development        supported by a new Bank project.
strategy.
12.  Develop a policy review                12.  Analytical and review capacity
capability in the Planning and              significantly improved.
Investment Office of the Ministry of
Agriculture.



- 25-
Annex 1
Page 7 of 16
Policy Area                                     Action
Action Taken on Bank Recommended Measures
Public Extenditures
1.  Separate the loan and subsidy           1.  Done.
components of FOSDA, and develop a
plan to shift the risk of lending to
the banking sector.
2.  Set norms for recurrent                 2.  Ongoing (through Irrigation
irrigation expenditures to                  Management Improvement Project
efficiently maintain existing                (IMIP).
investments and works.
Irrigation Management
3.  Introduce a binomial water               3.  Proposal prepared but not yet
charge formula including (a) a fixed         implemented.
contribution on a per-irrigable
hectare basis charged to every
farmer whether he uses the water or
not and representing the minimum
desirable water use; and (b) a
charge based on volume used.
4.  Pursue efforts to implement the          4.  Done.
1958 and 1963 Agrarian Reform Laws
for PPIs and limit the size of land
holdings.
5.  Improve OMVs' operating                  5.  Started (through IMIP) and now
efficiency.                                  under forestry responsibilitv in
CRDAs.
6.  Pursue implementation of                6.  Ongoing.
Agrarian Reform in PIs and collect
land betterment levies.
7.  Increase water charges during           7.  Done.
project period by 9% in real terms.
8.  Implement Privilège d'Etat for           8.  Ongoing.
recovering fixed component of water
charges.
' Actions not formally accepted by the Tunisians as part of the MTASAP in
the Loan Documents, but discussed at the working level as useful actions.



Annex 1
Page 8 of 16
Policv Area                                     Action
9.  Introduce systematic monitoring          9.  Being done under all Bank-
by OMVs of representative crop/farm          financed irrigation projects.
budgets and of farmers' ability to
pay.
10.  Set up cost accounting system           10. Started with IMIP; now under
within OMVs.                                 CRDA doubtful, given the General
Account System of the Duplicate
Accounts.
11.  Transfer full cost of OMVs'             11.  Substantially completed.
commercial services to the
beneficiaries.
12.  Agree on criteria for                   12.  Done.
divestiture by OMVs of their
commercial activities.
13.  Simplify Administrative                 13.  Done.
controls over, and operating
procedures of, existing Water User
Associations (WUAs).
14.  Define legal framework for              14.  Done.
establishment of new, smaller, more
flexible WUAs.
15.  Introduce incentives (e.g.,             15.  Farmers are fully responsible
water charge discounts) for farmers'         for O&M costs.
groups to undertake part of O&M
activities.
16.  Establish new WUAs as one of            16.  Done while OMV existed. Not
OMVs' performance indicators.                applicable any longer.
17.  Present OMVs' operating budget          17.  Done while OMV existed. Not
by cost/activity center.                     applicable any longer.
18.  Accord operating subsidies on           18.
an activity-specific basis so they
are not transferrable between
activities.
19.  Introduce on a pilot basis             19.  Under preparation at the time
"contrat-plans" for selected OMVs;          that OMV disappeared.  Similar
define medium-term development plans         system being considered for the
for all OMVs to cover the period of         CRDAs.
Tunisia's new Development Plan
(1987-91).



- 27 -
Annex 1
Page 9 of 16
Policy Area                                     Action
20.  Define monitorable targets and          20.  Done.
performance indicators.
21.  Strengthen the planning                21.  Done.
capabilities of the Ministry of
Agriculture.
22.  Strengthen the monitoring              22.  Done.
capabilities of the Ministry of
Agriculture.
23.  Define basic, standard                  23.  Informally established but
accounting principles and                   never formalized.-
procedures; develop procedure manual
and provide staff training.
24.  Establish reliable opening              24.  Informally established but
financial statements for each OMV.          never formalized.
25.  Define and set up an efficient          25.  Initiated but interrupted with
MIS, train staff.                            reform MOA.  Ongoing with CRDA.
26.  Establish management                    26.  Under preparation at the time
control/internal audit in the OMVs           that OMV disappeared.  Similar
selected for "contrat-plan"                  system being considered for the
experiments.                                 CRDAs.
27.  Limit recruitment of staff in          27.  Done but not always with a
OMVs to strict minimum necessary for         comprehensive staff program.
efficient operations.
28.  Define for each OMV a medium-          28.  Initiated in some OMVs.
term target for desired staff
composition and structure, and a
strategy (non-replacement of
departing staff, training, etc.) to
reach target within specified
timeframe; include evolution towa.d
target as performance indicator.
29.  Clearly earmark funds for              29.  Done.
maintenance in OMJs' annual budget.
30.  Monitor quality of maintenance          30.  Being prepared under IMIP.
through performance indicators.
31.  Train OMVs' technical staff.            31.  Done.



- 28 -
Annex 1
Page 10 of 16
Policy Area                                     Action
32.  Have medium-term contracts              32.  Being prepared under IMIP.
signed by OMVs with specialized
firms for maintenance of complex HEM
equipment and training of OMVs'
staff.
Agricultural Credit
33.  Prepare an action plan by              33.  Done.
source of funds on the financial
viability of agricultural credit
operations (1980-85 performance and
1986-91 prospects) and implement the
recommendations made on margins
(spreads) risk-sharing and recovery
system.
Agricultural Research
34.  Select, accept and subsequently         34.  Done.
implement restructuring proposal for
agricultural research.
35.  Determine size and location of          35.  Done.
substations required for research in
next ten years.
36.  Make decision on farm machinery        36.  Done.
center.
37.  Increase research under                37.
contract within the proposed
restructured institutional
framework.
Input Marketing
38.  Provide training in stock               38.
management for agricultural input
marketing.
39.  Provide training in handling,           39.  Done.
labeling and safety aspects of plant
protection chemicals.



- 29 -
Annex 1
Page 11 of 16
Policv Area                                     Action
40.  Expand and intensify regional           40.  Done.
fertilizer experiments and related
soil fertility monitoring to provide
farmers with more detailed
fertilizer recommendations.
41.  Include advice on economic              41.  Done.
aspects in fertilizer
recommendations.
42.  Have extension service                  42.  Done.
encourage use of seed and fertilizer
drills for more economic use of
inputs, and construction of low-cost
on-farm facilities.
43.  Complete budwood collections.           43.  Done.
Increase margins in particular of
grafted seedlings of apples, pears,
apricots, pistachios from adequately
inspected nurseries.
Farm Mechanization
44.  Train and appoint first of four         44.
Agricultural Mechanization Subject
Matter Specialists.
45.  Make decision about                     45.  Done.
institutional framework of Farm
Machinery Research Centre, and the
timing of its establishment.
46.  Lift import ban on tractors             46.
produced by CMT and issue import
permits for a limited number of
makes, base annual review of makes
to be allowed for imports on
objective criteria.
47.  Appoint ad-hoc comnmittee to            47.
study spare parts issue.



- 30 -
Annex 1
Page 12 of 16
Policy Area                                      Action
48.  Have APIA identify potential             48.
private entrepreneurs who are
willing to invest in farm machinery
contracting and submit investment
proposals to agricultural credit
institutions and banks,
49.  Provide technical assistance             49.  Done.
credit and training to improve farm
machinery repair service of private
workshops.
Output Marketing
50.  Apply law 84-20 for                     50.  Done.
output/export marketing to existing
companies.
51.  Introduce export cost rebates            51.
of 50% of exported produce through
Dec. 86 and 100% in 1987.
52.  Gradually reduce and totally             52.
eliminate in five years employers'
share in health insurance and social
security contributions (20% in 1987,
total elimination in 1989).
53.  Eliminate the 8% value added             53.
tax (TPS) by Dec. 1986.
54.  Eliminate customs charges on             54.
agricultural products by Dec. 1986.
55.  Have exporters apply for                 55.
agricultural import permits (1986)
followed by the issuance of import
licenses for 50% of the value of
exports (1987). Ultimately allow
exporters to import fruits and
vegetables without restrictions.
56.  Execute transport study by Dec.         56.
1986.
57.  Force the French/Tunisian                57.
Shipping Conference to serve Tunisia
on the basis of idertified needs.



31 -
Annex 1
Page Î3 of 16
Policy Area                                     Action
58.  Negotiate preferential air             58.
freight rates for perishable
products.
59.  Expand preferential air freight         59.
rates for perishable products.
60.  Prepare balance sheets and              60.
details of cost for: a) the sugar
factories, b) ONH, c) STIL, d)
Tunisie Lait, e) El Louhoum, f)
STEC.
61.  Prepare restructuring plans for         61.  Done.
the key agro-industries and then
subsequently implement them.
Protection may remain against
foreign dumping practices.
62.  Study packaging and establish           62.
standard packaging norms in
collaboration with local industry.
Eventually liberalize packing
material imports with a possible
tariff to offset foreign export
subsidies.
63.  Prepare a list of agro-                 63.
industries which have operated on
the basis of guaranteed profits, and
the budgetary consequences for the
State since 1975.
64.  Study, for each concerned              64.
industry, the impact of lifting
guaranteed profits.
65.  Prepare for and subsequently            65.
implement the elimination of the
guaranteed profit system.
66.  Publish customs tariffs for             66.  Done.
imported agricultural commodities.
67.  Identify agro-industrial                67.  Done.
investment projects.



- 32 -
Annex 1
Page 14 of 16
Policy Area                                     Action
68.  Prepare and publish an                  68.  Done.
information manual for prospective
investors and businessmen; prepare a
sma'l number of viable investment
pro,ects.
69.  Initiate p: omotion of specific         69.  Done.
agro-industrial projects by national
and foreign investors.
70.  Amalgamate functions of                 70.
monitoring and evaluation of
agricultural exports now carried out
by different agencies.
Animal Production
71.  Submit private and public               71.
sector equally to input marketing
and subsidy measures for animal
production.
72.  Appoint ad-hoc commission to            72.
prepare curriculum proposal for
animal production.
73.  Encourage veterinarians to              73.  Done.
establish private practice.
74.  Introduce cost recovery program         74.  Done.
for artificial insemination and
natural breeding services.
Encourage private and cooperative
breeding services in order to
replace public services.
Land Tenure
75.  Introduce legislation on rural          75.  Study completed.
rents and study minimum viable size
of land holdings.
76.  Have the Ministry of Finance,          76.  Done.
the Ministry of Justice and the
Ministry of Public Works determine
amount of agricultural property tax.



- 33 -
Annex 1
Page 15 of 16
Policy Area                                      Action
Forestry
77.  Launch a program, agreer4 with           77.  Done.
the Bank, to assure the regeneration
of the approximately 3,000 ha/yr of
forest and increase funding of
forest development and water and
soil conservation operations
according to priorities established
by the 1985 forest development
strategy. Liberalize cork prices in
the medium-term.
78.  Enact Code Forestier in early           78.  Done.
1987.
Fisheries
79.  Prepare terms of reference for           79.  Done.
Fisheries Master Plan study,
including resource evaluation, in
particular, demersal.
80.  Approve and execute Fisheries            80.  Done.
Master Plan study.
81.  Analyze Fisheries study and              81.  Done.
prepare investment program.
82.  Prepare pilot marketing project          82.  Done.
(June 1986), approve and start pilot
project with press and mass media
publicity (Dec. 1986).
83.  Assess results of pilot project          83.  Done.
and provide financing for
distribution network along
penetration axis in the interior.
84.  Introduce large cans (1 and 5           84.  Done.
kg.) for fish canning.
85.  Prepare pilot project for trial          85.
production and sales of fish (by
Dec. 1986); approve and execute (by
end 1987), assess, finance and
implement on large scale (1988-91).



- 34 -
Annex 1
Page 16 of 16
Policy Area                                      Action
86.  Have CEPEX undertake export              86.  Done.
market study for fresh, processed
and canned fish, promotional sales
and sampling by SDPM with FOPRODEX
support (by Dec. 1986).
87.  Eliminate export tax for new            87.
export products, subsidized air and
sea freight rates and seasonal space
reservation for air freight (by Dec.
1986).
88.  Apply quality legislation for            88.
fish.  Train processing industry
personnel. Undertake extensive work
to promote conservation on ice on
coastal boats and direct processing
on trawlers. Improve packing.
Sector Monitoring
89.  Carry out a review of                    89.  Done.
agricultural price policies.



ANNEX 2
- 35  -                           Page  1 of  3
TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 2754-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 1
Output Prices Under ASAL
Current Oinars
......... .........................   ....................................................   ............................
DURUN              82/83     83/84     84/85     85/86     86/87     87/88      d8/89
..... ......................................... .. ...... ....... . 1............................ ............................
FOS (USS)            176       164       146       121       113       146        165
Impçort Equiv.       172       183       175       138       135       189       214
Formuea Price                                                195       201       201
ASAL Condition                                               172        188
Actual Price         128       140       150       160       185       210        210
Actual/tmpEquiv     0.75      0.76      0.86      1.16      1.37       1.11      0.98
Actual/Formuta                                              0.95       1.04      1.04
Actuat/ASAL                                                 1.08       1.12
BREAD WHEAT        82/83     83/84     84/85     85/86     86/87     87/88     88/89
,.......................... . .............. ......................... ..................................
FO  (USS)           137       140       129       118       112       141        156
Import Equiv.        134       156       154       135       134       182       202
Formula Price                                                172       185        190
ASAL Condition                                               168       177
Actuat Price         117       140       145       160       170       190        190
Actual/ImpEquiv     0.87      0.90      0.94      1.18      1.27      1.04      0.94
Actual/Formula                                              0.99      1.03       1.00
ActuaL/ASAL                                                 1.01      1.07
........................................  .............   ...................................    . . --..-.-----------......-----------.........
BARLEY             82/83     83/84     84/85     85/86     86/87     87/88     88/89
-. ........................ ... ... ...............................................................
FOB (USS)            121       133       123        83        78       111        113
Imfport Equiv.       118       149       141.       95        93       143        146
Formula Price                                                147       155        149
ASAL Condition                                               135        140
Actuat Price          95       100       105       110       120        140       140
Actuat/lmçEquiv     0.80      0.67      0.71      1.16      1.29      0.98       0.96
Actuat/Formutla                                             0.81      0.90       0.94
Actuat/ASAL                                                 0.89       1.00
............. . . ...................  .. - - - -- - -- -- - - -- -- -- -- - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - -.- -......- -- - - - - - - - - -.- - -...........- - - - - - - -.............. .
FOB=price of commodity in US dotlars.
Durum: Hard Amber Ourun No. 3, source: US Wheat Associates
Bread Wheat: US Soft Red Winter No. 1, source: Wortd Bank commhodIties division
Barley: US exports, source: USDA
Import Equivalent=vatue of comnodity in Tunisian dinars, converted at
the actual exchange rate, after adding insurance, freight and local handling costs
to the Level of the collection centers so as to be comparable with locat
producer prices.
Formula Price-a five year moving average of the import equivalent price
where the five years include the year for which the calculation is being made
plus the four previous years, all in constant prices.
ASAL conditionzthe ASAL required that the Tunisians move gradually toward fixing
producer prices at the level of the formuta price. In 1985/86 the condition
required them to adjust producer prices by at least 1/3 the difference between
the actual producer price in 1985/86 and the formuEl price in 1986/87.
in 1987/88, the adjustment was to be 2/3 the difference between the 985/86
producer price and the 1987/88 formula price. For 1988/89, the ASAL condition
was equal to the formula price.
Actual Price=the producer price paid at the collection centers (the price fixed
by the Goverranent).
Actual/lmpçEquiv=the ratio of the prcducer price to the import equivalent price.
Actual/Formula=the ratio of the producer price to the formula price.
Actual/ASAL=the ratio of the producer price to the price required by the ASAL.



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 2754-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 2
Input Prices Under ASAL
(a)     Ca)        (b)        (c)       (d)        (e)        (f)
.  ------------------------- 1987/88 ------------------------
86/87                                                 Sales      Sales
Sales     Sales   Percent                   ASAL      Price     Price
Unit       Price      Price    Change        Cost Condition      /Cost /ASAL cond
FERTILIZERS                ........................................   .........................   . ...........
Affnonium Nitrate          DT/Ton      74.0      103.0       39.2%    138.0        93.0      0.75       1.11
TripLe Superphosphate    DT/Ton        66.5      102.0       53.4%    150.0       83.0       0.68       1.23
Superphosphate            DT/Ton       37.0       47.0       27.0%      66.0      47.7       0.71       0.99
CAP                        DT/Ton      100.5     109.0        8.5%    206.0       108.6      0.53        1.00
ANIMAL FEED
Yaize                     DT/Ton       114.0     125.6       10.2%    146.8       125.0      0.86       1.00
:;oybean MeaL             DT/Ton      200.0      200.0        0.0%    346.9      205.0       0.58       0.98
Sarley                    DT/Ton       107.4     125.0       16.4%    162.7       120.6      0.77       1.04
SEED
Ourum                     DT/a         25.1       29.6       17.8%      33.2       22.0      0.89       1.35
Bread Wheat               DT/O         23.1       26.7       15.7%      29.3      21.3       0.91       1.26
Barley                    CT/Q          17.0      20.5       20.8%      22.9       16.7      0.90       1.23
HERBICIDES
2-4-D                     DT/L          3.0        3.9       32.2%       4.8        2.7      0.81       1.43
(a) Sales price * the price at which the coiwlodity is sold to the public.
(b) Percent change = the growth rate in the sales price from 1986/87 to 1987/88.
(c) Cost = the cost of producing or imiporting the comrmodity.
(d) ASAL condition = the minimun Level to which the sales price was to be raised
under the ASAL (conditi,ns vary by commodity and are described in the text).
(e) Sales price/cost = the ratio of the sales price to its cost (an indicator
of the degree of subsidization).
(f) Sales price/ASAL condition e the ratio of the sales price to the price
specified under the ASAL (an indicator of compliance).



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 2754-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 3
Disbursements
MILLIONS OF US DOLLARS
ORIGINAL             ACTUALLY            DISB. AS X
LIMITS           DISSURSED             ORIC. LMTS
(A)                  (B)                (B)/(A)
.................. ....................................... . ..............................
TOTAL                              150.00               150.00                100.0X
SPECIAL ACCOUWNT                     0.00                (0.04)                  NA
RAW-MAT-FERT-POTASSIUM-FERT         25.00                37.64                150.6X
SPARE-PTS-TRACTORS-PUMPS            15.00                 1.98                 13.2X
ANIMAL FEED                         20.00                32.90                164.5X
INSECTICIDES-HERBICIDES             3.00                  1.42                 47.3X
FISHERIES-INPUTS                     6.00                 1.15                 1S.1X
VETERINARY-SUPPLIES                  4.00                 0.15                  3.7X
RAW-MAT-MANUF-IRRIG-PIPES            2.00                 0.30                 14.8X
DIESEL-FUEL                         15.00                13.01                 86.8X
OTHER GOOOS                         60.00                61.50                102.5X
(A) ORIGINAL LIMITS = THE MAXIMUM TO BE DISBURSED IN EACH CATEGORY AS SPECIFIED
IN THE PRESIDENT'S REPORT FOR THE ASAL.
(<) ACTUALLY DISBURSED = THE AM JWNT ACTUALLY DISOURSED UNDER EACH CATEGORY
ONCE THE LOAN HAD BEEN CLOSED.
(<)/(A) DISB. AS X ORIG. LIMITS = THE RATIO OF THE AMJOUNT ACTUALLY DISBURSED
TO THE ORIGINAL LIMITS.



- 38 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 2754-TUN)
Prolect Completion Report
Tsble 1: LOAN DATA
Amounts (USSI)
US$150
As of 03-13-90
Original   Disbursed   Cancelled   ReRaid  Cutstanding
Loan No. 2754-TUN        150.00       150.00        -           -      150.00
OriRinal Loan Date           Actual or Re-estimated
Initiating Memorandum           N/A                          03/14/86
Letter of Development                                        09/01/86
Policy
Negotiations                                                 08/19-29/86
Board Approval                                               09/18/86
Loan Agreement                                                10/03/86
Effectiveness                   11/86                        11/14/86
Loan Closing                    06/30/88                     06/30/89
Actual Completion                                             10/17/89
Table 2: CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
FY87      FY88       FY89
(M)     Planned               100.0      150.0      150.0
(ii)     Actual                 76.4       91.3      124.9
(iii)     (ii) as Z of (i)       76.4       61.0       83.0



- 39 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
Table 3: MISSION DATA
No.  of       No.  of       Staff         Date of
Month.  Year        Weeks         Persons    weeks           Report
Preparation I          10/28-11/15/85                                                11/19/85
Preparation II    01/26-12/02/86                                         140.6       02/19/86
Appraisal              04/16-05/07/86          4.0              3         12.0       05/16&05/30/86
Supervision I          11/06-11/26/86          4.0             2            8.0      12/16/86
Supervision  Il    02/24-03/10/87              3.0             5          15.0       03/25/87
Supervision III   06/19-07/03/87               3.0             3           9.0       07/27/87
Supervision IV    09/21-10/09/87               3.5             4          14.0       11/03/87
Supervision V          06/17-06/30/88          2.5             3            7.5      07/29/88
Completion             01/17-01/28/89          1.0             2            2.0      03/23/90
Table 4: STAFF VEEKS
Staffiaks for Proàit: sitWAO7U
Ne MW 28420
Mm : ACRI SEC. ADJ. LOU
FY: 87L
To FY1  In FY82 ln FYI3  In FY84  In FS    n FY86  In FY8  In FY88 In FY89 In FY90  In FY91   Total
Task    smks    Sb"       sue    swks    Fi"      Oica    Sb"      swca    saic    Sb"      mica    mc
...     .. ..    . ...    .....    ... ....    ... ....    .. .....    ... ....    ......   ........    . ....    .... ...    ........
LEINA                                              20.8    13.0                                        33.8
LEI                                                          3.0                                       3.0
LEIP                                       16.4   124.2                                               140.6
LOP                                         1.7    32.6    14.7       .7                              49*7
Subtotal
18.1   177.7    30.7      .7                              227.1
P^D                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~5.8  .1                         S.9
PMC                                                                           1.9     9.2      .6      11.7
SPm                                                         35.5    11.9    17.4               .4     65.2
sbtotat
41.3    11.9    19.3     9.2      1.0     82.9
.. ...._................................................................... .. ........ _........ ..... ..... .... ....... ... ....
MF                                                   .0  ..                                             .5
m.btotal
.0     .5                                         .5



