LOAN NUMBER 198 IN
Guarantee Agreement
(Calcutta Port Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 25, 1958


﻿LOAN NUMBER 198 IN
Guarantee Agreement
(Calcutta Port Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 25, 1958


﻿$uaranter Areement
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 1958, between INDIA,
acting by its President (hereinafter called the Guarantor)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEL-
OPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta
(hereinafter called the Borrower), which agreement and
the schedules therein referred to are hereinafter called
the Loan Agreement, the Bank has agreed to make to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
nine million dollars ($29,000,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condi-
tion that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations
of the Borrower in respect of such loan; and
WHEREAS the Government of India has approved the
terms and conditions of such loan as hereinafter and in the
Loan Agreement set forth and, in consideration of the
Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Bor-
rower, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obliga-
tions of the Borrower in respect of such loan as he,einafter
provided;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Guarantee Agreement
accept all the provisions of Loan Regulations No. 4 of the
Bank dated June 15, 1956, subject, however, to the modifi-
cations thereof set forth in Schedule 3 to the Loan Agree-
ment (said Loan Regulations No. 4 as so modified being
hereinafter called the Loan Regulations), with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.


﻿4
ARTICLE I
SECTION 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of the other covenants on its part in this Agreement con-
tained, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees,
as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and
punctual payment of the principal of, and the interest and
other charges on, the Loan, the principal of and interest
on the Bonds, the premium, if any, on the prepayment of
the Loan or the redemption of the Bonds, and the punctual
performance of all the covenants and agreements of the
Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement and in
the Bonds.
SECTION 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause
to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for
carrying out the Project, to make arrangements, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or
cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are
needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE M
SECTION 3.01. It is the mutual intention of the Guaran-
tor and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy
any priority over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental
assets. To that end, the Guarantor undertakes that, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created
on any assets of the Guarantor or of any of its political
subdivisions or of any agency of the Guarantor or of any
such political subdivision as security for any external debt,
such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably secure the
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan and the Bonds, and that in the creation of any
such lien express provision will be made to that effect;
provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this
Section shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on property,


﻿5
at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for the
payment of the purchase price of such property; (ii) any
pledge of commercial goods to secure debt maturing not
more than one year after its date and to be paid out of the
proceeds of sale of such commercial goods; or (iii) any
pledge by the Reserve Bank of India of any of its assets
in the ordinary course of its banking business to secure any
indebtedness maturing not more than one year after its
date.
SECTION 3.02. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will
be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall furnish
to the other all such information as it shall reasonably
request with regard to the general status of the Loan. On
the part of the Guarantor, such information shall include
information with respect to financial and economic condi-
tions in the territories of the Guarantor and the interna-
tional balance of payments position of the Guarantor.
(b) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the
maintenance of the service thereof. The Guarantor shall
promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes
with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of the service
thereof.
(c) The Guarantor shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Bank to visit any
part of the territories of the Guarantor for purposes
related to the Loan.
SECTION 3.03. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid without
deduction for, and free from, any taxes (including duties,
fees or impositions) imposed under the laws of the Guar-
antor or laws in effect in its territories; provided, however,
that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to taxa-


﻿6
tion of, or duties or fees or impositions levied upon, pay-
ments under any Bond to a holder thereof other than the
Bank when such Bond is beneficially owned by an individual
or corporate resident of the Guarantor.
SECTION 3.04. This Agreement, the Loan Agreement and
the Bonds shall be free from any taxes (including duties,
fees or impositions) that shall be imposed under the laws
of the Guarantor or laws in effect in its territories on or in
connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration
thereof.
SECTION 3.05. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid free from
all restrictions imposed under the laws of the Guarantor
or laws in effect in its territories.
ARTICLE IV
SECTION 4.01. The Guarantor shall endorse, in accord-
ance with the provisions of the Loan Regulations, its guar-
antee on the Bonds to be executed and delivered by the
Borrowe-. A Secretary to the Government of India in the
Ministry of Finance is designated as the authorized repre-
sentative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 6.12
(b) of the Loan Regulations.
ARTICLE V
SECTION 5.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 8.01 of the Loan Regulations:
For the Guarantor:
The Secretary to the
Government of India
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi
India
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Finance Ministry
New Delhi


﻿7
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington 25, D. C.
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Intbafrad
Washington, D. C.
SECTION 5.02. A Secretary to the Government of India
in the Ministry of Finance is designated for the purposes
of Section 8.03 of the Loan Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Guarantee Agreement to be signed in their
respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INDIA
By HARISHWAR DAYAL
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By DAVIDSON SOMMERS
Vice President


