Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmcaAL USE ONLY
RepOrt No P-5305-VE
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRE.,IDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PREINVESTMENT
AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
MAY 11, '.990
Ths dcument ha a nsicted distribution and may be used by reipients only In the perorfance of
tbeir offica duesL Its conen may not otherwie be disekoed without World Rank authization.



CURRENCY UNIT:   BOLIVAR (Be)
On March 14, 1989, Venezuela introduced a freely floating exchange
rate. On March 26, 1990, the rate was US$1 = Bs 43.45
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha = 10,000 square meters (m2) = 2.47 acres (a)
1 kilometer (km) - 0.62 mil (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)   0.39 square miles   100 ha
1 kilogram (kg) = 2.205 pounds (lbs)
1,000 kilograms - 1 metric ton (t) - 0.98 long ton
1 liter (1) - 0.26 gallons (gal)
ABBREVIATIONS
AEROPOSTAL - Linea Aeropostal (Aeropostal Airlines)
CADAFE - Compania Anomina de Administracion y Fomento Electrico
CANTV - Compania Anomina Venezolana de Telefonos
(Venezuelan Telephone Company)
CAVN - Compania Venezolana de Navegacion (Venezuelan Navigation Company)
CORDIPLAN - Oficina Central de Coordinacion y Planificacion de la
Presidencia de la Republica (Central Coordinating and Planning
Office of the President)
DINCA - Direccion Nacional de Contabilidad Administrativa
(Department of Nacional Administration Accounting)
EDELCA - Electrificacion del Caroni
FIV   -  Fondo Inversiones de Venezuela (Venezuelan Investment Fund)
IBRD  -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
ID    -  Institutional Development
IDB   -  Inter-American Development Bank
IMAU  -  Instituto Metropolitano De Aseo Urbano
INOS  -  Instituto Nacional de Obras Sanitarias
INP   -  Instituto Nacional de Puertos (National Institute of Ports)
IPOSTEL - Instituto Postal Telegrafico (Telegraphic Service)
OCEPRE - Oficina Central de Presupuesto (Central Budget Office)
MOF    - Ministry of Finance
PERL   - Public Enterprise Reform Loan
PEs    - Public Enterprises
PSIR   - Public Sector Investment Review
SAL    - Structural Adjustment Loan
SIDOR - Siderurgica del Orinoco, C.A. (Orinoco Steel Company)
TA     - Technical Assistance
TAL   -  Technical Assistance Loan for Preinvestment and
Institutional Development
TOR    - Terms of Reference
TPL    - Trade Policy Loan
UNDP   - United Nations Development Programme
VIASA - Venezolana Internacional de Aviacion, S.A. (Venezuelan
International Airlines)



FOR omcIAL USE ONLY
VENEZUELA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PREINVESTMENT
AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT (TAL)
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  The Republic of Venezuela
Beneficiaries:             CORDIPLAN, OCEPRE, Ministry of Finance, FIV
and Preinvestment Subproject Entities
Amount:                    US$ 30 million equivalent
Terms:                     Fifteen years, including five-year grace period,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Financing Plan:            Government               US$  11.0 million
IBRD                    US$  30.0 million
TOTAL                   US$ 41.0 million
Economic Rate of Return:   N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report:    N.A.
Ma~p:                      No. 20575
This document has a restricted distibution and maY be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othewise be disclosed without World Bank authotiutto



NEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE INTERMATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PREINVESTMENT
AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT (TAL)
1.       The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed loan to
Venezuela for US$30.0 million equivalent is submitted for your approval.
The loan would be on standard IBRD terms repayable over 15 years, including
5 years grace, at the Bank's standard -variable rate. It would help finance
a Technical Assistance Project for Preinvestment and Institutional
Development (TAL).
2.       Background.  Venezuela was declared eligible for borrowing from
the Bank in December 1986 after a 14 year hiatus in lending. The
Structural Adjustment (SAL) and Trade Policy Loans (TPL) approved by the
Board in June 1989 represented the Bank's first two operations in the
country since 1974. Two additional adjustment loans designed to support
the Government's economic reform program are also being readied for Board
presentation in FY90--the Public Enterprise Reformi (PERL) and Financial
Sector Adjustment Operations. A substantial level of Bank lending for
Venezuela is anticipated over the next five years. After an initial
concentration on quick-disbursing adjustment operations, the lending
program is shifting toward a steady build-up in project and sector
investment lending.
3.       Venezuela's public sector institutions are surprisingly weak
relative to its income and level of development. Planning is weak at the
central level and virtually non-existent in sectoral agencies; for the most
part, public agencies lack the technical capacity and the financial
resources needed to prepare sectoral ana reg;ional development plans to
provide a framework for generating or channeling project "ideas" and to
screen and transform those ideas into sound bankable investment projects.
Organizational structures and functions of core government agencies
(Planning and Finance) are in some respects in need of clarification and
capability to carry out basic functions (e.g., revenue collection) are
weak. Relationships between central government agencies and PEs are also
unclear and several key PEs are in need of restructuring before they could
be considered eligible for Bank lending. Hence, technical assistance and
training for institutional development (ID) are important features of the
Bank's country assistance strategy in Venezuela. Work has begun to build
up the pipeline of projects that may be considered for financing in FY91
and beyond, but progress has been slow due to the above mentioned problems.
Also, Venezuela is considered for practical purposes a new borrower and it
has limited experience with preparation of investment projects in
accordance with international standards and with World Bank procedures and
policies.
4.       Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The principal rationale for
Bank involvement is the need for expertise and funding to carry out
preinvestment work to prepare a program of projects which may be suitable
for Bank financing during PY91-95. The projects included in this program
will address key institutional impediments to deepening the improved
macroeconomic management emerging from the adjustment program. Second,



-2-
there is a pressing need for technical assistance to support and strengthen
CORDIP!dAN and the sectoral agencies (particularly their planning and
budgeting units) to ensure formulation of coherent strategies supportive of
macroeconomic objectives and corresponding investment priorities. Third,
technical assistance is needed to strengthen implementation of sound
projects in high priority sectors such as water, power, ports and
environment. Sectoral and core government agencies, (CORDIPLAN, Ministry
of Finance and OCEPRE) are in need of assistance to manage project
development and to monitor physical and financial implementation (with
corresponding budget implications for the national budget). Fourth, the
rationalization of the relationship between the public enterprise sectcr
and the central government will contribute to improved investment decision
making and strengthen its consistency with the new macroeconomic framework.
5.       The Bank's institutional strengthening efforts and overall
involvement in public sector management are closely coordinated with those
of other international agencies. The Bank's FY89 operations, SAL and TPL,
have small institution building components and the UNDP and IDB have modest
technical assistance programs in Venezuela.  Financing for preinvestment
work and related institutional strengthening in the amounts required to
develop a pipeline of projects that may be suitable for Bank financing, are
not available from other sources. The proposed project, nevertheless,
complements and reinforces the aforementioned limited ongoing programs.
including the SALITA. During FY90 the Bank is also undertaking a public
institutional assessment which is expected to address longer term issues of
strategy and potential Bank support for institutional development in
Venezuela.
6.       The IDB is processing a Preinvestment Loan scheduled for approval
in July 1990 which would inter alia prepare projects for IDB's pipeline as
well as other sources. The preinvestment activities that the Bank and IDB
would finance are being prepared in close collaboration and would have
common institutional development objectives. They would be managed by the
same coordinating unit in CORDIPLAN. Bank financing would cover most of
the institutional development needs of the IDB operation. Both projects
would support the strengthening of Venezuela's new public investment system
which inter alia calls for the rationalization of the project selection,
preparation and evaluation process. Implementation of the TA to CORDIPLAN,
the sector agencies, OCEPRE, the Ainistry of Finance, and the PERL-related
TA would also be an obligation under the IDB loan. UNDP's grant funding
for Venezuela over five years (1987-1991) is under US$5.0 million and has
been fully committed. UNDP has, however, agreed to provide "bridge'
financing, if needed, to cover project preparation activities requiring
funding prior to TAL effectiveness. They would be reimbursed through
retroactive financing under the TAL, if required. The Government is also
considering requesting UNDP's administrative assistance (contracting,
procurement and related payments) to facilitate implementation of the
project.
7.       Prolect Obtectives.  The objectives of the project are to:
(a) provide an assured and flexible source of financing in order to build
up a pipeline of well-prepared projects suitable to support a request for
financial assistance from the Bank during the next five years;
(b) strengthen the Government's capacity to identify, select, prepare,
implement and monitor sound investment projects; (c) strengthen Government
financial management; and (d) help implement the public enterprise reform
program which will inter alia set the policy framework within which future
lending in key infrastructure sectors could be included.



-3-
8.       Project Descrlption.  The proposed project would be coordinated
and administered by CORDIPLAN. The two main focuses of the project --
preinvestment and institutional developnent -- would be mutually
reinforcing. The project contains the minimum amount of institutional
assistance needed to support the Government's new system of public
investment planning, processing and monitoring and to strengthen Government
financial management. Consultant services, training and some equipment
would be financed in connection witht (a) preinvestment activities (e.g.,
national sectoral investment plans, prefeasibility and feasibility studies)
and institutional restructuring, required to prepare investment projects
which could be eligible for World Bank financing and, exceptionally, for
financing from other sources (US$17.0 million). An illustrative list of
possible subprojects is attached;l (b) strengthening of CORDIPLAN in key
areas relating to internal organization, macro-economic planning and
management, sectoral policy formulation, public investment evaluation
(including economic, social and environmental aspects of project design),
and programming (US$2.0 million); (c) strengthening of key sectoral
ministries 2 in sectoral policy planning, project identification and
selection, including introduction of economic and social cost benefit and
environmental analysis, and project monitoring through introduction of
systems for tracking the physical and financial progress of projects
(US$2.52 million); (d) strengthening the Budget Office (OCEPRE) in budget
preparation and control (US$330,000); (e) assistance to the Ministry of
Finance to strengthen internal organization, accounting and information
management in the Department for National Administration Accounting
(DINCA), expenditure control and monitoring in Treasury, and immediate
actions required in the field of tax administration reform (US$2.5
million); (f) TA in support of PERL related restructuring 'nd privatization
activities and a review of the financial, legal and tutelary relatiorLships
within the public enterprise sector, with a view to clarifying
accountability and reporting relationships (US$5.0 million); and (g8
strengthening CORDIPLAN's capacity to manage the proposed project, and
CORDIPLAN's and key sectoral ministries' capabilities in areas such as
contracting, procurement, disbursement, audit, environmental assessments,
and evaluation of investment projects ($650,000). The framework for
CORDIPLAN project management was developed under the SAL/TA and would be
expanded to cover the TAL. The CORDIPLAN Project Director, Administrator,
and some of the required TAL Coordinating Unit staff are already in place.
9        Activities covered under (b) through (e) above would include
aevelopment of compatible information systems among CORDIPLAN, OCEPRE, the
Ministry of Finance, and the sectoral ministries, without which the
effectiveness of the TAL assistance to the individual entities ;-1uld be
weakened. Compatibility with existing Central Bank systems wilL also be
taken into account. The matrix of key project activities (Attachment 2)
includes information on objectives, specific inputs, outputs, impact and
1/ Financing under the proposed loan of preinvestment activities for any
given project included in the list, however, does not imply a
commitment on the part of the Bank that it will provide subsequent
financing for the project.
2/ Including the Ministries of Agriculture, Transport and Communications,
Energy and Mines, Fomento (Trade and Industrial Development),
Environment and Natural Resources, Family (Social Development), Health,
Education and Urban Development.



timing targets. These vill be considered as performance indicators for the
project and will provide the basis for evaluating performance at
camprehensive reviews, which are to be carried out at two year intervals.
The Government would cover US$11.0 million equivalent, or about 25Z of
project costs.
10.      The total cost of the project is estimated at $41.0 million, of
which $30.0 million would be foreign exchange to be financed by the Bank.
The detailed cost estimates and methods of procurement and disbursements
are provided in Schedules A and B. Retroactive financing in the amount of
$500,000 will be made available to finance consultant services to assist in
preparation of terms of reference (TOR) for preinvestment work and
institutional development assistance to be financed undex the TAL. A
timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank group
operations in Venezuela are given in Schedules C and D. respectively. A
map of Venezuela is attached. Since there is no Staff Appraisal Report,
the detailed project description, and the project administration and
implementation arrangements are given in Annex I. The TOR for majnr
consultancies were agreed ih principle during appraisal and are available
in the Project File. The consultants will be selected and equipment will
be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.
11.      Actions Agreed.  Agreemercs have been reached on: (i) terms of
reference for consultant services and related training and equipment for
CORDIPLAN, the Ministry of Finance,   EPRE and the main activities to be
undertaken in connection with the PER.; (ii) the Operating Manual,
including TOR for the Project Coordinating Unit, which will guide the use
of preinvestment and ID funds; and (iii) the project's fir-.t year work plan
and budget. The specific conditions of effectiveness would be: (i)
component coordinators acceptable to the Bank appointed in OCEPRE, MOF and
FIV; (ii) formal establishment and adequate staffing (Project Director,
Project Manager, two Coordinators, an Administrator, and corresponding
support staff) of the Project Coordination Unit in CORDIPLAN; (iii)
finalization of the Project Operating Manual; and (iv) sign ng of a
management services contract to expedite contracting, proc 'ement and
related payments under the project (see para. 47 of the ' mical Annex).
Prior to disbursement against preinvestment subproject E   vities for each
sectoral ministry: (i) the ministry and CORDIPLAN would {prove the
establishment of positions with functions acceptable to ihe Bank in the
areas of sectoral planning, project evaluatian. and project monitoring, and
the corresponding request for establishment of these positions would be
submitted to the Central Personnel Office, except where the )reinvestment
work in question will contribute to the determination of the proper
location and functions of the positions; (ii) agreement would be reached
with the Bank on the TOR for ID assistance to each sector ministry in the
three aforementioned areas; and (iii) TAL component coordinators will be
appointed in each eligible entity responsible for the execution of
preinvestment subprojects.
12.      Benefits and Risks.  This project is expected to ameliorate
institutional bottlenecks to planning, managing and monitoring
preinvestment and investment work in core agencies (CORDIPLAN, Finance,
OCEPRE) and the sectoral ministries. It would also have the advantage of
giving the borrower and the Bank flexibility in the choice and timing of
preinvestment activities to be undertaken, part of which can be developed
during the course of project implementation. There is some risk of slow
implementation because: (i) of the borrower's incxperience with management
of foreign technical assistance; and (ii) approximately 13 parties (the



- 5 -
Bank, CORDIPLAN, Ministry of Finance, OCEPRE and perhaps 9 sectoral
ministries) will be involved in project implementation. To minimize these
risks, detailed TAL Operating Manual is being finalized by CORDIPLAN, there
will be a Project Launch Seminar; and contracting, procurement, and
disbursement assistance from a procurement agent will be obtained at the
minimum for the international procurement, and for local procurement, if
warranted. Also, to take account of experience gained under: previous
preinvestment TA loans in the Region, the proposed project provides that
(i) loan financed assistance would be make available to sector agencies on
non-reimbursable basis rather than as a line of credit, thus avoiding
administrative complexities of the past; (ii) sectoral agencies would
normally present preinvestment subprojects to CORDIPLAN for TAL financing
on the basis of prior agreement with the Bank on a project list; and (iii)
requests by the sectoral ministries for preinvestment financing would be
based upon criteria spelled out in the Operating Manual and in consultation
with the Bank. In addition, in the event the lending program should not go
forward as anticipated, the Bank would retain the right to cancel the
undisbursed balance of the loan upon notification to the Borrower.
13.      Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Ccnable
Presider.t
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
Date: May 11, 1990



Schedule A
Page I of 2
Technical Assistanee Project for PreinvetRMent
and Institutional Develonment
Estimated Costs
(USS millions)
Estimated Costs                                 Locall/    Foretmn   Total
Consultant Services and Training
I.   Preinvestment Activities                         7,000      16,000      23,000
II.   CORDIPLAN                                          700        1,750      2,450
III.   Sector Ministries Institutional Development        950        2,000      2,950
IV.   OCEPRE                                              25          130        155
V.   Project Management and Administration3/            350          350        700
VI.   Intersectoral Training                             250          250        500
VII.   Ministry of Finance                                225        1,500      1,725
VIII.   PERL Related TA2/3/                              1.000        5.000 2/   6.000
Sub-Total                                      10,500       26,9-0      37,480
Entainment
I.  Preinvestment Studies                                 -       1,000       1,000
_I.   CORDIPLAN                                           25          250        275
III.   Sector Ministries                                  175          520        695
IV.   OCEPRE                                              25          200        225
V.   Project Management and Administration               25          050        075
VI.   Ministry of Finance                                250        1.000      1.250
Subtotal                                          500        3,020       3.520
Total Proiect Costs                            11,000       30,000      41,000
1/  Inclusive of taxes and duties which are neglible.
2/ Of which US$500,000 would support the PERL related Inter-Ministerial Commission
located in CORDIPLAN.
31 Additional parallel financing from the proposed IDB Preinvestment Loan may be
made available for these activities.



-7-
Schedule A
Page 2 of 2
VMEZUELA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PREINVESTHSNT
AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Financing Plan
(Us$ Thousands)
Local       Foreign     Total
Bank                                            -           30,000    30,000
Government                                    11,000           -      11,000
TOTAL                                         Il,OOO        30.000    41,000
___===2   ======    ==1==



-8-
Schedule B
VEZUELA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJICT FOR PREINVESTMENT
AIM INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Procurement Arrangements
(IM3 thousands)
Project Element                             Procurement Method                  Total Costs
LI b/       ICB        Otheral       N.A.
1.  Consultant Services             -         -          26,980                   26,980
and training                                        (26,980)                 (26,980)
2.  Equipment                      1,900      -          1,120                     3,020
(1,900)               (1,120)                   (3,020)
3.  Local Input                      -         -                     11,000 c/   11,000  c/
TOTAL                                                                         41.0
(30.0)
al Other methods include local and international shopping and contracting
of consultants in accordance with Bank guidelines.
b/ Limited International Bidding (LIB) if estimated contract value exceeds $50,000.
c/  The Government's contribution of approximately $11.0 million would consist
largely of counterpart staff, local consultants, office space, supplies.
secretazial services and vehicle operations. which may be required in connection
with the preinve3tment activities.
NOTE:  Figuree in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Category                        Amount              Percentage
1.  Consultant Services and training        26.98                   1002
2.  Equipment                                3.02                   1002 foreign expenditures
and 852 ex-factory lo:al
expenditures
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
(VS$ millions equivalent)
Fiscal Years
1991      1992       1993      1994        1995       1996
Annual                 4.0        6.0      6.0         6.0         5.0         3.0
Cumulative             4.0      10.0      16.0        22.0        17.0        30.0



-9-
Schedule C
VENEZUELA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PREINVESTMENT
AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Timetable of Key Processina Events
(a)  Time Take to Prepare:                   Six months
(b)  Prepared by:                           Government with Bank assistance
-c) First Bank Mission:                     December 1989
(d) Appraisal Mission Departure             January 1990
*e) Negotiations:                           April/May 1990
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:         August 1990
(g)  List of Relevant PCRs and  !IARs:      Not applicable



- 10 -
Schedule D
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN VENEZUELA
A. Statement of World Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1990)
Loan or                                                     Amount
Credit     Fiscal                                    (Less cancellation)
Number   Year    Borrower   Purpose              Bank   Undisbursed    Total
-   (in USS mi:lion)-------
13 Loans fully disbursed and closed              342.2                  342.2
3091  1989 Government Structural Adjustment       80.0      322.0       402.2
3092  1989 Government Trade Policy                35.0      318.0       353.0
Total                                            457.2      640.0    1.097.2
Of which has been repaid                       314.7
Amount sold                                       27.5
Of which has been repaid                        27.5
Total now outstanding                            115.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   115.0
Total undisbursed                                           640.0       640.0



- 11 -
Schedule D
Page 2 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN VENEZUELA
B.       Statement of IFC Investments as of March 31. 1990
--------US$ Million------
Date         Borrower      Type of Business           Loan      Equity    Total
1964, 1968,
1971         CAVENDAS     Development Finance        17.5       1.34      18.84
1971         CONECA        Cement & Construction
Material                    2.01      -         2.01
1961         DIABLITOS    Food & Food Processing        .50      -          .50
1966, 1972   DOMINGUEZ    Tin Cans                    1.00        .52      1.52
1989         OPCO          Iron & Steel              73.13       -        73.13
1989         PROPILVEN    Chemicals Petro
Chemicals                  47.00      -        47.00
1969, 1973   PROTINAL     Food & Food Processing       5.06      -         5.06
1960, 1964   SIVENSA       Iron & Steel               2.70        .44      3.14
1975         SOFIMECA     Money & Capital Markets    -            .70       .70
1975         VALINVENCA   Money & Construction         -          .35       .35
1988         VENCEMOS     Cement & Contruction 1/   10.0         -        10.0
Material
Total Gross Commitment                              158.90       3.35    162.25
Less Cancellations, Terminations and Sales            71.49      3.35     74.84
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                    87.41       -        87.41
Total Undisbursed                                    35.26       -        35.26
1/ In addition, IFC provided a guarantee of a local
bond issue for US$10.3 million equivalent.



- 12 -
Annex 1
Technical Annex
VENEZUELA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PREINVESTMENT
AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Section A. Project Description
1.       Background.  The proposed TAL would be the third loan to Venezuela
since lending resumed in June 1989 with the SAL and TPL. In the years
between 1974 and 1989 Venezuela lent to the Bank the equivalent of US$500
million and the Bank provided a limited amount of technical assistance to
Venezuela. A decline in oil prices and mismanagement of the economy have,
however, led to a substantial decline in the GNP per capita. At the
Government's request the Bank resumed lending with the objective of helping
it to resolve its economic difficulties. An economic report on Venezuela
entitled 'Country Economic Report on Venezuela: Policy Choices and
Economic Growth" (Rsport No. 6711-VE dated harch 3, 1988) was distributed
to the Executive Directors in March 1988.
2.       The customary source of revenues to cover public expenditures in
Venezuela has been oil earnings. With the sustained depression of oil
prices, however, this single dominant source has become inadequate.
Moreover, prospects for an increase in oil prices are poor, and increases,
when and if they occur, may be reversed rapidly.  This volatility of the
revenue base has presented a special problem to decision makers who have
had to decide which investment projects or programs to curtail when there
is a drop in revenues. Public investments (the part of government
expenditures that could most easily be curtailed) have been cut back
sharply and, in the absence of well-defined priorities, indiscriminately.
This has resulted in wasted resources and undermined longer term growth
prospects.
3.       It has, therefore,  become more important than ever that scarce
available resources be directed to the uses of highest priority. An
effective public investment program will be critical to restoring
sustainable growth. Public investment has, however, been poorly
coordinated between macroeconomic planning authorities and implementing
entities. There have been few linkages between macroeconomic development
plans and public investment programs as the former have remained etatements
of intention rather than action plans. The present administration has
launched a major effort to rationalize public investment. The Central
Coordinating and Planning Office of the President (CORDIPLAN) is in charge
of coordinating this process as well as formulating, based on different
entities input, the public investment program for 1989-1993.
4.       The Eighth National Plan proposes an investment of Bs. 927 billion
(US$23 billion) over the period 1990 to 1993. A Bank Public Sector
Investment Review (PSIR) Mission, which visited Venezuela in December 1989,
found that the projects to be included in the Plan were not adequately
prepared nor did there appear to be the capability within the government to
undertake this preparatory work. There is, therefore, an urgent need to



- 13 -
build up the capacity to undertake quality preinvestment studies to prepare
sound projects, hire qualified staff, and improve the capacity of
government ministries and organizations to manage in a systematic and
coherent way all aspects of the project cycle for a potentially large
number of projects. One of the aims of SAL is to introduce proper economic
analysis in project preparation and review. This will require a major
effort because of the aforementioaed weakness in the existing system of
preparation and evaluation of the public investment program. The
Government proposes in the future to evaluate all public investments in
accordance with acceptable principles and criteria to determine their
economic and social return, and in this process CORDIPLAN and the sector
agencies will have to be strengthened to perform this function adequately.
The proposed loan would continue efforts begun under the SAL/TA for this
purpoF?.
5.       The Bank mission that appraised the proposed project visited
Venezuela from January 21 to February 10, 1990. The Mission identified
with the Government the need for technical assistance to improve project
preparation and implementation.  This project (the TAL), therefore, aims
tot (a) Provide an assured and flexible source of financing in order to
build up a pipeline of well-prepared projects suitable to support a request
for financial assistance from the Bank during the next five years; (b)
Strengthen the Government's capacity to identify, select, prepare,
implement and monitor sound investment projects of significant importance
to Venezuela; (c) Strengthen Government financial management in the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) and OCEPRE (the Budget Office); and (d) provide
financing for technical assistance required in connection with the Public
Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL), being processed simultaneously.
6.       The IDB is also preparing a Preinvestment Loan scheduled for
approval in July 1990 which would inter alia prepare projects for IDB's
pipeline and financing from other sources. The Bank and IDB preinvestment
activities are being prepared in close collaboration and would have common
institutional development objectives. They would be managed by the same
coordinating unit in CORDIPLAN. Bank financing would cover most of
institutional development needs of the IDB operation. Both loans would
support the strengthening of Venezuela's new public investment system which
inter alia calls for the rationalization of the project selection,
preparation and evaluation process. Implementation of the TA to CORDIPLAN,
the sector agencies, OCEPRE, the Ministry of Finance, and the PERL-related
TA would also be an obligation under the IDB loan. UNDP's grant funding
for Venezuela over five years (1987-1991) is under US$5.0 million and has
been fully committed. The UNDP program includes a small element of
assistance to CORDIPLAN in the areas of project monitoring and technical
assistance coordination. UNDP has, however, agreed to participate in TAL
related activities by providing "bridge" financing, if needed, to cover
project preparation activities requiring funding prior to TAL
effectiveness. They would be reimbursed, if required, through retroactive
financing under the TAL. The Government is also considering requesting
UNDP's administrative assistance (contracting, procurement and related
payments) to facilitate implementation of the project. The proposed TAL is
also intended to complement and reinforce ongoing Bank technical assistance
programs including SAL/TA and TPL/TA. During FY90 the Bank is also
undertaking a public institutional assessment which is expected to address
longer term issues of strategy and potential Bank support for institutional
development in Venezuela.



- 14 -
7.       Project Components.  The project would provide financing for the
services of international and national consultants, both long and short
term, staff training, equipment and studies. The Directorate of Investment
Programming in CORDIPLAN would be responsible for the project's management
and coordination. The components of the proposed loan would be as follows:
(a) Funding of preinvestment activities (e.g., national sectoral investment
plans, prefeasibility and feasibility studies) and institutional
restructuring required to prepare investment projects which could be
eligible for World Bank financing, and exceptionally for other sources. An
illustrative list of subprojects is attached - Attachment I; (b)
Strengthening of CORDIPLAN in key areas relating to internal organization,
macro-economic planning and management, sectoral policy formulation, public
investment evaluation (including the economic, social and environmental
aspects of project design), programming and monitoring; (c) Strengthening
of key sectoral ministries and agencies in sectoral policy planning,
project selection, including introduction of economic and social cost
benefit and environmental analysis and project monitoring through
introduction of systems for tracking the physical and financial progress of
projects, with linkages to CORDIPLAN, the Budget Office (OCEPRE), the
Ministry of Finance, and the Central Bank; (d) Strengthening the OCEPRE in
budget preparation and control; (e) Assistance to the Ministry of Finance
to strengthen internal organization, accounting and information management
in the Department for National Administration Accounting (DINCA),
expenditure control and monitoring in Treasury, with appropriate links and
support to the OCEPRE, CORDIPLAN, and the sectoral agencies, and immediate
actions required in the field of tax administration; (f) Support for PERL
related restructuring and privatization activities and review of the
financial, legal and tutelary relationships within the public enterprise
sector with a view to clarifying accountability and reporting
relationships; and (g) Strengthening CORDIPLAN's management of the project
and training of the staff of CORDIPLAN and key sectoral ministries in
contracting, procurement, accounting, disbursement, audit and environmental
assessments and other aspects of the project cycle. Assistance in respect
of (b) and (c) above would continue efforts initiated under the SAL/TA.
The matrix of key project activities (Attachment 2) includes information on
specific activity inputs, outputs, impact and timing targets. These will
be considered as performance indicators for the project and will provide
the basis for evaluating performance at comprehensive reviews, which are to
be carried out at two year intervals.
8.       The project's proposed preinvestment activities ((a) above) and
institutional development activities ((b) through (f) above) will be
undertaken in tandem, since strengthened coordination between macroeconomic
and sectoral planning authorities and the implementing entities is a
prerequisite to an effective public investment program.
9.       Environment.  The project will address environmental
considerations in five ways. First, preinvestment funds will be made
available to prepare an Environmental Protection Project suitable for Bank
financing (see Attachments 1 and 2). This project would, inter alia,
assist the Government in the definition and implementation of environmental
policy and regulatory and protection arrangements. It would also support
specific measures to reduce environmental pollution. Second, the
preinvestment activities component of the loan could be used to finance
environmental assessments when such assessments are prerequisites to Bank
lending. Third, CORDIPLAN's Directorates of Investment Programming and
Sectoral Planning would be strengthened to take into account environmental
considerations in their sectoral program and project reviews. Fourth,



- 15 -
project selection and design criteria in key sectoral ministries would be
strengthened through introduction of economic and social cost benefit
analysis and environmental assessments. Fifth, the inter-sectoral training
component of the project include courses for various levels of public
officials and would address environmental problems within sectors and
across sectors.
I. PREINVESTMENT
10.      PREINVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (US$17.0 MILLION).  The Eighth National
Plan with a proposed investment program envelope of $23 billion (over the
period 1990-94) contains a number of large investment projects of
significant economic importance to Venezuela. Within this program of
investments several projects are potentially eligible for World Bank
financing. The IAL accordingly proposes to make available financing for
preinvestment activities by Ministries and Agencies which would enable
these projects to be brought to a stage eligible for World Bank financing.
An illustrative list of projects for which TAL preinvestment assistance may
be sought is attached (Attachment I). Inclusion of projects on the list.
however, does not imply a commitment on the part of the Bank that it will
provide subsequent financing of the project.
11.      The Bank made several loans in the 1970s to establish or
strengthen preinvestment funds in four Latin American countries. These
projects were not entirely successful. The TAL would differ from previous
projects in that: (i) funds for preinvestment activities would be provided
by the Government to sectoral agencies on a non-reimbursable basis rather
than as part of a line of credit: (ii) the sectoral agency (rather than a
separate preinvestment Ziund) would be responsible not only for project
preparation, but also project implementation, ensuring application of
lesson learned; and (iii) projects would be prepared primarily for World
Bank financing, assuring close Bank supervision.
12.      Activities which could be financed in connection with project
preparation include: (i) studies and national sectoral investment plans
required prior to commencement of prefeasibility and feasibility work; (ii)
pre-feasibility and feasibility studies and subsequent detailed engineering
and design; (iii) tasks related to the preparation of the investment
project which are critical to the completion of the appraisal of the
project, such as studies on institutional restructuring, policy papers
(e.g., on tariff reform), marketing studies, completion of the economic
analysis, environmental assessment or monitoring systems for the project;
and (iv) essential start-up activities without which project
implementation would be seriously delayed (e.g., activating or
strengthening the entity responsible for project preparation to enable it
to complete critical preparatory work, training and purchase essential
materials).
13.      To strengthen Venezuela's ability to prepare projects, an effort
would be made to ensure that consultants' terms of reference for
preinvestment activities include appropriate provision for training of
counterpart staff. If the technical agency agrees, additional man-months
would be included in consultants' contracts specifically for training. The
Bank would retain its usual review and approval responsibilities for all
terms of reference.
14.      The operating premises and criteria for use of the preinvestment
funds would be as follows: (i) They would be provided by the Government to



- 16 -
the beneficiary sectoral ministries and agencies on a non-reimbursable
basis; (ii) They would be used in the preparation of investment projects
for which World Bank financing has been or is expected to be requested.
Since funding from the proposed IDB preinvestment loan would be available
to prepare projects for other sources of financin-, TAL funds would be
available for this purpose only on an exceptional basis; (iii) Financing
for preinvestment work under the proposed loan does not imply any
commitment on the part of the Bank that it will provide subsequent
financing of the project; (iv) Sectoral agencies would normally present
preinvestment subprojects to CORDIPLAN for TAL financing on the basis of
prior discussion with World Bank Technical Staff; (v) The criteria for
project selection would have been agreed during consultations between
CORDIPLAN, the aectoral agency and the Bank's technical staff and would
take into account methodologies being developed under the SAL/TA;
(vi) Proposals would be submitted by the sectoral agency to the Bank
through CORDIPLAN, in accordance with Operating Manual for the TAL prepared
by CORDIPLAN (see para. 47); (vii) The costs of preinvestment subprojects
would normally be limited to US$4.0 million; and (vii) Funding for
preparation of World Bank projects may also be included in ongoing World
Bank loans (piggybacking). An Operating Manual (Guidelines) has been
prepared for the project detailing the above operating premises and
criteria, the respective roles of CORDIPLAN, the implementing agencies and
the Bantk, and setting forth clear implementation arrangements and lines of
responsibility on contracting, procurement, disbursement, audit and
reporting and other administrative matters.
15.      A public credit (Investment) law covering the proposed Bank
financed PERL, Financial Sector Adjustment Project, and Social Development
Project, as well as the TAL, has been prepared by the Government and is
slated for congressional approval in June 1990. It sets forth the public
agencies eligible for assistance under the TAL. While the immediate
preinvestment activities for projects likely to be financed by the Bank are
coiazcd, t1hc 'aw may need to be aweuded tu include additional agencies, as
the Bank's lending program for Venezuela evolves.
1I. CORDIPLAN
16.      CORDIPLAN (US$2.0 million).  CORDIPLAN's mandate is extensive.
The Budget Law states that: (i) All capital expenditures in annual budget
submissions must be in accordance with the priorities established in the
approved Five Year National Plan, prepared by CORDIPLAN; and (ii) The
definition, classification and amounts for each program and project in
annual budget submission must be approved by OCEPRE and carry with them the
opinion of CORDIPLAN. An Annual Plan prepared by CORDIPLAN is also
submitted by the President in Cabinet to Congress each year with the
Budget. Other laws and decrees give it a broad advisory role in public
financing issues, determination of sectoral policies, administrative
restructuring and decentralization issues. CORDIPLAN is also the
institution under the Constitution responsible for economic planning and
coordination of economic plans in Venezuela. It deals with the four main
areas of planning: Macroeconomics, Sectoral Planning, Regional Planning,
and Programming of Investments. CORDIPLAN, therefore, occupies a key
position in the economic development process. Presently, however, it has
serious weaknesses in staff, structure and procedures which need to be
corrected to enable it to play a more effective role. The Eighth National
Plan (1990-94), which presented the new Government's investment program for
the nation, was approved by Congress earlier this year. This Plan was
prepared in CORDIPLAN, however, by a small group working directly under the



- 17 -
Minister rather than the regular departments within CORDIPLAN because these
are still intrinsically weak.   The TAL would strengthen CORDIPLAN's
capacity to give substance to the medium-term macroeconomic program.
particularly through formulation of annual plans and investment programs
and specify the policies (fiscal, monetary, trade, etc.) needed to achieve
these goals subject to resource and other constraints. The Annual Plan and
Investment Program would then provide a framework within which public
expenditures could be programmed. external financing needs could be
established and longer term needs to strengthen public institutions and
develop the attendant human resources could be addressed. In addition,
CORDIPLAN's ability to assist sector agencies in development of sectoral
policies, the preparation of sound investment projects, and monitoring and
evaluation of projects would be strengthened.
17.      Present Organitation of CORDIPLAN.  CORDIPLAN has four main areas
of operations (i) Investments and Programming; (ii) Short Term Economic
Planning; (iii) Sectoral Planning (called 'Medium and Long Term Planning');
and (iv) Regional Planning. Each of these functions is performed in a
General Directorate (headed by a Director General). The other support
functions such as Legal, Administrative, Personnel, etc. are performed by
separate Directorates reporting directly to the Vice-Minister. In addition
there are within CORDIPLAN, the Offices for Administrative Organization for
she Government and also the Directorate for International Technical
Assistance which coordinates multilateral and bilateral technical
assistance. All General Directorates in CORDIPLAN report to a Vice-
Minister and through him to the Minister for CORDIPLAN.
18.      Maior Constraints and Weaknesses.  There are some real constraints
which hinder CORDIPLAN in achieving its ubjectives. These are specially
important in two areass (i) CORDIPLAN's links with other ministries are
weak in regard to the budget formulation process and in the formal review
of investment projects; and (ii) As a part of the civil service structure,
conditions of service and salaries within CORDIPLAN are too low to attract
and retain qualified staff. Some of the impediments to strengthening
CORDIPLAN's role are being resolved (discussed below). The major weakness
is the shortage of qualified staff at all levels below the General
Director's. CORDIPLAN has recently put into place a system of special
Oprimas' (bonuses) for CORDIPLAN staff (ranging from 10 to 80 percent of
basic salaries - average of 55 percent). However, despite the 'primas' the
immediate need is for more expertise at the middle level to supplement
existing capacity. It is proposed that consultants be used on a long term
basis for this purpose while developing in-house capability, strengthening
the permanent staff, and addressing the fundamental problem of conditions
of civil service employment.
19.      Proposed Strengthening of CORDIPLAN.  The institutional
strengthening of CORDIPLAN accordingly requires: (i) A reorganization
of CORDIPLAN to eliminate overlapping functions and to strengthen
coordination; and (ii) Introduction of more expertise presently lacking
and training for existing staff. The proposed project will provide the
Government with an opportunity to move in all these areas. A recent decree
specifically provides that all major investment projects by government
agencies will be reviewed by CORDIPLAN. The proposed project will
strengthen CORDIPLAN's ability to respond to this new mandate. The
proposed project will also support a major reorganization of CORDIPLAN
including the possibility of converting it into a new Ministry for Planning
and Budgeting and by supporting the creation of internal committees within
CORDIPLAN and at the Vice-Ministerial level within the Government, e.g., 'A



- 18 _
Project Approval Committee.* it will also enable more active participation
by CORDIPLAN in the Governmental decision-making process particularly in
Cabinet Committees for which it is the Technical Secretariat including "El
Gabinete Sectorial de Asuntos de Politica Economica y Social* headed by the
President and *E1 Gabinete Sectorial de Infraestructura Fisica y de Ica
Servicios' chaired by the Minister of Environment.
20.      Proposed Assistance to CORDIPLAN.  In order to strengthen
CORDIPLAN's organization and staffing (currently 172 professionals) the
project proposess (i) to finance a study to reorganize CORDIPLAN (possibly
by transforming it into a Ministry for Planning and Budgeting) and (ii)
that that a limited number of long and short term consultants be employed
with financing to be provided under the TAL to handle specific assignments
as well as to train counterparts and also work in close collaboration with
sectoral agencies. A total of approximately 34 man years of consultant
assistance (about 7 man/years per annum or about 4 percent of CORDIPLAN's
present strength), and training and related equipment would be provided to
strengthen the following General Directorates within CORDIPLAN. The
assistance to CORDIPLAN's Investment Programming Directorate was developed
jointly with the IDB.
i   General Directorate for Investment Pro)gas   - to
strengthen its capacity to: (a) undertake economic and social cost benefit
evaluation of projects and environmental assessments; (b) in close
collaboration with OCEPRE and sectoral executing agencies (particularly
Planning and Budgeting Units) select projects for programming in the
available resources for inclusion in the Annual Plan and the Budget each
year; (c) undertake financial coordination and monitoring of public
investments with international financing; and (d) follow-up on physical and
financial progress of project execution, by strengthening links with the
Treasury Accounting System to monitor financial execution and with the
sectoral ministries for physical execution - the function here would be to
consolidate and analyze information on projects under implementation rather
than to generate original information.  This information would be
distributed for use within CORDIPLAN to monitor project, sector and program
implementation and assess economic and financial implications for the whole
economy.
(ii) General Directorate for Short Term Planning - to strengthen
its capacity to: (a) undertake economic monitoring including stabilization
programs; and (b) to prepare annual operating plans (which are intended to
serve as a link between the medium term plan and the annual budget). The
project will provide consultant services to: (a) Strengthen its capacity
to undertake macroeconomic analysis (both long term and short term) through
appropriate econometric modelling exercises; (b) Study and monitor
developments in the fiscal and monetary sectors including through sector
specific econometric models; and (c) Monitor the financial and economic
performance of public enterprises through the strengthening of their
monitoring system which is presently not functioning adequately.
(iii) General Directorate for Medium and Long Term and Sectoral
Policies - There is a general weakness in CORDIPLAN on sector knowledge and
information and in order to perform its function adequately CORDIPLAN must
develop sector specializations. Since there are a large number of sectors
to be covered this should be done ideally by creating two sector General
Directorates - one to handle the sectors of Social Affairs and
Infrastructure and the other the Production Sectors. However, even
pending the reorganization study, which is part of this project, the



- 19 -
project would finance the strengthening of existing capacity in the
areas oft (a) Agriculture policy; (b) Industrial policy, including
reform/privatization of public industrial enterprises; and (c) Social
impact adjustment programs and employment. The project would also create
new capacity to carry out policy work in sectors such as oil and mineral
development, power, health, education ard infrastructure, transport,
tourism and urban development.
(iv) General Directorate for Regional Planning - The studies
related to CORDIPLAN's reorganization (see para. 19) will inter alia focus
on its role in light of the proposed decentralization of functions and
revenue to state and municipal governments.  Possible TAL support to the
General Directorate for Regional Planning in this respect will be addressed
in the study.
21.      Other assistance may also be provided under the project depending
on the outcome of the studies relating to the reorganization. This is
contemplated as follows: (i) consultants working with a sub-committee
comprising the Vice Ministers of CORDIPLAN, Hacienda and OCEPRE would
prepare a master plan for reorganization of CORDIPLAN including its
possible conversion into a Mirnistry of Planning and Budgeting; and
(ii) consultants would assist in the preparation of organizational and
operational details for a reorganized CORDIPLAN. CORDIPLAN would consult
with the World Bank prior to undertaking major organizational changes which
would effect the execution of the project. In addition to the technical
assistance described above, TAL financed assistance to CORDIPLAN would
include on-the-job training, the project would also finance seminars and
workshops targeted to high level government officials across sectors as
well as academics and others to establish the importance of efficiency in
investment selection and evaluation and foster the inter-agency cooperation
needed to strengthen all aspects of the investment process, including
environmental considerations.
III.   SECTORAL MINISTRIES
22.      SECTORAL MINISTRIES (US$2.52 MILLION).  The project would also
strengthen the planning, project evaluation, and monitoring capability of
nine key sectoral ministries, as it is at this level that project
identification and preparation takes place. Sectoral policy planning
capability is weak or non-existent in most ministries, except in some
public enterprises who, however, have only partial insight into the sector
as a whole. Project appraisal, where undertaken, is not in accordance with
internationally acceptable standards. Most sector agencies lack the
technical capacity and financial resources needed to prepare sectoral
development plans to provide a framework for channeling project 'ideas' and
to screen and transform those ideas into sound investment projects. The
emphasis is on physical engineering and financial analysis only. Economic
and social cost benefit analyses and environmental considerations are
generally not covered.  There is also an absence of a system to monitor
project implementation, except for large projects executed by public
enterprises, and a lack of coordination in policy planning and project
evaluation between the sectoral ministries and CORDIPLAN and between the
sectoral agency and the public enterprises that they control.
23.      While all sectoral ministries have General Directorates for
Planning and Budgeting, in most places they perform only the budgetary
function. Some Ministries (e.g., Environment) have other units which carry
out policy planning and project evaluation functions -- but where this is



- 20 -
done it is not up to commonly acceptable international standards. No
Ministry has capabilities in systematic monitoring of execution of
projects. Lines for coordination are diffused and sometimes non-existent
within the Ministries and with CORDIPLAN. The project would support the
establishment or strengthening within nine sector ministries of Director
level positions responsible for policy planning, project evaluation, and
project monitoring. Such positions will usually be located in existing
General Directorates for Planning and Budgeting, but this may vary
depending upon the mandate and organization of each ministry. Disbursement
for preinvestment activities in a given sector will be contingent upon
agreement by the sector ministry and CORDIPLAN to establish such positions
and on agreement with the Bank on TOR for TAL financed consultants to work
in each area. Each Directorate would be the official ministerial link to
CORDIPLAN.
24.      The ministries which would be strengthened under the TAL in the
above manner include: Agriculture, Family, Education, Health, Urban
Development, Transport, Environment, Energy and Mines, and Fomento
(Industry). These Ministries are expected to play a major role over the
next five years in preparing and implementing the public investment
program, including projects to be financed by the World Bank and the IDB.
25.      TAL funds would be used to strengthen these ministries and
possibly other sectoral entities in: (i) Improving the technical
capabilities to prepare integrated sectoral development plans and policies
and establish sectoral investment priorities; (ii) Improving project
design and selection criteria through introduction of economic and social
cost benefit and environmental analyses; and (iii) Developing and
implementing systems to track the physical and financial progress of
projects, with close linkages to systems for this purpose proposed for
CORDIPLAN, the Ministry of Finance and OCEPRE. Methodologies developed
would be compatible with similar assistance proposed for CORDIPLAN, some of
which have have been initiated under the SALJTA. The TAL assistance would
be tailored to meet the needs of each agency with offices of Planning and
Budgeting being largely, but not exclusively, the focal points for this
assistance.
26.      In addition, a portion of the loan (US$250,000) as been set aside
for training of CORDIPLAN and sector agency staff ir. areas such as
contracting, procurement, disbursement, audit, environmental assessments as
well as other aspects of the project cycle management, such as project
appraisal.
IV. THE BUDGET OFFICE
27.      OCEPRE (US$330,000).  The National Budget Office (OCEPRE) is an
independent body reporting directly to the Presidency. They are
responsible for submitting to the President and the Council of Ministers
the proposed budgets of the centralized and decentralized dccision-making
entities. OCEPRE's systems are insufficiently integrated with the
Government's administration accounting system (DINCA), Treasury and
CORDIPLAN. For this reason OCEPRE has difficulty in monitoring the
execution of the budget. It lacks information required to monitor the use
of resources and implementation of investment programs with respect with
the Government's stated objectives and plans. In addition, this lack of
integration produces delays in the reconciliation of budget accounts. The
preparation of the Government Annual Budget as well as the Budgets for



- 21 -
Decentralized Administrations are, therefore, based on incomplete and
unreliable information.
28.      For OCEPRE to properly carry out its functions, it requires timely
and detailed information from the information-producing systems and
entities. To this effect, and compatible with the proposed strengthening
of the CORDIPLAN, Treasury. DINCA, and the line ministries systems, TAL
financed consultants, training and equipment will assist OCEPRE to enhance
its existing computerized systems (software and hardware) to enable it to
capture the needed information, as well as to carry out analysis and
follow-up of budget execution, a function which it has been unable to carry
out heretofore.
29.      At present, the responsibilities for various stages of the budget
process are dispersed among various organizations. For instance, budget
approval and modification is the responsibility of OCEPRE, commitment and
obligation records are maintained by the Comptroller General's Office,
while payments are made by the Treasury. Under Venezuela's budgetary
system, there are at any given time two budgets being executed
simultaneously, one enacted by law for the current fiscal year and another
executed for the payment of obligations unpaid at the end of the previous
fiscal year. In order to track the execution of the 'modified accrual"
budget presently in force, there is a need for timely and accurate
information.  The lack of such data makes it difficult to moni.or
implementation of the budget as well as the ongoing development programs
and projects. This has implications inter alia for multilateral and
bilateral agencies with specific auditing requirements. It is expected
that the proposed Organizational Reforms for CORDIPLAN and Ministry of
Finance supported under the project, together with the proposed assistance
to OCEPRE mentioned above and to DINCA and Treasury described below, will
lead to a rationalization of functions among the concerned government
agencies and development of compatible systems to enable consolidation of
information through the various stages of the budget process (budget
approval, modification, commitments, obligations and payments) and
facilitate retrieval.
V. MINISTRY OF FINANCE
30.      MINISTRY OF FINANCE (MOF) US$2.5 MILLION).  The MOF has embarked
on a "Master Reform Program' with a view to strengthening critical aspects
of its role and functions. Parts of this reform are being supported by the
IDB and IMF (long term tax reform) (see para. 34) and the Bank's TPL
(automation of customs). In addition, the superintendencies that deal
with financial institutions and currently report to the Ministry of Finance
would also be reorganized and strengthened under the Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan, simultaneously under consideration by the Bank's Board.
The TAL would support five additional elements of the reform: (i) a
diagnostic study of MOF's internal organization, administrative functions
and processes, preparation of an implementation plan and implementation of
the first phase: US$350,000; (ii) a related diagnostic study of priority
information technology upgrading requirements in selected MOF departments,
preparation of an Information Systems Plan and partial implementation
thereof: US$350,000; and (iii) an assessmen- of immediate actions required
in the field of tax administration reform, preparatton of action plans,
initial implementation and related training: US$50U,000; (iv) a diagnostic
study to strengthen the fiscal accounting system in the Department for
National Administration Accounting (DINCA), preparation of automation
plans, implementation and training: US$300,000; and (v) a diagnostic study



- 22 -
of the National Treasury's functions and processes, preparation of
automation plans, implementation and training with a view to strengthening
payment controls US$1.0 million.
31.      MOP Reform.  To better orient the Ministry to respond to the
country's present needs, the Ministry proposes to embark in a Master Reform
Program which, based on a comprehensive institutional diagnostic, would
result in a more adequate structure, redefined and streamlined functions
and more efficient procedures and processes.  The TAL wouli finance the
preparation of the Master Reform Progrdm and action plan and
implementation of immediate actions required.
32.      Information Systems Plan.  In support of the existing and new
functions of the Ministry, the MOF proposes developing an Information
System Plan, which would identify all information needed for the operations
and administration of the MOP, the systems which would have to be acquired
or developed to process this information, the hardware required, and the
human and other resources needed including training. A partial
implementation of this plan for systems determined to be priority is
envisaged.  The TAL would finance a diagnostic study of the MOPs needs for
information technology support, preparation of an Information Systems Plan
and implementation of immediate requirements identified under the Plan.
33.      Tax Administration.  The Revenue Department (Direccion de Rentas)
in the MOF is responsible inter alia for collection and control of income
taxes and other internal taxes such as on inheritance, alcohol, cigarettes
and stamp duties. As part of its general reform (see para. 32) the MOF is
attempting to increase revenues by carrying out a Tax Reform. Currently
before Congress are two proposals including a modification of the Income
Tax Law and th3 creation of a Value Added Tax. The SALITA, in coordination
with the IMF, is supporting the initial phases of the Tax Reform design and
implementation, including a thorough review of the Department's
organizational structure and systems, increasing public awareness of the
objectives of the reform through dissemination of information and
promotion, and economic analysis of the implications of the reforms.
34.      The objectives of the TAL assistance would be to reduce widespread
tax evasion and arrears resulting from weak tax administration. The TAL
would complement the above mentioned long-term effort by supporting
immediate measures to increase the revenue base. This would be
accomplished through strengthened enforcement of existing legal and
administrative norms and through development and implementation of
analytical models to target potential tax evaders. The TAL would finance:
(i) a diagnostic study of the tax administration to complement reviews
recently comnleted by the IDB and the IMF; (ii) the preparation of a mid-
term action plan to integrate the proposed reforms before Congress and the
TAL supported short and medium term reforms; (iii) the establishment of a
database to support operational planning to counteract evasion and reduce
arrears; and (iv) the initiation of implementation of reforms in all the
aforementioned areas, including through definition, development and
introduction of appropriate software for monitoring the tax system.
35.      The TAL would finance related training, such as study tours to
Revenue Services in other countries which have successfully reduced tax
evasion and arrears, as well as on the job training and development of
appropriate curricula in the School of Public Finance (Escuela de Finanzas
Publicas). In addition, the TAL would finance the design of the
aforementioned computer software to support taxpayer crosscheckg to



- 23 -
identify potential evaders. These reforms are expected to improve revenue
collections in the short term and lay the basis for additional future tax
modernization reforms.
36.      DINCA. The TAL would assist in the reintroduction of a system of
fiscal eccounting and related procedures which existed in the early 19709
but subsequently ceased to function due to lack of resources and loss of
support in the Government. The TAL would help strengthen the Department
for National Administration Accounting (DINCA) with assistance from
specialists, training and computer software and hardware, to allow it to
fulfill its mandate. This includes: (a) preparing the Government's
accounts; (b) establishing standards and procedures applicable to
accounting records for central government agencies for purposes of internal
control in coordination with those established by the Office of the
Comptroller General; and (c) advising agencies of the central
administration with regard to administration accounting, and especially
cost accounting of programs and projects. The functions of DINCA will be
reviewed in the context of the Master Reform Prograt, including their role
in centralizing information on the attainment of goals and objectives and
furnishing periodic information on the execution of the budget.
37.      To effectively perform its principal current function of
monitoring the various stages of the budget process, the MOF has undertaken
a two-step action plan: (a) Reorganize and strengthen the organizational
responsibilities of DINCA. As part of the Reform Program (see para. 32)
the MOF plans to relocate the current functions of DINCA to the MOP's front
office (thereby reporting directly to the Vice-Minister). The Government
will review DINCA's legal statutes and optimal staffing and skills mix in
conjunction with the Reform Program; and (b) Automate processing
operations. Currently, a limited number of monitoring reports are prepared
manually and these reports do not provide any analysis for policy decision-
making, are incomplete in tracking the budget process, and are not timely.
The latter would be undertaken with TAL financing. This strengthened
office would have appropriate links to the Central Budget Office (OCEPRE)
and CORDIPLAN.
38.      The National Treasury.  The Treasury has two main functional
responsibilities: (a) Authorization and verification of payments for goods
and services performed on behalf of centralized government agencies and
decentralized agencies whose payments have been previously approved in the
National Budget; and (b) Reception of Government revenue from various
collection agencies and departments.
39.      The authorization of payment orders is approved by the National
Treasury after the executing agency and the Comptroller General's Office
have approved them. Between 1986 and 1990 an estimated 800 million
purchase orders will have been processed with a total value of about
US$13.0 billion equivalent. The processes for payment orders, verification
of payments receipt of revenue and internal management reporting and
control requirements are undertaken manually. The current process is
highly labor intensive and inefficient in terms of monitoring, controlling,
management reporting and internal auditing. Information on Government
expenditures cannot, therefore, be retrieved in a timely fashion. The TAL
would provide support to: (a) Improve the overall efficiency of treasury
operations through automation; improved linkages of systems and processes
with other government agencies; improved management informational reporting
requirements for the Treasurer and other parts of the Ministry of Finance;
and (b) In conjunction with the MOF Reform Program, review the current role



- 24 -
of Treasury operations. The TAL would provide the computing equipment,
associated software and expert assistance to install and test the systems
developed and train Treasury and DINCA staff. The MOF has expressed an
interest in studying the role of Treasury to move from its current
cashier's functions to cash management responsibilities.
40.      Most of the proposed TAL assistance described above addresses
weaknesses in central administrative planning and control of expenditures.
However, a large portion of the overall Government budget is managed
independently by decentralized and autonomous institutions for which there
is little control or information. The diagnostic studies proposed for
DINCA, Treasury and OCEPRE will lay the basis for improved planning and
budget control for the decentralized bodies.
VI. PERL
41.      PERL (US$5.0 million).  The TAL will finance the technical
assistance needs associated with the Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL)
being processed for Board approval simultaneously with the TAL. Additional
details on the Bank's support for the Public Enterprise Reform Program and
related conditionality can be found in Report No. P-5327-VE. The objective
of the program is to minimize policies or practices which discriminate
between public and private enterprises, distort incentives and mitigate
against competition. The current Government is seeking to increase the
public sector's efficiency and reduce its size, through appropriate cost
recovery, the imposition of market discipline on PEs, divestment or
liquidation of nonstrategic PEs, and promotion of national and foreign
private investment, all with the objectives of simplifying public
management and stimulating private sector development.
42.      The PERL will support inter alia:  (i) restructuring of about 12
PEs, which currently have a pronounced negative impact on public finances
or the economy; (ii) privatization of about 100 state-owned enterprises;
and (iii) clarification and simplification of financial, reporting, and
legal relationships between the Central Government and PE managers.
Technical assistance associated with the PERL and financed under the TAL
would address three main related areas. First, restructuring (US$3.2
million) of selected major PEs including INOS (water) SIDOR (steel),
CADAFE (electricity),l/ INP (ports),l/ CANTV (telecommunications), CAVN
(shipping), IPOSTEL (postal service), IMAU (garbage collection), and other
PEs, as needed. Second, privatization (US$1.2 million), including
financing of investment banking services to assist in the privatization of
VIASA (Venezuela's International Airline), AEROPOSTAL (the state owned
domestic airlines), ASTINAVE (shipyard) and other privatization assistance,
as needed. Finally, a study to review financial, legal and tutelary
relationships within the public sector which would also include
recommendations on a regulatory framework for public utilities (US$50,000),
training and promotion programs related to privatization (US$50,000), and
consultant support for the Interministerial Restructuring Commission in
CORDIPLAN (US$500,000) to assist in analyzing restructuring proposals
submitted to the Commission.
1/ The elaboration of Restructuring Plans agreed in the context of the
PERL for these enterprises may be financed wholly or partly under the
Preinvestment component of the TAL.



- 25 -
43.      The restructuring of PEs would be the responsibility of CORDIPLAN.
It would entail a reorientation of company goals to focus on profit and
efficiency and includes asset or equity sale, reorganization, operational
and managerial improvements, debt restructuring, and/or measures to
encourage private competition. The scope an. objectives of restructuring
requirements varies widely from complete reorientation and possible
privatization to primarily financial restructuring. The Government has
already undertaken substantial work, with the support of external
consultants, in identifying the major issues confronting many of the
companies. The TAL supported activities would inter alia lay a base for
later operations in support of individual restructuring programs
(complementary to the preinvestment activities to be financed under the
TAL) in the power, water, ports, and telecommunications sectors. The IDB
Preinvestment Loan is also expected to provide additional financing to
complete the restructuring of several companies included in this effort.
Full implementation of all restructuring programs is expected to be
completed by 1993. Key indicators for enterprises being restructured are
set out in Table 2 of the Report of the President on the PERL.
44.      Privatization.  The Government's privatization program is not only
directed at reducing the size and scope of the public sector, but also to
attract new capital, management and technology into economically viable
enterprises and broaden ownership through privatization. The initial group
of enterprises targeted for privatization includes firms in the financial,
tourism and light manufacturing sectors which are operating in competitive
markets, not fulfilling any public policy objectives, and thought to be
financially viable. The privatization process for which the
Interministerial Commission on Privatization (with FIV as Secretariat) is
responsible, has just begun, and the group of about 100 enterprises have
been selected for divestment to date. By third tranche release of the PERL
it is estimated that some US$100 million of assets would have been brought
to the point of sale. The TAL would finance investment banking services
and would assist in mak:.ng financialleconomic projections of firms and
prepare or review offers for sale; value properties and assets; provide
advice on legal liabilities and enabling legislation; and review bids and
negotiate deals.
45.      Government financial support -- both directly through budgetary
transfers and indirectly through FIV loans/equity and guaranteed borrowings
under the Public Credit Law -- was often provided without adequate economic
and financial justification, clear objectives, or accountibility for
financial results. In addition, in the past, public enterprise investment
projects (and the associated financing) were generally approved on a case
by case basis, without integration into the Government's ov?rall public
investment and borrowing program. A study to be managed bv CORDIPLAN would
look into the Legal, Financial, and Institutional Framework Governing the
Relationship between PEs and the Central Government, which have not kept
pace with the increasing economic importance of PEs during the last 20
years. The accretion of legal, regulatory, and administrative changes
during the last two decades has resulted in unclear and diffuse
accountability relationship, causing substantial delays in decision making
and little effective control of PE policy. The weakness of Central
Government ministries and agencies (also addressed under the sectoral
ministry ID component of the TAL) has also undermined tutelary
relationships and the formation of sectoral and macroeconomic policy. The
study will address these problems inter alia with a view to establishing a
limited performance agreement system under which the Central Government and
the PEs would agree on the overall strategy and a consistent dividend,



- 26 -
borrowing, and investment policy for each PE. A second aspect of the study
would make recommendations with regard to establishment of a regulatory
framework to address pricing and investment decisions of public utilities.
Terms of reference for these studies have been agreed. The studies would
be completed and an action plan adopted before second tranche release of
the PERL.
Section B.   Proiect Administration and Implementation
46.      ProiJect Organization and Implementation.   The loan would be
managed by the Sectoral Director General of CORDIPLAN's Investment
Programming Directorate, who would serve as the Project Director.
CORDIPLAN will also appoint a Project Manager who would report to the
Project Director. The Project Manager would be supported by the Project
Coordinating Unit which will be staffed with three coordinators -- handling
the Bank and IDB Preinvestment work, the PERL-related assistance, and all
other TAL financed institutional development assistance --, one
administrator, and support staff. It is expected that the proposed IDB
Preinvestment Loan would provide financial support to the Project
Coordinating Unit in connection with its handling of the IDB operation.
These arrangements are similar to those in place for the ongoing SAL/TA.
Some key managerial and administrative staff are already on board. The
Unit would be responsible for project coordination and administration.
Each of the ministries and agencies participating in the TAL would
designate a coordinator to work with CORDIPLAN in implementing the project.
The Unit would ensure complementarity between work undertaken in connection
with the Bank TAL and IDB Preinvestment Loan as well as TA available from
other sources. The Unit would be the main channel of communication between
the Bank and all implementing agencies up until the time a TAL subproject
is approved by the Bank. Thereafter the Unit would clear all TAL financed
contracts and arrange for disbursements through the Ministry of Finance.
The implementing agency would retain substantive responsibility as per
para. 48. The Unit would also maintain the accounts and arrange for their
annual audit in accordance with the Bank Guidelines, prepare an annual work
program, and a semi-annual progress report incorporating work programs and
reports from all TAL implementing Agencies.
47.      An OperatinR Manual would guide the Unit's work in processing of
the TAL and IDB financed preinvestment subprojects (see paras. 10-14),
screening requests from agencies for other uses of loan funds, and
transmitting them to the Bank. The Manual would specify: (i) the type of
preinvestment work and ID activities eligible for financing under the
project; (ii) the respective roles of CORDIPLAN, implementing agencies and
the Bank; and (iii) clear implementation arrangements and lines of
responsibility regarding contracting, procurement, disbursement, audit,
reporting, and other administrative matters. The borrower will utilize the
services of a procurement agent to provide administrative assistance in
contracting and paying of international consultants and procuring equipment
while developin& its own capabilities in these areas. This assistance
would be extended to local consultants, if warranted. The Unit would be
the main interlocutor between the implementing agencies and the procurement
agent.
48.      Once preinvestment subprojects or other technical assistance is
agreed by CORDIPLAN and the Bank, the implementing ministry or agency would
handle all technical aspects of the subproject and would select, contract,
and supervise consultants, arrange for training and procurement of
equipment. These contracts would be reviewed by CORDIPLAN and certified in



- 27 -
respect of consistency with the Project Operating Manual. CORDIPLAN would
provide administrative assistance when needed and would maintain records of
the status of each subproject to be reported in the semiannual reports to
the Bank.
49.      Management of the PERL.  Institutional arrangements are now in
place to coordinate the public enterprise reform process. Inter-
Ministerial Commissions have been established for Privatization and
Restructuring. They would be supported by secretariats in the FIV and the
Medium and Long Term Planning Directorate in CORDIPLAN, respectively.
Their major tasks would include making recommendations on non-strategic PEs
suitable for divestment (FIV), and coordinating design and implementation
of restructuring plans, and overseeing the design of legal and
institutional reforms (CORDIPLAN). The TAL will also finance assistance to
the Restructuring Secretariat. The FIV will enter into contracts for all
the aforementioned assistance, except support to the Restructuring
Secretariat, which will be handled by CORDIPLAN directly. As with the
other components of the TAL, the Project Coordinating Unit would clear TOR
and contracts for all PERL-related subprojects. The drafting of consultant
TOR, consultant selection and supervision would remain the responsibility
of the FIV and CORDIPLAN's Medium and Long Term Planning Directorate.
50.      Procurement.   The goods and services to be financed under the
project would be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank as summarized in Schedule B of the Memorandum to the President on the
project. Consultant services would be procured in accordance with Bank's
Guidelines. Purchases of equipment, supplies and maintenance items to cost
the equivalent of US$50,000 or less would be made through local or
international shopping; above US$50,000 they would be made through Limited
International Bidding (LIB). All LIB would have prior review in the Bank.
Most of the equipment to be purchased corresponds to computer hardware and
software; a small portion would be used for other office equipment. The
Government will utilize the services of a procurement agent as per para.
47. The cost of the services of an agent would be financed from the
proceeds of the loan and are implicit in the costs for each component.
51.      Disbursements and Retroactive Financing.  Expenditures for
supplies and maintenance items of less than US$50,000 equivalent will be
disbursed against statements of expenditure (SOE), for which detailed
documentation evidencing expenditures would be retained by CORDIPLAN and
made available for the required audit and also for review by the Bank
supervision missions. The loan provides retroactive financing of up to
US$500,000 for expenditures incurred prior to loan signing but after of the
Public Credit (Investment) Law, expected before end-June, 1990. This
amount is expected to be used to finance priority preinvestment activities
required in connection with the Bank's lending program, preparation of TOR
for institutional development assistance financed under the TAL; and start
of the Project Coordination Unit activities. No allowance has been made
for physical and price contingencies in Schedule A as the project mainly
provides funds to help finance a program defined in financial terms and for
which the specific requirements are not yet precisely known.
52.      The Government's contribution of approximately US$11.0 million
equivalent would normally consist of counterpart staff, local consultants,
office space, supplies, secretarial services, and vehicle operation to be
provided in connection with the preinvestment and institutional development
components of the project.



- 28 -
53.      Accounts and Audits.   Separate accounts would be kept for all
expenditures made under the project. The Project Coordinating Unit would
maintain records and accounts for all project activities. The project
accounts of CORDIPLAN and each eligible entity and statements of
expenditures would be audited each year by auditors acceptable to the Bank
in accordance with the Bank's Auditing Guidelines and the audit reports
would be submitted to the Bank no later than four months after the close of
the financial year.



- 29 -
Attachment 1
May 1990
VEEZUA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN FOR PREINVESTMENT (PTAL)
Illustrative List of Preinvestment Subprojects
Eligible for Pinancins under the PTAL *1
Tentative Estimate
Subproject                                                   US$ (millions)
1.       Transport Sector Studies                                   1.0
2.       Power Sector and Power Distribution  3/                    3.0
Projects Preparation
3.       Urban Transport Project Preparation Study                  1.5
4.       Ports Project Preparation Study 3/                         1.5
5.       Environmental Project Preparation                           .8
6.       Barrio Upgrading                                            .3
7.       Municipal Water Supply and Sewerage 31                     5.0
8.       Health Project Preparation Studies                          .6
9.       Primary Education Project Preparation                       .6
10.      Agricultural Projects Preparation                          2.0
11.      Studies in Reform of the Public Sector                      .7
Preparatory to SAL II
17.0
*/  1.   Subprojects and cost estimates are subject to periodic review and
revision by the Government of Venezuela and the World Bank.
2.   Inclusion of a subproject on this list does not constitute a
commitment by the Bank to provide financing for any follow-up
project.
3.   These projects include TA to define and implement restructuring
plans agreed in the context of the PERL.



V lEZLA                                                     Attachkt tI
TE4ICAL ASSISTANC  PROJErT FOR  TRp         INT
A   VIIttrUTIUNL DEOE FMIT
MATRIX OF KEY P*1OJET ACTIVITIES
I        Main Cove naent                     Project Coeponent                  Intitutional Arrangeaunt        I        Expected OeuttImpact                       Tieing Targeto
Objective_  s                        Activities                        Q-A______ __     I  p IIItie as                                             (starting/com I__ton date_)
A. Pr*Invootimmt Activities                                             ||                                                
IProv;ie in  urW dd                Consultant servit" to supp-ort       I S  tctr Ministries *n4 ngci        in    I Project. suiteble for Bank       IT* b  determined during TAL iMplemento-
lflw;ible umre af financing         thohWtir,nnl *4thoritlz En          | Ccordinat;on *itb alR     N            financing projects currently          Ion based upon agreemnts to be reached
in order to build op                                                         r nn out                            undor active consideration            by tho Eank and the borroer.
p;"line at well-propo                                                                                            i  d  include the following:
1projeca which my be sial                                                                                                                                
Ifor Dan financing during the        Studies, national eectoral            1. To be determined.                   1. Power Sector Investment I
Inext five years                    Inveetment plan. and                 I                                        Financing of time *lice of PFor
institutional restructuring        I                                        Sector Invetet progratm
reuwired prior to car_neceent of  I                                        I(19g3-4PW)
the prefasibility and feasbility                                          I
I                         I~~~~~~~~work;                                                               IPrtcinI
I                                                                         I 2. Ministry of Envirnmnt and         2. Environmental Protecton -
| Pre-feasibility and feasibility      Renewble Natural Resources              Assitance to the government in
I tudie. and submequent             I                                        the definiition and impemtta 
I                        I en~~~~~~~~gineering and design;     I                                        of environmental policy. rowegtatry
4 ng;no r;ng xnd den;en;   t             and protection arrnen ts. through I
; Oecrete tcake related                                                       t  technical aistence. training *nd   I                                         I
Ito the proepration of the          I                                            "tonof apecific subprojecte       I
I investment project which are                                                to rduce anvironeentel pollution.
I                        4 cr~~~~~~~~itical to the appraisial  f                                      I4
C assessments;                         3. Ministry of Environent and        i3  Municipal Water/Sa nittion -        I s                                             I
|               I                                     | R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pnmble livtursl Rueourcee  Assistance to tho cvorn_ent in              
I    6 tiul startup mtlvetneto                                                tho r organbaetion of th  * ctor*O
without which project                                                       crently centralized
!Implemeotntationpcwuld bc                                                                got-un t;tut;o Inup  nnd Its
meviotuly delayed.                                                           rplacement with a regltory ond    I
I      I                                                                          ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~normative agency at the national
I evel end the establieheent of
4regional or wmnicipal water
I utilitise with the participation
I                                                        I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of the private sector. The 
proposed project would also eupport
reformulation of eector pol;c ia
such g  on t arifft   l  v- nd c
recover7; improv *e uo supipi *n1d
l                                                         n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nd strength " tthe <,porst;'eio  rFe
t                I                                        *dn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oforn; t   oef uyrba  wa*ter
4. Pl mng;n  Oft;c* (COtPLAN           4. Structural Adjust_nt 11-
l                l                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Support the govern_nte *structural
I                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ reform pregrx
S. M;nistry of Tranportation           S.6 Urban Tr n port - Assit
Oovern_nt In r t;rwnl;xting *sector
maintnnce policies.
____       ---__---______- I - ------~------------------- I -  ~-------------                                                                    -- ---~ ~~ ~~~~-- 0 -----~----_______i



- 31 -
a,,~~~
I t
IIC%I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
311~~8
*he~@
-I
4) t1       ~              C
iiz       1                               LT.; 
a  |  1**3e1..-a   ..93@
XI    'S'    &.@X  i.  3
I j    I               *~ 32ewc  cvr   
F.S  iI                                I
iD  i    l lA
i2     01{5
R~~~                        I o  
  !I
* I
___



VB*M)aA                                                    Attachm t 1I
TE         >    NWICAL ASSlSTA"  PROJBrFOt  PREIVEPMI _m,. 3
AM UOTTMOM"I DEY5JPM
PATIX OiF KEY   fJE  ACrIVITIB
"aibt Government                   Project Component                 Inetitutional Arrangements      I        ELpected Output/Ipaet                     Timing Targtet
Objectives                          Aet;wtttes                       onad 9eopostbiltten                                                         rieexlte   dot") 
9. CM   LM
I ______z                                                                                                                                            I
I. Strengthen CO LAN in key         1.) Policy atudy an role of           1. COPULN'e Office of the             1. Output:                            1. (i) Starting date: June 1990.
are  relating to internal              aIPN nnd OCEPRE to                   Vice Minister.                    I                                         Completion date: SUptebr 19"0.
organiation. mcro-economic          liminate overlapping functtene                                              (1) Propoemf regarding role of
planning and mana_emt,             nad etrengthen coordination                                                ICMIPLN  nd OCFE for
aectoral and retionl poticy       3 (to be financed under the SAL TA)  I                                       consideration by the Comittee of
feroulstion nad putAic ;nvotmnt                                                                                 Vice t4;n;ntere <CMIPIAN, H"ttondu
evaluation and programming.                                                                                    OCERE and Fomnto)
(ii) Development of                '                                        (it) Reorganization plan.            (it) Starting Date: January 1991.
I                                 | Reorgnization Plan (10  /4).       I                                                                                 Completion date: Jun* 19901.
(iii) Iplementation of the                                                  (ii) Implementation af the          I (i)  Starting date: June 1I.
Reoranization Plan                                                        I Reorganiation Plan.                     Compltion D"te: June 1992.
recmedtion  (16 EM/1) .t
I                                                       j Impac~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dot:
Imroved national investowt ewytem.
budgeting eystem and Monitoring     j
of budget execution.
2. Iprove off ciency of              a. (    oprov capabitMis  and       2. CDIPULA' General Directorate   2.(a). Output:                           12(a)(i) Starting Date: September 1990.
Ineatnmnt reource                  system  in project ovlustion.         for Inv.etmnt a Programing.         I-                                     I Cop*letion  ate:. June l92.            1
allocation.                        progr   Ing and monitoring,           Zn coordination With Dirctorte. n      i)  proved myoteme method 
through  dvisine and training d      of Planningend ludgeting Itnn projet  evaluation and 
official, in project evaluation       key sector tintetrie. also to         onitorine * per point. (I) and    I
ond in investmet plannng  nd         be strengthened under the TAL.         (i) below.
I preIr I;ne Itchnqus (20                                                    



VENEZLISA                                                   Attcha_nt It
T?IOCAL ASS"rT*E  ROlE1 i R            igt  E T                               Page 4
me vartvTUoNAL Oce      Pir# 
WUTD  OF KEt PUDJEC  ACMVIUB
Maiin avrnant                      Proj)et Coepo't             I       ntitutinal Arrangement         i        ERpcted Oaatput/lpact                      Tling Targt.
I      __t                       __.ee_                __                 ____________ __                                    __ _ _ _ _ _                                       _     _
Objobivo          A-tvitis -----o--b-I-IIi a                                                    ______(tartngL/coinplatbon date.)
|  a.(&i) Improve syata.  and method |                                        2(|)(il) Project evlIution. to        I(a)(i ) Starting Date: Septeber  90. 
in infvatmant project apprienal    Iternational Standard. undertaken                                                 Completion Date: Reort. produced
with particular attentien to                                                 for *11 public *ector project           as per agreed timetablt for each
trengthaning anuysi- of ahort                                               s  specifi ed by Dcee Nb.401 of         project.
and long tem financial and                                                   February 12. 190 uhich  ndicate. 
Iecnomle oete and bnefit.                                                    I that project. reuiring pubic
!  (so N,M)                                              I                    borroing snd Cabinet appreoal be                                                |
reviewed by COIWIPLA!.
Impact:
I  Improved project evaluation af
larg  projece..
-Inve.tent plan. which better
reflect reAurce eon strint.
end recurrent oeot Impl ications
I                          I - tb~~~~~~Mre consisetnt economie                
c|riteria for inveatent decisions.
2.(b) Folloe-up financial and                                                2.0b) Output,                        12 (b) Starting  te: Septber 1910         j
Iphysical *r cution of proJects{                                                  _ _                                 Compteletin Dtae   Qrterly 
(5  eM        i                                                            I Project dabank for Quarterly            report till end of project
reort. on the execution of the       (period.                                   I
AInul Investment Plan for the       I
Minieter of CORDIPLAI. 
!  Impact:
i|hancad project eKecution and
i     |                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fol low-up.j 
i~~~~~~                                                                                                 ~        ~~~~~~                 ~~~~~ i    I_______j_____.._________ 



VE9ELM.A                                                     Att.achmsnt 1I
T7WCAL ASSBlAsE ePDJBJ FOR FiREDSIWVEO                                        Page
AIO lUTT WIIIIL  VEU W 
MJTRIX OF XEf PRWIJCT ACTXVTT1R
Iain Owarnment           3         Project Component                 I Inatitutional Arrangemnt.               Expectid Output/mpact          I            Tioing Target.
OlbJectivs             |Activities                                    a nd Respona ibilibe te                                                      (starting/coeplotion data.)
---------------                                  ---- - ------ - --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------- - - ---- ---- ---- --- ----- ------
I                                  I                                                                            I 
2.(c) Inveatment coordinstion 4      2.(c) COIPLAN's Oaworal                2(c) Outputs                          12() Starting Date- December I9O
Programming with Ie/IE.            Directorate for Investaent and                l_  Coepletion Date: Su.Monthly
tSO H/N).                          IFPpraaraine                                  .;-tion -of six utonthly statue s  reports throuch project CO"pletlon.
3                                    3                                      5  reports on IUi/IoO pipeline which   i
4                                                                       3 I                                      woeuld include detil. of program-    3
oine, status of project preparation  I
(Incnuding feasibility and prefeaci-
billty studies) and Identification of)
n ...t *bops to be undort iten by     I
concrned Gov't Agencis, BlbR  and
p                                                                                                                IDB.  coordationbetweent b
I Qovernment of Venezuela and          I
@      |                                    8                                       | ~~~~~~~~~~~                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~IEilD/IOS,l 
13. Strengthen _cro-tccneoic       j 3. TA to con-truct and maintain:       3. C( lAPUN's Ceneral Directorate   13. Output;                            13. Starting Oate: September 1990.
Joonitoring and anslysia of the      (a) sbort term, partil               for Short Term Planning.                   - ------                           I  Comwletion Data : 4uarterly
If;cal. monetary and price        *5 euilibrium mcdel. -                                                        IPreparation of Quarterly              5  reports through project completion.
)aItuation.                          incorporating price-wage                                                   5 report. on the economic situation                                              5
I                                  3 dynamic.s; public sector deficits                                           f i for the Minister of CORDIPUNJ4 which  I
I - Develop adequate analytical    3 *nd financing; external trade.                                                  I would cover; (i) Ibcro-economic  I
If rameork to: eneure coherent     I(0 t /1). 9                                                                 I Performance; (ii) Fiscal Prform.nco I
Imacro-economic policies; help                                          I                                         (i) the monetary situation and       I
ISolicy-_lJXer judge econoic         (b) medium term sectoral modelsa,   I                                       Slance of Payments .W
lend structural consuences           enabling assessment of             I
of *Iternative adjusteent           alternative groeth paths,.
pacageetb and spec;fy policies    J constraint.. export and             I                                        ltmpcct                               I
lappropriate to different          I mprloyment impact (30 H/M) |4.                                               --------
c n ries.                       |                                     |                                      |Enhanced monitoring of the economic  5
Ibtween the IWl and the Sank.
14. Strengthen performnce          i 4. TA to construct and maintain    i 4. CORIPL*4's General Directorat    i 4. Output:                             14  Starting Date; To be detertined
moenitoring of public enterprises.  monitoring system for public            for Short Term Planning.            I   -a after compietion of related PERL
I entarpe;ie  (60 N/N).  Thea.                                              I To be determined after complotion    letudy.
5 activities to be defined after                                              o of rolated  PURL study,             ICompletion Oatc: To be determined
I                         | ~~~~~~~~~completotEn of related PMR  study                                                                        l  gfter copeinction af PERtL study .
|  to review financi;l. legal and    3                                      3                                        a           t
tutelary relationabhip  within the  I                                                                             ,
public sector.                                                               hpncti
1                                      I Enhanced monitoring of performance
e of public enterprises.
_____.____________________ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~  ~   ~   ~     ~  --- __ _ _ __ _ _  -------------------    - __ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _  -_ _  ---_____________  - -----______ ___________ _________-



VeZ A                                                         Attchent 
TE9INCAL ASTANtE PROJET FOR PREIrBThT                                          Page  6
A0 INSTITUTIONAL OEV TLOPtW                                                  6
ATA1IX OF KEY PROJET ACTVITIES
111ain Covernment                   Proj oct Component                 Inatitutional Arrangemnto                 Exlpected Output/lmpact                      Timing Trget.                I
Objoctive               I             Act;v;tlo-                         nd Rospono;bilities          I                                               ot rtine/complotCon dates)         I
---    ---- - - ----------                                  --   ---  -------------- - -----------              ~
S. Strwngthening economic and        S. TA. Training and Equipment         S. COCIFLAW s 4Ceneral Directorate   I   Output:                               15. Starting Ont.: Jun. t40  .
loctork *osn agiecultural           to strengthen oenomic and sector      for Medium and Long Term Sectoral        ------- -                                Copl.tion Date: Si-monthly 
ltndustrisl. mceal 'impact           sork in agriculture. industry and  I  Policies.                                 Sit-snthly rports on sectoral            roport. through project coepletion. 
adjustment and employment            social rseetoro (SO KlM) .                                                  I policien b n mjor *to of Interest
policiee In order to Increase                                                                                    Ito enble CJIPW to rIko
eff;ciency in key productive                                                                                       r I ecoemendatione and/or comwents
lsctors and build up aecisl                                              I                                       I to tho ezecutive branch on matters                                               I
Capital.  ~      ~        I                                     Isucht as tariff and subsidy levels                                                                                        I
fcap;t II|                                                                                                        I and policies.                          I                                         I
I                }                                     t~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                                                  I                                          I,
I                                                 policy~~~~~~~Zpot
|                                   g                                                                             I Enhanced  Ictor l policy p nning
I                                   I                                     |                                       I and  onitoring; reduced  iastortions  I                                          I
a and inefficient resourco              I                                          I
I                                   I                                                                             I X   allocation.                       I
16. Strengthening CIPLAYN's           6. Project activities to be           6. C6RDIPLAN'- Ceneral Directorte      6. Output:                             16. Startina Oat.: To bo determined        I
analysis of regional policies        determined following CORIPLAN         for RIion-l Pl-nnin- -                                                        I after CORDOIPW Reorganization           I
and providing aesietenvc             Reorgan;iation Study (100 "M.         f   R                                   To be determined after CORDIPLA          Study.
I(through EOAOIPAN) to the          I Some imediate TA (20 M/e) to                                                I Reorganization Study.  Would be          Copletion Date: To be determined        I
eatate  in regional planning.       I asist regional planning within                                                e I eapected to include timely rcPort    after COllOIPLAN Reorganization         I 4
CORDIPLAN.                                                                    on regional *ituation, issues and        Study.
I policies.                          I 
lmpect:                                                                          I
Mere effic;ent regional planning      I
and programing Ot expenditures. 



YEEAA                                                        Attacbmnt II
TW4ICAL ASSISTANCE FROJB:r FOR PREDWTM                                          P
AM INSTITOWIL DEY8.O                                                         7
H1IMIX b: KXEY FJrt ACtIVITIES
itain Oovernent                     Project Component                  Institutional Arrangeento                 Expcted Output/Iapact                        t t iming Tar gets
Objective.                            Activitie                         ufnd Rspe n.ibilitiwe         It (ttlnopletion date.)
C. OCWREP                                                                                                         ;                                       i
1. Reduce the budget deficit         1. 1) Strengthetning the Budget       1. Chief of the Central Budgeting       1. Output:                                 Starting Date: September 190.
Iby  stablishing and implementOng                     i ic  ( DCw In budget   Office in OCRE.                                                             I Cowltion Date: Deceaher lO1l.
improved systems and eriterlu        preparation and control.                                                      (1) lodiflcaticn of existing
in buds t progrs_ing and                                                                                           opplictc  on software and stff
oontrvI                              (;t) Integrating OCEPRE sy-to                                                 tr intng related to procaino and
urth the Oovernaent'e budget        Ianalydis of obligations and
*crouttng system (DINCA)                                                      paynt
Tres ury  CADIPLAN and
mectoral ministrels (20  iM/).                                                (iI) Upgrading of euipment to
deol with influx of new informtion. I
(tii) Completion of diagnostic and   i
action plano for monitor1in
budget  Ixcution t decentral i d                                                i
I                              Impa~~~~~~Doctt
Enmurng aval ab;Ility of timely
information required for the m
analysis and follou-up of budget
*xecution.
Im                ml                                  1_                                                          Ila,__  I



V84MA3A                                                       Attachment II
W-VAL SSMAHM  MJB:TFCFt PREDW IMM1                                            ft"  8
me nesrnuro ovs%
nAT     oP OF  E  FROJT ACTIrWT
gq3;, Cbern.et                      Projeact C omponent                 ln.titutional Arrangements                 Exece  OuptIpc                               Timing tergete
Obje ctives                           Activities                         andi R_siwabiltitis                                                            <starbincg/camiion Citat")
MVi M       OGRftF FWi AM E
' To strenthe  @oeneent'e
$financlui management
Icapablit"Is  end Its co"CItp  to
itmptlemnt ndni tottsr 0susnd
?   to  *trn  IIOF'-        I . Asictttno  to the "iRnist        i       Officc of thet Vice i4tfinit r.    1. utputtz                            it Stttrt;n tt ctn, June 1990
1t                   ton.            of Finwtc  to rfore I it             I  Project manager to oveor,. end        -___                                       Coepsttion Oate: ,ucn ber  9 .
ornittaltitln n strutuo              I  cordiztnatet HOF cempnentos A lisilt   (IJ Curernt structure of HO
functin  and procedure  24           I  .i4)  tth the Stak.                    rbognid            an  Icap Chote
i                           in titttt~~~~~~~~Ir  diagoasic study 
reeuiting In. (a) reduction in the
numtbr of direct reportJng r.tntton-
ships to the Miniater,    ) coneol;
detion of fine  nd stff ftie
under Director Cenerale.
(Ii) Leilelative decre  issued for
j                                   |                                      |                                        I the tcpleenttio;n of t h
I ?eor*tsixtion.  cre lfication of                                                 i
selected toition. recruitment of
prof.aeional staff, end the            1
I                                                                               I I *ntabl;eb_nt of centralizd
t      i                                      i                                        'e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Omrintendentl organization. ii
Elb nc:d effectivense  of or i-    I
I                  I                                                           I nation,l structure which better
|  reepone to the changing  c nmi;
I environment by strengthening
I      I                                      8                                       I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fine nclot and tila  wno"nt. In   
i     i                                      t                                        t u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pglr din;e of *Xff aktill to   att
i2                                                     I                                                            new organizational objectives. 
2    e To provide Inforatic support t2  Prow;-;cn of infortC;e               2. Offici  of the Vice  inister.      |a2 Output:                              18  St:rtin  Dat   June tO90.
grequ;red for the cer tiren          for tho minisTry (30 1MI                                                           ------ -                            I  CompletionOnto:Do  n   neber 1992ei
end edinietretion of the HOF.    I                                                                                                           o Ci) A d etic sudp ef HOF
{      |                                      t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. I.. Inoa;nt "=              Xnolody needs.
T                                           I                                        | (;;) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~An Inforest;en Sp tem Plan It
and partiel impleentation the eof.
1                                                                                     j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Impact:
On-line linkage with MOFP,
internal departmente end other
Iinistrise for Improvements In         I
tracking fietal results and more
-_________ --  -  ----------  __________________ -              -       -_____ ------   - ---------       -------- ---- ------- ---------------------



VENElUA                                                     Attachmant It
TEI#4CAL ASSISFrTNE PROJEC FUR PREVTT                                         Pge
AND DIPTrIroI4NAL OEVEOPNE4T
MA*DX OF KEf PROJET ACTWVITUN
Main Coernmnt                      Pro3ect Component                  Inetitutlonal Arrang_ nto                 Expected Output/Spact        I            Tisiog Targt 
ObJectives                           Activitien                        and RemponalbilItlIt so                                                     (starting/completion date,)
3   To enhance th. budg t         i    Accounting and information         3. Office for Fiscal Accounting.        3. Output                            13   Starting D tn  June 1900
amenitorlng no    te  whIch I Ink I manage_nt largely in the                                                                                           I e  Completion Dote. March 1991.
osmiteonte. obligations and        I Office for Fiscal Accounting                                                 (t) DINCt  per thronnl ngh   futct;neg 
dlsbursent .                        (DIMCA; (36 NIN)-                                                            s tr nth n ;d through ptrotrainin
1dlshurein~~~~~~~~~~~~nts    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~    ~~~ ~and provielon of computer software                                                                                   I
I                                    I                                       I and hardware to support *stab lish- 
|  I                                 II mont of tdUd.acctg.practicea a                                              I
I                                    I                                       I s*ystem  for central govt.agnnel-n    11
I                                    I !                                     I internal audit S tchnical gudance
I                           I to spen~~~~~"ding agencies.
I L,act:                                                                        I
I                                    I |                                      eImprovesnte in reporting. tily
Ianalysis, feedback lnto next                                                   I
I   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Ibudget cycle, and investment
p |roject informtion.
Z  Management reporte which 'include 
I                I                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~perfornc  endrt on budget
}  | p rfore nc* and variancs.                                                 Z
14. To improve the overall           4. Expenditure control and          4. Departent of the Treasury.           4. Output:                            14. Starting Date- June 1900.
efficiency of Treasury              monitoring in Treasury (48 t/19 II  CoSpletion Date: March 1991.                                                                                                    0 
loper t;ons and *xreain. uidor                                                                                    5  () A diognre t;c Study to *aaeI
ithe rdeinistrative reore                                                                                         t  nfore ticn r qu;re_nt. incide . 
lPrOrom ocf the MP. the                                                                                            Wor_t    frm the r t of "W.
current role of the Treasury.                                                                                    Cocptrollnr C norol - OfficeI
l                             ~~~~~~~~OCEPRE, CORDIPU  A DINCA.
nditur* unite in sector aence.
Impact:II
i                          ~~~~~~~~~~I                             | lep-- ctI 
'  Reducticn in processing cots nd oZ
improvements in providing cash       I                                         i
management and audit reports to      |
the Treasurer and others in the                                                |
Z                            I"~~           ~           ~          ~~~~~OF.ZZ
IEnsuring that managemnt reporte
|                Z                                       Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I;nclude prcdut;en. quaixlty and                             Z
I                                                        I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~srieindicators.
-     ~  ~  ------------------ -                  - - --       --------- ------                                                  ---        -----------          --------



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- t.    I  g
95                                                                ~~~I !
t2ts               !          5X3-3    illl^    s2.-r 
;Ire                                                                          2-S  t--!2 >t3f 
0*                                             to                        C  S    ..;       -*e .
-0.  P                      -.        90so   ;.Q,  -,       12
g ~~~~~~~ *i: i~ It}
'~~~~~ i--t                                                                                      '         K
~~  j~    mgs3 3                                                                  3,
p.,                   m. A         ..*  w;             w~nwo -.  -.          '.3-.
*       s            a s- .  |      w2s   g   t.l                                                 .       ' 
- -  --- ---- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - --                                      -- - -- -- -
*                                   Ut44-  St IS$$                                     i--  
*                 U   Ue             3                                   t 
,'  3        8         _   2~3 
.'                   gE0.t g                                                                 8            }                  .
Is ~ ~ ~     ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        f 
* ~            E                                                                   L*t .- t*3                  .4*-
   t-  eot Eg [t pt ge~~ft                                 -
*                                                                                                         !0
*   --         ---- -.            - ------------ --- ------ -- --- --
*  * a3S           ea  -*0.-                            p30.0.            P *- 



WE  cfl*A                                                      Attachment 11
TfgNCA. ASSISTANM -ROJEr FOR   r           _NYU1 T                              page 11
AM DWrUtAL eiTm
MAlRIM F IlE rROJP  T AlVTlE
f=in                                                             C                                                                                 Ut ProjeCt Ca  j  Instttional Arr n_en   F3ected  utput/Loact  Tiotng TprBts
ttjtCttttI                                                               andt  R t pd ibtlititIt ortifkt/cmlaeti  date.)
___ I                                                   __________ I____________________________.___
| (vi)  Train ta  afficials to           Viceinister, Direccion                I(i)  Training of 800 tax                i(vi) Starting Date: September
1 iaplesemt reform under coneidera-  J Oeneral do Rents. ind other             I nspector. and 200 teax                 ICO"Ietiofl Date:  July 199.
iy bCangre  as   e eIl as TAL        I tnistry of Finance areau               collection  gents                      I 
financed initiatives to reduce         functionally related to the
*prrenr end evasion (10 a/a)         I problem. addreed                                                               I
(vs.) Proet-  tan refore and           (vii) Esculel Ntaetnal de Fnanzan    I (vij)  Tr oinin of 2500 private         l(vii) Starting Daste  September 1990.
train tax advisors and other         I Publicas                                eector taw advigor                    C|eletion Date:  July 1991.
eportive force. in the
coemunity eg.-universitiee,
tprofeinal amociationa, trade *    I
unions, etc. thraou  TAD financing I
for Tat Specialists (6 ta/) to       I                                        I                                       I
serve as Instructors for             I                                        ;                                       I
large-scale  hort dura-sneanars.                                             I                                        I
wo rIks o                                     I tures .
I                          I Cviii~~~~~(* ) Promtot  understanding by                                      I (Wil) Instrmeonte for shaping the   I(viii) Starting Date: Septenber 1990. 
!                                   ! ttat authorities of the regione of                                              evasion control control software and IComplation Date: December 1990.             I
the country in order to better       I                                       I for field audit operations.            I                                           1
target ad substntiate potential
I                          t ~~~~~~~nn-npwitoro  (4 o/Z).                  
i                                                                           I                                       I                                        I at     
n) n-coepliers (| ale).            I                                          Additional revenue
I collected duet dteo ase                                                                 O
!                                   I                                      I                                        g in eaion ad arr"r|
I_.                                                                       ..                                                            .. I  ..  ,... ...... I  _  I  



VBG E                                                        Att ebhmt IX
TE"CINIL ASSXST^AC  PROJWfl RWt  P        TDEFM                               Pag   12
AM XNSTITUimaL DIWI?.ONT
MATRIX OF IlE PROJEC  A" rIV ES
pain Gvrmnt                        Project Component                 Inttottutlonal Arrananats                 Expe,cted Outout/I wact                     Tiitnp TargetsI
Objectives             1Activlitie                          af nd Rnnpcnib Ib ltites                                                               (rwt rtine/complotten dates)       |
E. SECTOR tlDCStRY        
VNITIUTIO    DEIX ?IW    \1 
Strenthen the c psetb of key                                            I Staff positions wittbh                 Output:
*C  rato   ministries tn  \2                                               re_nib  btliten for Eletoa            ----   -
M!) *ctoral pl nntinp               (i) D)evelop apperoprite             Plannitng, Project Evniuotton and       (i) Establishment of s ctornl         IT. bc und*rtsk n in tande wtth TAIL
mthodelopte for * ctoral             Project Mnitor,rng to be                  * - rkr for rationalizing sotoa  Ifitnnc9d pro-investment work in aec
| tnvn taint, policy und              established Itn 4 key sectorl           pfolteto and generatingl pro3net      i etor.
I roeea_tino (ti HM/ por Hi aI*tor)     initriesz (where they <io not *ntnt    Id*** ond ar,erwntne *nd trano orsftre I
curr ntly) usually within  nl r       | those ideas into bankb bo projects I
Direrctorartes for Planning and
Budgeting. Abv mentioned positioens 
wt II be etblishdi as a condittton
l                            ef~~~~~~~a  dtRureent tpnnt the Pr -invo
101,) project identification,       (If LProposl for tho reform         | Pr-Inotn nt coepen nt and mi I I        (i I)t Trained *t ff in sfctornl     I 
I-l octton, pretrartten, and         Of etth urront proJect  Vpowl        Itatco with counterpart units            gone,o, rwqupped with *nslytical     |i
*wniuntton; and.                    system (4 M/M eor Mtn1totYry)         in alRXLAN.                            tools to prerpare oud tnveotoont      Ii
Oill) tr cktne the phyotcal       |(iii) Produce  eoppoPritn*i                                                   (itt) Now information and cm,to I 
nd ftnunctnl prormer as part        manuals nad guidelines;            Iaiystem  installed to track thov
of the Govornsent's obJective     proJect *vnluntton traningn *t        I                                        physical *nd financial proproo
to *tranathitn the 4'stot         I 11110ro l nd r,ctoro l 11                                                    of projects.I
n ctonol de Inverstr,n publ icn'    (in coordtnutton with COtRDXPW4)
e  /Fi pd., tMtnistry).                                                                                          t4
i                         I ~~~~~~~(1w) Implewnt system for policy i                                             
forletinon. proJect ev luntlon    IImpact,I 
and eonitorine tncludtneo                                                    -------                               t 
dnveloprnt r,f analytical                                                    Zmhrov~..r  qualitty o1' tnvcatontiI
tooln (O MJI par Mtntotry)         I                                         dectoionn, Intramsod efficetncy of                                             I
t                t                                       9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~public Investment    l 
(v) Design *nd put in place                                                        
a, s yse for monitorinp proJ ctiAiI 
Iitpjomentaetiton ( Hi/M por!!!
NOMTE   vI Detailed Term of R f r nco for each Mtntntry tr bo docirmp d as a conditioen of disbursement against TAL finance d prn-tnvetmt work for that Fign; try.
\2 Mintotrote include: Agriculture; Tr nsimtort Industry (lnoto); Environ_nt; Family, H lith; Educrstien; Urban Drvelopmnt; Energy nd "Mtn.



-   -   -   -  -  -   -  -   -  -   ~~~-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -                         
a      -  I
It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
3,,8*          U                   .$
-   -           -                              i, -   -   -   -                        
|~~~ ~~~ ~ o
-                            ~~~~~~~~~~~IC
'K  0.                       dL~~I 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~34I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
-   -  - - ------                                    -          -          --          --  
8
0 16~~~~~~~~~~~ 
It 3                                                              i     3 
ILI
I        I                       X   ' 
9.                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~It
_ Z2.                          -



-v - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -----
- -- -- - -- - - - -- - 
-~ ~   ~ -          -----           ---- - - - - -5 
ir ~r3
ep
i i 0 t p   t    E.    3 0



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - l--l -l
S  j
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---                     -   -
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --
IL~~~~~~~
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -     
I    at
X  :
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _  _    _ _  _    _  _
_ta _#~



- - - iiI I p}   II            L.   T                      i}{I
f1{J1J [ililfEIl Xlil lJjgl
____ ___l__ __i__i__.                            ._ 
L012R1   1gl  El   gl1  I!- ;s                         -l-                 1
-- I   -S i  W4                    -T--   ---  i|    | 



- 46 -
HNXdSTMInO OS 4ACIWA
ESTRUCTLP OROANCA. 1990
DEPACHO OM.
NINISTRO
1 ZRECCIGN
I                 I~~~~~1COJ~LTORIA I
I                 j~~~~~~~ .RRIDICA 4
OFICINA DE SSETUARIA C8OItAL 
fOFIcINA swTmmA1 DE P1)141-I
r -                                                 iF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JICAcIMN Y PREROUB57YO I
I DI%OCIOS DE  LACE DE LOS ININS-1
ITEICSOEMACBO, YDELA DOff4SAI
I1 DIlRECION oEi IOIRPOCION DE[ jDXRS.ION OEJ DIORECION4 NACIOfALI
1I PfOAAIN  IDSROL   JII IFOIMACION jj OE CONTA1ILMOAD 
IsSOJSLA NACIONAL DE ADMINXSTRACIONi        I Y PREUPUESTO I  ADM4INISr.  III
I OIREKCIDN  I                      I DIlVXCION    IO  FICINA DE 
IACADSMICA  IJADNINISTRATIVA I   I                                           IPELACIO.EKSPUBCASi
JSlPAnTeMBClCA DEJ ISlUPtMIND&4eCIAI IS PUNT08NCIA DE   I  ISP-ERINXeCAc  I i9MNTND BMADAMI ICO4ISION NACION4A1I
ICAJAS DE AIMIW   I S I DE    OS    II f I1ASNES  Bff .ANSM  II  D SW.~     10 JOE MO Y PRUM'ESTO II  DE VALORE
IDIRMCION GEBtSAL I JOItSCION 04!tAL I I DIRESON OBEtAL I IDIRESCION CENMLI I OIRBCION CBMtAL           TESORARIA    j
se:rORIA  oE   IIsEcToRiAL oE            nwcc    Y   IIsCCOamL oE   I I  SESTOIA  DE                   08M
RENTAS  ~  ~     jAS A       PISCAIZACION   I IFINW4AS IJm.ICASI  I   S8SWICIOS          I   
__________________  It                 II  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~I Ir                    I
OIRScCION DE         DIREcCION DE   I II  DIRESCIN DE        OI1RSCION DE   I I I  DIRESCION DE    I
R8WrAS            OPStAcIONES    I I IINVAETIOACMOES        OtERDITO    III SEtICIOS            I
INTo4s              AwDUAN~s       Ij   ESItECIALES          K USICO   ~       FINANCIOS       II
OIRWCCCN     If(OIRBCION    jf           IRESCION      fjOIRESCION DE(     OIRSCCION DE I 
I    iOico                c         I IJOE AV6UtJACIONE  I IIVWMTIQACIWM    I SONe&S Y SSAVICIUSI I
I  i4POSTIVA           ARACE        I II ADNINISTRATIVAS  I I      MIA           A04UTATI~I1VS   II
I   DDtB=ON    IIj DIRECCION                                                       D IRECCION
I  D                                    D OIOESDa-M                                 DE O
IcONTRL FSCAL  j                         FOtOS Y OIE                               PStSOAL 
IAONXNsTRAciONS       AoNINisTRAcioNEsI
IRESIONALES OE             OES
I    ACIeOA             AOWAIAS      I
CENTRO       Ii BANCO OcBTA-L  ]   i  MACC NACIONAL   IIFNOD  AArAo                               Tr 
SI4ON eOLIVAR              DEO       I           ODS            IDEposrTos Y PROTEccioNI  I    IttICIPAL Os     I
C A                  VS8IEUMLA    I  IMM=O Y PR~M4OMI               BANCEARIA      II   CatOD POPULA         I



<~,   , &     ,,_               C arib be an  Sea o
/m
am'm
U Im5 AgS21  
)~~ErT~~  0      1~~~A  P     w *
6                                      0 ___  e                                        I'            
VENEZUELA 
-      lO200
200. SW ~   ~       ~            \ .            *S
SvaT SWtAS*5CL 
0 200    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                     IO2 
~~~~~~.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMITHls
WI~~~~~~~~__                                     (X                                            00jQA



