Document of                   FILE  COP
The World Bank
F0DR OMCAuL USE ONLY
Kept pb P-2986-IN
REPORT AllD RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
HAZIRA FERTILIZER PROJECT
March 11, 1981
Thus dscumeut his a noictbd dihibhi. and my be ud by recipleis aly in the pefmnxxe d1
their official dats, Its cmtemls ty at ihewise be disoed witd_s WeM Dmk B  dhriem.  |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 3, 1981)
Rs 1.00       =   Paise 100
US$1.00            Rs 8.291203
Rs 1.00       =   US$0.1206
Rs 1 million  =   US$120,610
(The U.S. Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00 to Rs 8.00, which represents the projected
exchange rate over the disbursement period.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FACT      -    Fertilizer and Chemicals Travancore Ltd.
FEDO      -    FACT Engineering and Design Organization
GOI       -    Government of India
IDBI      -    Industrial Development Bank of India
IFFCO     -    Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative Ltd.
KRIBHCO   -    Krishak Bharati Cooperative Ltd.
Ncmd      -    Normal cubic meters per day
ODA       -    Overseas Development Administration, UK
OECF      -    Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund, Japan
tpd       -    Metric tons per day
tpy       -    Tons per year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
HAZIRA FERTILIZER PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:         Krishak Bharati Cooperative Ltd. (KRIBHCO).
Amount:              SDR 321.5 million (US$400 million)
Terms:               Standard
Onlending Terms:    GOI to KRIBHCO 15 years, including 5 years of grace,
at 10-3/4% per annum.  The foreign exchange risk would
be borne by GOI.
Project              Construction of a fertilizer plant at Hazira, in the State
Description:        of Gujarat, with a daily capacity of about 2,700 metric
tons of ammonia and about 4,400 metric tons of urea,
including the provision of infrastructure, auxiliary and
offsite facilities required for the efficient maintenance
and operation of the plant. Possible risks facing the
project are in the form of implementation delays, and
possible management shortcomings. These risks are
minimized by the use of commercially proven technologies
supplied by internationally recognized engineering firms
and by the use of the services of staff recruited from
the team that successfully completed the Bank-financed
IFFCO Phulphur project, who are experienced in building
and commissioning similar plants. The risk of delay in
plant commissioning if the gas pipeline to Hazira is not
completed on time will be minimized by the close monitor-
ing of the pipeline to-be constructed by GOI. The possible
management risk would be minimized on account of the action
taken by KRIBHCO to hire the services of efficient senior
managers from IFFCO to help to implement this project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of I
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                           (US$ Millions)
Local  Foreign   Total
Equipment and Spares             125.8   276.9    402.7
Ocean Freight                      -       22.9     22.9
Engineering Services              35.5    35.7      71.2
Project Management Services       20.4      0.9     21.3
Erection                          26.1      1.9     28.0
Civil Works and Land              56.4      3.5     59.9
Commissioning Charges              5.6       -       5.6
Township                           9.8      0.6     10.4
Railway Siding                    20.0      1.3     21.3
Duties and Taxes                 104.4      0.9    105.3
Base Cost                        404.0   344.6    748.6
Physical Contingencies            40.4    34.5      74.9
Price Contingencies              104.8    70.3    175.1
Total Installed Cost             549.2   449.4    998.6
Working Capital                  136.6    23.9    160.5
Total Project Cost               685.8   473.3  1,159.1
Interest during Construction   115.4        2.4    117.8
Total Financing Required         801.2   475.7  1,276.9
Financing Plan:                                           (US$ Millions)
Local   Foreign   Total
Equity - GOI                    287.5       -      287.5
Equity - IFFCO                  125.0       -      125.0
Equity - Participating
Cooperatives                   25.0      -        25.0
Internal Cash Generation         80.6       -       80.6
Long-Term Debt - GOI 1/          47.8    155.4    203.2
Long-Term Debt - IDA 2/          79.7    320.3    400.0
Long-Term Debt - Industrial
Development Bank of India    93.0        -        93.0
Short-Term Debt 3/               62.6      -        62.6
Total                     801.2    475.7  1,276.9
1/   Made up of ODA (UK) and OECF (Japan) financing of about US$104.5
million and US$98.7 million, respectively.
2/   Based on estimates that about 50% of the equipment procured under
international competitive bidding would be won by domestic suppliers.
3/   Commercial Bank Short-Term Borrowings.  The amount of such borrowings
would depend upon the amount of KRIBHCO's internally generated funds
made available to finance the project.



- iii -
Estimated                                             (US$ Millions)
Disbursements:                          FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86
Annual               47.0    93.2    118.8   102.7   38.3
Cumulative           47.0   140.2    259.0   361.7  400.0
Rate of Return:      About 17%.
Appraisal Report:   No. 2852-IN, dated March 6, 1981.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
HAZIRA FERTILIZER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to SDR 321.5 million
(US$400 million) to help finance the construction of an ammonia/urea fer-
tilizer complex at Hazira in the State of Gujarat. The proceeds of the
credit would be on-lent to Krishak Bharati Cooperative, Ltd. (KRIBHCO)
repayable over 15 years, including five years grace, at 10-3/4% interest
per annum. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government of
India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2933-IN, dated May 1, 1980), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 14, 1980. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and, diverse country with a population of 663 mil-
lion (in mid-1980) and an annual per capita income of US$180. Agriculture
continues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the
labor force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an ade-
quate livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, espe-
cially the landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on
the means of existence. The share of agriculture in GDP at factor cost
(measured in 1970/71 prices) has declined from 59.6% in 1950/51 to 40.7%
in 1978/79. The share of industry has increased over the same period from
14.5% to 22.7%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb
the growing labor force, nor to bring about the substantial economic
transformation that has led to higher productivity and rapid urbanization
in some other developing countries. The urban population was 18% of the
total in 1960, and is 21% now.
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts
I and II of the President's Report for the Eighth Telecommunications
Project (No. P-2964-IN dated February 25, 1981).



-2-
4.       Economic growth has been slow in the past.  The trend growth rate
of GDP was 3.7% per annum from 1950/51 to 1978/79. Slow growth in agri-
culture -- 2.5% per annum over the same period -- has constrained overall
growth, not only because of the high share of agriculture in GDP but also
because scarce foreign exchange has often been required to import food.
Industrial value-added has grown more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between
1950/51 and 1978/79, but this growth has not been as high as in many other
countries, nor as high as required. Gross domestic saving more than dou-
bled from 10% of GDP in 1950/51 to 24% in 1978/79. Similarly, gross
domestic investment as a fraction of GDP rose from 10% in 1950/51 to just
over 24% in 1978/79. Foreign savings have never financed a large portion
of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early
1960s; by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had returned to much lower
levels. External assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and
in per capita terms. Net external assistance has never risen above 3% of
GDP.
5.      Except during periods of balance of payments crisis, exports have
received relatively little emphasis in India, which has primarily pursued
a strategy of import substitution. As a result, India's share of world
trade has fallen consistently since 1950/51. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1978/79 averaged only 3.0 per annum. The volume of
growth of imports over the same period has slightly exceeded that of
exports. During the early 1970s, India's terms of trade, which had
remained roughly constant during the 1960s, deteriorated drastically,
spurring a relatively rapid period of export growth through the mid-1970s.
For the five years ending in 1976/77 the volume of India's exports grew on
average over 10% per annum, demonstrating that sustained rapid growth was
possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Mid-
dle East, contributed to this process, adjustments in trade policies
designed to improve the profitability of exports played a major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at fac-
tor cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged
4.7%, 2.8% and 7.3% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a
marginally better growth performance than the long-term trends from
1950/51 to 1975/76. However, GNP is expected to have declined by about 3%
in 1979/80 as a result of the drought-induced decrease in agricultural
production and input constraints in other sectors, bringing recent trends
back in line with the long-term picture. Industrial production stagnated
in 1979/80, largely due to shortfalls in the production of major inputs
such as coal, steel and cement, as well as constraints in the provision of
infrastructure, notably power and transportation. As a consequence of
these developments, the remarkable price stability that characterized the
Indian economy after 1975 came to an abrupt end at the close of fiscal



-3-
year 1978/79. During the spring and summer of 1979 the price index rose
sharply, and under the drought conditions, which were then quite serious,
prices failed to make the normal downward adjustment over the winter. The
result was that the level of prices at the end of the year (1979/80) were
almost 20% above the level at the beginning of the year. Foodgrain prices
rose over the summer and fall of 1979 but in most markets still prevailed
close to the Goverment's ration prices. Low income groups in urban areas
were assured adequate supplies of grain at stable prices through the pub-
lic distribution system. The substantial stocks of foodgrains also pro-
vided resources for a large-scale drought relief employment program for
low income groups in rural areas.
7.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and
appropriate policies over the past few years are becoming increasingly
evident and have withstood the test of a severe drought. Agricultural
production, which had increased by 14.5% in 1977/78 and 3.4% in 1978/79 to
record levels each year, fell about 10% in 1979/80. Foodgrain production
is estimated to have declined from 131.4 million tons in 1978/79 to 116
million tons in 1979/80. Considering that 1979/80 was a year of acute
drought, coming after two successive years of record output, the foodgrain
production achieved -- still the fourth highest in Indian history -- pro-
vides a measure of the contribution that expanded irrigation, extension
and other inputs have made to Indian agriculture. Furthermore, the capa-
city of India's irrigation potential to counteract drought conditions
might have been even more clearly demonstrated had not the diesel shor-
tages inhibited the utilization of groundwater resources. Rapid growth in
the use of basic inputs for agricultural production has continued. Addi-
tions to the area under irrigation have almost doubled from 1.3 million
hectares during the five-year period ending in 1973/74 to about 2.5 mil-
lion additional hectares a year during the most recent three-year period.
Fertilizer consumption in 1979/80 exceeded five million nutrient tons,
twice the level consumed in 1974/75.
8.        As the new decade begins, the Indian economy is shifting from a
situation of resource surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of
the late 1970s, to one of resource scarcity. Investment has again over-
taken domestic savings, and the scope for further increases in the latter
appears limited. Marginal savings rates have recently been well above 30%
in the household sector. Future increases in savings will depend largely
on enhanced profitability of public sector enterprises. Impending
resource scarcity is even more apparent in the foreign sector. Between
1975/76 and 1978/79 India's current account deficit had remained comfort-
ably small in relation both to GDP and to a growing pipeline of aid com-
mitments. This was primarily due to favorable terms of trade movements
and rapidly growing net invisibles which masked adverse underlying trends
in the volume of exports, which has barely grown since 1976/77. Particu-
larly serious is the evident decline in the quantum of manufactured non-
traditional exports which had contributed much to the export growth of the



-4-
first half of the decade. A combination of strong domestic and slack
international demand, exacerbated until recently by apparent lessened
interest in export promotion, have been the major causal factors.
9.        In contrast, imports have grown rapidly in volume terms and
there have been important changes in composition. As a result of the
accumulation and maintenance of foodgrain stocks, foodgrain imports --
which had been a traditional item in the balance of payments -- have
declined to insignificant levels since 1977/78. Reflecting the impact of
the liberalized import policy adopted by the Government, non-foodgrain
imports increased sharply, so that their level in 1978/79 was over 80%
higher than in 1975/76. In large part, the liberalization in import pol-
icy and increase in imports were limited to raw materials, basic commodi-
ties and intermediate goods; consumer goods remained banned and capital
goods imports were permitted only on a selective basis. Strong new pres-
sures on the balance of payments have developed during 1979/80. The terms
of trade again deteriorated markedly as a consequence of unexpectedly
large increases in petroleum prices, which caused the oil import bill to
double in 1979/80, accounting for more than 80% of the total estimated
US$2.5 billion increase in imports, and bringing India's total import bill
to about US$11 billion. Petroleum imports as a proportion of merchandise
exports now exceed 44%.
Development Prospects
10.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have
the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the
industrial sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it
nevertheless has a highly diversified structure and is capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure
-- irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads and ports -- is exten-
sive compared to many countries, although there is considerable scope for
expansion as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity.
India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institutional
infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive natural
resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and
ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and suf-
ficient access to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing
these considerable resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
11.     The new Indian Government installed in January 1980 is in the pro-
cess of formulating its policies and programs. A new Plan for the period
1981-85 is being prepared to replace the Draft Five-Year Plan for 1978-83.
At this stage it is not possible to comment in detail on the new develop-
ment strategy; however, it is clear that the priorities accorded to agri-
culture and power will be maintained. Furthermore, developments in India
as well as in the world economy during 1979/80 have brought to the surface
urgent issues which will need the attention of policy-makers, irrespective



-5-
of the broader context of development strategy that the new Government may
adopt. Among these issues are the following: (a) the bottlenecks in
infrastructure and related constraints in production of several basic
industrial inputs; (b) the new policy options emerging in agriculture;
(c) the need to substitute less costly energy sources for imported
petroleum; and, (d) the anticipated deterioration of the balance of pay-
ments in the near future.
12.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur
well for future income growth. However, there are signs that, relative to
existing demands, the past investment program has led to disproportionally
low growth in certain crucial sectors, namely power, coal, transport ser-
vices, steel and cement. Potential output growth in sectors which have
benefitted from large investments in the recent past may not materialize
unless these input bottlenecks are alleviated. In the case of coal, steel
and cement, domestic production appears to be clearly justified on grounds
of comparative advantage, indicating an a priori case for policies to pro-
mote further investment.   All these are tradeable commodities.  Although
in 1979/80 they were not impoiLed in sufficient amounts to eliminate the
shortages, increased short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to
alleviate slowdowns and dislocation in using industries. In the case of
sectors in which there is no option to import the final product --power
and transportation-- the planning of capacity expansion becomes even more
crucial. Although there is scope for improvement in the shortrun perfor-
mance of these sectors, major investments in balancing and modernization
programs as well as new capacity are needed in order to provide adequate
and stable growth in the medium term. The presence of infrastructual con-
straints and shortages of basic industrial inputs demonstrates that the
expansion of industrial output leads to competing claims on scarce
resources with significant implications for public versus private and
short versus long-term investments.
13.     The substantial increase in the world price of petroleum in 1979,
together with the expectation that this pattern will not be reversed in
the near future, raises several issues concerning energy prospects for
India. India imports the equivalent of almost two-thirds of its petroleum
consumption. In order to implement its policy of minimizing dependence on
foreign oil, the Government intends to rapidly expand its oil exploration
program, to increase the utilization of its vast coal reserves and to
increase the development of India's considerable hydroelectric potential.
However, recent shortages of coal and power are symptomatic of operational
problems reflecting, in part, past planning and investment decisions which
are inhibiting the timely implementation of India's long-term conversion
program.
14.     In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies,
development programs and secular trends all seem favorable for sustaining
a period of high growth during the 1980s.  India ended the 1979/80 rabi



-6-
season with grain stocks of about 15 million tons, without having imported
foodgrains during the year. This is partly due to the bumper crop of
1978/79, but also reflects the trends of the last five years during which
substantial foodgrain stocks were built up while imports were reduced to
negligible levels. In view of the acceleration in the use of agricultural
inputs and the projected fall in the population growth rate, the long-run
prospects for foodgrain supply and demand balances look favorable. Per-
sistent shortage seems unlikely, and it is probable that a wide range of
policy options will become much more practical as the overriding emphasis
on foodgrains can be somewhat relaxed. These options include a slowly
falling real price of foodgrains to increase the affordability of
foodgrains to low-income families, further rationalization of domestic
markets and prices, and diversification to the production of other higher
value crops. This prospect will involve only a gradual shift in emphasis
rather than a dramatic break with past policies.
15.     Foreign exchange reserves still provide some cushion that can help
the Government of India in short-term supply management, but this situa-
tion is likely to be short-lived. Rising import prices and uncertainties
in the prospects for exports and invisible receipts have led to a serious
and rapid deterioration in India's balance of payments prospects.
Reserves were only marginally higher in March 1980 than the level of a
year earlier and, in terms of import coverage, fell below the 8-month
level for the first time since 1977. A sharp decline in the reserve level
is expected in 1980/81. At best, India's reserves may provide a cushion
for two more years, and even that is conditional on the maintenance of aid
flows and workers' remittances and on moderation in oil price rises.
16.     India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Progress has
been made and continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the
economy faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years.
Investments required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete
with longer-term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's con-
siderable physical and human resources. The balancing of these objectives
will place a difficult burden on the framers of India's next Five-Year
Plan. The primary focus must be on the implementation of appropriate
domestic adjustment policies, although the aid community can and should
play an important role in ensuring that India's efforts do not fail due to
inadequate foreign resources.
17.     The annual population growth rate declined from 2.2% in the late
1960s to below 2% at present and is expected to continue falling to around
1.6% by the latter half of the 1980s. Despite the declining trend in the
rate of population increase, a net reproduction rate of one (replacement
level) will only be achieved around the year 2020. At that time, the
population of India is estimated to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase
of about 81% over the mid-1980 level of 663 million. Family planning has
played an important role in achieving the fertility decline in the past



-7-
decade, and the extent of a further decline will be greatly influenced by
the continuation of a successful official family planning program. The
family planning performence data for 1978/79 and the first ten months of
1979/80 clearly indicate a comeback from the sharp decline observed in
virtually all major contraceptive methods during 1977/78. Except for male
sterilizations, the number of acceptors for all contraceptive methods sur-
passed the 1974/75 levels in 1978/79. While the increase in the total
acceptors of IUD and conventional contraceptives was modest, female
sterilizations increased by about 40% between 1977/78 and 1978/79. Data
for the first ten months of 1979/80 confirm a secular upward trend in
overall performance. So far, policy makers have not made major attempts
to accelerate the male sterilization program. Instead, they have opted
for policies that would yield relatively modest but sustainable results
with increased emphasis on non-terminal methods.
18.     Beyond the effects of overall economic growth and constrained
population growth, the reduction of poverty in India requires special
attention to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income
groups. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more
than 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless
laborers and small farmers. In addition to marginal holdings of physical
assets, the poor are ill-endowed with human resources, being dispropor-
tionately represented among the illiterate, the malnourished and those
having otherwise poor health status. Improvements in the living standards
of the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the
economy, mainly on productivity increases in agriculture and non-farm
rural employment, but also on the expansion of employment opportunities in
urban areas. These developments will have to stem largely from market
forces which, however, can be greatly facilitated by appropriate govern-
ment policies and investment priorities. There is also a role for direct
government actions in faster implementation of land reform (though the
scope for significant reduction in poverty through redistribution is quite
limited in India), in increasing the supply of credit available to small
farmers and rural artisans and finally in broadening the provision of
those services which enhance the human capital of the poor and improve
living standards. Many of the latter are elements of the Minimum Needs
Program which has been an integral part of Indian planning for the past
decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of primary
education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision of
secure village water supplies. Recent innovations, including the commun-
ity health volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign, are
encouraging evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can
lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 61 loans and 134 development
credits to India totalling US$2,833 million and US$8,672 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,133 million had
been repaid, and US$4,107 million was still undisbursed as of January 31,
1981. Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year
through January 31, 1981, totalled US$373 million, representing an
increase of about 20% over the same period last year. Annex II contains a
summary statement of disbursements as of January 31, 1981, and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
20.     Since 1959, IFC has made 19 commitments in India totalling
US$110.6 million, of which US$20.8 million has been repaid, US$27.6 mil-
lion sold and US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$54.7 mil-
lion, US$46.2 million represents loans and US$8.5 million equity. A sum-
mary statement of IFC operations as of January 31, 1981, is also included
in Annex _ (page 5).
21.     In recent years, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture.
The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation
and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and
in providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing,
seed development, agricultural extension, and dairying are other agricul-
tural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group has
been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions,
in a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale indus-
trial enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and com-
ponents for selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitat-
ing better capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been
active in supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunica-
tions, and railways. Family planning, water supply development, urban
investments and the development of oil and natural gas have also received
Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Goverment's priorities. The
emphasis of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other
infrastructure sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to
foster agricultural production through the provision of essential inputs,
particularly water and credit for on-farm investments, will continue to
receive emphasis.   Improved water management and intensification and
streamlining of extension systems form an important institution-building
aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several years. Special
emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers. The Bank
Group's continuing role in the fertilizer sector also assists India in the
more efficient provision of another key input in the agricultural growth



-9-
process. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, urban development
and investments in the petroleum sector also form an integral part of the
Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in
support of infrastructure and industrial investments will focus on those
subsectors which have recently emerged as key constraints on India's
overall growth, primarily power and transportation.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme
of Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consor-
tium. Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s.
However, there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to
an even greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during
the 1980s by augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As
in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to
include the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few
capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component
tends to be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such
high-priority sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
24.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible,
external capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms.
Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and
should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA
funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation
to India's needs for external support. Therefore, India should be eligi-
ble and regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The
ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was 12% in 1978/79
and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of January 31,
1981, outstanding loans to India held by the Bank totalled US$1,766 mil-
lion, of which US$561 million remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount
outstanding of US$1,206 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion
contributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the
Bank Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disburse-
ments, and 12% of net disbursements as compared with 64%, 60% and over
100%, respectively, in 1979/80. On March 31, 1980, India's outstanding
and disbursed external public debt was US$15.6 billion, of which the Bank
Group's share was US$5.2 billion or 34% (IDA's US$4.5 billion and IBRD's
US$0.7 billion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly
in the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise
slowly. In 1979/80, about 18.0% of India's total debt service payments
were to the Bank Group.



- 10 -
PART III - THE FERTILIZER SECTOR
26.       Increased fertilizer use is an essential element in India's program
to increase agricultural output. The output of foodgrains, particularly the
high-yielding varieties of wheat and rice, is largely a function of the fertil-
izer application rate, although the availability of other inputs--water, seeds,
pesticides, research, extension services, credit and appropriate pricing and
distribution systems--are also essential to improved agricultural productivity.
It is estimated that, under present conditions in India, the application of
one nutrient ton of fertilizer yields an average incremental production of
between seven and ten tons of grain. Thus, shortfalls in the supply of
fertilizer, whether imported or produced domestically, have consequences of
the utmost gravity for essential food supplies.
27.       The consumption of nitrogenous fertilizers in India increased at
an average annual rate of 22% in the decade 1962-72. For the next three years,
consumption remained static, due primarily to high prices and adverse weather
conditions. However, as a result of improved agricultural conditions and a
reduction in the price of nitrogen, consumption picked up once again, result-
ing in a growth rate of approximately 15% per annum in the period 1975-80.
Phosphatic and potassic fertilizers followed a consumption pattern similar
to nitrogenous fertilizers, but did not begin to recover until 1976/77. By
1979/80, India's total fertilizer consumption was 5.3 million nutrient tons,
of which 67% was nitrogen, 22% phosphates and 11% potash. The fertilizer con-
sumption level for 1979/80 increased by only 2.7% over the previous year on
account of the severe drought that struck India's summer (Kharif) crop and the
below normal rainfall during the first months of the winter (Rabi) crop. In
1980/81, the consumption level is expected to recover somewhat increasing by
about 5.6% over the previous year. Although overall fertilizer consumption
per hectare (total nutrients) has increased substantially from an all-India
average of 7.0 kg/ha in 1966/67 and now stands at 31.2 kg/ha of arable land,
this figure still remains low relative to (1979) usage in other developing
countries (e.g., Philippines 38.5; Pakistan 43.3; Mexico 45.5; Brazil 79.0).
IDA's estimate of the growth rate of demand for nitrogenous fertilizers in
India over the next five years ranges from a low of 8.5% to a high of 12.5%
per annum, which yields a possible demand of between 5.9 and 7.3 million tons
of nitrogenous fertilizer in 1985/86. At present, fertilizer consumption
rests on a relatively narrow base of consumers and even the conservative growth
rates that have been projected can only be achieved through implementation of
proposed measures directed towards widening the base, including provision of
adequate supplies, increased credit, intensive promotion campaigns and expan-
sion of the distribution system. The Bank Group is assisting GOI's efforts
in implementing these measures through its support of policies in the agri-
cultural sector, including the financing of projects covering agricultural
credit, extension and research, warehousing, etc.
28.       India's installed capacity for the production of both nitrogen and
phosphate has grown from 148,000 nutrient tons per year (tpy) in 1952 to its
current level of approximately 5.2 million nutrient tpy (nitrogen 3.9 million
nutrient tpy). The expansion of the industry has generally followed interna-
tional trends with respect to production technologies and plant capacities.



- 11 -
There has been a significant shift toward high-analysis products and complex
fertilizers, and the typical size of a nitrogen facility has increased from
50-100 tons per day (tpd) of ammonia in the early 1960s, to 600-1,100 tpd of
ammonia today. Locational decisions have been made in the light of regional
supply/demand, raw material sources and infrastructure considerations. The
feedstock policies for ammonia production in the 1960s emphasized the use of
naphtha. Long-term planning in the early 1970s envisaged a change of emphasis,
first to fuel oil and subsequently to coal, as a means of decreasing dependence
on imported hydro-carbon feedstocks. The first four of the seven fuel oil
plants planned are already in operation (Nangal was commissioned in 1978, and
Sindri, Panipat and Bhatinda in 1979--see para 32). Two coal-based plants
were commissioned in early 1980 at Talcher and Ramagundam (see map). No
further coal based plants are planned until sufficient operating experience
has been gained from these two plants and the newer technologies have been
evaluated. With the large quantities of offshore natural gas now available
in the Arabian Sea, it is expected that the next 2.0 million tons per year
of nitrogen production capacity, including the proposed Project, will use
this natural gas as feedstock. By the mid-1980s, natural gas will account
for about one-third of nitrogenous fertilizer capacity; naphtha fof 35%; fuel
oil for 23%; and coal for most of the remaining 9% of capacity.
29.       The utilization of available capacity has been relatively low in
India. From an average of 58% in 1974 it has been steadily improving and
registered 72% in 1978/79. However, production in several cooperative and
public sector plants suffered in late 1979 and throughout 1980 on account of
the non-availability of inputs such as naphtha, fuel oil and coal, and because
of power cuts, sharply reducing the country's overall capacity utilization in
1979/80 to 66%. However, these averages disguise a wide range of performance.
The cooperative sector (i.e., IFFCO) has shown on average the highest level of
capacity utilization, followed by the private and joint sectors. The overall
performance of the public sector has been low. These differences in capacity
utilization, however, cannot be entirely explained by management and ownership
factors alone. The private sector plants are generally of smaller capacity
based on proven design. As a group they have been in operation longer and
have already solved initial problems. The public sector plants, on the other
hand, being generally of more recent origin, are larger, use a more varied range
of feedstocks and are built with a much greater involvement of local equipment
and engineering. Among the major factors leading to low overall capacity
utilization are problems of commissioning new plants, equipment failures due
to raw material problems, continuing operating problems due to design defects
in several older public sector plants, power supply and coal transportation
problems, and constraints resulting from the unplanned use of indigenous
engineering equipment. The Bank Group is participating in programs to increase
capacity utilization of existing plants through Credit 481-IN (Trombay IV
Fertilizer Expansion and Plant Operations Improvement Project) and Credit
598-IN (Fertilizer Industry Project). The Government has placed considerable
emphasis on measures necessary to ensure reasonable production levels from
new projects and to increase the capacity utilization of existing plants from
their relatively low overall rates. Problems affecting the performance of
the public sector fertilizer plants were studied by a Government committee



- 12 -
in 1978. Several remedial measures were recommended and adopted, including
those for plant modifications and better planning of preventive maintenance
to minimize unscheduled losses. The Government has also established a control
and monitoring system to review performance against unit-wise monthly produc-
tion targets developed after detailed discussions with plant managements.
Weekly production statistics are now being received and reviewed by the
Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers to monitor progress, identify constraints
to production and evolve solutions. Foreign exchange for import of normal
maintenance and emergency spares is now more readily available. Furthermore,
to improve the decision-making process, and the performance of the public
sector, in April 1978 the Government regrouped production units previously
owned by the Fertilizer Corporation of India and National Fertilizers Ltd.
into four separate geographically oriented companies. The full impact of
this delegation of responsibility and authority should be reflected in higher
capacity utilization gradually during the next few years with overall capacity
utilization targeted to increase from 66% in 1979/80, to a satisfactory
average level of about 85% by 1985/86.
30.       Fertilizer production in India has increased significantly during
the last 18 years. Nitrogen production rose from 154,000 tons of nutrient
in fiscal years 1961/62 to 2.2 million tons in 1979/80, equivalent to an
average annual growth rate of 16%. Phosphate production reached 763,000 tons
from 65,000 tons of nutrient, averaging a 15% annual growth rate over the
same period. All potash requirements are imported as there is no domestic
production. Fertilizer production, however, has generally lagged behind
consumption. In the period 1971/80, an average of 857,000 tons of nitrogen
and 220,000 tons of phosphates were imported annually, representing about
one-third of the domestic consumption of nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizers.
The Government's objective is to meet most of the requirements for nitrogen
and phosphates from domestic production, supplemented by imports as necessary
to ensure adequate availability. Present Government estimates of the capital
investments necessary in new fertilizer production and related gas development
facilities, based mainly on the newly found off-shore natural gas in the
Bombay High and the North and South Bassein field areas, are of the order of
US$7 billion over the next decade. Taking into consideration the new projects
underway and those firmly planned, estimates of future fertilizer consumption
growth indicate that nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer consumption is expected
to exceed domestic output significantly. For nitrogenous fertilizer, the gap
between domestic production and consumption is expected to reach approximately
1.8 million nutrient tons per year (tpy) by 1987/88 and 3.1 million tpy by
1989/90. GOI expects to meet this gap through imports from abroad and through
the provision of additional domestic manufacturing capacity.
Pricing
31.       The retail and ex-factory prices of urea (and other nitrogenous
fertilizers) are statutorily controlled in India. A comparison of the retail
price 1/ of urea to farmers with its import price shows that until recently,
1/   The retail price excludes local sales tax, while the import price
has been calculated including port handling and internal distribution
charges but excluding import duties and taxes.



- 13 -
domestic retail prices have been in close harmony with import prices except
during 1974/75 when there were abnormal conditions prevailing in the inter-
national fertilizer market. GOI recognizes that its ex-factory pricing policy
determines, to a large extent, the success of its fertilizer industry develop-
ment strategy. In 1976, it set up a committee charged with developing a
rational ex-factory pricing system which would (i) ensure the financial
viability of the fertilizer plants; (ii) motivate the industry to invest in
new plants; (iii) give a strong incentive for the producing units to operate
efficiently; and (iv) ensure that the Government's subsidy to the farmers for
fertilizer would not in time become too large a burden on public finances.
The Committee recommended a system of "retention prices" which satisfied the
above-mentioned objectives. This system, introduced in November 1977 and
revised in January 1981, establishes a pricing formula which sets the urea
ex-factory price--i.e., "retention" price--at a level needed to enable pro-
ducers, operating efficiently at 80% of capacity, to generate sufficient cash
to cover production costs and obtain a 29% pre-tax return on capital. This
policy ensures a satisfactory financial situation for manufacturers and, at
the same time, enables the authorities to maintain low fertilizer prices to
farmers, at a reduced cost to public finances, by what amounts to a cross-
subsidization from old to new fertilizer plants. The Government would not
take or cause to be taken any action which would prevent fertilizer manu-
facturers, under conditions of efficient operation, from meeting all their
expenses, servicing their debts, and earning a reasonable return on invested
capital (Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Previous Bank Group Operations
32.       The Bank Group has supported the fertilizer industry in India through
participation in the financing of ten projects with a total contribution of
US$481.9 million. The financing has been through IDA for six public sector
projects, IFC for three private sector projects, and lBRD for a cooperative
sector project. Five of the IDA projects, which aimed at a balanced expansion
of capacity in the public sector while at the same time removing bottlenecks
to the efficient utilization of existing capacity, have been completed.
According to their project completion reports, the first three of these, at
Cochin (Credit 264-IN of July 1, 1971), Gorakhpur (Credit 279-IN of December
21, 1971) and Nangal (Credit 357-IN of January 30, 1973), experienced comple-
tion delays on account of finalizing engineering arrangements (Gorakhpur),
poor project and financial management (Cochin) and late delivery of equipment
(Nangal), as well as cost overruns of 35% to 45% following the 1973 oil
crisis. The Sindri (Credit 520-IN of November 26, 1974) project completion
report indicates that inadequate installation capacity of the selected local
equipment supplier has accounted for a six month delay in project completion.
Performance has improved substantially under the more recently financed
projects. The Trombay (Credit 481-IN of June 18, 1974) project was physically
completed with only three months' delay, and at or close to appraisal cost
estimates. The IDA-financed Fertilizer Industry Project (Credit 598-IN of
November 16, 1975) included a variety of subprojects designed to increase
capacity utilization at several existing plants; after initial delays which
resulted in the replacement of some subprojects not being implemented with new
subprojects, this project is now proceeding satisfactorily. Two of the three



- 14 -
private sector projects in which IFC has invested (Indian Explosives Ltd. and
Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.) are now in satisfactory operation, while the third
(Deepak Fertilizers and Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.), approved by the
Board on November 13, 1979, is presently under implementation. A Bank loan
of US$109 million was approved by the Board on January 7, 1975 to the Indian
Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative Ltd., the sponsor of the proposed project.
Implementation of this project was initially delayed by 7 months due to a
change of feedstock from fuel to naphtha. The project suffered further delays
towards the end of the construction period due to late deliveries of local
structural steel and power interruptions from the national grid due to drought
conditions. The project was mechanically completed in March 1980, 19 months
behind the original completion date and is ready to start commercial produc-
tion. Its capital costs are about 6% above original estimates. The OED
report for the Gorakhpur Expansion Project concluded that, despite delays and
a cost overrun, the project was a technical success and improved the financial
and economic returns of the Fertilizer Corporation of India. Lessons learned
in this and other projects relate to improved implementation, monitoring and
management systems, need for captive power, prompt government decisions,
greater selectivity in the use of engineering and equipment, and an incentive-
oriented pricing policy. These and other lessons have been incorporated in
the design of the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The proposed project was appraised by missions which visited India
in October/November 1979 and November/December 1980. The Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 2852-IN dated March 6, 1981) is being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in February
1981 with the Borrower represented by Mr. S.C. Jain of the Department of
Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, as coordinator of the Indian delegation.
A supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
34.       The proposed credit would help finance the construction of a fer-
tilizer plant on a 770 hectare site at Hazira in the State of Gujarat to
produce 2,700 tons per day (tpd) of ammonia and 4,400 tpd of urea. It would
consist of two gas-based ammonia units with a capacity of 1,350 tpd each, and
four urea units with a capacity of 1,100 tpd each, as well as all necessary
auxiliary and off-site facilities, including three steam generation plants
of 275 tons per hour each, two power generation units of 15 MW each, ammonia
storage facilities for about 20,000 tons, product handling and storage facili-
ties for about 90,000 tons, workshops, warehousing, gas terminal plant and
water treatment plant. The project also includes the cost of a township,
a rail siding and a power link from the State grid to the project site. Also
included are KRIBHCO's share of the cost of access roads, power supply and
widening of a water supply canal which will be implemented by the relevant
Central and State Government agencies in conformity with the Project Schedule.
The project, however, excludes the cost of development and transmission of
natural gas, which will be undertaken by the Oil and Natural Gas Commission
and charged to the project at full cost during operation of the plant.



- 15 -
35.       The proposed project is a part of the Government's overall plan
to use the associated and non-associated gas from the Bombay High and North
and South Bassein offshore oil and gas fields. The planned production of
associated gas from Bombay High (about 2.7 million Ncmd by 1983) financed
under two Bank loans (Ln. 1473-IN and Ln. 1925-IN) will be inadequate to meet
the requirements of potential users in the Bombay area. The Government has,
therefore, decided to develop the South Bassein non-associated gas fields to
supplement the supply of gas to the Bombay area, as well as to provide suffi-
cient gas for the proposed project and to other prospective users in Gujarat
and Central Indian States. As the timely provision of this gas is crucial
to the implementation of the proposed project, GOI would execute a gas pipeline
project, as it relates to the project under consideration, in accordance with
a schedule to be agreed upon with the Association and complete it not later
than January 31, 1984. For this purpose, GOI would take or cause to be taken
all actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources necessary for its timely completion (Section 4.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
36.       The proposed project would be owned and operated by Krishak Bharati
Cooperative Ltd. (KRIBHCO), a new cooperative society recently established.
KRIBHCO's shareholders include GOI (66%), the Indian Farmers Fertilizer Coop-
erative Ltd. (IFFCO) (28%) and several local cooperative marketing societies
(6%). Rs 3,500 million (about US$437 million) of KRIBHCO's authorized capital
of Rs 5,000 million (US$625 million) will be paid in over the next five years
as required by the project. KRIBHCO is managed by a 23-member Board of
Directors representing its shareholders and including its Managing Director
who functions as an ex-officio Director on the Board. KRIBHCO's Board has
been initially appointed by the Government for a ten-year period, after which
KRIBHCO's shareholders will assume responsibility for appointing its Board.
To permit an increasing participation of cooperatives in the operations of
KRIBHCO, its draft by-laws provide for the eventual partial or full transfer
of the shares initially held by GOI and IFFCO to the cooperatives, as may be
agreed periodically between KRIBHCO and its shareholders. The day-to-day
management of KRIBHCO has been entrusted to a 12-member executive committee
selected from among the members of KRIBHCO's Board.
37.       KRIBHCO would be responsible for implementing the project.  Although
recently established, KRIBHCO is staffed with highly competent and experienced
managers assisted by trained cadre transferred to it from IFFCO. Established
as a cooperative society in 1967, IFFCO is jointly owned by GOI and some
27,000 cooperative institutions representing about 20 million farmers. In
1974, IFFCO successfully completed construction of a 910 tpd natural gasbased
ammonia unit and a 1,200 tpd urea unit at Kalol, as well as an NPK fertilizer
plant (capacity 1,250 tpd) in Kandla, in the State of Gujarat (see map). The
capacity utilization of these plants has been consistently among the highest
of Indian fertilizer plants. IFFCO has also implemented the Bank-financed
IFFCO Fertilizer Project (Loan 1079-IN) at Phulpur, in the State of Uttar
Pradesh, consisting of a 900 tpd naphtha-based ammonia plant and a 1,500 tpd
urea plant. This project was mechanically completed in March 1980 and has
been commissioned.



- 16 -
38.       With the completion of its Phulpur project, IFFCO has transferred
to KRIBHCO 55 of its senior professional staff, including its Managing Director
and General Project Manager, who will be the Project Manager of the proposed
project. A General Manager, Finance, has also been appointed from among
IFFCO's Phulpur staff. Separate groups reporting to KRIBHCO's Project Manager
will be formed to supervise implementation of the ammonia plants, urea plants,
steam and power plants and offsites. Each group will be responsible for
coordinating the engineering, procurement, construction and commissioning
activities for their respective areas. KRIBHCO will install or cause to be
installed, a computerized control and monitoring system to cover materials
status, cost control and construction scheduling for the project by September
30, 1981 (Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement). KRIBHCO has prepared a
draft Project Implementation Manual incorporating the above features, which
will be updated and submitted to IDA for its comments prior to June 30, 1981.
KRIBHCO will also prepare and furnish IDA by June 30, 1982, a detailed training
and recruitment plan for its operational staff (Section 3.04 of the Project
Agreement).
39.       The engineering contractual arrangements for the proposed Project
have already been finalized.  The foreign ammonia contractor M.W. Kellogg
Company (US) is qualified and experienced to build a plant of the size proposed.
M.W. Kellogg has engaged the services of FACT's Engineering and Design Organi-
zation (FEDO) of Cochin, India as a subcontractor to carry out the detailed
engineering work, but will itself be responsible for engineering, procurement
services, construction supervision and technical supervision of commissioning
of the ammonia plants. The foreign contractor for the urea plant, Snamprogetti
(Italy), will work with Fertilizer Planning and Development India, Ltd. (FPDIL)
as local contractor. The coal-fired boilers to be financed by ODA have been
ordered from Messrs. Foster Wheeler Power Products Ltd. (UK) on a fixed price
basis covering both supply and erection. Selection of a local engineering
company, Development Consultants Ltd (India), to be responsible for the power
plant, coal and ash handling system and other offsites, has been completed.
The first ammonia stream--with its two associated urea plants--is expected
to be mechanically completed by July 1984, approximately 39 months from the
project zero date, with the second stream 12 months thereafter, giving an
overall project schedule of 54 months, including time allowed for commissioning.
40.       Infrastructure.  The project's infrastructure requirements will be
built as follows: township by KRIBHCO; road strengthening, water supply and
power line by State Government agencies; gas supply and rail siding by Central
Government agencies. GOI will ensure the provision of adequate road and rail
facilities critical to the movement of raw materials required for the project
and for the finished products to be manufactured under the project (Section
4.03(a) of the Development Credit Agreement). Detailed soil investigations
and site acquisition have been completed. The infrastructure and utilities
required for the project are substantial and their execution critical to the
timely implementation of the project. GOI has, therefore, set up a high level
committee, headed by the Chief Secretary of the Government of Gujarat and made
up of concerned Central and State Government agencies to review the progress
of construction of these facilities and to provide the needed inputs and
resources for their timely completion. Satisfactory contracts by KRIBHCO for
adequate supplies of natural gas, water, power and coal to enable the proposed
plant to operate at full capacity have already been finalized.



- 17 -
41.       Environment.  The proposed site for the plant was selected from
among 5 alternative locations in the State of Gujarat by a GOI Task Force
which included experts in the field of environmental affairs. IDA has care-
fully reviewed its environmental aspects to ensure that project design and
lc' ation will not adversely affect the region. The major potential pollutants
from the complex are ammonia and urea effluents from the main process plants,
urea dust from the prilling towers, and fly ash dust and sulphur dioxide from
the coal-fired boilers. The plant will be so designed and operated as to
minimize the introduction of ammonia and urea into its effluent stream. The
coal-fired boilers will use low-sulphur coal and will be fitted with electro-
static precipitators and stacks of about 100 meters height to minimize fly ash
dust allowed into the atmosphere. Sulphur dioxide emissions are not expected
to exceed IDA guidelines. The urea dust, which escapes from the urea prilling
towers into the atmosphere will be no more than 40 mg of urea per normal cubic
meter through the use of a natural draft-prilling tower. The solid waste ash,
principally from the coal-fired boilers and electrostatic precipitators, will
be disposed of in fallow and impervious areas available within the project
site. Precautions will be taken to prevent drainage of wastes into water-
courses. The standards propo6ed for the project have been carefully reviewed
and found acceptable. KRIBHCO has engaged consultants to assist in the timely
design of environmental measures and to ensure their proper implementation.
KRIBHCO will also ensure that the design, execution and operation of this
project will be with due regard to appropriate safety norms and ecological and
environmental standards satisfactory to IDA. Towards this end, KRIBHCO will
collect relevant information on meteorological conditions upon which pollution
levels will be based and set up adequate monitoring stations. A fully quali-
fied environmental officer will be employed by KRIBHCO to coordinate these
activities (Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement). Safety and fire prevention
norms will meet standards laid down by the State Inspectorate of Factories for
Industrial Plants. KRIBHCO staff will also include well trained and qualified
personnel to operate its safety and fire-fighting system.
Project Cost and Financing
42.       The estimated cost of the proposed project, including contingencies
and working capital, is estimated at US$1,159.1 million equivalent of which
US$473.3 million represents the estimated foreign exchange cost. Interest
during construction (US$117.8 million) brings to US$1,276.9 million the total
financing required for the project. The cost estimates include infrastructure
investments for the township (US$10.4 million), railway siding (US$21.3
million) and KRIBHCO's share of the cost of the water supply channel (US$9.0
million), power generation and distribution (US$5.6 million), as well as the
cost of access roads, but exclude those for the proposed gas pipeline from the
South Bassein fields to the project site which would be borne by the Oil and
Natural Gas Commission, and paid for by KRIBHCO and other consumers through
user charges.
43.       The proposed credit would provide about 38% of the estimated project
cost of US$1,053.8 million, net of duties and taxes. The proceeds of the
proposed credit would be on-lent to KRIBHCO for a period of 15 years, including
five years grace at an interest rate of 10-3/4% per annum. The execution of a



- 18 -
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and KRIBHCO incorporating these terms and
conditions is a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). The balance of financing required would be provided
as follows: equity contributions from GOI (US$287.5 million) IFFCO (US$125
million) and participating cooperative institutions (US$25 million); long-term
loans from GOI (US$203.2 million) and 1/ the Industrial Development Bank of
India (US$93.0 million); KRIBHCO's internally generated resources (US$80.6
million); and short-term borrowings from commercial banks (US$62.6 million).
Procurement and Disbursement
44.       Equipment financed by the IDA credit will be procured by interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA's procurement guide-
lines, except for equipment proprietary to the process design, items whose
supply is critical to efficient project execution, and small items estimated
to cost less than US$100,000 which may be procured through limited interna-
tional tendering from qualified suppliers in accordance with an agreed list of
goods. The aggregate of such contracts under the IDA credit procured without
ICB procedures will not exceed US$40 million equivalent. Indian manufacturers
competing under ICB will be granted a preference margin of 15% or the current
rate of import duty, whichever is less. ODA funds (US$104.5 million) would be
used to finance procurement of the steam plant and related facilities already
under order from UK and Indian suppliers. OECF funds (US$98.7 million) would
finance the cost of some ammonia equipment procured from Japan, India and
eligible developing countries under OECF's selective bidding procedures. A
heavy demand for locally manufactured equipment is expected as a result of
the implementation of other fertilizer projects simultaneouAly. Consequently,
KRIBHCO would update a survey it had previously prepared of the capability of
local suppliers to make timely deliveries of goods as part of the process of
developing an agreed vendor's list for submission to IDA (para A.3 of Procure-
ment Schedule to the Project Agreement).
45.       The proposed credit would be disbursed against 100% of the foreign
costs of consultants' services (SDR 32.15 million or US$40 million), 100% of
the cif or ex-factory cost, and 70% of other local expenditures on equipment,
materials and spares procured under ICB (SDR 257.20 million or US$320 million).
US$40 million (SDR 32.15 million) would be unallocated. It is estimated that
Indian firms would win about US$194 million of the supply of equipment procured
under ICB out of the IDA credit, about US$161 million would be used to finance
imported equipment and the balance of US$45 million would cover the cost of
engineering services. The IDA credit would retroactively finance up to US$15
million of expenditures incurred after October 1, 1980 to avoid delays in
project execution.
Marketing and Distribution
46.       At a 90% production level, the Hazira unit would produce for sale
about 1.31 million tons per year (tpy) of urea and about 18,000 tpy of ammonia
in excess of the ammonia needed for urea production. A national fertilizer
1/   Made up of US$104.5 million and US$98.7 million equivalent against the
cost of equipment and services provided to GOI under ODA (UK) and OECF
(Japan) funding.



- 19 -
marketing strategy has been developed which is designed to minimize cross
movements of products from different producers in the country and to ensure
that each consuming area has more than one source of supply. As part of this
marketing strategy, IFFCO will be responsible for the distribution of KRIBHCO's
products and would use its own distribution channels for this purpose. In
this connection, a supply plan for the Hazira marketing area for 1986/87, based
on GOI estimates of statewise demand for urea, has been produced by IDA staff.
The plan envisages that Gujarat (24%), Haryana (24%) and the Punjab (23%) will
be the major markets for the project's output, with Madhya Pradesh (16%), Uttar
Pradesh (8%), Maharashtra (3%) and Rajasthan (2%) taking the balance. Most of
the project's output sold in Gujarat will be moved by road, and the balance
carried by unit trains owned and operated by the Indian Railways to selected
nodal points in the marketing area. As the operation of unit trains would need
to be planned, GOI has undertaken a "Nodal Points Study" which is presently
under implementation covering the likely volume of fertilizer traffic involved,
an identification of nodal points to which this traffic would be moved, and an
assessment of the additional facilities needed at selected nodal points for
unloading and handling fertilizer. For the purposes of the proposed project,
GOI would complete the rail spur connecting the project site to the main
railroad junction at Udhna in time for the project to ensure that difficulties
would not be encountered in transporting fertilizers produced at Hazira
(Section 4.03(c) of the Credit Agreement).
47.       IFFCO and KRIBHCO products would be almost entirely marketed through
the cooperative system under a mutually agreed sales, marketing and distribu-
tion arrangement. The pyramidal nature of the cooperative system in India
facilitates IFFCO's marketing efforts. IFFCO's direct sales effort is rela-
tively small. In accordance with a prearranged shipment plan, IFFCO consigns
its products to about 270 railhead warehouses located in the marketing area
where they are picked up and stored by about 20 State Apex Cooperatives until
they are collected by the lower layers of the cooperative system according
to their requirements. Approximately 27,000 cooperative shareholders of
IFFCO participate in the distribution of IFFCO fertilizers to member farmers.
IFFCO's marketing division consists of 140 head office staff (including 50
management and professionals) and about 711 field employees. Given IFFCO's
marketing experience and to avoid duplication of effort, KRIBHCO would make
arrangements satisfactory to IDA by December 31, 1981, for a joint sales,
marketing and distribution program for its products with IFFCO (Section 3.08
of the Project Agreement). The surpius ammonia (about 18,000 tpy) will be
taken up by IFFCO's compound fertilizer plant at Kandla in Gujarat which is
being expanded and will require an additional 65,000 tpy of ammonia for the
production of NPK. Given the overall shortfall in supply of nitrogenous fer-
tilizer expected to prevail in India for the foreseeable future, together with
the fact that the intensity of fertilizer use in India is generally low, even
with the proposed project and other planned investments, there should be no
problem in marketing the urea output of the project.
KRIBHCO Finances
48.       The sales revenue from the project is expected to increase from
Rs 1,029 million (US$129 million) in FY1985 when the plants are commissioned
to Rs 4,396 million (US$549 million) in FY1987 when capacity utilization is



- 20 -
expected to reach 81%. Net profits (after taxes) are expected to increase
from about Rs 267 million (US$33 million) to Rs 878 million (US$110 million)
during the same period. The project is expected to generate, immediately
after commissioning, sufficient revenues to meet all its obligations. Its
FY1985 debt service coverage of 2.1, current ratio (calculated excluding
excess cash) of 2.5, and debt/equity ratio of 58/42 are all satisfactory.
These financial indicators remain satisfactory throughout the life of the
project. However, since the capizal employed upon which the retention price
formula (para 31) is based does not increase over time, retention prices in
real terms will decrease over time and so will project revenues based upon
it. This reduction is, to some extent, compensated by increases in produc-
tion costs due to inflation. For the proposed project, the retention price
is projected to grow in current prices at an average of 2% per year over the
life of the project. The formula, however, will always allow the project to
cover its costs and earn an annual 29% before tax return on capital employed,
provided it is operating efficiently at a capacity utilization of 80% or
above.
49.       The proposed project is expected to generate a large amount of cash
early in its economic life, with accumulated cash surpluses increasing from
Rs 458 million (US$57 million) in FY1985 to Rs 5,496 million (US$687 million)
in FY1994. While the Government's pricing formula (para 31) provides a strong
incentive to producers to reinvest their earnings in fixed assets, no definite
assumption can be made as to the reinvestment opportunities available to
KRIBHCO for purposes of the financial projections. In practice, KRIBHCO is
likely to reinvest this cash in new projects, in securities, or reduce its
debt burden. To that extent, the financial projections for this project are
somewhat conservative. The project has good financial ratios over its eco-
nomic life and is expected to pay a dividend of 6% on its share capital in
1988, and a yearly dividend of 10% thereafter. The base case financial rate
of return (before tax) on the basis of the foregoing assumption, is calculated
at about 9% in constant Rupees compared to an economic rate of return of about
17% (para 52). The large difference between the financial and the economic
rates of return is mainly due to the retention price formula under which the
urea ex-factory price decreases over time in constant Rupees.
50.       In order to ensure the company's viability, KRIBHCO will follow
prudent financial practices. These would include maintenance of a debt/equity
ratio of 60:40 or better and a current ratio of at least 1.2:1. KRIBHCO will
also be required not to declare any dividends, enter into any financial com-
mitments (not related to its own internal corporate operations) or prepay any
debt which would reduce its current ratio below 1.5:1 and not incur any addi-
tional debt if, by so doing in any fiscal year, its projected debt service
coverage would fall below 1.4. KRIBHCO will also not make any investments in
fixed assets other than for this project in excess of US$10 million equivalent
in any year during the project construction period without the prior approval
of IDA (Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
51.       The net foreign exchange savings over the project's 12-year life
due to reduced fertilizer imports are estimated at over US$3,440 million in
1981 dollars after provision of principal and interest payments on the foreign



- 21 -
loans and deducting foreign exchange components of operating costs. By 1988,
with production at full capacity, the project is expected to provide about
10% of India's forecast domestic requirements and about 7% of her forecast
consumption of nitrogenous fertilizers. The project will create about 1,400
permanent jobs, in addition to the employment of more than 4,000 people during
the peak period of construction. An additional 5,000 or more jobs are expected
to be created through secondary and tertiary employment.
52.       The project's economic rate of return is about 17% based on esti-
mated international fertilizer prices calculated on the basis of January 1981
dollars. The economic rate of return is sensitive to changes in product
prices, and to a lesser extent, to operating costs. A 10% drop in revenues
would reduce the return to 12%, while a 10% increase would raise it to 20%.
If the economic cost of gas increases without any corresponding increase in
product prices by 1984 to US$248 (20%) per 1,000 normal cubic meters in 1981
dollars, instead of US$207 assumed in the base case, the economic rate of
return would drop to about 13%. Thus, even under adverse circumstances. the
project would yield a satisfactory rate of return.
53.       The project faces possible risks in the form of (a) delays in imple-
mentation and provision of necessary infrastructure; (b) delays in start-up;
(c) cost overruns; and (d) possible management problems. The risk of serious
delays in implementation and consequent cost overruns, as well as the delays
in commissioning are minimized by the use of commercially proven technologies
supplied by internationally recognized engineering firms. Furthermore, GOI
and KRIBHCO have already signed the ammonia engineering contract, and GOI
approval has been given for execution of the gas pipeline project which will
help to alleviate the risks of implementation delays. KRIBHO's staff recruited
from IFFCO with adequate experience in implementing other projects would
closely monitor the project to avoid the possibility of cost overruns due
to commissioning delays, problems associated with the construction and trans-
portation of large pieces of equipment and unforeseen civil works and erection
problems. The location of the plant near the ocean is also expected to help
to ease possible transportation delays. Possible management shortcomings will
be minimized by the provisions made to hire experienced senior staff from
IFFCO to ensure the efficient management of KRIBHCO. Potential risks asso-
ciated with the availability of the necessary infrastructural facilities will
be reduced by the arrangements referred to in para 40 above.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and KRIBHCO and
the recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
55.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and
KRIBHCO is an additional condition of effectiveness of the credit (Section
6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 22 -
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
March 11, 1981



ANNEX  I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV,AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                   MUST RECENT ESTIMATEZ
TToAL           3287.6
AGRICULTURAL    1824. 0                              MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOHE
1960  ab   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  60.0       100.0     190.0            212.4                  1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    108.0k      141.0k   176.0,             166.0                  842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. HID-YEAR (MILLIONS)   434.9       547.6     643.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9       19.7      21.7              20.8                   39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    974.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                     1645.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                      132.0      167.0    196.0              193.2                  376.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0      308.0    353.0              409.6                 2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        40.0        42.5      41.4              42.0                   40.4
15-64 YRS.                        56.5        54.6      55.6              55.0                   56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.5         2.9       3.0               3.0                    3.4
POPULATION GR(WTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.9        2.5       2.0               2.2                    2.4
URBAN                             2. 5/d      3.3       3.3               3.9                    4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.0        40.0      35.0              37.4                   28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.0        17.0      14.0              14.6                    7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.2         2.9       2.4               2.6                    1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0      3782.0   4714.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..        12.0      16.9              15.6                   39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71.100)         98.0       102.0     103.0             101.4                  116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  93.0        92.0      91.0              92.4                  108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         52.0        51.0      50.0              49.8                   60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0       15.0      13.0              12.0                   18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    28.0        22.0      18.0              17.9                    5.3
HEATH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.0        48.0      51.0              50.8                   63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..       134.0        ..                ..                   52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        17.0      33.0              30.2                   42.4
URBAN                               .        60.0      83.0              66.0                   62.1
RURAL                              ..         6.0      20.0              20,0                   29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        18.0      20.0              17.7                   52.8
URBAN                              ..        85.0      87.0              71.3                   71. 1
RURAL                              ..         1.0       2.0                ..                   42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         5800.0/e    4890.0   3617.0            6322.7                 4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    9630.0/e   5220.0   5675.0              9459.0                 2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          2149.Of    1629.0   1289.0             1758.4                  819.4
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..                ..                   28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.2          ..       5.2
URBAN                             5.2          ..       4.8
RURAL                             5.2          ..       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.6         2.8
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEI3GES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCCME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA 6 PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  61.0         72. 0      80. 0              80.9                    98.6
MALE                  80.0         87.0       95.0               94.3                    99.2
FEMALE                40.0         55.0       64.0               66.7                    97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  20.0         29.0       28.0               26.6                    55.5
MALE                  30.0         39.0       38.0               34.8                    60. 7
FEMALE                10.0         17.0       18.0               18.2                    49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   8.0            6. 0/g      ..                9.9                    13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             29.0         40.0       42.0               41.1                   34.6
SECONDARY                           16.0         17.0         ..               20.5                   28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         28.0         33.0       36.0               40.9                    85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0. 7         1.0        1. 3               1.8                    9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           5.0         21.0      24.0                25.8                  118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          0. 1       0. 5               2.4                   39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0         16.0       16.0               13.4                      .
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0            6. 3       3.8                 ..                    4. 9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4    220670.5  252235.8
FINALE (PERCENT)                    31.3         32.6      32.0                29.4                   36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               74.0         74.0       74. 0              70.5                   51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.0         11.0      11.0                11.6                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 43.0         40.2       39.2               37.9                   39.1
MALE                                  57.1         52.3       51.3               51.3                    48.5
FEMALE                                27.9         27.1       26.2               23.7                   29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1. 1       1. 1               1.2                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7           26. 3/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7           48. 9/h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4. 1           6. 7/h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6           17.2/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       88.0              107.8                     .
RURAL                                 ..           ..       76.0               86.5                  192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                  ..                  182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       40.7               46.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..       47.9               51.7                   33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Solid fuel conversion factors revised, /d 1951-60;  /e 1962;  /f 1958;  /g 1967;  /h 1964-65.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEItNITIONS OF SOCIAL INTICATIRS
No.te.   Although the  aaa d    drt.    rIeccegneal   ugdteat  stolaleadrlibe   tsol   lobe norod that they may nt be loner-
nationaly coepaahle beause ofthe 1.0  of staderd-e   -defn,io   and  concepts usd h  difeenjcotisinclecigthe dana.  The data ace,   n
oF theaubjet coutry lncrytfor 'Ispuri turlos li faprtere'9arcco.er  'fttddle Income North  fttits aod Middl:e tat"i  cheebcasofsrge
Octa  - Tnal  urfer ars coprisug hnd ees sd inlnP    aea                       stsaqaifePrmameia   oolya    _tieeit  is                          h
Ascicliors  - Esimateci-Pgioauri.   ae   sdtaomnyo  Acuenr                        Peltn   e I.ncdu  Prne- Pag-uletd-de dinds  by. asbe Pef pesualoihg
for -rcps, Pastre, maker end kltohsn gsrdsa o.         n  ie. failno; 1977 dana.         maim andfee         _ grdatenrses,- prarItiral nieces, b   -md aeisem   su- s
ONP PiP CAPITA (hUS) -  Np  pe,t capins e ti__asa   urn   ahn  r        s-                    ubn   n  etal  dvdsdb  aercepnie   tro0bsielbd
rutdb  oe  ourirmanda   ul  an    ta   NO-O   senOb-                           60           snulbir ha  publ)irdnd privtet`. gL.os  so   pcilsdbopnl  a   s
190,sd  11970                                                                                            bld daabblimiectrs  ptrtos.pitei   r   etb1uetsprsa    tfe
EHECY CPtONSITIOt FERi CarlTu     oca  c_an_pticoo   crtue                     ca             bac  ernt included~i..nua  hopnas  tto --er  Pnri1d batb adfedo
sod lictre,peatolun, cncral  ae an   ndr-, nuclear sod0 g197termd   alc           ene nt permanet ly ensfed hy a phyitnia (bun by a madin1 assistant.
trffrp  Inhlgris      col eutolen  pe  caita  190.  970  co  196   nrer  rdwife, et.-) ohich cfier ir-panimai  -c         bdetioo sad p-aide 
nasintlide  WOm  pri-cipe  geo-cl a d spectiasi.d hospitals, sdmm
POPLt.ATONO ANDh VITAL STATISTICS                                                            lcepi-ai  loca  cc rualbdri se  a  mdia  sad, maernit  -cm hare.
~~4yyjyjt~iq~)((.i-.ier  nililonaf - na  f JulY 1; l9A0, 1070, and 1970          h..ptesion  rr   orna   e   Tonal nuahec u  admei in a-t dsoy            re
doto.                            jfrton -.                       pp..ib;                   t   hceptoale dfvidsd hr the number of beds.
dfetedo)  Iditoo   ofura  trssnytaffect  -p-npir li,y of darn                   HOUSNGn
iscag  ountris; lOu   1970.and 190 Osta                        ucersstier of.H gruhold (rarsoas per househol)1           onl  urban, andel
Prolecaco paraereta fc mnrtalty rht!. c-ltmpdnite  fthe yeclisu-           Ontg hnue   of       ArIo .et  dton  --total., aria  sad _hr -  vrgetm
fertility accordcng to Accot:lac   no   attutypaoo  pet. cr.nce..cch. an.l  f.ctica  (trrno.dthje     tnl   ra,  a   am 
inc   onr   r  hngngedoec   ha cltl  .   ilite coh..c..           o  nrlt              Conetional    -- -olhng  nin  elorci  i   tisquraa  preig
and.. fertiIytsd   cprftinprnn.f total, urban, nod tonaly doJjlbtgrsncfr
the ilitb ratedin equa  tc. th -dat  rain  and aloteoestutrd
sal ts i itneca ... Thi  Inacicttnilftrfotilprac  dclnL5 dfaedfroiro   ,cn
tharopacoeotlecl o  olc  et  eprducionrae,  leceac  cecta tn  Flnayacool- tta, miriodgemqe-Ice          .ccai pn-l an tfeai
of  oon cplcr  Icel  mci t.Th  nitccay ppuacoc  nt  sn          eromet ofal  afr t.tep.               sylo    tproaor   frsetv
rociato  00  he  onicor ho pojecad fho icre incc  of. the poua  o             rmaytho-a  ppltosf-asl   rldschirsss 
r  hoocIc     ..ar1 1-f-1t---dt-    -  con Pealty                                            ducation . rqIre  at  latTn  yano   proo   rmr  ierci
uih lochoe iccuctureAP lhren -7 -f dhidren  I-Il orern t, ochr-plt(1-                      cnidtthnfra  p, touni..                   y roterFnn haitr  aprasinepn
Aoyornfucdrtlrd  19  orrnio   crp) a  pecentgnaofad-yrtpco-  dnclorsedrprnh,tsIaeccdarynsttuno                           ti
cent  houaln  fr10-E.16-    en-h70lidcrrapningti  lecin.
ponuntln;  060  107, sd 1701ata                                            cart..   nesin  less thairgtpeut;oclds7hisns"hsaan
Ironstertouct _o tai  - ucrug  ou-ber of dbc- h franoa g     n-,tI  Itarc             nil foscy  -eghiolen.l
hc  ntolraroucit  erodI  ae  oertern   raen  asnpriccir-         soo  cceoeoIrr huandpoultot  -ci yps1freedec   orrai
F6alo--cnln-datrnd~5                 -d. )-  I---~                  idrcocf  a-ieoor-- nreds- o  mcrn  cdu....otabolosl_dltcrcsiog
Gt            A.P-1 .... th  .1d.  f t.t.1 ."d             P0  countrieshm ttoi araoa  teinstrtr    fOt  aeot  nfe
yrodocfco cOall fod coondiccen.  Ptccc.tlocciudh   nee  ar  Teed and        fc     ito ,tocdyi...    y   o  eLeira gnors d.trot. In is  ouetdare
fo or calendar pi 9t honl. tondid rcoe    rmaygos  a.euacne                          n   e"du'ITI   lpnailes   ou  ie  a etch'. 
corao    caioihroifincotturrco fgofeo CtlrrtAunncalccn--                                                dancr pe- Cad.soe p neart-Nasad  oohe ntd             o
eccclocroc  roucr  r              A- 0lacn d-ilh. p, 10-7.., 00f lOilan.,                 anPoil tt
rorerqiclerr   ncfod  uo lcAuoilh I           I  cnor       l Octthcupitto-1conoh-.rcnrn
F  rporc, cr  rha -e fr         ..cri   Ott ..p..c  ccclud1 ...na-  fed teed..,           or-d frcet a id corle  hot  indinbuslee s.tudents, etc.di
quart it inn und In food croceolng. und lonto  In dlrteflut.o .  P.cle  lflhopn  nca io Ipurcrc  er  cott    oerble  1060l. 197ten
Attn Ott-isaec  in ti    I h y-rd on  chy ioocl   -ad-Oc do-us- cci               01.aa
oilipudhat           odro   trccoh        ca   cpthr,  oyoect,5t                       Pal  fotri enip -  rh ltlao  fp.d   rte an pereni-e frtnos b-ehorforce.
mdnn0crioono   o.ico.  c   lohuI   ero   o   nto                                 ugectot1 pcrlini P-  fh...bot fprpol In fros  fo              ..nr. dann  and
oco-ehTiTONllcl   Oln,17,ad17   aa                                                         lho   nprerg  oficoral labo T-rce;.Iu . cO  so  190 idafta.
ald't'l rtrn  cI athir 10- olln  Ph-ud-h  ioal r- oln   lIen   stnd                    acfor  cae  ur'Y       oue  an .cne,melt  sod feal  labo  fteidtd
Pet cupItppctrucnrclf fro  ocloal sd rulor-rotolo  apply of fod 0.       rg-aecnrrutorrr.f te populaicti sodlong otontread.  Aton esti
ownn     itirannoa  ecucot
rI_.rn  cnl todplo I- -grow  1ar6doy;  197l-l  1079ad  97 d        ata.    r donoiclee       ______I
Perataadrod  tocs 11cc roi ln,  OhI  100  an -11            pdt       d fCn  ciTltei
P_ d-Y   A-il.blt -PPI  -p'i-                                        L,bo~~~~prcer,pihor '20 Erren  .rc-r-ot0  pecet,adn-         en  0pecn
Ncuetrcfproclr  (toPnd,ura,iag         ttl   It   onclbe Fret   ne                       tti i..    ly     Fde..t  die.bt p-h .esnia  ro-t-food -. tqi     bets is0nt-
icir lc on-iha  1961 prot1rred hoeole!      acn,   adaotrola   t                    elee   esiaPc.r   enn  ee  illt ret cart7s  -. orban sd ria
poreroao  f  heI  rtyciotropla Ins   fenrbneraaobtccorl  elaie   ovetycoom  lve  inon-tir                      "Y'actae" roosin
ffnan -rnodya po. cdnnatthn00nte  oo      on   a   e                             proo   nom   ftecoiy    ihnlcli  deyrinaddtfis-nbe total.
tranonablr dornon  ould Irply char dth   hourul 20o en -Ar of ro  oned        tioti-Fpcliinironibiln                          -dca    ieLvl  rrat      ra
doniho  c   pn     dnrrrcrir   ut__tedf  nTtho  cIt                                      arorurel~P 1-1 Prco   fpplahnlro   odrrt h-re'ho apo
poelof  aclt  fecoletIc  nddsptl.olbccothottassr,fonwc  nlyi  and Pfjeool  isptna
Zr-..                                                                                                        October 1990~~~~~~~~~~~~~P t.  hi 
cituocnut~~dett-nte  b  nte-hrc    yees  o  te  sni
pit c1cfaacO     11cIcetllatl'7Oca.                                                                                                                      1      Zy



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
EGOKC DZYEIANT Mm
n PER CAPITA IN 1978: USS 180
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978/79                                                         ANNI6L IATE OF GROT   (7  contant orices)
USS Bn. B      1                 1955/56-1959/60   1960/61-1964/65   1965/66-1969/70   1970/71-1974/75   1975/76-1977/78
GNP at Market Price.               117.08      100.0                     3.7               3.6               3.7               2.8               5.6
Cross Domestic Investment           28.28       24.2
Grosa National Saving               28.11       24.0
Current Account Balance  d/          0.50        0.4
OUTPUT. LABOR YOCR AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)         Labor Force            V.A. Per Worker
US5 Bin.           2              Hl          2            US$        2 of National Averane
Agriculture                        24.5            46.6            130.0      72.1           188               64
Induetry                          11.8             22.3             20.2      11.2           582              199
Services                          16.3             ILA              30.2      16.7           5U               186
Total/average                     52.6            100.0            180.4    100.0            292              100
GOVBURINT FININCE                                            /
venral Governat                                            central governC  t
Rs. Bla,    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ IAWED&                        I of GDP
1978/79  Z' '19741/775-1978/79                              B       1978/79  1974/75-19787
Current BRceipts                 183.65       19.1         18.3                              107.71      11.2         10.6
Current Expenditures             177.26       18.4         16.7                              108.99     .1           MA
Current Surplus/Deficit            6.41        0.7          1.6                              - 1.28      -0.1          0.5
Capital Expenditure. I/           78.41        8.1          7.2                               57.34      6.0           5.1
External Assistance (net) A/       8.15        0.8          1.4                                8.15       0.8          1.4
HONIT. CRUDIT AND PRICES        1970/71     1973/74     1974/75     1975/76     1976/77     1977/78     1978/79   Septe*nr 1978   September 1979
(Ra Billion outstanding at ed of period)
Xoney and Qunsi Money            121.4       198.4       220.3       254.7       308.9       370.4       445.6        398.5          473.7
Brnk Credit to Government (net)    52.6       87.3        95.3       101.1       110.2       134.7       153.9        139.5         161.7
Bank Credit to Comerci.l Sector  64,6        107.0       126.7       153.9       185.1       212.2       253.3        225.8          273.8
(Perc-ntage or Index Numbers)                                         January 1979   January 1980
Money and Quaei Honey as 2
of GPD                         30.1        33.5        31.5        34.5        38.8        41.5        46.3
Wholsale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                100.0       139.7       174.9       173.0       176.6      185.8       185.8        185.3          224.0
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Inder              7.7        20.2        25.2       -1.1          2.1         5.2          -          0.4            20.9
Bank Credit to Gover_ent (net)   10.8         12.3         9.2         6.1         9.0        22.2        14.3         16.9          15.9
Bank Credit to Comrci-l Sector   19.4         22.6        18.4        21.5        20.3       14.6        19.4         15.6           21.3
*/ The per capita GNP estimate in at market price.s calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Bank Atlas, 1979.
All other conversions to dollars in this table ra at the averae exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/ Quick Estimtee.
/ Comuted from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation befor first year and one ohervation
after last year of listed period.
d/  Worid Bank stimte; not necessarily conistent .ith official figurs.
*/ Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
1/ All loans and advances to third parties have bean netted out.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79 h  1979/80  -        MERClINDISI EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1978/79)
US$ I(an.      %
Exports of Goods                        5,753      6,315       6.976       7,800           Engineering Goods             671         11
Imports of Goods                      -5,928      -7,188      -8,488    -11,00r           Tea                            420          7
Trade Balance                          -  175     -  873      -1,512     -3,200            Gems                          499          8
NFS (net)                                 379         692        882       1,050           Clothing                      378          6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                          204       - 181      - 630    -2,153                     Products              319          5
Jute Manufactures             251          4
Interest Payments (net)  i/              -182      -  89         130         400          Iron Ore                       270          5
Other Factor Payments (net)                -           -          -                        Cotton Textiles               248          4
Net Transfers   j/                        695       1,077      1,000       1,000           Sugar                         224          4
-750          Others                       2,649         45
Balance on Current Account                717        _807        5          -750                                       5
Total                       S,929        100
Official Aid
Disburse,ents                        1,955      1,628       1,695      1,870           EXTWRN,  DEBT, MARCH 31. 1979
Amorti.ation                          -560       -645        -702    -   687                                               US$ billion
Transactions with IMF                    -337        -330       -158         -             Outstanding and Disbursed                 15.5
All Other Itmes                          -200         616        199    - -183             Undisbursed                                5.2
Outstanding, including                    20.7
Increase in Reserves (-)               -1,575     -2,076      -1,534    -   250                Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)               3,747      5,823       7,357       7,607                                           h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  ki/            3,276       5,668      7,357       7,607           DEBT SERVICE PATIO FOR 1978/79        15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                 IBSD/IDA LENDING. DECUGR 31. 1979
Imports                                 1,581       1,811      2,043      4,050                                                 US$ million
of which: Petroleum                  1,581      1,811       2,043      4,050                                            BIUD            ID
Exports                                    37          32         24         -            Outstanding and Disbursed        689             4,286
of which: Petroleum                     21         18         n.a.       _             Undisbursed                      614             2,621
Outstanding, including       1303              6,907
Undisbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-Decesber 1971             US$1.00 - Re 7,5
Rs 1.00 - US$0,133333
Mid-Decmber 1971 to end-June 1972          US$1.00 - Be 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                        Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-Deceber 1978                US$1.00 - La 8.188
Rs 1.00 - USS0.122
End-December 1979                          US$1.00 - Re 7.907
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
h/ Estimated.
i/  Figures given cover all investent income (not). Major paymnts are interest on foreign loans
snd charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest arned on foreign assets.
j/ Figures given include workers' rmittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
-   included within official aid disbursements.
kV Excludes net use of IMP credit.
j/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of mrchandise exports.






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1981)
US$ million
Loan or                                                    (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year Borrower         Purpose               Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
43 Loans/                                           1,313.2
65 Credits fully disbursed                                    3,807.4
342-IN    1972  India   Education                     --         12.0      4.47
378-IN    1973  India   Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                               8.0      1.12
390-IN    1973  India   Bombay Water Supply I         --        55.0       1.87
456-IN    1974  India   HP Apple Processing
& Marketing               -         13.0       6.43
lOll-IN    1974  India   Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD   52.0          --        14.83
482-IN    1974  India   Karnataka Dairy               --         30.0     19.56
502-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Canal CAD           -         83.0      31.32
521-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Dairy                         27.7      14.36
522-IN    1974  India   Madhya Pradesh Dairy         --         16.4       6.17
526-IN    1975  India   Drought Prone Areas           --        35.0       2.29
1079-IN    1975  IFFCO   IFFCO Fertilizer             109.0      --         1.24
1097-IN    1975  ICICI   Industry DFC XI               94.8      --         1.32
532-IN    1975  India   Godavari Barrage
Irrigation               --         45.0       4.81
541-IN    1975  India   West Bengal Agric.
Development               --         34.0      9.22
562-IN    1975  India   Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD              --        24.0       2.05
572-IN    1975  India   Rural
Electrification I        --         57.0        .04
585-IN    1975  India   Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                   --         40.0      17.37
598-IN    1975  India   Fertilizer Industry           --       105.0      35.16
604-IN    1976  India   Power Transmission IV        --        150.0      60.16



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower       Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN    1976      India   Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.           --       4.0      1.71
610-IN    1976      India   Integrated Cotton
Development             --      18.0    11.61
1251-IN    1976      India   Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation             145.0    --      90.34
1260-IN    1976      India   IDBI II                    40.0    --       16.13
1273-IN    1976      India   National Seeds I            25.0    --      23.14
1313-IN    1976      India   Telecommunications VI    80.0    --         21.98
1335-IN    1976      India   Bombay Urban Transport   25.0    --          8.25
680-IN    1977      India   Kerala Agric.
Development             --       30.0   25.15
682-IN    1977      India   Orissa Agric.
Development             --       20.0   12.00
685-IN    1977      India   Singrauli Thermal
Power                   --      150.0   67.31
687-IN    1977      India   Madras Urban
Development             --       24.0    9.47
690-IN    1977      India   WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research         --       12.0   12.00
1394-IN    1977      India   Gujarat Fisheries          14.0    --       11.18
712-IN    1977      India   Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.             --       10.0    6.94
720-IN    1977      India   Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation              --       23.0   14.68
728-IN    1977      India   Assam Agricultural
Development             --        8.0    6.87
736-IN    1977      India   Maharashtra
Irrigation              --       70.0   39.26
737-IN    1977      India   Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension         --       13.0    9.49
740-IN    1977      India   Orissa Irrigation          --       58.0   39.11
1475-IN    1977      ICICI   Industry DFC XII           80.0    --      15.27
747-IN    1978      India   Second Foodgrain
Storage                 --      107.0   85.53
756-IN    1978      India   Calcutta Urban
Development II          --       87.0   37.29
761-IN    1978      India   Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research                --        8.0    7.33



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower       Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN    1978      India  IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                  25.0   --           21.17
1549-IN    1978      TEC    Third Trombay
Thermal Power          105.0                79.66
788-IN    1978      India  Karnataka Irrigation       --    117.6         88.01
793-IN    1978      India  Korba Thermal Power        --    200.0       161.27
806-IN    1978      India  Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture            --      14.0        13.79
808-IN    1978      India  Gujarat Irrigation         --      85.0        73.23
815-IN    1978      India  Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries               --      17.5        16.08
816-IN    1978      India  National Seeds II          --      16.0        15.58
1592-IN    1978      India  Telecommunications VII  120.0   --             56.35
824-IN    1978      India  National Dairy             --    150.0        135.44
842-IN    1979      India  Bombay Water
Supply II               --    196.0        189.33
843-IN    1979      India  Haryana Irrigation         --    111.0         59.81
844-IN    1979      India  Railway Modernization
& Maintenance           --    190.0        154.33
848-IN    1979      India  Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage              --      38.0        27.12
855-IN    1979      India  National Agricultural
Research                --      27.0        26.21
862-IN    1979      India  Composite Agricultural
Extension               --      25.0        20.47
871-IN    1979      India  NCDC                       --      30.0        19.90
1648-IN    1979      India  Ramagundam Thermal
Power                   50.0   --           50.00
874-IN    1979      India  Ramagundam Thermal
Power                   --    200.0        176.70
889-IN    1979      India  Punjab Irrigation          --    129.0       112.29
899-IN    1979      India  Maharashtra Water
Supply                  --      48.0        47.21
911-IN    1979      India  Rural Electrification
Corp. II                --    175.0        151.91
925-IN    1979      India  Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry                --      23.0        21.32



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower       Purpose                Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN    1979      India   ARDC III                   --      250.0      145.98
963-IN    1979      India   Inland Fisheries           --       20.0       20.00
954-IN    1979      India   Maharashtra
Irrigation II          --      210.0      192.52
961-IN    1979      India   Gujarat Community
Forestry               --       37.0       34.03
981-IN    1980      India   Population II              --      46.0       45.97
1003-IN    1980      India   Tamil Nadu Nutrition    --          32.0      32.00
1004-IN    1980      India   U.P. Tubewells             --       18.0      17.52
1011-IN    1980      India   Gujarat Irrigation II   --        175.0      175.00
1027-IN    1980      India   Singrauli Thermal II    --        300.0      289.17
1012-IN    1980      India   Cashewnut                  --       22.0      21.95
1028-IN    1980      India   Kerala Agricultural
Extension              --       10.0       10.00
1033-IN    1980      India   Calcutta Urban
Transport              --       56.0       56.00
1034-IN    1980      India   Karnataka Sericulture   --          54.0      54.00
1046-IN    1980      India   Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage           --       80.0       79.88
1843-IN    1980      ICICI   Industry DFC XIII         100.0    --         94.87
1887-IN    1980      India   Farakka Thermal
Power                  25.0    --          25.00
1053-IN    1980      India   Farakka Thermal
Power                  --      225.0      225.00
1897-IN    1980      India   Kandi Watershed and
Area Development       30.0    --          30.00
1072-IN    1980      India   Bihar Rural Roads          --      35.0       35.0
1078-IN    1980      India   Mahanadi Barrages          --      83.0       83.00
1925-IN*   1980      India   Bombay High Offshore
Development           400.0    --         400.0
1082-IN    1981      India   Madras Urban Dev. II    --         42.0       42.0
Total                                            2,833.0 8,671.6
of which has been repaid                       1,060.9    71.7
Total now outstanding                            1,772.0 8,599.9
Amount Sold                          133.8
of which has been repaid           128.1            5.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                1,766.3 8,599.9
Total undisbursed (excluding*)                      560.7 3,546.2
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 20
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1981)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
Year                     Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5        -         1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9        -         0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4        -         1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2        -         0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd,            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6        -         6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2      5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        1.1      8.6
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0           -        38.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS          99.1       11.5    110.6
Less:   Sold                           25.9        1.7     27.6
Repaid                        20.8         -       20.8
Cancelled                      6.2        1.3       7.5
Now Held                      46.2        8.5      54.7
Undisbursed                   44.5        1.1      45.6



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$729 million in FY80, compared to
US$538 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through January 31, 1981 totalled US$373 million, representing an
increase of about 20% over the same period last year. The undisbursed
pipeline of US$4,107 million as of January 31, 1981, reflects the lead
time which would be expected given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing
projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097 Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975; Effective
Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-
scale industries, which often employ high technology and are export-
oriented. Loan 1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly
ahead of schedule. Disbursements under Loans 1475 and 1843 are also ahead
of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the progress of projects in execution, and in particular
to report any problems which are being encountered and the action
being taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and
with the understanding that they do not purport to present a bal-
anced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
inv-stment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 947   Thi-d Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Prc ect; US$250.0 million 2redit of August 20, 1979;
Eff!ctive Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Refinanci ig of lending to farmers has been progressing very well.
Cr. No. 747   Sec3nd Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
a7- yj,  1978; Effectine Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
Ine 30, 1982
Satisf ctory progress is being made in the construction of bag
storage varehcisEs, despite problems of land acquisition at some sites.
However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and port silos is not
expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays in the employ-
ment of consultants and the longer time required for the preparation of
tecnnical specifications and tenders and the construction itself. The
project is currently under review by the Government of India and some
changes to its scope may be made in Apri. 1981.
Cr. No. 456   Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
aid technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but
ccastruction progress remains slow due to material shortag'-,; and severe
wiiter conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in
tle last two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is
scheduled for completion by December 1981.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir HortiLu-l.ire Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress
has been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The
project's research activities, however, are behind the original schedule
due to poor organization.
Ln. No. 1313 Telecommunications VI Project: US$80.0 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1592 Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
July 1980, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment for the sixth project were behind schedule, resulting in a
reduced growth rate for the installation of direct exchange lines. Insti-
tutional improvements envisaged under the projects have been achieved, and
the financial situation of the Posts and Telegraphs Department remains
sound.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing
fertilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government.
Further, some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize
because of reconsideration by the Central and State governments. IDA has
agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the ones that are likely to be
dropped. Because of the above, the project is likely to be delayed by
about 18 months.
Cr. No. 378   Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 million
credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Progress is satisfactory. As of December 1980, construction of the 39
markets originally envisaged under the project was almost completed, and
trade had shifted to more than half of these. An additional eight markets
have been included in the project at the request of the State government,
and these are expected to be completed by June 1981. The credit is
expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date of June 30, 1981.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural universi-
ties in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum
of their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure
to enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development.
Considerable progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but
achieving educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by
traditional attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership
falters. Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The
Project Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and
are supporting efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390   Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046 Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns
caused by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975),
redesign of major project components and the addition of a supplementary
study on sewage disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily.
All works have been successfully completed except for the projects sewege
pumping stations. Financial performance of the project entity is satis-
factory. Implementation of Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing
Credit j90, is proceeding to schedule. Preliminary work in connection
with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing satisfactorily. Imple-
mentation of Credit 1046 is proceeding satisfactorily. Detailed



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20
construction programs have been prepared for rural schemes, and prepara-
tion of tender documents for urban schemes have been completed.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the phy-
sical execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag
so that disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at
the time of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements
have been made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
country-wide materials shortages and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consul-
tants' services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts.
Staff shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although
more extensive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this
problem.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
With respect to the first Madras project, physical progress is
generally satisfactory and costs are within appraisal estimates on most
components. However, land acquisition problems and consequent delays in
construction on one of the three sites and service areas will result in
about 15 months delay in the completion of the final sections of these
areas. Increased attention should be turned to the financial analysis and
marketing strategies required to ensure that anticipated cost recovery in
the sites and services and slum upgrading components and thus replicabil-
ity is actually achieved. Technical assistance is being sought to
strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42.0 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effectiveness Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20
With respect to the second project, only recently signed and
declared effective, early project implementation is proceeding satisfac-
torily, with evidence that the lessons learned under the first project are
being heeded.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL
dairy cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy coopera-
tive societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects
(Karnataka-923, Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response has
been excellent and project authorities are under considerable producer
pressure to speed up the establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost
all of the DCS is good and construction of dairy and feed plants is now
proceeding at a satisfactory pace. Limited milk processing capacity has
been the major constraint to DCS formation in all three projects. Under
the National Dairy Project, three subprojects with an estimated total cost
of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been appraised by the Indian Dairy
Corporation and a further eight subprojects are in various stages of
preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy equipment is well
underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a result in the
start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532   Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20
Ln. No. 1011  Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562   Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011 Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possi-
ble, to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation.
Canal lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shap-
ing are prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions
have been made to increase agricultural production and marketing by
reforming and upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing
processing and storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of
these projects is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Periyar
Vaigai Project (Cr. 720-IN) where cost overrtns have occurred due to sub-
stantial increases of both quantities and unit cost over the original
engineers' estimates. Specific efforts are now underway to redesign this
project so that it can still achieve its original objectives. Difficul-
ties had also arisen earlier in connection with the Nagarjunasagar com-
ponent of Loan 1251, where water losses proved to be higher than antici-
pated. Additional assurances have been obtained from the State Government
concerned, regarding the enforcement of cropping patterns and the sequence
and timing of main canal construction and lining, which should ensure that
this project will also achieve its objectives.
Cr. No. 541   West Bengal Agricultural Development Prcject; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project is not
expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date, and GOI's request for
an extension is expected.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028 Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
These eight credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive
research capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the
reformed extension system is in full operation, field results have been
very good, both in terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of
increased crop yields. In Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, in
particular, significant gains have been made under the projects. In West
Bengal, where a change in government brought a review of the organiza-
tional principles underlying the new extension system and an accompanying
hiatus in project implementation, a Cabinet decision has reaffirmed the
State Government's commitment to the project, revised implementation plans
have been prepared, and project activities are resuming. In Bihar, staff
shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts, have hampered
project implementation, although progress in areas where regular extension
visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the system itself. In
Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite Agricul-
tural Extension Project, important early administrative and financial
steps have been taken to pave the way for effective operation of the reor-
ganized extension system and field work is off to a good start. In
Kerala, project implementation has just begun.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Com-
mitment of funds to research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily,
although corresponding disbursements may lag somewhat behind the original
estimates. Additions to the staff of the Project Unit have been made to
expedite further progress under the project.
Cr. No. 526   Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactpry.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dry-
land farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone
areas.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting
operations, which were one season behind original schedule, have been
rephased to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
As of October 1980, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns was progressing well in the States of Haryana and Uttar
Pradesh, although some delays had occurred in the State of Orissa. Con-
sultants had been recruited to assist NCDC and State Cooperative Banks in
strengthening their institutions, although some consultants were yet to be
recruited in Haryana. Disbursements have been progressing well and are
now ahead of the appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce
manufacturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and
to improve their performance and availability. The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-
based industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages,
and to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well.
The projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands,
primarily along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on
degraded forest reserves.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to
renewed interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to
progress well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new pro-
cessing units are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant
protection activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273  National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organiza-
tional difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in
the second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various
organizations (National and State) in the production and processing of
seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335  Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033  Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: January 31, 1981 (expected);
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The bus procurement program supported by the Bombay project
(Ln. 1335) has proceeded on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies
having been ordered and 672 already in service. Total fleet strength has
increased from 1,530 buses at the inception of the project to 1,935 buses
in September 1980, in accordance with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity
expansion has lagged somewhat behind fleet expansion, but caught up in
November 1980. However, delays in construction of new workshop facilities
have been more substantial and will not be fully recoverable. As a
result, the loan closing date has been extended by three years. Traffic
management civil works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now
proceeding satisfactorily. Project implementation under Cr. 1033 is
proceeding satisfactorily, a good start having been made on the important
early procurement steps.
Cr. No. 1072  Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35.0 million credit of December 5.
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Construction is scheduled to begin in May 1981 on the firsts
phase of this project designed to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of
rural roads and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar
as part of the State's overall rural development efforts.
Ln. No. 1394  Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20
As of October 1980 when these projects were last reviewed, the
harbor construction works at Mangrol and Veraval in Gujarat had encoun-
tered delays, although the problem with shortages of cement supplies had
been overcome. In Andhra Pradesh, the harbor works at Visakhapatnam, Kak-
inada and Nizampatnam were under way and the pace of implementation had
increased at all three sites.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. The project became effective in
May 1980. The initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the
establishment of State Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and
State project monitoring units, are progressing satisfactorily.  Site
selection and hatchery design work is under way.
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20
Ln. No. 1887 Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feed-
ing power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construc-
tion of the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such sta-
tion, at Korba, together with related facilities and associated transmis-
sion. Loan 1648/Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and
Loan 1887/Credit 1053, at Farakka. The National Thermal Power Corporation
(NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these power
stations. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW extension
of the Tata Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale ther-
mal power projects are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli.and
Korba, construction works are on or ahead of schedule, although some slip-
page has occurred in the implementation schedule for the Ramagundam pro-
ject.
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This project provides continued support to the Rural Electrifica-
tion Corporation's lending program, and is helping to finance about 1,700
rural electrification schemes in fourteen State Electricity Boards (SEB),
including the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is pro-
gressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400.0 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Expected Effectiveness Date:
March 13, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation works
have started in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Implementation has started on this project which is designed to
expand cashewnut production in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra
Pradesh and Orissa.
Cr. No. 1003 Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding
according to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily on this project.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Contract for the construction of Dholbaha dam has been awarded.
Progress in other compon_nts are satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is proceeding well with encouraging pro-
gress in all components.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
HAZIRA FERTILIZER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section 1:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
12 months
(b)  The agency that has prepared the project
Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative Ltd.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank and
date of first mission to consider the project
July 1978; November 1978
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal missions
October 15, 1979 and November 23, 1980
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
February 24, 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
July 15, 1981
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a)  GOI would execute the gas project in accordance with
a schedule to be agreed upon with the Association and
complete it not later than January 31, 1984 (para 35).
(b)  KRIBHO would install or cause to be installed, a
computerized control and monitoring system to cover
materials status, cost control and construction
scheduling for the project by September 30, 1981
(para 38).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) GOI will provide adequate road and rail facilities
critical to the movement of raw materials required
for the project and for the finished products to
be manufactured under the project (para 40).
(d) The execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between GOI and KRIBHCO is a condition
of Credit effectiveness (para 43);
(e) KRIBHCO will be required to maintain a debt/equity
ratio of 60:40 or better; a current ratio of at least
1.2:1; not declare any dividends, enter into any
financial commitments (not related to its own internal
corporate operations) or prepay any debt.which would
reduce its current ratio below 1.5:1 (para 50);



-   I    j             7                           X }   E                                   | N D I A
MAJOR FERTILIZER PLANTS
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                    . ,                                       PRESENT AND PROPOSED
OF 
AFGHANISTAN                                       Le e of Cont 2e,
*           |   ~~~~JAAIA/LcrnJKASHfM/P   *'                                                             CoepReM,esodv
L-  C-                                             i               l       UneC siuto
5/A/16HAt4.fl                                           L               0       Po-eo-.d
0   C'"-, Oo.-o
PAKISTAN                         -                                                                 - - Stoic od UJo- Te-i-ty Bo-odo,-es
-30 PtNJBh: n I n                                                                                                     rotnl Bocodor,.,
-/              POANIES T/                   _*"-
D                                     ~~~~~~CHINA
/ < > XL'~~~~EWN DELHI ~1.  RAD5 
/   *KHETRI                                    NEPALRADFSH    < ~    >41i rHUIAN Atogr  /   X_ 5
RAJ/AS TH/N                                                       G0ADESH  IA
*DCM                      E KonN(/M g ,
Km.-                       BARAUNI                                             MPr3/L/y'/        S>
IFFOOS          K.ol O                                                                        W S.
GUJAJRAT                                                                      DR-A1UREBENEAL C7
.     MAA/RA'H A                P RAPH
FR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
THAt VASET                                                   f      <, 3) 
>    _         t      ~~~~~HydeynboA NOGARJUNA   akiedo                                      
MAy HA fRA DfSHTRA/
KA RNA FA/P/ 
lungolore      {~LI                                                    9--ngo
MANGO/OREy        BEnlorn0ooEfJ        sDA
-10'   5 e a7      FACCT3'b |A. T4 M ND
k/LAfA         /                                    0, h  5 E  2T6  300   490  Q0 6Tn   7L6   3 RI RIL0NETERS
TrivondrEm f    SIto     Z 
SRI LANKA>
~-Foco   Ow ANL-E                                                                                                                                      _
OyOyO cOo 6-c,A.ct 
A r b l nc                                               -                                         9P'                                           C



