]C   CREDIT NUMBER 1125 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Hazira Fertilizer Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated ,1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1125 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    UCtQA-XPV /, 1981, between
INDIA, Acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Krishak Bharati
Cooperative Limited (hereinafter called KRIBHCO) with the Bor-
rower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to KRIBHCO the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
(C) by arrangements agreed between the Borrower and the
Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative Limited (hereinafter called
IFFCO), IFFCO has agreed to subscribe an amount of Rs. one billion
to the equity of KRIBRCO; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
KRIBHCO.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have


﻿- 2
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "KRIBHCO" means the Krishak Bharati Cooperative Limited,
a multi-unit cooperative society registered under the Delhi
Cooperative Societies Act 1972 (Act No. 35 of 1972);
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and KRIBHCO of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and KRIBHCO pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) "Cooperative Societies" means the cooperative societies
registered as such under any State or Central Act for the time
being in force in India; and
(e) "Rs." means rupees in the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to three hundred twenty-one million five hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (DR 321.500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by ag,.eement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


﻿Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall June 30, 1986 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06.. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1991, and ending November 15,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
C.           ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause KRIBHCO to perform in accor-
dance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable KRIBHCO to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿..
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
KRIBHCO under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and KRIBHCO under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association which shall include, inter alia, the
following:
(i) an effective interest rate of not less than 10.75%
per annum; and
(ii) repayment over 15 years including 5 years of grace.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Secticn 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower speci-
fically undertakes to make available to KRIBHCO: (i) as and when
required, an equity contribution of at least Rs. 2,300,000,000;
(ii) such other equity as may be required to cover the gap, if
any, from insufficient equity contributions received from IFFCO
and other Cooperative Societies; and (iii) promptly as needed,
funds equal to the difference, if any, between the funds referred
to in Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement and the actual
amounts contracted by KRIBHCO for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall not take or cause to be
'taken any action which, assuming production under conditions of
efficient operation, would prevent fertilizer manufacturers in the
territories of the Borrower from meeting their expenses and
servicing debt out of their revenues, and from earning a reason-
able return on invested capital.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, by January 31, 1984 or
such other date as the Association may agree, ensure adequate and
timely supply of gas for the Project, and to that end, shall take
or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources necessary or appropriate
for the completion of a gas project in accordance with a schedule
agreed with the Association.


﻿Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take, or cause to be
taken, all action necessary to provide road and railway facilities
adequate for the supply of coal to the Project site, and for the
movement of finished products to be manufactured under the Pro-
ject.
(b) The Borrower shall take adequate measures for distribu-
tion of fertilizer and to regulate railway operations related to
the fertilizer industry to ensure the efficient movement of the
Project input and output.
(c) The Borrower shall cause to be completed in time for the
Project a railway spur connecting the Project site to Udhna
Junction Railway Station.
Section 4.04. (a) When, with respect to any goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the lowest evaluated
bid is for goods manufactured from outside of India, the Borrower
shall promptly grant permission to import the goods covered by the
contract, and no review of such permission to import shall be made
by the Borrower or by any of its agencies, and all foreign ex-
change required therefor shall be promptly made available.
(b) When, with respect to any goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the lowest evaluated bid is for
goods manufactured in India, the Borrower shall: (i) promptly upon
receipt of the appropriate applications, issue, or cause to be
issued, such import licenses as shall be required to implement the
contract; (ii) make available, promptly as needed, all foreign
exchange which shall be required therefor; and (iii) with respect
to locally produced materials which are subject to allocation,
make, or cause-to be made, allocations of such materials promptly
and in such quantities as shall be required for such contract.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) KRIBHCO shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation under the Project Agreement or the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement;


﻿-6-
(b) a change shall have been made in the Memorandum and
Articles of Association or in the by-laws of KRIBHCO without the
Association's consent which would materially and adversely affect
the financial condition or operation of KRIBHCO;
(c) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by KRIZ3CO without the Association's
consent, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would
materially and adversely affect the conduct of KRIBHCO's business
or KRIBHCO's financial condition or the efficiency of KRIBHCO's
management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project;
(d) an effective resolution shall have been passed for
winding up of KRIBHCO; and
(e) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that KRIBHCO will be able to perform its obli-
gations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have bLei
given by the Association to the Borrower and KRIBHCO;
and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and KRIBHCO.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:


﻿-7-
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by KRIBHCO, and is legally binding upon KRIBHCO in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and KRIBHCO and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and KRIBHCO in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date    "                 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01 and 4.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
i        7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary in the
Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi 110001, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi


﻿For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W,
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable addre;s:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                            .
x         Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated       % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment, materials        257,200,000      100% of foreign
and spares                                  expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
and 70% of
other local
expenditures
(2) Consultants' services        32,150,000      100%
(3) Unallocated                  32,150,000
TOTAL        321,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the


﻿Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on go,-ds or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$15,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, ar  (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Associatiun shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Deve-opment Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of. such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
611


﻿--011--
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the design, construction and start-up
of a fertilizer plant at Hazira on the Northern bank of river
Tapti in the State of Gujarat, as follows:
Acquisition, construction and installation of: (i) two
single-train ammonia units, based on natural gas from the South
Bassein gas fields, with a capacity of about 1,350 metric tons per
day each; (ii) four urea units with a capacity of about 1,100
metric tons per day each; (iii) three steam generation plants with
a capacity of about 275 metric tons per hour each; (iv) two power
generation plants with a capacity of 15 MW each; (v) ammonia
storage facilities for about 20,000 metric tons; (vi) urea bagging
facilities; (vii) silos for about 90,000 metric tons of bulk
storage; (viii) a township; and (ix) offsite facilities for
workshops, gas terminal plant, water treatment plant, administra-
tion building, laboratories and other facilities.
*               *              *
The Project is expected to be completed* by October 31,
1985.
*    The Project will be deemed completed only when the facilities
included therein shall have been in satisfactory operation
for not less than 60 consecutive days at an average produc-
tion rate per day of not less than 80% of its respective
daily capacity stated above.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  2g   ?Lday of
198
FOR SECRETARY


