                                               Documentof
                                            The World Bank



                                                                                  ReportNo: 27213-UNI

                                        FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                                   ON A

                                          PROPOSEDCREDIT

                               INTHEAMOUNTOF SDR 22.3 MILLION
                                    (US$32 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                         REPUBLICOF NIGERIA

                                                   FOR

                        MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISEPROJECT

                                            November 18,2003




This document has a restricteddistribution and may be used by recipientsonly in the performance of their
official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                    (Exchange Rate Effective November 16,2003)
                           CurrencyUnit = Naira
                           Naira 137.35 = US$1
                             US$0.0073 = Naira 1

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 -- December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



ACCION         ACCION (Americans for Community Co-operation inOther Nations)
                International
ADR            Alternative Dispute Resolution
BDS            Business Development Services
BDSF           Business Development Services Fund
B M O          Business MembershipOrganization
CAC            Corporate Affairs Commission
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CBN            Central Bank of Nigeria
CFAA           Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CGAP           Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest
CPAR           Country Procurement Assessment Report
CRMS           Credit Risk Management System
DFID           Department for InternationalDevelopment, UK
EA             Executing Agency
ELAN           Equipment Leasing Association of Nigeria
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FATE           FATE Foundation
FGN            Federal Government of Nigeria
FD/NIPC        Finance DepartmentNigerian Investment Promotion Commission
FIAS           Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FIRS           Federal Inland Revenue Service
FPM            Financial Procedures Manual
FPSI Network   Financial, Private Sector and InfrastructureNetwork
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GTZ            Deutsche Gesellschaft Fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ)GmbH
IAU/NIPC       Internal Audit Unit/Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission
ICA            Investment Climate Assessment
ICR            ImplementationCompletion Report
IDA            International Development Association
IFC            International Finance Corporation
JISU           Joint Interim Strategy Update
LIL            Learning and Innovation Loan

                                                            FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


     Mand E             Monitoring and Evaluation
     M o F              Ministryo fFinance
     M S M E            Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
     NBCI               Nigeria Bank for Commerce and Industry
     NEEDS              National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy
     NERFUND            Nigerian Economic ReconstructionFund
     NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
     NIDB               Nigeria Industrial Development Bank
     NIPC               Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission
     N P V              Net Present Value
     OPCPR              Procurement Service Policy Group
     P I M              Project Implementation Manual
      PMU               Project Management Unit
      PPF               Project Preparation Facility
      PRIU              Procurement Reform Implementation Unit
      PRSP              Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
      PSD               Private Sector Development
      RC                Review Committee
      RPED              Regional Program for Enterprise Development
      S A               Special Account
      SME               Small and Medium Enterprise
      SMEDAN            Small and Medium Enterprise Development Agency o f Nigeria
      SMIEIS            Small and Medium IndustriesEquity Investment Scheme
      SPN               Specific Procurement Notice
      STEP              Support and Training Entrepreneurship Program
      TA                Technical Assistance
      TOR               Terms o f Reference
      TTL               Task Team Leader
      UNCITRAL          UnitedNations Commission on InternationalTrade law
      U N I D O         UnitedNations Industrial Development Organization
      U N D P           United Nations Development Program
      U S A I D         United States Agency for International Development
      VAT               Value-Added Tax
      woccu             World Council o f Credit Unions


                                   Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
                        Country Manager/Director:   MarkD.Tomlinson
                            IFC Regional Director   Haydee Celaya
                                  Sector Manager:   Demba Ba
              IFCADA MSME Africa Program Manager    Maxwell Aitken
                                Task Team Leader    Peter Mousley



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                               NIGERIA
                    MICRO,SMALL AND MEDIUMENTERPRISE PROJECT


                                              CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page

   1, Project development objective                                                      2
   2. Key performance indicators                                                         2

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedby the project      2
   2. Mainsector issues and Government strategy                                          3
   3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                  5

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                 9
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      14
   3. Benefits and target population                                                     15
   4. Institutionaland implementation arrangements                                       15

D.Project Rationale

   1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          18
   2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies      20
   3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                20
   4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  22
   5. Value added of Bank support inthis project                                        22

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                           23
   2. Financial                                                                          23
   3. Technical                                                                          23
   4. Institutional                                                                      24
   5. Environmental                                                                      25
   6. Social                                                                             26
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 26

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                                     27

  2. Critical risks                                                                             27
  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                             30


G. Main Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                                    30
  2. Other                                                                                      30

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                                 30

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                                    31


Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                                 32
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                           37
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                                 52
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                   53
Annex 5:  Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary           58
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                            59
          (B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                                68
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                            76
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                            77
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                        78
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                                    80
Annex 11:Draft Selection Criteria for Business Development Service Providers                     82
Annex 12: Draft Outline o f the Performance Framework                                            85
Annex 13: Project Management Unit    - Terms o f Reference                                       88
Annex 14: Rules and Responsibilities o f the Review Committee and Executing Agent               94
Annex 15: Disclosures on Potential IFC Investmentsand IFC Partners Benefiting from the Project   96
Annex 16: Performance Targets                                                                   100
Annex 17: Letter o f Sector Policy                                                              102




MAP(S)
IBRD32765

                                                       NIGERIA
                                       Micro, Small andMediumEnterpriseProject
                                          ProjectAppraisal Document
                                                 Africa RegionalOffice
                                                        AFTPS

late: November 18, 2003                                     Team Leader: Peter Mousley
Sector Manager/Director: DembaBa                            Sector(s): Generalfinance sector (58%), Other industry
Zountry ManagerDirector: Mark D. Tomlinson                  (42%)
'roject ID: PO83082                                         Theme(s): Small andmediumenterprise support (P), Other
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)          financial andPrivate sector development(s)
Project Financing Data
 [ ]Loan             [XI Credit    [ ] Grant     [ ] Guarantee        [ 3 Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m):US$32.00 million

Proposed Terms (IDA): StandardCredit
Commitmentfee: 0.00-0.50percent                             Service charge: 0.75%
                                                                                         Foreign          Total
                                                                                              0.90  I        1.90
                                                                                             20.10          32.00
NTERNATIONALFINANCE CORPORATION
                                                                                                            24.60

Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA
Responsible agency: NIGERIAN INVESTMENT PROMOTION COMMISSION
Address: Plot 1181, Aguiyi Ironsi Street, P.M.B.381, Garki, MaitamaDistrict, Abuja, Nigeria
Contact Person: Lawal G. Lantewa, Director,PolicyAdvocacy andExtemalRelations
Tel: (234)09-413-2224                    Fax: (234)09-413-4803                Email: Lantewa@Yahoo.Com
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
       FY           2005       2006      2007      2008        2009
       Annual        4.10       6.50      8.10        9.90       3.40
hmulative            4.10      10.60     18.70       28.60      32.00
Project implementation period: 2004        - 2009
Expected effectiveness date: 0611512004        Expected closing date: 0613012009
:IPADFOnliaUlrch1Mo

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Micro, Small and MediumEnterprise (MSME) Project inNigeria aims to increase the
performance and employment levels o f MSMEs in selected non-oil industry sub-sectors and in
three targeted states o f the country. To achieve this, the project inNigeria will: (i)  develop and
strengthen the capacity o f local intermediaries to deliver financial and non-financial services to
MSMEs; (ii)reduce selected investment climate barriers that constrain M S M E performance; (iii)
mobilize, via (i) (ii),
                  and      increased private investments inMSMEs and intermediaries.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Considering the pilot nature o f this operation which will involve the introduction o f new types o f
private-public participation inthe delivery o f services to MSMEs, a performance monitoring and
evaluation framework i s being designed to assess results at four levels: (1) output; (2)
intermediary (BDS and financial institution) outcome; (3) firm outcome; and (4) impact. The
results will be assessed across the four principal components o f the project. Assessments will
focus on determining the extent to which the grant and technical assistance provided by the
Government through this project to intermediaries resulted in significant additional private sector
investment and sustained improvements inprovider and firm performance - including employment
creation.

Quantitative methods and qualitative assessments will be generated through case studies o f
individual firms and surveys in order to ascertain that, as a result o f the types o f interventions to
be undertaken by the project, sustainable increases in firm productivity and employment can be
achieved. The modalities o f implementation, including detailed methodologies and Terms o f
Reference (TORS),will be finalized as part o f the implementation manual. A preliminary set o f
performance targets for the project are set out inAnnex 16. As this project i s to be driven very
much by market demand, these targets will be revised throughout the project as practical
knowledge o f new markets and how they respond to the services generated through this project
increases. This will enable the project to adapt and extend its targets.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: : Joint Interim Strategy Update (JISU) (Report No. 23633-UNI) presentedFebruary 13,2002.
Date of latest CAS discussion: CAS scheduledfor Board discussion inMay, 2004.

With a GDP o f about $40 billion, Nigeria is Africa's second largest economy. However, 70
percent o f its population lives below the poverty line with an average per capita income o f $200.
Its economy i s a dichotomy between the oil and non-oil producing sectors, with the
middle-income oil-producing economy o f perhaps five million people having a per capita income
of about US$2,200. The rest o f the population i s part o f a poor non-oil producing economy.

Nigeria ranks low inthe human development category -- 151st out o f 174 countries for which
Based on the United Nations Development Program's (UNDP) Human Development Index,

UNDP has data, and 22ndout o f 45 African countries. The fundamental cause o f poverty in
Nigeria i s the economic stagnation that the country has experienced for almost two decades.

International Development Association (IDA) notes inits Interim Strategy Update for the Federal
Republic o f Nigeria (February 2002) that while best estimates suggest that the economy has
grown by an average o f 2.9 percent per year since 1993, substantial poverty reduction would
require annual growth o f around five percent in agriculture and eight to ten percent inthe
non-agricultural economy (excluding government and the oil and gas sectors).

Inits strategy paper, IDA defineda poverty reduction strategy focusedon accelerating economic
growth. Its development framework comprised three supporting pillars: (1) improve economic
governance; (2) create the conditions for rapid private sector led poverty-reducing growth,
particularly inthe non-oil economy; and (3) enable local communities to take charge o f their own
development. Assistance to achieve the development objectives under the first and thirdpillars
are to be provided through a combination o f lending and non-lending services including those for
economic management capacity building; sectoral programs on education, health, energy, water
and transport; and community driven projects.

This M S M E Project, which is an integralpart o f the World Bank Group' support to the
Government o fNigeria, will focus on the second pillar o f this strategy and will complement the
IDA Privatization Support Project currently being implemented, the Competitiveness Forum
Working Group, and the Lagos Strategy initiatives. The Project was developed following a
request by the Federal Government o f Nigeria (FGN) to participate in ajoint International
Development Association (IDA)/International Finance Corporation (IFC) Micro, Small and
MediumEnterprise Development Pilot Program for Africa (26114-AFR,henceforth Pilot
Program). This Pilot Program i s designed to accelerate private sector growth inAfrica by
leveraging World Bank Group instruments - particularly those o f IFC and IDA - and
international best practices.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Economic and Sector Work that underpins this project reveals a non-oil private sector that
faces major development challenges (see Annex 8). Findingsfrom these initiatives reveal that the
Nigerian private sector suffers from highcosts and lack o f competitiveness. The productivity o f
Nigerian manufacturing firms relative to other countries inAfrica and Asia i s low and has been
deteriorating over time. Capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector i s only 52 percent on
average. Between 1980 and 1994, Nigeria's private sector investments averaged 7 percent o f
GDP per annum (based on the World Bank's estimates), well below the average 20 percent
invested by the world's fastest growing economies. Major constraints to private business in
Nigeria were identified and include macroeconomic uncertainty, particularly inflation and interest
rate trends and exchange rate volatility; a weak financial system; poor infrastructure (roads,
railways, ports, airports, telecommunications); a restrictive business climate (onerous customs
procedures, lack o f availability o f export credit, multiple licensing and regulation requirements);
security concerns; low quality education and skills training; distorted trade and tariff policies; and
competition from public enterprises (there are 1,500 public enterprises employing two-thirds o f
the non-governmental formal sector labor force and receiving, over the years, about US$90billion
ininvestmentresources, over 50 percent o ftotal investment inthe private sector).




                                                    - 3 -

The Government's development strategy, articulated in a document entitled "Nigeria Economic
Policy and Strategy: The Way Forward", was prepared in September 2000 and includes the
following central elements: (i)   strengthening the fledgling democracy, improving security, and
safeguarding political and social stability (including promoting transparency, anti-corruption
measures and the rule of law); (ii)  pursuingstructural reforms that redefine andreduce the role o f
government within the economy and promote the private sector; (iii)      rehabilitating and improving
physical infrastructure to facilitate economic activity and access by the poor; and (iv) investing in
education, health and other social services to lay a solid foundation for longer-term growth but
also to buildthe capacity to fight immediate threats to the country's well being such as malaria
and the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The following priorities were highlighted inthe strategy paper: (i)
improving economic governance; (ii)     increasing private sector-led growth; (iii)providing critical
services to Nigerians, both poor and non-poor; and (iv) improving education and changing values.
Since the advent o f the second Obasanjo Presidency, the economic team has been leading an
exercise to prepare a "National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy" (NEEDS)
that will represent also the country's PRSP. MSMEs are identified as a core element o f the
NEEDS.

The Government has undertaken a number o f initiatives intended to support the private sector and
MSMEs. Following the modification o f the institutional framework for the Nigerian Investment
Promotion Commission, the Commission was reorganizedand more pro-private sector leaders
were appointed inmanagement and inthe Board o f Directors. In2003, the Government passed
legislation to establish the Small and Medium Enterprise Development Agency o f Nigeria
(SMEDAN). The Small and Medium IndustriesEquity Investment Scheme (SMIEIS), which
requires banks to set aside 10 percent o f their profits before tax to invest in small and medium
scale industries, was introduced in2001. In2002, the Bank o f Industrywas created as a result o f
the merger o f the Nigeria IndustrialDevelopment Bank (NIDB), Nigeria Bank for Commerce and
Industry(NBCI), and the Nigerian Economic Reconstruction Fund(NERFUND). Government
programs continue to support the privatization o f public enterprises, regulatory reforms and
provisions for vocational training schools, technology incubation centers, and other training
activities intended to raise the productivity o f Nigerian workers. The impact o f these initiatives to
date has been limited. This reflects, in some instances, the relatively recent start-up o f these
initiatives. In other cases, the Government of Nigeria has indicated the need to strengthen private
sector performance through greater exposure to world-wide best practices and through
appropriate replication within Nigeria. This i s particularly at issue indelineating the roles o f the
private and public sectors. While in a number o f cases the current generation o f initiatives remain
rooted ina public sector approach to M S M E development, the FGNhas expressed interest in
pursuingthe more private sector-led, market development approach that characterizes the
strategic shift proposed in this M S M E Project.




                                                  - 4 -

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Givenpolicy, market and institutionalconstraints inNigeria, a key strategic choice is to isolate
and tackle some o f the more amenable problems, where there i s a higher probability o f achieving
results over the short term. Ineach instance, there needs to be: (i)  market or institutional gaps;
(ii)models and practices that have been successfully tested elsewhere that can be introduced into
Nigeria as a means to close these gaps; (iii) clear potential impact at the level o f the MSMEs.
This includes constraints to M S M E access to the financial products and business "know-how"
that firms require for growth and productivity. It also encompasses investment climate obstacles
and institutional weaknesses within selected agencies o f the public sector.

(0       Thespecific MSME issues in Nigeria are asfollows:

Poor access tofinance: 85 percent o f all Nigerian manufacturing firms have access only to
short-term credit, mostly from costly overdrafts. Restricted access i s less due to a shortage o f
liquidity inthe banking system than a combination o f systemic issues such as: (i)    government
over-borrowing; (ii) MSMEs are perceived as highcredit risks; (iii)   insufficient capacity in
commercial banks to develop financial products and services responsive to the needs o f MSMEs
and to evaluate and monitor effectively a small loans' portfolio. Elsewhere inthe world, these
sorts of obstacles have been addressed through a mix of: (1) macro-economic reforms; (2) new
technologies and approaches to mitigate credit risk; and (3) know-how transfer to MSMEs.
While the proposed project will not be addressing macro-economic issues, it will be seeking to
broaden and deepen financial intermediation to MSMEs through the introduction o f new financial
institutions, products and tools. This will be done via technical partners that have a proven track
record in addressing these obstacles. Interventions will address the shortage o f short, medium and
long term finance available to MSMEs by supporting sustainable institutions and profitable
lending windows within private financial institutions. Inaddition, the project will finance technical
assistance to establish credit bureaus and support leasing companies where there i s interest from
private investors and evidence that such time bound and targeted support i s critical to ensure their
commercial sustainability. This support would also require that key changes to the tax, legal, and
regulatory environment are implementedto ensure the development effectiveness o f any capacity
buildingsupport to these institutions.

Lack of access to businessdevelopment services: MSMEs' productivity inNigeria i s
constrained by lack o f access to critical know-how, including: (1) appropriate technology, market
information, and linkages; (2) product development and marketing; (3) human resource
management; (4) quality management and efficient production systems; and (5) accounting and
financial management. For a number o f reasons, these BDS are not available inthe quantity, price
and quality range required by MSMEs. Local Business Development Services (BDS) providers -
which can include specialized consulting firms and individuals, formal education institutions,
business membership organizations, Non-Governmental Orginazitions (NGOs), and firms within
the value chain such as input suppliers - have limited capacity or lack the necessary skills to offer
products that are appropriately tailored for MSMEs. This i s particularly true for sector-specific
technical training. Most providers tend to use off-the-shelf products that are usually created for
larger, more formal businesses. On the demand side, MSMEs make little use o f business
development services, partly because they feel unable to afford such services and partly because


                                                 - 5 -

they lack information about these services and the benefits they can derive from their use. The
project will foster a supply response -through support to BDS providers -to provide
high-priority know-how to MSMEs intargeted industryvalue-chains as well as to stimulate the
provision o f new BDS products in markets where excess demand i s identified.

Constraints in the investment climate: While the most significant obstacles facing MSMEs in
Nigeria are poor infrastructure services and macro-economic policies, there are a range o f other
legal, regulatory, and institutional constraints inthe investment climate. These constraints hinder
firmperformance by encouraging firms to remain inthe informal sector andby discouraging
financial and non-financial service providers from respondingto the MSMEmarket. Under this
project, with a mix of technical assistance and institutional capacity building,the Federal
Government o f Nigeria will aim to tackle a number o f these constraints: (i)  disincentives in
business and tax registrationprocedures; (ii)   weaknesses inthe commercial dispute resolution
process; and (iii)selected laws and regulations affecting the financial sector (particularly leasing,
collateral and credit bureaus). These constraints to the investment climate are amenable to
measurable improvements over the short-to-medium term.

Limitations topublic-private sector dialogue: The public sector has an important role in
providing support to MSME development where there are clear market failure issues to be
addressed. This role i s not always well-defined, nor i s it a straightforward task to correctly
calibrate the public intervention. Too often good intentions can lead public sector institutions to
undertake activities that crowd out market solutions. Inefficient and unsustainable results are a
common outcome. This inturn leads to cynicism and resignationinpublic-private dialogue with
both sectors working uneasily and ineffectively together. The Nigerian Government's strategy i s
to open up public institutions to international lessons learned in MSME development. By linking
this to performance-based capacity buildingsupport, government agencies can be effectively
supported in implementing change programs designed to bring operations in line with global best
practice. This project will work with selected institutions inNigeria at the Federal and State
levels, supporting them to realize the demonstration effects that will leverage smarter and more
effective partnerships with the private sector.

Whether addressing financial or non-financial constraints, this project i s essentially one o f dealing
with market failure. These failures come invarious forms. There are the information asymmetries
that increase risk and reduce supply o f financial services and uptake o f BDS. Demand for BDS i s
also reduced as a result o f the externality problems that can accompany training and capacity
buildingprograms. The upshot is that firms are constrained intheir capacity to present bankable
projects to financial institutions, obtain finance and to handle the external funding obtained. The
project will aim to correct for these market failures through the provision o f time-bound and
transparent grants to financial services and BDS providers and other technical assistance to
address related investment climate and institutional constraints . The challenge i s to deploy this
support inways that maximize outreach, sustainability, and impact - that foster rather than
undermine commercial market development.




                                                  - 6 -

(io      Strategic Choices: Piloting Best Practices and Learning Principles and First Movers
                                                                          -

Inline with the umbrellaPilot Program, this project is buildingon bestpractice andlessons
learned inAfrica and globally. This entails three major operating tenets interms o f the use o f
grant subsidies: (1) a strong private sector orientation- minimizing project management and
intermediation through the public sector; (2) the project targets intermediaries providing services
to MSMEsrather than the MSME itself, ie., it i s the intermediary, not the MSME,that i s the
primary direct beneficiary of project funds; and (3) project funding allocations for the provision o f
services to MSMEs - be it to private or public institutions, or to NGOs - are to be governed by
core criteria: the assistance provided to these beneficiaries will be: (i) on compliance with
                                                                            based
strict technical eligibility criteria that reflect best practice; (ii)
                                                                     delivered via performance grant
agreements that focus on sustainability and outreach.

By going upstreamwith a variety of suppliers (selected on the basis ofrigorously monitored
performance targets focused on achieving commercial viability) and requiring "cost sharing" from
intermediaries receiving grant support, there i s an increased expectation that the services
supported by the project will be sustained over the longer run, once the project funding has
concluded. The draft o f the core eligibility and performance criteria against which beneficiary
applications for funding would be assessed are provided in Annex 11. This includes specifications
o f the level o f cost-sharing required. Inthe case of the providers, this i s being targeted at 50
percent in line with current practices with "Matching Grant" programs in Africa.

Additionally, a choice has been made to target three to four industries in specific regions (targeted
states include Lagos, Abia and Kaduna where there are highconcentrations o f MSMEs,which are
the project's end beneficiaries) and to implement a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation
program inthese areas. Industries will be selected based on the following criteria:


         highgrowth potential
         size o f the industry (contribution to GDP) and geographical distribution.
         number o f MSMEs in the value chain and MSME employment

         technical assistance can help MSMEs achieve the above goal - there are no structural
         potential for local MSMEsto capture more value added

constraints outside the scope o f the project that would prevent success
         commitment o f key industry stakeholders

Finally, the project involves a new collaboration between IDA and IFC which i s intended to
provide a learning agenda o f successful commercial approaches to MSME development. To keep
this learningagenda at the forefront, the project will at its outset undertake to implement some
"first mover" initiatives. These initiatives are designed to provide demonstration opportunities
that will help to establish a commitment among succeeding beneficiaries to the mainstreaming of
internationally recognized best practice models and the mobilization o f increased private sector
investments into MSME development. To this end and, subject to the agreement and due



                                                     - 7 -

diligence o f the Federal Government o f Nigeria, initial allocations o f funding will be made to
provide capacity building and technical assistance support to the following "first movers"
covering all components o f the project:

Access to Finance:
       A proposal from a group of Nigerian commercial banks, their technical partner/investor,
Americans for Community Cooperationin Other Nations (ACCION), and International Finance
Corporation (IFC) to establish a new microfinance company;

BusinessDevelopment Services (BDS):
       Proposals from two BDS providers, Support and Training Entrepreneurship Program
(STEP) and the FATE Foundation to pilot commercial BDS provision intarget States;
        Support to BDS providers operating at critical points inthe catfish farming value chain
where the potential exists for MSMEs to increase performance and capture an increased share o f
value-added.

Investment Climate:
       Business registration reforms with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) and the
Federal InlandRevenue Service (FIRS).

Public-Private Dialogue:
       Public-private capacity buildinginitiatives with the Small and MediumEnterprises
Development Agency o f Nigeria (SMEDAN) and the Nigerian Investment Promotion
Commission (NIPC).

The access to finance and BDS "first mover" initiatives involve IFC partners. This is being done
because o f the potentially strong impact that these initiatives can have on overall project
performance. The arrival o f internationally recognizedpractitioners and investors such as
ACCION and IFC into the Nigerian micro-finance sector will provide a strong positive message
to other partners and investors, strengthening market confidence. Additionally, these initiatives,
including with the BDS providers, will be used for training purposes to assist project
stakeholders (both implementing agents, such as Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission
(NIPC) and the Project Management Unit (PMU), and other potential beneficiaries) to develop
their understanding and expertise with performancegrant agreements and commercial approaches
that combine sustainability and outreach targets.

The IFC partner intermediaries involved inthe first moving initiatives will be requiredto fully
satisfy the applicable eligibility and performance criteria and comply with the established remedy
procedures in the event o f non-performance as would be applied to any other subsequent
beneficiaries. These eligibility and performance criteria are set out inAnnex 11. Full disclosures
and mitigation actions for potential conflicts o f interest regarding potential IFC investments and
IFC partners that could benefit from funding through this project are set out inAnnex 15.




                                                 - a -

C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detaileddescription andAnnex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
The project will comprise five components: (i) to finance; (ii)
                                                  access                  business development
services; (iii)investment climate; (iv) public/private sector partnership development; and (v)
monitoring and evaluation.

ProjectComponent 1: Access to Finance (IDA US$10 million; Other US$23 million)

This component will seek to deepen andbroaden the financial services available to MSMEs. This
will be achieved through the provision o f grants to assist qualifying institutions and companies to
provide up to four types o f commercially sustainable financial services to MSMEs. These grants
will be usedto finance technical and capacity buildingassistance to the providers. The allocation
and disbursement o f these grants will be governed by conformity to eligibility criteria and
performance targets, as set out inperformance agreements to be signed between the financial
intermediary and the Government executing agent or its designated representative, i.e. the Project
Management Unit. This component will support the following activities:

(a)       Establishment of local commercially viable, regulated, micro-finance companies. IDA
resources will be available to cover the provision o f technical experts, operational and some
capital costs over an initial period untilthe micro finance companies build up their loan portfolio
and sufficient funds to cover their operational and capacity buildingrequirements. Allocations
from the project will be based on conformity with eligibility and performance criteria based on
CGAP best practices and industry standards. A "first mover" inthe form o f an initiative led by a
number o f Nigerian commercial banks together with ACCION International, incollaboration with
IFC, i s under consideration for funding, subject to fulfillment o f the eligibility and performance
requirements. The intention i s for this initiative to "set the bar" interms o f conformity to the
eligibility and performance criteria established for this project sub-component. Subsequent
allocations from this project component for the establishment of additional micro-finance
companies will be determined on the basis o f proposals submitted inresponse to requests for
expressions o f interest to potential investors and technical partners. These proposals will be
assessedon basis o f the same established eligibility and performance criteria.

(b)      Technical skills transfer programs that incorporate new systems and lending
methodologies to support commercial banks to expand their loan portfolio to MSMEs. This
technical assistance and capacity building support will be available based on : (i)cost-sharing
arrangements, reflecting participating banks' strong corporate commitment to extend further into
the MSME credit market (outreach); and (ii)performance agreement that incorporates
                                                 a
commercial banks' adoption o f best practices that would lead to sustainable operations.

(c)      Support for the establishment o f private credit bureau(s) over an initial set-up period until
a bureau establishes a revenue flow from its services. Such support would be based on specific
commercial sustainability and related outreach criteria. There is currently a potential investor
specialized in credit bureaus - incollaboration with IFC - considering a possible investment in a
new credit bureau inNigeria. Inview o f the existence o f a credit risk management system



                                                  - 9 -

(CRMS) within the Central Bank o f Nigeria, stakeholders will also be investigating the options
and feasibility o f a public-private sector collaboration consistent with the objective o f establishing
a commercially sustainable credit bureau. The project will also be assessing the legal and other
enabling changes that are required for a private sector credit bureau to be able to succeed
commercially.

(d)      Specialized technical assistance to selected firms providing long-term leasing services.
This support would be subject to eligibility and performance criteria. For this sub-component to
be activated, key reforms inthe legal, tax and regulatory environment will need first to be
addressed.

Over the start-up phase of the project, the primary focus will be on the first o f these four services,
Le., the establishment o f microfinance companies. This recognizes the fact that the enabling
environment for the creation o f micro-finance companies i s supportive. The Nigeria "Banks and
Other Financial Institutions " decree allows for the provision o f a finance company license that
entails minimumcapital requirements suitable to micro-finance operations. Additionally, the
Central Bank o f Nigeria has recently supported actions that allow commercial banks to invest in
micro-finance companies (see Section C. 2 below). Finally, there i s good evidence that sound
technical partners as well as investors are inthe market looking to collaborate inthis arena. Once
further analysis i s completed on the market players and enabling environment for the other
services, the project will extend its reach into these other service areas.

Project Component2: BusinessDevelopmentServices (IDA US$12 million, Other US$4
million)

This component will seek to develop the market for business development services (BDS) by
supporting intermediaries to respond to unmet MSME demand for BDS focusing on the three
target States. This will be done through the provision o f grants and technical assistance to
qualifying institutions and companies to develop products and to strengthen their operations in
order to be able to respond commercially and over a sustained period to market demand. The
grants will be used to finance capacity building assistance to the providers. The allocation and
disbursement o f these grants will be governed by conformity to eligibility criteria and performance
targets, respectively, as set out inperformance agreements to be signed between the intermediary
and the Government executing agent or its designated representative, Le., the Project
Management Unit (PMU).

The project will support two broad categories o f interventions:

 (a)    IndustrySupply-Chain Development: the project will combine an industryfocus and
market development approach to the provision of BDS. Specific initiatives will be supported
based on: (i) identification o f industries with growth potential; (ii) analysis o f the constraints
                                                                       an
that firms along the supply-chain inthe industry are facing; and (iii)  the implementation o f
sustainable and cost effective mechanisms to increase the quality and availability o f BDS as well
as the demand for such services. IDA funds will be made available to support, e.g., enterprise
service product development, market and technology information service development and


                                                 - 10-

mainstreaming, and membership activities o f industry and other related business associations in
order to improve the availability and quality o f inputsand services demanded by MSMEs seeking
to grow their business within the industryvalue chain.

(b)      BDS Fund - IDA resources will be utilized to buildthe capacity o f BDS providers to
develop certain core products to meet excess M S M E demand intargeted States. Requests for
fundingproposals from BDS providers seeking to deliver these services into the target markets
will be launched semi-annually. Successful beneficiaries will needto demonstrate: (1) clear
market demand for the service proposed; (2) lowest cost compliance with technical criteria; (3)
substantiated evidence that they possess -or have a credible program to develop- the institutional
capacity to deliver on a performance-based agreement; and (4) a business strategy for commercial
viability. Inthe initial start-up phase of the Fund, FGNconcurrence i s being sought to provide
fundingto selectedIFC BDS partners subject to conformity with agreed-upon eligibility and
performance criteria. The intention i s for these first moving initiatives to provide a demonstration
effect. Subsequent allocations from this project component will be based on the semi-annual
qualification process.

Some services required under this component will be contracted in accordance with IDA
procurement procedures, rather than through a performance grant agreement. This will be the
case where the service required has a large "public good" content and i s clearly not amenable to
cost recovery from the sale of the service to MSMEs, e.g., market surveys and other research and
analytical work.

A learning agenda will also be drawn from the lessons learned from these two BDS components.
The recently created Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency o f Nigeria (SMEDAN)
will be responsible for taking a lead on this learning agenda, including its mainstreamingthrough
the planned Annual M S M E Competitiveness Report and related activities that SMEDAN will be
preparing and organizing, in collaboration with other M S M E stakeholders with support from this
project (see Component 4).

Over the initial start-up phase, the project will focus on: (1) industry, BDS market and product
assessments; and (2) mobilization o f first moving activities, including inthe catfish farming
industryand with the BDS intermediaries STEP and FATEFoundation (subject to these
organizations satisfying the eligibility and performance criteria established for the BDS Fund).

ProjectComponent3: InvestmentClimate (IDA US%5.1million, Others UW0.7 million)

Technical and capacity building support will be provided through the IDA credit to assist in the
following initiatives o f the Government o f Nigeria.

(a)      RegistrationReform: project resources will be utilized to: (1) streamline the company
registrationprocess and modernize and decentralize the information systems o f the Corporate
Affairs Commission (CAC); (2) facilitate the creation in some businessmembership organizations
o f the necessary infrastructure to assist local enterprises access CAC's services; and (3) conduct
awareness raising programs to increase MSMEs' understandingon the role and services o f C A C


                                                  - 11 -

and the benefits o f registration. The project will also explore opportunities to streamline the
overall business registrationprocess by combining company, tax/VAT, and foreign direct
investment registrations.

(b)      Commercial Dispute Resolution: IDA resources would finance, inpartnership with and
buildingon the work done to date by other stakeholders, an in-depth assessment o f alternative

resolution - including arbitral enforcement - can be improved inways that can measurably lower
dispute resolution (ADR) mechanisms and other means through which commercial dispute

the burden and risks faced by MSMEs seeking legal recourse inNigeria. On the basis o f this
assessment and discussions with relevant stakeholders inthe target states, it i s envisioned that a
program o f initiatives will be developed to facilitate improvements in commercial dispute
resolution for MSMEs within Nigeria. These initiatives could include train-the-trainer programs
for alternative dispute resolution mechanisms (such as mediation and arbitration), court watch,
and other judicial benchmarking activities.

(c)      Leasing Services:    Further to a diagnostic study into the leasing industry that has been
completed during the preparation o f the IDA credit, IDA resources would finance agreed upon
technical assistance work for developing the laws and regulations together with a training
program to ensure that the opportunities and implications o f the legal and regulatory reforms are
fully understood by relevant stakeholders including financial institutions, MSMEs, commercial
lawyers, judges, tax authorities, and other relevant agencies o f government. The project will also
support efforts to strengthen public-private dialogue on the further development o f a
market-driven commercial leasing industry, including with ELAN(Equipment Leasing
Association o f Nigeria).

(d)      Credit Bureau: The credit risk management system (CRMS) currently operated by the
Central Bank o f Nigeria (CBN) has not managedto generate demand from the banking
community and has, to date, been usedprincipally to assist the C B N in its supervisory functions.
An IFC-financed study, which will further document the experiences with the CRMS, will make
recommendations on the advisability of and investor interest inestablishing a private credit
bureau. Project resources would be available to develop and implement the legal reforms
necessary to facilitate improvements inthe enabling environment that would strengthen the
commercial viability o f possible private sector bureaus and utilization o f credit bureau services.

(e)      Secured Transaction System: A study on the improvement o f the legal moveable
collateral regime i s underway. The study will assess the requirements and options for the
development o f a system which includes efficient procedures for collateral registration as the basis
for resolving priority disputes and, in case of default under the financing agreement, enforcement
of rights against moveable collateral. The assessment will also look at the feasibility and options
for designing a regime that can allow for enforcement o f rightsthrough a private contractual
arrangement without recourse to the justice system and, as an alternative, through.expeditious
summary court proceedings. Fundingwould be made available for the design and implementation
o f a viable regime, including hardware and software system that could be used for an integrated
registrationcovering various forms o f moveable collateral (including leasing). IDA resources will
be provided also to develop the necessary laws and regulations, facilitate the mainstreaming



                                                 - 1 2 -

through seminars and capacity buildingactivities with principal stakeholders.

Over the start up phase o f this project, the focus will be on implementing the business registration
sub-component, which i s the "first mover" under this Investment Climate component. As the
initial assessment work and stakeholder consultations are completed, these other components
(commercial dispute resolution, leasing, credit bureau and secured transactions) will be defined
and made operational. The emphasis for this component is to identify specific constraints facing
MSMEs within the investment climate and address them in targeted ways that result inmeasurable
benefits to the M S M E sector.

ProjectComponent 4: PubIidPrivateSectorPartnershipDevelopment(IDA US$1million,Others
UWO.1million)

IDA resources will be allocatedto provide selected Federal and target State Government
Agencies with M S M E development responsibilities the opportunity to access global best
practices. Specifically, advisory services would be available to provide best practice
capacity-building to institutions with policy and related responsibilities for the M S M E sector.
This will include seminars and other focused short-term in-country training and study tours linked
to the mainstreamingof best practices in access to finance, BDS, investment climate and
promotion o f private investment into the M S M E sector. This learning agenda will be tailored to
the preparation o f an annual M S M E Competitiveness Report that will involve close public-private
collaboration. Target FGN institutions can chose to opt-in to a two-phase program o f capacity
building. The first phase entails an institutional assessment o fthe role, responsibilities, modus
operandi, and a preliminary assessment o f performance relative to best practice benchmarks. The
second phase involves the provision o f more extended technical assistance which would support
the institutionto develop and implement a business plan to improve institutional effectiveness
through the strengthening and/or reform o f selected programs and operations that impact the
private sector.

Over the initial phase o f the project, the capacity buildingwill focus primarily on the Small and
Medium Enterprise Development Agency (SMEDAN) and the Nigeria Investment Promotion
Commission (NIPC). Duringthe first year o f project implementation diagnostic work will be
undertakenwith the relevant government agencies in the target States to determine what support
can be provided to best assist in augmenting effective dialogue and consultations with the private
sector in order to improve the business climate for MSMEs. This will be closely linked to the
completion o f regular cost of doing business surveys.

Project Component 5: ProjectManagement,Monitoringand Evaluation(IDA US$2.3
million,Others US0.2 million)

IDA funds will be allocated to finance the execution, reporting, review (semi-annual and
mid-term)and monitoring of project components and independent evaluations o f selected issues,
particularly through case studies. Provisions will also be made for equipment and operational
costs and other financial, audit, training and consultant assignments as required and laid out in the
approved annual procurement plan.



                                                  - 13-

Approximately US$1.6 million will remain unallocated but available to finance the above
components, subject to results from project monitoring and evaluation reports. The allocation for
the project components includes a Project Preparation Facility amounting to US$600,000.


                                                             Indicative               Bank-         % of
                        Component                              costs       %of      financing      Bank-
                                                              (US$M)      Total      (US$M)      financing
 Access to Finance                                              33.00        55.0       10.00         31.3
 Business Development Services                                  16.00        26.7       12.00         37.5
 InvestmentClimate                                                5.80        9.7       5.10          15.9
 PublicPrivate PartnershipDevelopment                             1.10        1.8        1.oo          3.1
 Project Management, Monitoring, Evaluation                       2.50        4.2       2.30           7.2
 Unallocated                                                      1.60        2.7        1.60          5.0
                                         Total Project Costs    60.00       100.0       32.00        100.0
                                 Total Financing Required       60.00        100.0      32.00        100.0

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project focus is principally at micro-economic firm level through a private sector driven
strengthening and creation o f institutions that provide services to MSMEs. Attention i s being
paid to ensure that project targets - interms o f firm performance and capacity building to
intermediary institutions - can be met within the existing broader macro-economic and
institutional environment. As a result, the project will not operate in industryvalue-chains where
these broader issues currently present a significant risk to project effectiveness, nor will it seek to
develop institutions where the core policy, legal and regulatory environment i s not propitious.
However, where modest changes to existing policies, laws and regulations can make it possible
for the project to carve out an effective role, every effort will be made to bring about these
changes.

This is the case for the SMIEIS initiative, where the Central Bank o f Nigeria, incooperation with
the Banker's Committee, have agreed to revise the SMIEIS guidelines to allow for commercial
banks to invest up to 10 percent o f the funds generated by this program inMFIs. Inresponse a
number o f commercial banks inNigeria are investigatingthe potential o f establishing new
micro-finance companies (including those that are considering an investment with ACCION and
IFC. Other banks are consideringthe development o f downscale small business lending
operations. Similar such initiatives are being considered by other investors and technical partners.
This proposedproject seeks to encourage these efforts through the support it can provide inthe
set-up stage o f such ventures.

Inadditionto these policy and institutionalreforms, other selectedmeso-levelreforms are being
targeted by the project. This includes legal and regulatory changes to business registration
procedures, leasing and collateral laws and practices and commercial dispute resolution. The
successful implementation o f changes in these areas can lay the foundation for further institution



                                                 - 1 4 -

and market buildingin support o f M S M E development.

3. Benefits and target population:

intermediationand BDS provision in support o f the M S M E sector. This - together with
The Project i s expected to foster a vibrant and commercially sustainable deepening o f financial

improvements inthe financial legal environment, reforms to business registration and commercial
dispute resolution - will serve to generate investment, employment creation and productivity
improvements in the M S M E sector, particularly in target industries and in selected States o f Abia,
Kaduna and Lagos.

The project would provide significant benefits to the following three primary groups:

         Firm: MSMEs inthe non-oil sector, where the MSME is defined inaccordance with the
expanded definition o f MSMEs provided inthe Small and Medium Industries Equity Investment
Scheme (SMIEIS) adopted inNigeria in 1999. This includes any enterprise with a
maximum o f 300 employees and an asset base o f up to Naira 200 million, excluding land and
working capital.
         Market Intermediary: Institutions and enterprises providing financial and non-financial
services to the MSMEs, particularly those providers operating in the target States.
         Government: Selected FGNagencies with responsibilities for MSME development.

Secondary beneficiaries will include employees o f MSMEs, intermediaries and government
agencies receiving support directly or indirectly from the project. The project will contribute to
poverty reduction through the impact that project-induced M S M Ejob creation has on poor
households and the extent to which improved products being provided by M S M E project
beneficiaries are consumed by these households.

It is not possible ex-ante to provide a detailed indication o f the numbers o f firms and
intermediaries that are to benefit from the project (refer to Annex 16). This will be determined
over time as target industries are identified and the activities required to support their growth are
defined. As a result o f the reforms to the registration system which will bringmore firms into the
formal sector, plus increased revenues o f existing formal firms and intermediaries supported by
the project, it is anticipated that there will also be a positive tax revenue stream flowing from the
project's activities.


4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:


Implementation Period:           Five years June 2004 - June 2009.

Implementation Arrangements:              The overriding principle guiding the institutional and
implementation arrangements for the project i s the government's delegation o f maximum feasible
operational independence and responsibility to the private sector. A schemata o f the project's
implementation structure i s set out inthe table below and Annexes 13 and 14 further describe the
institutional arrangements.


                                                   - 15-

             Nigeria MSME Project Implementation Organigram


                                                  Financial Management               Review Committee
                                                                                   public-private membership

                 Special Account


                                       Project Management Unit:
                 Procurement; Communications, Monitoring and Evaluation, BDS Fund, TA



 I Access To Finance I I BDS lndustrv I
                              -             1   BDSFund      I
     Microfinance                               Proposal 1           Registration              Proposal 1



                             Industry 3         Proposal 3

     Leasing co.
     -                       Industry 4         Proposal 4           Credit Bureau &
                                                                     Leasing                   Proposal 4
                                                               I  '                  I


                 FundsFlow
                 Functional Relationship                             Transactions




        The Nigerian Investment Promotion Council (NIPC) will serve as Government's executing
agency (EA). The NIPC will have project oversight responsibilities on behalf o f the FGNand will
be the contractual client ofthe PMU. It will provide the financial management services for the
project. The NIPC will also be responsible for coordination across Federal and State Government
agencies inrespect o f the project activities and will participate as a member o f the Review
Committee. For an interim period - in order to allow for more immediate start-up of project
activities - the NIPC will perform the P M U functions, untilthe P M U can be recruited and
established. Support to ensure appropriate implementation capacity exists inNIPC will be
provided through the Project PreparationFacility.
        A Review Committee, comprising a majority o frepresentatives from the private sector as
well as key government representatives (NIPC, CBN, MOF), will: (1) provide strategic guidance
to the EA; (2) review and select fundingproposals in accordance with the Project Implementation
Manual; (3) review the annual progress reports; and (4) address any major problems affecting
project implementation.
        A PMU, which will be a private sector firm (competitively selected), will ensure that the
operational, monitoring, reporting, procurement and outreach and communications requirements
of the project are implemented inaccordance with the Credit Agreement and the Project
ImplementationManual (PIM). It will also provide selected technical expertise, particularly to
the BDS and monitoring and evaluation components o f the project. At the conclusion o f the



                                                   - 16-

project, it i s anticipated that the P M U will cease to exist and the activities that it has been
supporting through project funds would continue to be provided, where required, on a
commercial basis.

These three entities will be strengthened on a continuous basis through appropriate training. The
delivery o f the technical services providedby the project will be primarily through
performance-based contracts and grant agreements with firms and other organizations (business
membership organizations, NGOs). Inaddition, certain core expertise will be provided directly by
the PMU. This includes a BDS specialist to manage the BDS Fundwithin the P M U and provide
other BDS technical services related to the industry component.

A Project Implementation Manual has been draftedby NIPC andwill be finalized betweenNIPC
and the P M U in consultation with IDNIFC. This Manual will provide: (i)           a detailed description
of the roles and responsibilities o f the implementing agents (NIPC, P M U and RC); (ii)       the
institutional and operational guidelines for each component o f the project including a procedures
manual for the grant component o f the project; (iii)    a specification o f the different activities, types
and sources o f technical expertise, budget requirements and delivery milestones for the first year
o f initiatives to be launchedunder each project component; and (iv) detailedproject performance
framework (indicators and targets) and implementationmanual.

The implementation o f the grants components o f the project will be in accordance with a Grant
Procedures Manual that will be incorporatedin the Project Implementation Manual. The key
features o f the grants procedure are: (i) allocations under the Access to Finance and BDS
components o f the project made on the basis o f eligibility and performance criteria and disbursed
based on measurable triggers set out in a performance agreement; (ii)         review o f proposals for both
access to finance and BDS by the PMU, with technical advice from specialists provided through
the project; (iii)  the Executing Agent will review and approve all allocations for amounts over
$100,000 up to $150,000 and the Review Committee will review and approve all allocations over
$150,000 subject to Executing Agent's recommendation. Below this amount the P M U will be
responsible for finalizing allocations under the grant program; (iv) there will be semi-annual
reviews o f the grant program portfolio by the Review Committee. This will also allow for an
ongoing assessment o f the PMU performance managing the grant operations in order to ensure
that the grant program stays on track and remedial actions can be taken promptly as required.

Project Monitoring and Evaluation: NIPC, the PMU and the RC will meet twice a year to
review progress inproject implementation, share accomplishments, identify problems and agree
on remedial actions. IDA supervision missions will be scheduled to coincide with these
consultative reviews. A mid-termreview will be conducted to evaluate progress on
implementation and determine whether the project should further extend its operations
countrywide within 24 months after effectiveness, seek supplemental funding, or refocus.

Quarterly progress reports will provide the basis for project monitoring and operational reviews.
The P M U will be responsible for monitoring project activities and the EA will monitor overall
project progress in line with the PIM and annual workplans. Project evaluations - addressing
efficiency,  effectiveness and impact criteria - will be carried out by independent specialists in



                                                   - 17-

accordance with the performance framework and its implementation plan. The P M U will be
tasked with developing and populating the database required for the evaluation plan to be
implemented. RPED will assist inthe development o f the performance framework and data
requirements and the costhenefit analysis undertaken o f project impact.

The evaluation plan will include bi-annual independent operational audits o f efficiency and
effectiveness parameters o f the project. The first o f these audits will be prepared for the
Mid-Term Review. A key challenge for the project will be to assess project impact. This will
require, inter alia, a determination be made as to whether the grant provided by the Government
through this IDA credit resultedin sustained improvements in firm performance, additional to
what would have been achieved without the subsidy. To address this question it i s necessary to
compare with both "before and after" (assess target firms benefiting from the project both ex
ante and ex post) and "with and without" (assess target firms performance relative to those who
have not benefited from the project) controls. Two other major issues will need to be borne in
mindwhen trying to isolate the effects o f the project: (i) needto control for other factors in
                                                            the
the enabling environment that may be affecting firm performance, inaddition to the project; (ii)
the difficulties posed by selection bias, inthat firms benefiting from the project will tend to be
ones that are more successful in the first place, bringinginto question the additionality generated
by the project grant (refer to Annex 12) .

Financial Management Arrangements. The Finance Department o f NIPC (FDNIPC) will be
responsible for managing the financial affairs o f the project. F D N I P C i s staffed by relevant
qualified accountants. Modern internal audit functions would be performed by the Internal Audit
Unito fNIPC (IAUNIPC). FDNIPC will be responsible for ensuring compliance with the
financial management requirements o f the Bank and the Government, including forwarding the
quarterly financial monitoring reports and audited annual financial statements to IDA. The project
will follow disbursement procedures described inthe World Bank DisbursementHandbook.
Regarding flow o f funds and banking arrangements, IDA will disburse the credit through a Special
Account (SA) maintained for the project by FDNIPC. Also, F D N I P C will maintain adequate FM
arrangements to support the deployment o f project resources in an economic, efficient and
effective manner to achieve the stated development objectives. The arrangements will also provide
relevant information to NIPC and R C to facilitate the performance o f their oversight functions.
Experiencedand well qualified external auditors will be appointed (on a TOR acceptable to IDA)
to audit project accounts, financial statements and transactions irrespective o f the source o f
financing.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Considerationwas given to a Private Sector Development (PSD) project comprising a more
integrated program o f policy and institutional reform in support o f private sector development.
Such an operation would require a longer preparatory time. Inview o f the World Bank Group's
interest in showing support to the private sector reform agenda o f the new Federal administration
and the additionalpolicy dialogue and implementation hurdles involved ina larger, more complex
program, it was decided that the best approach was a two step action.


                                                  - 18-

The first step would be to initiate a more narrowly focused capacity buildingproject targeting the
crucial M S M E sector through more incremental and transactional activities. Diagnostics and
consultations in Nigeria revealed a strong stakeholder demand to see the World Bank Group
engaged inthis sector o f the economy. Such a project would also provide a foundation on which
assess public and private sector absorptive capacities, both at the project and policy reform levels.
This experience, together with the work being done inthe Privatization Support project and the
Competitiveness Forum Working Group Initiative would contribute considerably to discussions
with the FGNon the desirability and feasibility o f developing a subsequent IDA credit in support
o f a more comprehensive trade and investment agenda.

Once the decision was taken to design this IDA credit as the first mover ina series o f Africa-wide
M S M E projects, under the umbrella o f the proposedProgram Framework Paper for a Joint
IDMFCMicro, Small and Medium EnterpriseDevelopment Pilot Programfor Africa, a
number o f scope and design implications ensued. A core objective o f the Pilot Program i s to
replicate specific types o f M S M E best practice models drawn from global experience. These
models focus on financial, BDS and targeted investment climate reforms. There are other
outstanding PSD issues that justify support inNigeria but, in recognition o f the complex operating
environment inthe country and in order to remain focused on a manageable set priorities, it was
decided to keep the focus on the priorities set out in the Pilot Program. These are substantial
issues in and o f themselves inNigeria. This strategic choice also serves to reduce the complexity
o f the project.

Consideration was also given to the preparation o f a smaller Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL)
initiative, focused on a single State. This would have also helped ensure that the project was kept
as simple as possible and would have contributed to a faster preparation timeline. However, this
could have left potentially innovative initiatives involving high-impact collaborationbetween IDA
and IFC outside the project scope. On the other hand, nationwide coverage can raise initial
expectations too much and result in the deployment o f a relatively modest IDA credit across too
many disparate activities and locations. This could over-stretch project management capacity and
compromise project performance at outcome and impact levels. Inview o f these considerations, a
decision was taken to target three States and, subject to progress made with this project, give
considerationto extending project scope and outreach at a later date.

Duringpreparation, the IDA team, inconsultationwith the FederalGovernment, considered the
option o f introducing a matching grant program which would have provided grants directly to
MSMEs to purchase BDS services. This i s a mechanism that a number o f other countries in
Africa have introducedwith the support o f IDA. However, given the range o f new instruments
and initiatives being launchedunder this pilot project, after consultations with the Government, it
was decided to focus initially solely on providing grants to the intermediary and not the MSME.
This approach will be assessedat the time o f the Mid-TermReview to determine whether it is
obtaining the results intended. At that point, depending on performance and an increased
understanding o f the markets inwhich the project i s working, considerationmay be given to
introducing a matching grant scheme.




                                                  -19-

The initial design o f the project envisionedno operational links between the private sector and
public sector. O n further consideration and after consultations with the borrower, a public-private
capacity building component was incorporated into the project. This was in recognition o f the
need to strengthen public sector exposure to M S M E development best practices as a means to
foster more effective collaboration between Government agencies and the MSMEs population.
This will havebenefits also to project effectiveness. Nevertheless, the public-private dialogue in
Nigeria i s burdened by an extended past period o f mutual distrust. Reform efforts inthe public
sector are at an early stage and this project does not have the mandate or the resources to provide
a comprehensive response to the challenge of improving the public-private dialogue. What i s
intended i s to provide some targeted and limited support in instances where selected Government
agencies are interested complying with performance-based agreements targeted at bringingtheir
M S M E operations further in line with best practices.

2. Major relatedprojectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoingand planned).
                                                                            Latest Supervision
              Sector Issue                          Project                   (PSR) Ratings
                                                                       (Bank-finance projectsonly)
                                                                       Implementation  Development
 Bank-financed                                                          Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)

 Private sector led growth, access to   Private Small andMedium             U                S
 financial resourcesby industries and   EnterpriseDevelopment Project
 enterprises
                                        Privatization Support Project        U               S

 %her development agencies
 Sustainable microfinance operations    USAID-Capacity Buildingfor
                                        Microfinance Institutions
 Agro-business sector development       DFID - PropCom; USAID -
                                        TA to Agri-business Sector
 Private enterprise development         GTZ Private Sector
                                        Development Project
                                        UNIDO - Cluster Development
                                        program
                                                                       (Highly Unsatiz

3. Lessonslearned and reflected in the projectdesign:
The project has been designed drawing on expertise from the World Bank FPSInetwork, the IFC
Africa regional and capital market teams, the SME Global Product department, FIAS and the
PSD Investment Climate unit. Inaddition, the project team has drawn extensively on PSD IDA
project and sector experiences inNigeria and elsewhere and on knowledge obtained from other
donor and internationalbest practices. The project design reflects six key lessons learned:

(i) market-developmentapproach: Theprojectfocusesmostdirectlyontheintermediaries
providing services to MSME, rather than the enterprises themselves. Aid funding i s often a poor
instrument through which to directly support enterprises. On the other hand, evidence indicates


                                                - 20 -

that more upstream support creates a sustainable market for the demand and supply o f services
transacted between private actors and enhances outreach and impact.

(ii)    private over public sector leadership: The project places a heavy reliance on private
sector delivery channels in order to promote responsiveness to enterprise demand and commercial
sustainability. Limited role for government, recognizing the constraints in scope and quality o f
most services provided by the government and the institutional absorptive capacity o f government
agencies.

(iii)   performance grant agreements: Utilize performance agreements with intermediary
service provider beneficiaries in order to re-enforce a commercial and results focus to
project-funded activities. Cost sharing o f 50 percent will be required o f intermediary
beneficiaries. Inthe case o f a competitive selection process, for a given set o f results, the
proposal requiring the lowest grant with the clearest and most robust exit strategy will be selected
for support by the project.

(iv )   greater access to a range of key services to MSMEs: A principal conclusion o f reviews
o f M S M E interventions, including from ImplementationCompletion Reports (ICRs) o f IDA
projects, i s the diminished results that accrue where MSMEs are unable to access the full range o f
services they require. Finance without the right technical assistance has been a common failure in
IDA lines o f credit and the evidence is very strong that active interventiondoes not work unless
the basic environment for the private sector i s inplace. Inlight o f this evidence, this project
strives to increase access to all the key services required by the M S M E and tackle some o f the
leading investment climate constraints.

(v)     industry focus: better results have been realized where B D S are directed to particular
industries. Inview o f this, the project i s targeting resources at particular points o f demand inhigh
growth potential industry value chains. The linkages between firms inthese value chains increases
the absorptive capacities for know-how transfer and uptake and therefore probability o f project
realizing objectives o f technical assistance.

(vi)    specialized financial products: there i s a growing body o f successful experiences
providing small business loans profitably - either through micro-finance institutions entering the
market or through commercial bank downscaling. These experiences are drawn predominately
from experience inLatin America and Eastern Europe. The critical factors underlying these
success stories are often less to do with the injection o f new liquidity and more to do with the
application o f a new technology, the introduction o f new corporate incentives, the development
new staff skill sets and the provision o f institutional support to staff responsible for MSME
lending portfolios. Intransferring and replicating these models inNigeria, this project will focus
particular attention on these capacity building considerations.




                                                  -21  -

4. Indications of borrower commitmentand ownership:
The Federal and relevant State Governments have expressed a strong interest in working with
IDA inthe designand implementationo fthis MSME initiative. Inview o fthe recent State and
Federalelections over the past six months and the time that these major political events demand o f
policy makers both before and after the actual elections, the pace o f the preparation o f this project
has been considerable. The FGNhave endorsed the private sector philosophy o f the M S M E
project. Their willingness to borrow IDA funds to provide technical assistance primarily to
private sector intermediaries, without recourse to subsidiary credit agreements with the State
Governments or with other statutory bodies (NIPC, CAC) that will benefit from the project,
further confirms their ownership o f this project. The Letter o f Sector Policy with its advocacy of
market solutions and private sector leadership inthe M S M E sector provides further articulation o f
the FGNcommitment to the principles and objectives o f this IDA initiative.

Inadditionto the considerableNIPC-led consultationthat has taken place with private andpublic
stakeholders in the diagnostic and eventual design for this project, the CBN has played a notably
constructive and enabling role. A most tangible example was the recently issued statement that,
within given limits, commercial bank investments inmicrofinance would be consideredto be in
compliance with the Bankers Committee requirements on the use o f the SMIEIS funds.

The target States will contribute to the program through their commitment to support the
investment climate components o f the project and associated activities, including the completion
o f State-level "Cost o f Doing Business" surveys which will be updated on a regular basis.

5. Value added of Bank supportinthis project:
Under the project, the World Bank Group will provide essential financing and technical support to
hone and implement best practice interventions in support o f M S M E development inNigeria. As
part o f a broader Africa-wide pilot program, this project will benefit - inboth preparationand
supervision phases - from an enhanced partnership between IDA and IFC. The advantages are
three-fold:

(i)      Increased capacity to leverage strategic investors and investment funds inconcert with the
IDA credit which is made possible from a closer linkage betweenWB advisory and IFC
transactional expertise, as i s the case with the proposed ACCION initiative;
(ii)     Economies o f scale inknowledge acquisition and transfer resulting from the

World Bank and IFC experiences with internationally recognizedbest practice technical partners -
implementation o f similar projects systematically across multiple countries -buildingjointly on

will provide major opportunities throughout the life o f the project to mainstream learning and
reduce costs o f replication and scale-up;
(iii) BycombiningIDAandIFCexpertiseandconveningpower,theprojectcanbettersupport
the FGNin its efforts to foster private-public sector dialogue, private sector investment and more
effective donor coordination.

This project is also beingdesigned to mobilize certain initiatives on a fast track to achieve an
earliest possible set o f results that can then "set the bar" and serve as demonstrationeffects for the
remainder o f the project.


                                                   - 22 -

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(seeAnnex 4):
0 Costbenefit        NPV=US$million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)
The cost-benefit analysis o f this pilot M S M E project presents some limits not only due to its
innovative nature in Sub-Sahara Africa but also to the lack o f data on the M S M E sector. The
difficulty in quantifying the economic benefits results mainly from the indirect relationship
between the technical assistance, which represents a large part o f the project, and the stream o f
benefits; and from the lagged effects o f the project. Nevertheless, a cost-benefit analysis has been
carried out to calculate the Net Present Value (NPV) and Economic Rate o f Return (ERR) in a
"with" and "without" project framework. The numeraire used inthe objective function is output,
which i s expected to grow mainly as the result o f (i) improved capacity utilization and efficiency
of the supported MSMEs; (ii)    greater access to finance for productive activities; and (iii)
streamlined investment climate.

After runninga simple model calibrated usingavailable data and based on conservative
assumptions, the project generates a net present value estimated at about US$35.6 million
corresponding to an intemal economic rate of retum of 26.2 percent. The project i s expected to
have a positive impact on employment as a result o f acceleration o f output growth in the pilot
areas where a minimumof 4,770 jobs are expected to be created by supported MSMEs.

2. Financial (seeAnnex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
Considering the project finances mainly capacity buildinginitiatives, there are no clear, direct
revenue streams, that would permit a straightforward financial analysis. Inthe absence o f major
distortions, financial and economic costs and benefits are expected to converge towards each
other.

Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact o f the project i s envisaged to be favorable. Improvements inthe business
climate and inbusiness performance should generate additional tax revenues from the following
sources: (1) incremental income taxes paid by employees; (2) corporate income taxes; and (3)
registration fees generated by the CAC.

3. Technical:
The project i s seeking to ensure appropriate technical standards are achieved in three ways: (i)
partnering with international practitioners and technical experts with proven track records in
successfully transfemng know-how through local capacity building; (ii) focus on commercial,
                                                                            a
market-driven provision o f services will limit the creation o f grant dependency among
beneficiaries and promote a demand responsiveness among service providers; (iii)      developing
specialized financial services for the M S M E market and targeting BDS to address specific
industryneeds will increase quality, market relevance and uptake of services. The public sector
role would be to: (i)revise public policies and regulations that produce hightransaction costs and


                                                  - 23 -

thus create a competitive disadvantage for MSMEs, and; (ii) government-sponsored
                                                              review
programs to ensure efficiency and avoid crowding out o f private initiatives. This strategy
represents a fundamental shift inthe role o f the government, away from direct provision o f
services and towards facilitating the development o f private markets and networks.

4. Institutional:
Historically, Nigeria has been a very difficult place to implement projects and programs.
Underlying reasons were: a poor and unstable macroeconomic environment, lack o f government
commitment, counterpart funding problems, corruption, lack o f transparency, and frequent and
disruptive changes inboth project personnel and the institutional environment. Some projects
were poorly designed and supervised and/or lacked the active participation o f beneficiaries in
project design or implementation. This project has taken into considerationpast implementation
problems experienced inNigeria and elsewhere and factors bearing on successful M S M E
operations worldwide. This i s reflected inthe emphasis on targeting private sector beneficiaries
and relying on a private sector-led implementation strategy. The project will be implemented on a
pilot basis in selected areas and industries to provide opportunities to test out models proposed to
assist M S M E and ascertain commitment and implementation capacity o f the beneficiaries. It will
be expanded and replicated countrywide when it can be demonstrated that measures taken inthe
project best respondto minimizing the constraints to M S M E growth and sustainability. Section
B.3(ii) and Annexes 11, 13 through 15 provide further detail on the institutional aspects o f the
project.
4.1 Executingagencies:
Overall project management, including all procurement, administrative, reporting, monitoring and
evaluation functions, have been placed under the P M U reporting to the FGN Executing Agent.
The ExecutingAgent will be responsible for the financial management o f the project. A Review
Committee comprising public and private sector representation will provide strategic advice and
approve grant and contract awards above a certain ceiling. Project components will be
implemented through contractual and grant agreements with intemational and local technical
partners under the overall management o f the P M U working with relevant government agencies
and other industry stakeholders. (refer to Annexes 13, 14).
4.2 Project management:
(See Section C.4 above and Annex 2)
4.3 Procurement issues:
The FGNExecuting Agency (NIPC) shall have overall responsibility for management o f the
project procurement activities. This responsibility will be discharged by a project Management
(UnitPMU) a private consulting firmthat shallbe recruitedthrough competitiveprocess inline
with the Bank's procurement Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants. All
contracting will be carried out by the P M U in accordance with the operational guidelines set out
inthe ImplementationManual. To ensure the appropriate procurement capacity is inplaceprior
to project effectiveness, an assessment o f the procurement capacity o f the NIPC (as interim PMU)
has been carried out inaccordance with Procurement Services Policy Group (OPCPR) guidelines
dated July 15, 2002. The assessment outlines main issues and recommendations. For further
details refer to Annex 6. The major procurement issues are: (i)  lack o f adequate procurement


                                                 - 24 -

capacity at the project Executing Agency; and (ii) main implementation unit (a private
                                                            the
management firm) that will handle all project procurement activities i s not yet inplace. This risk
i s addressed by making the selection and hiring o f the P M U a condition o f effectiveness. Capacity
buildingwill be provided to NIPC to ensure that they can fulfill their procurement responsibilities
duringthe period prior to the P M Urecruitment.
4.4 Financial management issues:

NIPC/FD will be responsible for the financial management affairs o f the project. Although it has a
strong finance department, its internal audit i s under-resourced and weak (internal audit i s
generally weak inthe public sector). The Internal Audit Departmentunit therefore needs to be
strengthened. Also, NIPC does not have any experience in implementing IDA-assisted projects.
However, project implementation activities will largely be contracted to a firm o f consultants who
would serve as the P M U for the project. The risk arising from the outside environment is
assessed as high, based on the yet to be updated CFAA. Given such an environment, robust
control arrangements that were found inNIPC/FD are necessary to ensure that funds are used
only for the purpose intended. Additionally, the oversight functions to be provided by NIPC and
R C will mitigate against weaknesses in the control environment and enhance the overall
accountability arrangements for the project. There is a need to ensure a seamless flow o f
information and rapid turn around between: (i)           the consultants inthe PMU, which will handle
project implementation activities; and (ii)        FD/NIPC, which will perform all FMactivities. An
adequate Financial Procedures manual will be developed specifically for the project. The Manual
would detail the arrangements that are necessary to facilitate proper coordination between
FD/NIPC and the PMU, and to ensure smooth project implementation. The manual will include
service standards and necessary measures to ensure compliance with the standard.
5. Environmental:                             Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Environmental Category: C (not required).
5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
Not Applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                      Date o f receipt o f final draft: Not Applicable

5.4 How have stakeholders beenconsulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were usedand which groups were consulted?

Not Applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
Although the project i s not expected to present any specific environmental risk, IDA funds may
finance services that may lead to adverse environmental impact. Inassessing potential beneficiary
financial and business service providers, the PMU will review the environmental screening



                                                        - 25 -

mechanisms o f the applicants. Once service providers are selected as beneficiaries under this
project, the PMU will make recommendations to build the their environmental screening and
verification capacity, and ability to support and provide technical advise on relevant environmental
aspects o f their clients' businesses and to link them with the appropriate Ministry and/or
environmental protection agency.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
There are no social issues triggered by this project. A number o f project components are
expected to lead to favorable social outcomes, principally: (i)     employment creation; (ii)
contribution to poverty reduction; (iii)institution-building within markets, civil society, the
judicial system and within certain activities o f government. Project activities will provide short-
to medium-term indirect social benefits resultingfrom increased investment and production and an
overall stronger and broader economy.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
Workshops organized duringproject preparationand project launch with all the principal target
groups for this project, Le., BDS providers and financial institutions (selected based on their
support o f best business practices), FGN and State Governments, and business membership
organizations, will provide the necessary fora to define and implement the project and make
necessary mid-course adjustments to facilitate the realization o f the project objectives. In
addition, a Review Committee comprising public and private sector representatives will provide
the necessary strategic direction to resolve implementation issues.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Stakeholders, including relevant NGOs and business membership organizations, will be involved
inworkshops targeted at project preparation, project launch, and reviews meant to buildon
lessons learned and to make necessary mid-course adjustments to realize project objectives.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
(see Section 6.2 and 6.3 above)
6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
(see the description o f Component 4 above)

7. Safeguard Policies:

                                 Policy                                              Triggered
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                       0Yes 0No
   Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                0Yes 0No
   Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                 0 Yes 0No
   Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                   0Yes 0No
   Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                               0 Yes 0No
   Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                0Yes 0No


                                                  - 26 -

     Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                       0Yes 0 No
     Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                           0Yes 0 No
     Projectsin International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                 0Yes 0No
     Projectsin DisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                       0 Yes 0    No

7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
No safeguard issues are triggered.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability o f the project will depend critically on: (i)   Government's agreement and
adoption o f an arms-length approach to project implementation; (ii)        the satisfactory achievement
o f performance targets that measure the catalytic effects o f the initiatives to be taken inthe
financial and BDS market; and (iii)    the commitment o f the Government and the private sector to
project goals, recommended reforms, and implementation arrangements.

2. Critical Risks(reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
Assuming political stability inNigeria, the major risks facing the MSME sector inNigeria arise
from the country's poor infrastructure and macro-economic uncertainty. These risks lay beyond
the project purview. While it will not be possible to completely insulate project activities against
these risks, the project will be assessing and selecting specific interventions based on the degree to
which they can realize results despite these broader risks.

                    Risk                         Risk Rating                 Risk Mitigation Measure
 :rem Outputs to Objective
 3DS and financial products and services               M          Beneficiaries will be service providers (BDS and
 ire not responsive to MSMEs' needs.                              finance), who have a thorough understanding o f
                                                                  the constraints and requirements o f MSMEs and
                                                                  whose continued access to project resources is
                                                                  based on their responsiveness to these needs,
                                                                  their outreach, and their ability to meet
                                                                  performance indicators. The project will identify
                                                                  service providers that operate inmarket niches
                                                                  where there is potential for market development
                                                                  and providers that have a commitment to serve
                                                                  MSMEs.

                                                                  Mid-Term Review will also assess impact to
                                                                  date that support to the intermediary has had on
                                                                  M S M E performance. As necessary
                                                                  consideration will be given to altemative
                                                                  instruments, such as a matching grant program
                                                                  for the MSMEs.

r'irms do not respond favorably to advice              M          Ditto. Inaddition, the P M U will design and
and training received; do not seek the                            implementa communications package that


                                                     - 27 -

services provided by banks and BDS                      informs MSMEs o f products and services
providers, nor increasingly utilize                     available through the project's beneficiaries.
available technical, business and financial            The project will also -via the P M U dialogue
                                                                                               -
services; instead, MSMEsprefer to                       extensively with NGOs and donors to achieve
subscribe to free, highly subsidized, and               consistency insubsidy levels and cost-sharing
potentially less responsive programs.                   arrangements inthe areas where the project is
                                                       beingimplemented.

                                                        The monitoring and evaluation component will
                                                       be developed and applied incollaboration with
                                                        other donor programs to foster a coordinated
                                                        and complementary approach to the provision of
                                                        commercial services to MSMEs.

Government is not committed to pursuing          M      Measures included inthe project include best
a private sector model o f service provision            practice eligibility and performance criteria
to MSMEs, improving the investment                      managedby a private sector PMU. Inaddition,
climate and lowering rent-seeking                       there will be close consultation with relevant
behavior.                                               government agencies; fora to dialogue and build
                                                        up private/public sector partnership will provide
                                                        opportunity to identify and resolve
                                                        implementation issues. Inaddition, the project
                                                        i s focusing on selected investment climate
                                                        obstacles where government stakeholders show
                                                        strong commitment and where reforms are
                                                        practical and have good "win-win" potential for
                                                        both the Government and the private sector.

The Federal and or the State Governments         M      These reform programs are designed with close
do not follow through with their                        attention to ensuringthe most effective incentive
commitment to implement the agenda o f                  structures are inplace. Inthe case o f the
investmentclimate reforms.                              financial sector reforms, this includes a very
                                                        direct linkwith new investment and capacity
                                                        buildingto foster growth inthe provision o f
                                                        financial services. Inother cases the initiatives
                                                        provide revenue flows and\or have strong
                                                        stakeholder interest from the private sector and
                                                        entail relatively straightforward actions that are
                                                        not political sensitive but offer the potential o f
                                                        capturing relatively short-term benefits.
From Components to Outputs
MFIs, banks and BDS providers do not             M      Communications component of the project will
seek technical assistance on a timely basis             foster private sector response to project services
to implement project components; services
are not deliveredeffectively. Payments on               TA requirements and performance indicators
loans and services are not received as                  (including outreach, portfolio quality and
agreed with client firms                                profitability) will be agreed with beneficiary
                                                        MFIs,banks, and BDSproviders prior to



                                               - 28 -

                                                       receiving project support inorder to ensure
                                                       supply response.
                                                       Targeted matching grant program will be
                                                       applied where firms show inability to pay for
                                                       BDS services. These services will target
                                                       productivity improvements to assist firms to
                                                       meet loan obligations to financial institutions.

Lack o f trust and demonstrated confidence      S      Public-Private Capacity Building component o f
and cooperation betweenthe Government                  the project will provide important information
and the private sector; State interventions            on best practice on provision o f BDS, MF
weakens market-based approach to                       services and opportunities to communicate
implementation and financial                           successes, continuing constraints to development
intermediation to MSMEs                                of MSMEs, and recommendations on relevant
                                                       policy changes.

                                                       Letter o f Sector Policy and close dialogue will
                                                       provide the framework and mechanism to
                                                       address policies and regulations at issue inthis
                                                       project.

Private sector-led P M U is not supported       M      Selection o f the P M U will be made by
by the Government and does not                         Government representatives and implementation
implement project and monitoring                       performance will be supervised by the
functions as agreed.                                   private-public Review Committee.

Intermediaries fail to perform in               M      The project will be continually learning and
accordance with performance agreements.                adapting as its know-how interms o f how to
                                                       support providers intarget markets inNigeria
                                                       grows. This growing "market" expertise will be
                                                       usedto adapt performance arrangements to
                                                       strengthen performance o f intermediaries,
                                                       re-direct support to new services and screen out
                                                       services that do not provide the impact at the
                                                       level o f the M S M E that is being sought.

Insufficient knowledge and experience           H      Experienced procurement consultant will be
with IDA'Sprocurement procedures will                  hired for six months to assist NIPC manage the
cause substantial delays inproject                     procurement functions prior to engagement o f
implementation and increase risk o f                   the PMU. The project will focus on training of
mis-procurement                                        all procurement staff and a comprehensive
                                                       chapter o f the Project Implementation Manual
                                                       on procurement will clearly define procurement
                                                       procedures applicable to the project. Inaddition!
                                                       intensive procurement supervision and review oi
                                                       the first contract for each type o fprocurement
                                                       by the Executing Agency regardless o f the
                                                       threshold will help the agency to comply with



                                              - 29 -

                                                                procurement guidelines ina timely manner.

Project financial management risk                  M            Adequate supervision by Bank FMS, and
                                                                external audit
Overall Risk Rating                                M



3. Possible ControversialAspects:
None.

G. Main Loan Conditions
1, Effectiveness Condition

a        P M U selected and hired and procurement and financial management assessments o f such
firm's capacities are satisfactory.
         FullProject ImplementationManual, includingprocedures for the grant components o fthe
project and final procurement and disbursement plans for the first implementation year, agreed
between NIPC/PMU/IDA, and NIPC has established acceptable financial management systems.
         Release by the Government o f the allocation of counterpart funds for the first
implementation year.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]



H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocuments for thefirst year'sactivities arecompleteandreadyforthe start
         o f project implementation.
IXI 1. b) Not applicable.

ixI2. Theprocurement documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the start of
       project implementation.
ixI 3. The Project Implementation Planhasbeenappraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
       quality.
04. Thefollowing itemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):




                                                 - 30 -

I, Compliancewith Bank Policies
   1, Thisprojectcomplies withall applicableBankpolicies.
02.ThefollowingexceptionstoBank?licks arerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
      all other applicable Bankpolicies.




                                               -31 -

                              Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                      NIGERIA: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Project
                               KeyIndicators
                                   Performance           Data CollectionStrategy
 Hierarchyof Objectives                                                               Critical Assumptions
Sector-relatedCAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:            Sector1country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
4ccelerate reduction o f  Annual GDP growth in National Statistics; State          Political stability and
ioverty by promoting      participating States          level surveys and periodic commitment o f newly
)road-based economic                                    I C A updates; Project     elected government to
indprivate-sector led     Increased contribution to Impact Assessment             private sector; economic
;rowth in the non-oil     GDP growth by sectors         Framework and M&E          and financial reform
irivate sector            assisted by the project       system                     agenda; and reduction o f
                                                                                  rent-seeking behavior



Jroject Development       Outcome / Impact             IProjectreports:            (from Objectiveto Goal)
lbjective:                Indicators:
.ncrease the performance Growth o f MSMEs'              Project Impact             BDS and financial
indemployment levels o f value-added in                 Assessment Framework      products and services
MSMEs inselected          participating States and      and M&E system; project responsive to MSMEs'
ion-oil industry          sectors                       supervision and progress needs; Government i s
;ub-sectors and inpilot                                 reports                    committed to improving
ireas o f the country                                                              the investment climate
                                                                                   and lowering rent-seeking
                                                                                   behavior




lutput from each          Output Indicators:           IProject reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
:omponent:
;inancia1 institutions    $15 million new private       Project Impact             Financial institutions and
ncrease their lending to  sector investments in         Assessment Framework       Government maintain
vISMEs                    microfinance institutions and M&E system; project their commitment to a
                          (MFIs); at least two          supervision and progress private-sector led,
                          MFIs; three commercial        reports                    market-driven,
                          banks establish M S M E                                  commercial approach to
                          downscaling programs;                                    financial institutions
                          portfolio at risk (arrears                               development; MSMEs'
                          over 60 days) not greater                                capacity to utilize
                          than 5 percent after                                     financial services
                          second year o f operation                                increases as they become
                          for both MFIs and                                        more competitive inthe


                                                   - 32 -

                           commercial banks; loan                   lomestic and/or global
                           portfolio cumulative                     narket
                           disbursedof $75 million
                           each for MFIs and
                           commercial banks

Nigerian firms             At least 1,000 MSMEs        .ditto-      ;inns' operational
competitively respond to are supplied with BDS by                   itrategies reflect lessons
increasing demand for      participating BDS                        earned from TA
products and services      providers; up to 4,000                   eceived; firms
                           new (including indirect)                 ncreasingly utilize
                           jobs in3-5 supply chains                 ivailable technical,
                           inselected industries                    wsiness and financial
                                                                    ,ervices

BDS providers provide      Under both the BDS          .ditto -     dSMEs respond
firm-oriented, relevant    Fundand industrysupply                   avorably to TA received
services                   chain, at least 20 BDS                   md positively rate
                           providers assisted by the                iervices from BDS
                           Fund; at least 75 percent                roviders
                           cost recovery reached by
                           participating BDS
                           providers within a
                           specified time-frame; at
                           leat 20 products or
                           services with sustained
                           uptake improved or
                           developed through
                           support from the Fund

Reduction in constraints   Secured transactions        . ditto -    3overnment participates
faced by businessin        regime introduced in each                npreparation,
selected areas of          target State; regulatory                 dentification o f required
investment climate,        framework updated for                    :hanges and follows
including initially:       leasing industry;                        hrough on commitment
secured transactions,      framework for credit                     o changes inrelevant
leasing, credit bureau,    m e a u established;                     ireas o f the investment
commercial dispute         dternative dispute                       :limate
resolution                 :esolution mechanisms
                           ieveloped and
                           .mplemented inup to
                           :hree States

Business entry facilitated Streamlined procedures;
                                                       Iditto -     lialogue with private
by public institutions     ntegrated tax and                        iector should strengthen


                                                  - 33 -

ncluding Corporate       m i n e s s registration                              inderstanding and
Iffairs Commission,      irocesses; reduction in                               :ommitmentto
7ederal Inland Revenue    ransaction costs for                                 mplement reforms that
service                  :ompany registration                                  mprove the investment
                         with CAC (including a                                 Aimate and lower
                         .eduction in the number                               ent-seeking behavior
                         ifsteps requiredto
                          .egister a business from 9
                          o 6 and reduction intime
                          *equiredby 30 percent)

'ublic sector agencies   2t least 3 M S M E           ' ditto -                igencies follow through
)erformance to deliver on :ompetitiveness                                      )ntheir commitment to
heir M S M E mandates     :onferences held (annual)                            he project component
ire strengthened         mdreports o f                                         indbest practice
                         iroceedings produced                                  ninciples andphilosophy
                         inddisseminated;                                      lnderlying this
                         issociated roundtable                                 :omponent.
                         iiscussions held between
                         3overnment and private
                         iector to disseminate
                          essons, best practices,
                         uccess stories from the
                         iroject and establish
                         iialogue to improve
                         iolicies and programs
                          argeted at MSMEs
'roject impact           ippropriate monitoring       . ditto-                 'articipating institutions,
issessment carried out   mdevaluation system                                   tgencies, private sector
                          stablished to measure                                willing and able to
                          he project's impact in                               irovide relevant
                         iarticipating States                                  nformation


'roject Components I     nputs: (budget for each      'roject reports:         from Componentsto
iub-components:          :omponent)                                            htputs)
iccess to Finance:       IrS$ 33 million
dicrofinance/                                         ?regress, supervision,   nstitutions or
iommercial                                            nid-term, completion     nechanisms are
,anking/leasing/credit                                -eportsprovide feedback  :stablished on a timely
bureau                                                incompliancewith terms iasis; services meet
                                                      ifreference, established vISME requirements, and
  Consultants                                         ierformance targets and  :lients pay for services
  Grants                                              leliverables; evaluation xomptly; legal and
                                                      eeport documents impact  .egulatory environment i s
                                                      issessment.              :onducive to the


                                                 - 34 -

                                                           ievelopment o f the
                                                           aechanisms

BusinessDevelopment      US$ 16 million
     Services:

1. Training and Advisory JS$6.5 million      'ditto -      [nstitutions or
Services for BDS                                           mechanisms are
Providers                                                  :stablished on a timely
  Consultants                                              basis; services meet
  Grants                                                   MSME requirements, and
                                                           :lients pay for services

2. BDSFund               JS$9.5 million      . ditto -     -promptly
                                                             ditto -
  Consultants
  Grants

[nvestmentClimate:       US$5.8 million
1, Registration Reform   JS$1.6 million      .ditto -      Government implements
  Consultants                                              reforms that improve the
  Training                                                 company registration
  Equipment                                                system

2. Commercial Dispute    US$2.2 million      .ditto -      Government
Resolution                                                 demonstrates its
  Consultants                                              commitment to establish,
  Training                                                 implement dispute
  Equipment                                                resolutionmechanisms,
                                                           lower rent-seeking
                                                           behavior
3. Leasing Services      JSS0.5 million       - ditto -     Leasing regulations
  Consultants                                              conducive to increasing
                                                           services; participating
                                                           leasing companies apply
                                                           learnedtechnology
4. Credit Bureau         JSS0.5 million      .ditto -      Client and participating
   Consultants                                             institutions provide
                                                           quality information-
5. Secured Transaction   JS$1million         -ditto-       New mechanisms
                                                           adopted
PubWPrivateSector        LJS$1.1million      .ditto -      Government/ private
Partnership                                                sector demonstrate
Development                                                confidence inpartnership
Zonsultants                                                development efforts;
  Training                                                 Government open to


                                          -35-

 Equipment                                           adopting best practices in
                                                     their programs
Project Management,   US$2.5million     - ditto -    Private sector-led PMU
Monitoringand                                        receives government
Evaluation                                           support and implements
Consultants                                          project and monitoring
 Training                                            function as agreed.
 Equipment
 Recurrent expenditure
Unallocated           US$1.6million

Total                 US$60million




                                     -36-

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                      NIGERIA: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Project

By Component:

Project Component 1 Access to Finance Component US$33.00 million
                      -                              -

Objective: The objective o f the Access to Finance component i s to increase access and
availability o f financial services to MSMEs through the introduction o f new financial institutions,
products and tools, re-enforcedwith selective financial sector legal and regulatory reforms being
undertaken under component 4 (Investment Climate).

Background:

The Nigerian financial system i s one o f the largest in sub-Saharan Africa consisting o f a diverse
array o f banking and non-banking financial institutions, including as o f end-2001 89 commercial
and merchant banks, over 1,000 rural-oriented community banks, 7 development finance
institutions, 229 licensed finance companies, about 195 primary mortgage institutions, over 100
insurance companies, 5 discount houses, various pension schemes, and over 100 exchange
bureaus. There are also embryonic money and capital markets. This apparent diversified nature
o f the system i s deceptive, however, as commercial banks overwhelmingly dominate the financial
sector (accounting for 93 percent o f non-centralbank assets), traditional bank deposits represent
the major forms o f financial savings, and inthe absence o f a variety o f products and services,
access to term finance by the real sector i s very difficult at best.

Development finance institutions, traditionally the major source o f long-term debt capital for the
real sector, were increasingly marginalized as their financial status declined by the late 1990s.
Their combined annual loss amountedto about Naira 2.1 billion or 8.6 percent o f average total
assets; the combined total assets o f four institutions declined almost 17 percent innominal terms
intheir most recent reportingyear; and four o fthe seven institutions virtually didnot have any
disbursements in 1998. While these institutions represented a small part o f the financial sector
they discouraged more efficient commercial banks from entering the long-term finance arena. The
performance o f community banks and rural commercial banks in extending financial services has
been disappointing also. By the late 1990s, only about 200 o f the over 1,000 community banks
were believed to be profitable.

Leasing, which can also contribute significantly to M S M E medium to long-term finance
requirements remains underdevelopedand accounted for only one percent o f total domestic
investment in 1997. The growth o f the leasing industryhas been hampered by: (i)        the lack o f a
coherent body o f law to govern leasingtransactions; (ii)    problems with contract enforcement and
difficulties inrepossessing leased equipment from defaulting lessees; (iii)  lack o f domestic
long-term funds to finance leasing; (iv) rising costs o f equipment; and (v) lack o f awareness and
the poor skills base inthe industry.

Inthe micro-finance sector, in 2001 several commercial banks began micro-finance pilot projects
with their own funds, however, there is little information that will allow a proper assessment o f


                                                  - 37 -

the results o f these pilots to date. Institutions created by the Government have not performed
well; many have experienced significant losses recently as historical average loan repayment rates
were low and interest rates were subsidized. About 17 major NGOs have been providing
micro-finance services in Nigeria with average loan size at about US$56. These institutions tend
to be operationally and financially weak, driven by social justice goals rather than financial and
operational sustainability, and lack a national presence and outreach. There also are a large
number o f credit unions and cooperatives. A 1991 study by the World Council o f Credit Unions
(WOCCU) estimated that approximately 15,000 credit unions operated in Nigeria serving 2.7
million members with savings o f more than US$34 million financing about $37 million inloans.

Neither the formal and informal financial sectors have been able to effectively support a strong
expansion o f the real sector and maximize their contribution to economic growth and
development.      The Government has long recognized the importance of addressing access to
financial services to maximize MSMEs' contribution to economic development.                In 1999, an
initiative instituted by the Central Bank o f Nigeria-headed Bankers' Committee, comprising the
central bank and all banks as members, require all banks to set aside 10 percent o f pre-tax profits
into the Small and Medium Industries Equity Investment Scheme (SMIEIS) to be used for equity
investment in SMEs. SMIEIS commenced in 2001 and by around mid-2003 amounted to about
Naira 14.6 billion. Approximately, Naira 4.3 billion or 29.4 percent has been invested, o f which
52 percent was invested inthe real sector (micro enterprises accounted for around 0.05 percent o f
the fund and 79.3 percent the total value o f the investments was made inLagos. The Government
i s committed to improving the accessibility to financial services by MSMEs and has agreed that
banks should be permitted to allocate up to 10 percentof their SMIEIS contributions for
investments inthe microfinance sector.

Activities:

This component o f the project will seek to address the shortage o f short, medium and long term
finance available to MSMEs by supporting - through the provision o f performance-based grants -
sustainable financial institutions and profitable lending windows within private financial
institutions to expand their portfolio o f lending to MSMEs. Additionally, the project will assess
the potential for the development o f private credit bureaus to strengthen the risk mitigating tools
available to lenders will be investigated. Ifjustified by private sector demand and the necessary
reforms are undertaken to ensure commercial potential and effectiveness, the project could
support the establishment o f a private credit bureau. Similarly, with changes to the enabling
environment, there i s considerable potential for growth in the leasing industry. The project would
be able to provide grants to support providers o f leasing services, subject to there being the right
enabling environment and providers' ability to meet the eligibility and performance requirements
for this support.

The grants, which will be made available to institutions satisfying the eligibility and performance
criteria will help to cover technical assistance and operational costs on a cost shared basis over an
initial and limitedperiod to enable the beneficiary financial institution to build up its portfolio and
revenue flow sufficiently to cover operational requirements. The two initiatives most ready to
move under this component are:

(i) Establishment of           a micro-finance      company:      The approach to       support
micro-finance takes advantage o f the opportunity presented by the interest o f Nigerian banks to
set up a joint-ventures for micro-finance services based on: (1) their requirements under the
SMIEIS; (2) the support o f the Central Bank o f Nigeria; (3) the existence o f market
opportunities, Le., a large underserved market; (4) the availability o f proven technical expertise;
and (5) the interest o f recognized international stakeholders, including ACCION, and international
investment partners, such as IFC. Participating MFIs and commercial banks will be selected
based on their meeting specified criteria that respect best practice and openness to support
MSMEs in their corporate mission, strategic objectives and operating policies (outreach, risk
assessment, credit extension, financial management, governance, social policies, etc.).

(ii)    Commercial bank downscaling:           For commercial banks, assistance will focus on the
development and implementation o f a technical skills transfer program designed primarily to
introduce to selected participating banks new systems and lending methodologies for MSMEs.
The technical assistance will be provided on a cost-sharing basis to banks that provide strong
evidence o f a corporate commitment to extend further into the M S M E credit market by growing
their M S M E loan portfolio.


Project Component 2 Business Development Services US$lS.OO million
                     -                                -

Objective:      The objective o f the BDS component o f this project i s to increase MSMEs' access
to quality business services that are both specialized and well-tailored to the specific needs o f
MSMEs. Targeted MSMEs are expected to improve their performance through the application o f
know-how acquired through BDS providers supported by the project.

Background:

Business services are not available inthe quantity, quality and price ranges required by MSMEs
for a number o f reasons. First, local BDS providers (which can include specialized consulting
firms, formal education institutions, business membership organizations, NGOs, and firms within
the supply chain) have limited capacity and few products that are appropriately tailored for
MSMEs. This i s particularly the case for sector-specific technical training for which most
providers tend to use off-the-shelf products that are usually created for larger, more formal
businesses. Second, most local BDS providers tend to prefer working for larger firms and
government or donors where contracts are larger. O n the demand side, MSMEs make little use o f
business development services, inpart because they feel unable to afford such services and inpart
because they lack information about them and do not trust the benefits they can derive from their
use.

To address these constraints, the proposed project will combine two approaches: (1)
Industry-focused BDSprogram:assisting BDS providers to develop training and consulting
services that can assist MSMEs within specific industries to increase their value added and grow;
and (2) BDS Fund: building capacity o f providers o f value-adding services to reach larger
numbers o f MSMEs with higher quality services usinga sustainable business model. The

                                                 -39 -

approach inboth cases will be demand-based. Demand will be assessed through market studies,
firm surveys, focus groups and interviews, as well as firms' willingness to pay for services. In
particular, the following principles will be followed:

w        Getting the rightproduct: selling a product that is affordable inthe market place, that is
...
tailored for MSMEs and for the local environment. Special attention will be given to the
development and adaptation o f products that meet MSMEs' needs.
         Keeping subsidies out of the sales transaction: ensuring that subsidies are upstream in
product development and capacity buildingto provide sustainable outreach;
         Working with multiple suppliers to ensure that by working with a specific supplier, the
project will not force another one to go out o f business;
         Performance GruntAgreements: BDS providers will be requiredto fulfill sustainability,
outreach and impact targets as a condition o f disbursement.

(1) Industry-FocusedBDS Program

The Industry Supply Chain Development sub-component o f the IDA project will combine an
industryfocus and a BDS development approach. The assumption is that focusing onhigh
growth sectors and addressing the inefficiencies along the chain can result inhighand measurable
impacts in terms o fjob creation and firm growth. The project will include up to four industries.
The methodology will be consistent across industriesand will include four stages: (i)     industry
selection; (ii)industry analysis; (iii)feasibility work for programming; and (iv) design o f
initiatives.




structural/market constraints outside the scope o f the project that would prevent success.
......
 The main criteria for the industry selection will be the following:
         highgrowth potential
         size o f the industry (contribution to GDP) and geographical distribution.
         number o f MSMEsinthe value chain and SME employment
         potential for local MSMEsto capture more value added
         evidence that financing/ TA can help MSMEs achieve the above goal, Le., there are no

         commitment of key industrystakeholders

Those industries that rank higher interms o f growth potential and outreach will be selected to do
a more in-depth industryanalysis. The analysis consists o f an industry overview and a value chain
analysis. The industvy analysis provides a succinct picture o f the size o f the industry, its
distribution and main players, and the sources o f competitiveness and growth potential. The value
chain analysis identifies the most important segments o f the chain interms o f contribution to
employment and income and evaluates the cost o f production at each stage based on international
standards to detect any inefficiencies and areas where improvements can be made. Thefeasibility
analysis focuses on assessing the demand for and supply o f BDS services within each segment o f
the value chain. Based on the results o f this diagnostic, the project will work with the industry
stakeholders to develop aprogram to support intermediaries seeking to meet MSMEs'business
development needs within the supply chain.




                                                   - 40 -

Inorder to create a strong demonstrationeffect on which to launch this sub-component, this
methodology has already been applied to agriculture and agro-processing industries. Based on
the analysis, catfish farming has been selected as the first target industry. The proposed
interventionsto support the catfish farming industry are presentedbelow inthe following box.
Interventions in other industries (up to three additional industries are anticipated within this
existing project budget) will vary according to the characteristics o f the underlying value chain
and determination o f the ways inwhich BDS can improve MSMEperformance inthe value chain.




                                                -41  -

CatfishIndustry

Background

The fishing industry i s a major and growing one inNigeria, even more so than meat (in2000 fish production grew by 22
percent while meat production grew by 6 percent). As a maritime country with large inland water resources, fishing
represents a large share o f Nigeria's economy. The fishing industry i s an important source of: employment, particularly in
poor rural areas; food; income; and foreign exchange eamings (approximately $57million). Local fish production i s about
500,000 tons per year, less than half o f local consumption. Invalue terms, the domestic fish industryrepresents 60 percent o f
total production, o f which catfish accounts for 33 percent. The balance i s imported, making Nigeria the largest importer o f
frozen fish in Africa. Although aquaculture represents a small share o f total fish consumption in Nigeria (0.4 percent),
Nigeria i s the fifth aquaculture producer in the world after the US, Thailand, Indonesia, and Maylasia. Furthermore,
aquaculture is the fastest growing source of domestic fish supply (almost 50 percent growth (involume) since 1995). Given
the limited supplies o f caught fish and consumer's preference for fresh fish over imported frozen fish, this trend is expected to
continue. By value, catfish accounts for 33 percent o f total fish production and 60 percent o f the freshwater fish industry in
Nigeria. Demand exceeds supply and the best way to increase supply is through catfish aquaculture.

There are three main players in the production and distribution o f farmed catfish: (i)  hatcheries, where eggs are incubated,
hatched, and raised to fingerlings; (ii)out-growers, which raise (or outgrow) the fingerlings/juveniles to table-size fish using
different water holding systems; and (iii)    traders or "fish mammies", who are organized in associations, buy from the farmers,
transport and keep the catfish alive for up to a week, and sell about 30 percent o f it to roadside restaurants and retailers; few
fish are also sold directly to consumers.

The main constraints affecting catfish aquaculture are: (i)limited access to critical operational inputs: quality feed, which can
only be imported and constitutes at least 60 percent o f the production cost; and fingerlings, which are scarcely produced due
to lack o f know-how; (ii)  limited access to reliable technical expertise about aquaculture; (iii) access to finance; (iv)
                                                                                                   limited
highlevels o f theft o f catfish farms. With the increased access to technical support that would result from the Project and
providing finance can be secured, catfish aquaculture could generate substantial revenues and new jobs (including jobs in
downstream sectors such as fast-food restaurants.).

Activities:

The Project will focus on the following areas o f intervention:

          Training and ConsultingServices. The Project will: (i)     provide training to local fish industry consultants and
develop an accreditation system -these consultants could include input suppliers, such as feed and fingerlings suppliers-; (ii)
provide business management, business planning and financial advisory training to specialized consultants; (iii)       develop
training courses for start-ups and deliver them through local institutions; (iv) provide specialist training to skilled small scale
catfish farmers interested in developing hatcheries and to potential feed suppliers.
.        Aquaculture Best Practice Development, including developing an aquaculture manual tailored to the needs o f most
entrepreneurs in Nigeria buildingon existing materials.
         Aquaculture Association Development. The goal o f the association would be to: (i)help set standards and
disseminate knowledge by training consultants and sponsoring research; (ii)      create a network to facilitate business
opportunities and improve the distribution channels (for example by developing a mechanism for industrial customers to
contact farmers through the association); and (iii)    conduct advocacy.

This component will focus initially on Lagos, Kaduna, and Abia, and would target bordering states where there i s a large
volume of catfish production or where there are significant successful ventures interested in participating in the Project, such
as Oyo state, The catfish initiative w i l l be implemented in close collaboration with FA0 and the Federal Ministry o f
Agriculture, which are leading a nation-wide fisheries development project as part o f the Special Program for Food Security.
The overall program will be managed by an independent, qualified firm, that will be competitively selected and charged with:
(i)designing and delivering each specific activity based on an agreed-upon work program; (ii)        selecting and contracting
suecialists and providers as needed: and (iii)   monitoring the project according to a performance contract.



                                                           - 42 -

2. BusinessDevelopment Services Fund(BDSF)

Background:

While financing and a friendly business environment are important factors for the success o f a
business venture, MSMEsoften fail or do not achieve their full potential because they lack proper
organizational capacity, skills, systems and procedures, information, and technology.
Improvements in these areas through training and use of consulting advice can often translate into
cost savings and efficiency gains. According to a firm survey conducted in Eastern Nigeria to
assess MSMEs' demand for such services, MSMEsconsider human resource management,
marketing, and accounting as the most important areas of concern for their businesses.
Specialized advice inthese areas i s either lacking, not well-tailored to their needs, or too costly.

The BDS Fund (BDSF) will aim to buildthe capacity o f BDS providers to supply highquality
services to MSMEs operating inLagos, Kaduna, and Abia states. The project will promote the
development of three to six specific services for which there i s a clear excess demand among the
target population o f MSMEs. These services will be identified through a BDS demand survey
and consultations with business communities in the target States. The range o f potential services
considered is broad and includes information, training, consulting, advisory, export marketing,
information technology, design, and product development. Based on preliminary analysis, human
resource management (including recruitment, human resource policy, staff training and incentive
systems), marketing, and accounting, seem to be some o f the services for which there is a
potential untapped market.

Activities:

Grants will be extended to business service providers selected based on criteria that reflect best
business practices. Applicants will be carefully screened to ensure that recipients have the
requisite management capacity, financial strength, sound business model, and commitment to
serving MSMEs. Firmswill have to be operating as business and have a strong track record o f
performance intheir core business lines; demonstrated management capability; audited financial
statements; experience with and significant interest in serving MSMEs;willingness to take a
commercial approach to service provision; and ifnot a private business, a significant and growing
ratio o f fee revenues to operating costs. Winningproposals will be those that contain measurable
targets interms o f reaching large numbers o f MSMEs (outreach) with services that make a
difference (impact) and that can be delivered on a sustained basis (sustainability).


Project Component 3 Investment Climate US$ 5.80 million
                     -                    -

Objective: The objective o f this component i s to reduce the constraints firms face inregistering
their businesses and enhance firms' confidence in entering a contractual agreement. The
component will focus on a number o f specific investment climate constraints related to business
registration, commercial dispute resolution and legal and regulatory changes related to the leasing


                                                - 43 -

industry,the establishment o f a commercial credit bureau and the introductiono f a secured
transactions regime.

Background:

(i)Business registration: Companiesintheinformal sector preferto stay inthe informaleconomy
or rely on informal mechanisms as they perceive that benefits o f staying informal outweighs the
costs o f going formal. Benefits o f being inthe informal sector are mainly avoidance o f taxes and
burdensome government regulations. Red tape basically imposes additional costs such as bribes
and indirect costs such as investors' time spent on complying with the red tape. There are also
costs to staying inthe informal sector. As seen inNigeria, companies need to stay small in order
to remain under the radar to prevent harassment by authorities/inspectors. In some cases, even
formal companies prefer staying under the radar as much as possible. While the necessary bribes
may be costly, they are lower than the taxes, fees, social security, and other official payments
confronting firms. However, this strategy is risky. Failure to pay the bribes can result in
heightened harassment and closure by aggressive bureaucrats/inspectors. When firms are
informal, they do not have the tools to complain against such harassment. Another cost o f being
informal i s the lack o f a social security net for the firm owners and the employees, increasing the
uncertainty. Finally, companies inthe informal sector do not have access to credit channels and
different types o f SME assistance services such as business development services - the main two
services this project aims to provide to MSMEs inNigeria.

Within this framework, a more streamlined registrationprocess can be expected to encourage
more businesses to migrate into the formal sector. At the firm level, formalization would improve
access to financial and non-financial services as well as reduction inwaiting times and economic
costs (explicit and implicit). Another benefito f improving business registration i s the additional
revenue from company tax. Inthis regard, there i s often a trade o f f between improved access to
the registration process and higher tax revenue. While better registration processes both for
businessas well as tax registration allows firms to migrate to the formal sector, there is often a
general disincentive from making this migration as it exposes smaller and less structured firms to
regulatory agencies.

(io Commercial Dispute Resolution: The ability to enforce contract i s fundamental for businesses
to enter into long term relationships with other customers. Manufacturing firms surveyed in
2000 (WED) noted that inefficient courts procedures coupled with administrative bottleneck in
the judicial system cause delays in the resolution o f commercial cases. Currently, "Doing
Business" estimates that it takes 730 days for a business to settle disputes. As a result o f
businesses are reluctant to enter into arms' lengthtransactions in order to avoid potential contract
disputes. The net effect i s that business costs are increased. A more effective system for resolving
commercial disputes would increase business confidence and decrease costs.

Untilconfidence incourt processes has beenrestored, alternative dispute resolution outside the
formal judicial process can be used for resolving commercial disputes. The intemational
experience suggests that in a significant share o f cases ADR represents a better way to resolve a
dispute for all parties involved. One finding inall studies o fcourt-annexed ADR programs, is that


                                                    - 44 -

litigants like ADR. They report much higher levels o f satisfaction with a dispute resolved through
ADR than with a trial or an unmediated settlement. Nigeria's laws are conducive to ADR.
Domestic arbitration i s governed by the Arbitration and Conciliation Act (Cap 19 Laws o f the
Federationo f Nigeria 1990), which i s modeled on the UNCommission on International Trade
Law (a model law which contains internationally accepted provisions for the conduct and
regulation o f arbitration.). Cap 19 implements the 1958 New York Convention on Recognition
and Enforcement o f Foreign Arbitral Awards, which provides for the recognition and enforcement
o f arbitral awards in another party's jurisdiction. There i s also a court-annexed ADR program for
negotiation and conflict management, the Lagos MultiDoor Program, which has recently been
instituted. The Nigeria branch o f the Chartered Institute for Arbitrators holds training and
specialized courses for lawyers and non lawyers. However, inNigeria the use o f alternatives to
litigation such as mediation, conciliation and arbitration has not been fully exploited. InNigeria
ADR is underdeveloped.

(iii) Secured TransactionsRegime:       Resources will be allocated to strengthen the collateral
process (access and enforcement) through a Secured Transaction System. Support will be
extended to develop a legal regime which provides easy and efficient procedures for resolving
priority disputes and, incase o f default under the financing agreement, enforcement o f rights
against collateral that can proceed through a private contractual arrangement without recourse to
the justice system and, as an alternative, through an expeditious summary court proceedings.
Fundingwould also be made available for a hardware and software system that could be usedfor
the establishment o fpledge registries o fmoveable capital.

(iv) Leasing Industry; Under this component, the project will focus on pursuingthe development
o f appropriate policies and changes inthe legal and regulatory framework supporting the leasing
industry. The focus will be on reforming the tax regulations for leases; working with the
Nigerian Accounting Standards Board (NASB) on the adoption of International Accounting
Standards in lease recognition policies; coordinating with policy makers and financial regulators to
ensure that best practices are followed in licensing leasing activities, regulating capitalizationand
other prudential requirements to protect the financial system and the leasing industry; and support
the legal system inhandling leasing cases.

(v) Credit Bureau: While a credit riskmanagement system (CRMS) exists inthe Central Bank o f
Nigeria (CBN), there has been limited demand for the service. The potential exists for a private
sector Credit Bureau to enter the market, working inpartnership with the CBN in order to put in
place a mechanism that does effectively serve commercial banks. The results of a recently
completed IFC study into the feasibility o f establishing a private sector credit bureau will be used
as the basis for identifying possible changes to be made inrelated legal and regulatory climate
pertaining to mandatory provision o f (negative and positive) data to the bureau and access to
certain public data bases, e.g., national population and IDregisters, registrar o f companies,
property and deeds. Consideration will also need to be given to the approval o f a Bureau Code o f
Conduct which, inthe absence o f specific consumer protection legislation, will be essential to
ensure internationalbest practice standards are introduced and maintained.




                                                  - 45 -

Activities:

(i)BusinessRegistration

A FIAS/USAID Study (Investors Roadmap) that examined administrative procedures to invest in
Nigeria suggests that the legislation underlying the incorporation process i s o f good quality and
generally in line with international practice. However, there are a number o f areas where
improvements could be made that would ease the burden on MSMEs. The Business registration
component o f the project aims to address these issues by developing close cooperation between

registration process and company outreach - based on international best practices (for example,
the C A C and the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and : (a) streamline o f the business

the Business Services in Canada); (b) assist the CAC's Computerization program; (c) expand the
Computerization system to the two pilot states (CAC's Zonal Offices) and improve company
access; (d) integrate the stamp Duty Payment, tax and VAT and foreign direct investment
registration procedures into the company registration process.

        (a) Streamlining the CACprocedures


The C A C i s making strides to increase its efficiency, particularly through the ongoing
computerization program within headquarters and inthe liaison offices. It i s critical to streamline
the internal CAC process inparallelwith computerization of the system to increase the
effectiveness o f the computer application and reach effective results. The streamlining process
would be based on learning opportunities for the C A C staff o f best practices, aiming to reduce
the number o f days to process applications to the target o f 24 hours envisioned by President
Obasanjo.

The simplification o f the registrationprocess could involve the following steps:

k       Enhance the capability o f CAC personnel through workshops conducted by best practice
experts, and possibly exchange programs and twining arrangements Usingbest practice indicators,
the project could assist the C A C to further strengthen the efficiency o f its registration process.
This exercise would also involve a comprehensive analysis o f the process and the instruments
(forms) used in each step by the best practice experts to identify possible alternative procedures to
streamline the overall registrationprocess within the CAC.
k       The outcome o f this activity would be a standardized operating manual which indicates the
targeted time and cost associated with each step.

        (b) Assistanceto the CAC's Computerization program


The CAC computerizationprocess, which i s going to cost about US$6 million or N800 million, is
currently ongoing. Within this process, the name checkiavailability database has mostly been
completed, allowing computerized searches and completion o f the process in one business day,
unless it i s conducted inthe zonal offices and needs additional verification at the Abuja office.


                                                  - 46 -

The information technology (IT) company contracted by C A C to computerize its operations
suggested that the computer applications would handle document management, business
registration, web interface, management reports, and Smart Card technology for payments. The
equipment required to widen the system to the initial set o f zonal offices i s expected to arrive in
about 6 weeks. The IT company also noted that there i s no law in Nigeria on electronic signature
so the stamp duty document and the applicants signature will have to be scanned as part o f the
on-line registration process and sent to C A C via post.

Inthis perspective, there are two areas the MSMEproject would assist CAC's computerization
process. (i)  A study o fthe current computerizationat CAC, including an analysis o f the software
beingused, and determine additional support neededto increase productivity and the alternative
financing o f this activity. This would involve (i) integration o f streamlined procedures under
component A described above; (ii)      develop and implement a more comprehensive
computerization o f CAC headquarters and the zonal offices at the pilot states, taking into
consideration best practices, infrastructure needs, and sustainability concems.

        (c)    Firm access to registration,and company outreach in the pilot States

The MSMEproject will involve states that choose to opt-in to join the project. There i s a
likelihood that C A C already has zonal offices located inthese pilot States. To increase firm access
to registration, C A C also welcomes the idea o f BMO's acting as links to the enterprises. It was
further agreed that the private sector must be educated on CAC operations as this would enable
them to better understand the intemal process and the requirements. There i s therefore the need
to organize capacity buildingactivities to achieve this purpose.

This goal can be served by through the use o f other reputable avenues to deliver CAC services,
strengthening o f C A C liaison offices and their link to the central office as well as the proper
implementation o f on-line registration. Inaddition, on-line registration would greatly increase the
ability o f enterprises to register. However, given the lack o f access o f a large percentage o f the
Nigerian population to internet access, there i s the serious need to determine the most feasible
way o f delivering this service.

We expect that activities that reach out to the private sector would include the following:

(i) relationshipwiththebusinessmembershipassociationsespeciallythoselocatedoutside
    Forging
o f Lagos and Abuja. Furthermore, the business membership association can provide a feedback
mechanism for improving C A C services and serve as a conduit through which to increase
enterprise familiarity with and trust towards the CAC;
(ii)Developing outreach programs such as workshops, round tables and seminars with the
organized private sector and other sectoral groups;
(iii)Facilitating the development o f the necessary infrastructure in some business membership
associations to enable them to access the on-line registration process;
(iv) Enabling the business membership associations and banks inverifying and filing CAC
applications/forms and accepting CAC fees, respectively. This could eliminate the requirement o f


                                                  - 47 -

going to a court to notarize documents as certified notary public located inbusiness associations
and banks (with SME units)can assist enterprises in this process.

         (d) Integration of CAC, FIRS and NIPC registration procedures

There are two other areas, where cooperationbetween the CAC, FIRS and NIPC would
significantly improve the registration experience o f firms: paying o f stamp duties t a x N A T
registration and Foreign Investment Registration.

One o f the pre-conditions o f C A C Registrationi s the payment o f the stamp duty at the Federal
Inland Revenue Service (FIRS). This process takes 2-5 days depending on the method o f
payment. There are opportunities to streamline the overall registration process by integrating the
stamp duty payment into the C A C registrationprocess or providing opportunities for payment o f
stamp duty at the banks located in CAC offices. C A C and FIRS have already met and discussed
the possibility o f locating FIRS officers within the C A C offices to integrate the two procedures. A
solution for this option has not been agreed on yet. Giventhe fact that C A C and the FIRS are
both very open to further streamlining and continuedreforms, there are possibilities to continue
the dialogue and integrate these procedures.

Once they complete the registration process at the CAC, companies have to complete their tax
and VAT registration with the FIRS to receive their tax and VAT identification numbers. Further
exploration i s required into the possibilities o f C A C issuing the tax and VAT registrationnumbers
for all companies registering at the CAC. The numbers would be communicated to the FIRS on
the forms C A C currently send to the FIRS once a company completes C A C registration.
Discussions are also to take place to determine whether it is possible to integrate the C A C and
NIPC registration processes and establish the necessary protocols to enable sharing o f data bases,
inline with the mandated and legislatedresponsibilities ofthe two Agencies.

(ii) CommercialDispute Resolution

Subject to the results o f an in-depthassessment to be undertakenby the Government in
collaboration with stakeholders, this dispute resolution component could support alternative
dispute resolution inthe pilot states. A number o f states inthe country have developed ADR
mechanisms that are part o f the state Ministry o f Justice such as the Lagos Multi-Door and the
Kaduna ADR Center. While these efforts have reducedthe caseload inthe formal courts, they
often represent another step inthe process. The objective o f this sub-component i s to increase the
utilization o f private ADR systems operated by non-government institutions such as the Bar
Association. The component could also buildon ongoingjudicial reform programs inKaduna and
Lagos States to improve the ability o f courts inthose jurisdictions to uniformly and predictably
apply the law to commercial disputes brought before them and to support the enforcement o f
arbitral awards, Specific activities are anticipated to include:

         Skill transfer and capacity building to local trainers inADR
        Communications component which will include working through existing business
organizations, as well as reaching out to the other segments o f the micro, small and business


                                                   - 48 -

community that are not part o f existing networks. This program will seek to familiarize these
segments o f the business community on the potential for and benefits o f ADR.
         The Nigerian Bar Association, the ManufacturersAssociation o f Nigeria, the Nigerian
Economic Summit Group, and the Chartered Institute of Bankers o f Nigeria have indicated their
interest in establishing Court Watch Programs.
         Discrete initiatives that can serve to reduce the bottlenecks to dispute resolution for
MSMEs inthe existing courts.

Initiatives supported under this project will be buildingon an existing participatory sector-wide
approach being pursued in Lagos and Kaduna States with the support o f other donors. It i s
critical, in line with ongoing programs, to build a consensus for a clearly sequenced initiatives in
support o f a more streamlined approach to commercial dispute resolution. Success will depend
upon remedial solutions tailored to the Nigerian culture. Their implementation must reflect an
understanding o f how much change the legal profession can accept, and include a clear
articulation to those concerned o f the benefits to them o fjudicial reform. Ifthere i s support for
incremental change, a virtuous cycle can be initiatedby systematically reducing the opportunities
for rent seeking behaviors, and changing attitudes among the judiciary, the bar, and court users.

(iii)    Secured Transactions Regime

The focus o f the Secured Transaction System Sub-component will be on strengthening the
collateral process (access and enforcement).         Support will be extended to develop a legal regime
which contemplates easy and efficient procedures for the creation, registration as the basis for
resolving priority disputes and, incase o f default under the financing agreement, enforcement o f
rightsagainst collateral that can proceedthrough a private contractual arrangement without
recourse to the justice system and as an alternative through an expeditious summary court
proceedings.

The design criteria for the secured transactions system would take the following factors into
account: (i)   protect the rights o f the financial institutions and creditors, inparticular, lenders,
leasing companies, public institutions with claims on movables; (ii)      expedite the extension o f
credit on more favorable terms and costs; (iii)     while maintaining recourse to the court
enforcement procedure, the system should allow financial institutions to foreclose on the collateral
incase o f default without requiring creditor or permitting debtor recourse to thejudicial system or
government security personnel; (iv) identify an alternative procedure to lengthily court
proceedings o f issuingexecution orders and determine priority disputes; (v) identify an efficient
registration procedure, and potential institution to serve as the central registry; (vi) propose
mechanisms to increase financial and operational sustainable o f the system; and (vii) the need to
have a simple and efficient legislation to support the system.

It is envisaged that the design o f the secured transaction system would also incorporate the need
o f credit grantors to learn about interests o f non-lending institutions such as leasing companies,
retail seller o f goods under conditional sale agreements and any other transactions which may
effect the real value o f the property they deal with. Fundingwould also be made available for a
hardware and software system that could be used for registration o f the financing statements. A



                                                    - 49 -

training and capacity buildingprogram to ensure that the opportunities and implications o f the
reforms are fully understood and implementedby relevant stakeholders including tax authorities,
commercial lawyers, judges and relevant agencies o f Government.

(iv)    Leasing

On the basis o f the results o f the leasing sector assessment commissionedby the IFC,
consultations now need to be launchedwith the key players inthe public and private sectors to
address the outstanding "enabling environment" issues. This dialogue, which i s to result inan
Action Plan that can be supported through technical assistance and capacity buildingfinanced out
.
of the IDA credit, will encompass:

        possible amendments to the Companies Income Tax Act, the Bankruptcy Act and the
Statement on Accounting Standard (SAS);




mechanisms;
......  introduction o f a leasing law and repeal o f the current Hire Purchase Act;
        creation o f separate guidelines for leasing companies (versus finance companies); review
o f prudential norms as they apply to leasing;
        adaptation o f the SMIEIS program to make it possible for these funds to be made
available for investment inleasing companies;
        investigation o f ways to secure moveable collateral and establish a viable credit bureau;
        enforcement o f contract right repossessionvia courts or alternative resolution

        education and outreach programs and activities with the leasing industryand its
associations, the financial sector, the judiciary and government agencies with supervisory and
policy responsibilities affecting the leasing industry.

(v)     Credit Bureau

Based on consultations with stakeholders and authorities and agreements reached out o f these
.
discussions, project resources could be utilized for:

        legal and regulatory reforms for facilitate data sharing in conjunction with the Central
Bank, the Commercial Affairs Corporation, the FederalInland Revenue Service;
.       legislation inrespect o f consumer and data protection issues and a related credit bureau
code o f conduct;
..      training and capacity buildingrelated to credit bureau licensing and supervision issues;
        outreach and training programs to educate both businesses and lenders on the merits o f
credit bureau services.




                                                   - 50 -

Project Component 4 PubliclPrivate Sector Partnership Development
                      -                                              - - US$1.10 million

Background:

This component will seek to address the MSME sector issues by focusing on government
agencies and their programs. Specifically, capacity buildingbased on lessons learned and best
practices stemming from international microfinance and business development services will be
extended to relevant government agencies targeted at M S M E development. Advisory services
would be available to update government policies and review, re-engineer, and build on ongoing
government- sponsored programs aimed at MSMEs to enhance their responsiveness to MSMEs
and increase the sustainability o f program results that are founded on best practices.

Activities:

Resources will be allocated also to facilitate the dialogue process between the public and private
sectors. This will include the Small and Medium Scale Enterprises Development Agency o f
Nigeria (SMEDAN) and the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC). SMEDAN
would take the lead on a dialogue with business associations, private sector and government
stakeholders with a view to preparing M S M E competitiveness report on an annual basis utilizing
the cost o f doing business surveys and other evaluations generated by the project and research
undertaken by SMEDAN itself. This component will also support other leaming agenda events
(domestic and through study tours) including best practice workshops with leading Africa and
international practitioners that will feed into topics and priorities to be addressed inthe Annual
M S M E Competitiveness report.

Support will also be provided to participating States with policy and public-private dialogue
responsibilitieswith the M S M E sector to assist them develop expertise inbest practices in these
areas.

Project Component 5 Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation US$2.50 million
                      -                                                -
To facilitate the implementation o f this project, resources allocated to this component will fund
financial, audit, training, and consultant assignments required to prepare an implementation
manual and further the execution, reporting, review (semi-annual and mid-term), and monitoring
o fproject components. Provisions will also be made for equipment and operational costs (within
an agreed framework). A comprehensive impact assessment survey will also be conducted. This
assessment will quantify and benchmark constraints, based on the implementation o f State-level
enterprise surveys. These surveys would provide baseline data on enterprise productivity and the
cost o f doing business.




                                                  -51 -

                               Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                  NIGERIA: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Project

                                                                Local      Foreign     Total
                Project Cost By Component                     US $million US $million US $million
Access to Finance                                               22.50       10.50       33.00
BusinessDevelopinent Services                                    9.70        6.30       16.00
Investment Climate                                               2.70        3.10        5.80
PrivatePublic Sector Partnership Development                     1.oo        0.10        1.10
Project Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation                   1.oo        1.50        2.50
Unallocated                                                      0.00        1.60        1.60
Total Baseline Cost                                             36.90       23.10       60.00
 Physical Contingencies                                          0.00        0.00        0.00
 Price Contingencies                                             0.00                    0.00
                             Total Project CostsI               36.90       23.10       60.00
                      Total Financing Required                  36.90       23.10       60.00

                                                                Local      Foreign      Total
                 Project Cost By Category                     US $million US $million US $million
Goods                                                              0.00         1.80        1.80
Works                                                              0.00         0.00        0.00
Services                                                          27.00        12.60       39.60
Training                                                           0.80         2.00        2.80
Operating Costs                                                    0.30         0.30        0.60
Grant                                                              7.90         5.10       13.00
PPF Refinancing                                                    0.40         0.20        0.60
Unallocated                                                        0.50         1.10        1.60
                                                                               23.10       60.00
                                                           , I
                                        Total Project Costs       36.90
                                   Total Financing Required       36.90        23.10       60.00




                                               - 52 -

                                Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
                       NIGERIA: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Project



         [For projects with benefitsthat are measured in monetaryterms]

                               PresentValue of Flows                                     Fiscal Impact
                               ~conomic
                                Analysis          FinancialAnalysis`               Taxes              Subsidies
 Benefits:                             70.7                                            14.3                     NIA
  (US$ million)

costs:                                 35.1                                                                     NIA
 (US$ million)
 Net Benefits:                         35.6                                            14.3                     NIA
  US$ million)
 IRR:                                  26.2
  (percent)
Note: The discount rate used for the economic analysis i s 12percent.

`Ifthe difference betweenthe present value offinancial andeconomic flows is large and cannot be explainedby
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation o f the difference i s warranted, e.g. "The value o f financial benefits i s less
than that o f economic benefits because o f controls on electricity tariffs."

Summary of Benefits and Costs:

Base Case Results
The cost-benefits analysis o f this pilot MSME project presents some limits not only due to its
innovative nature in Sub-Sahara Africa but also to the lack o f data on the MSME sector. The
difficulty in quantifying the economic benefits results mainly from the indirect relationship
between the technical assistance, which represents a large part o f the project, and the stream o f
benefits; and from the lagged effects o f the project. Nevertheless, a cost-benefit analysis has been
carried out to calculate the Net Present Value (NPV) and Economic Rate o f Return (ERR) in a
"with" and "without" project framework. The numeraire used in the objective function is output,
which is expected to grow mainly as the result o f (i)improved capacity utilization and efficiency
o f the supported MSMEs; (ii)greater access to finance for productive activities, and (iii)
streamlined investment climate.

After running a simple model calibrated using available data and based on conservative
assumptions, the project generates a net present value estimated at about US$35.6 million
corresponding to an internal economic rate o f return o f 26.2 percent. The project i s expected to
have a positive impact on employment as a result o f acceleration o f output growth in the pilot
areas where a minimum o f 4770 jobs are expected to be created by supported MSMEs (it i s
important to emphasize that the acceleration o fjob-generating investment would be slacked by the
relatively low capacity utilization rate). Inother terms, 1permanentjob i s created by the MSMEs
for each $2304 granted to BDS providers. Although the size o f the multiplier effect i s not known,
it should be noted that indirect jobs are also expected. Ceteris paribus, the government fiscal


                                                          - 53 -

position i s also positively affected. Indeed, the project would generate $14.3 million as the result
o f incremental taxes paid by employees, corporate income taxes, taxes on incremental wages and
registrations fees generated by the CAC. The informal sector will also benefit from the project to
an extent which obviously cannot be rigorously estimated. The project i s expected to encourage
informal MSMEs to crowd in the formal sector which will have a positive impact on the fiscal
position. Knowledge spillovers will also positively contribute to the economy o f the pilot areas.

The cost-benefit analysis was done for three main componenets: (i)      BDS, which factor in some
elements o f the microfinance and commercial bank downscaling sub-components, (ii)        Access to
finance; and (iii) Investment Climate, which, for the purpose o f the analysis, includes the
components "public/private partnership", project management and unallocated. For the three
categories, as shown intable 1below, the ERRSare greater than the discount rate o f 12percent,
indicating that the project i s robust. The relatively highERR for the BDS component can partly
be explained by the fact that the greater access to finance for MSMEs benefiting from improved
BDS has been factored into calculate the benefit. This can be considered as a strength o f this pilot
stand-alone M S M E project aimed at improving both BDS and access to finance.

                                   Table 1: Results by Components
                                    I   BDS     IAccess to Investme Overall
                                                  Finance    1   & Proiect
                                                                     I
                                                              Climate   (a)
                 NPV (US$ million)      27.3         4.7        3.6    35.6
               I ERR(oercent)       I   29.0    1   24.3     I 19.5  I 26.2    1

(a) The overall ERR is weighed by the relative size o f each component.

MainAssumptions:

1.BDS and financial products and services are responsive to MSMEs' needs.

2. A minimum o f 220 BDS providers are expected to benefit from the grant scheme with and
average amount of $50,000 per provider. Each BDS will support on average 150 MSMEs. It i s
assumed that the supported MSMEs, would increase their capacity utilization rate and their
efficiency which would yield an increase inoutputs at a multiple o f 5 times the amount o f support.
This conservative assumption i s made based on empirical evidence from schemes in East Asian
countries, where output increased at a multiple o f 15 times the matching grant amount; and in
Uganda, where output increased at a multiple o f 10 times the amount o f support (BUDS-Business
Uganda Development Scheme component o f the Private Sector Competitiveness project closed in
December 2002). The conservative multiplying factor take into account the fact that the grant
scheme will not directly support the MSMEs but the B D S providers. However, the MSMEs will
directly benefit from the greater access to finance facilitated by the project.

3. For the supported MSMEs, the rate of job creation has been calculated taking into account a
shadow yearly worth o f output per worker o f US $2742 given an informal sector representing 70
percent o f the economy. The rate o fjob creation has been discounted by one-half because o f the


                                                   - 54 -

current relatively low average capacity utilization rate o f 52 percent.

4. The additional output created by assisted firms i s defined as the difference between the level o f
output achieved by firms assisted by the project and the level o f output these same firms would
have achieved without the project. Without the project, based on experience from the Uganda
BUDS scheme, it i s assumed that only 50 percent o f the MSMEs will undertake the activity
supported by the BDS providers, but with a delay o f 3 years.
5. The transfer o f knowledge/skills will have a lasting effect on the activities o f the beneficiaries
and this, up to seven years after project completion.
6. It i s assumed that there i s no mismanagement of grant receivedby BDS providers and financial
institutions.
7. In the base case, the increase in firms' output i s discounted by two-third to take into account
the social costs o f other resources in the economy that are diverted into the project from other
activities not directly supported by the project.


8. It i s assumed that the support provided to improve the investment climate would, with an
average lag o f two years, have a positive impact estimated at 2 times the amount o f support.

9. A stable macroeconomic environment with price and exchange rate stability i s also assumed.

10. For the investment climate and the public/private partnership components, it i s assumed that
financial cost and benefits equated economic cost and benefits.


Sensitivity analysis / Switchingvalues of critical items:

Four sensitivity tests were carried out by switching values o f critical variables. The results are
presented in table 2 below.

      (i) first test decreases the socialcost ofresourcesdivertedinto theproject from 66
          The
    percent to 50 percent; the NPV jumped to US$102.5 million with a corresponding ERR o f
    43.3 percent. 5015 jobs are created.

     (ii)Thesecondtestassumes a75percentsocialcostofresourcesdivertedintotheproject,
    the N P V considerably decreased to US$7.4 million while the ERR dropped to 15.6 percent.
    About 2500 jobs are generated.

      (iii) thirdtestassumesahigherincreaseinoutputforeachfirmfrom5to10;theresults
            The
    showed a NPV o f US$84.3 million and ERR o f 39.3%.

     (iv) The fourth test elongates the disbursement period by two years, the N P V decreased to
    US$17.9 million while the ERR came down to 20.1%. The number o f jobs created remains
    the same as inthe base case with however a slightly lower rate o fjob creation.


                                                  - 55 -

The fiscal impact is positive inall the scenarios.

                                Table 2 : Sensitivity Analysis Summary

       Scenario      Sensitivity      Cases        Variable    NPV                 Jobs
                     Performed                     Amount      ($m)   (%)  Impact created


   Overall Project

   Delayed Project Elongated      (a) Base      (a) Regular    35.6                3410
   Implementation  disbursement
                   period         (b) Alternate                17.9                3410
                                                Disbursement

                                                (b) Slow
                                                Disbursement

   Change in       Percent        (a) Base      (a) 66%        35.6                3410
   Diversion       reduction in                 Reduction
   Assumption      increase in    (b) Alternate                 7.4                2507
                   output                       (b) 75%
                   attributed to                Reduction
                   diversion      (d) Alternate                102.5  43.3  27.7   5015

                   from other
                   sources                       50%
                                                Reduction

   Expected        Increase in    (a) Base      (a) 5 Times    35.6                3410
   Change in       expected
   Output for each change in      (b) Alternate (b) 10 Times   84.3                6820
   firm            output for
                   each MSME




                                                 - 56 -

Benefitsfrom the project

The main economic benefits and the monitoring tools are presented below:

        Nature of benefits / Indicators               Monitoring Tools
    Increasedcapacity utilization rate   Base case I end o f project survey
                                         (control MSMEgroup)
    Increasedproductivity and outputs in Base case I end o f project output levels
    supported MSMEs                      (control MSMEgroup)
    Increased numbero f MSMEs            CAC report

    Job creation inthe MSMEssector       rfumber o f employees at beginning I end
                                             ro.ect in therelevant MSMEs
    ImprovedInvestment climate;
    businessenvironment (Registration; E  nd-of-project survey I WED follow up
    dispute resolution)                  survey

    Improved access to finance for       New financial services and product;
    MSMEs                                survey o f relevant MSMEsI survey o f
                                         relevant financial institutions

    More efficient BDSmarketand            ase case I end o f project survey o f
    services                             :eneficiary  BDSproviders; survey of
                                        relevant MSMEs
    Government Taxes                     Tax payment by supported MSMEs;
                                         Registration fees I CAC reDort

Main Beneficiaries

     The main beneficiaries of the project would be: (i) BDS providers, (ii) financial
                                                           the                     the
institutions, (iii)
                  the supported MSMEswith better access to business development services,
finance and improved investment climate; and (iv) the government with wider tax base and
healthier fiscal position.




                                                   - 57 -

                                   Annex 5: Financial Summary
                       NIGERIA: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Project
                                         Years Ending



                            IYear1   I  year2    I  year3  I year4  I  Year5  I Year6   1 year7 I
Total Financing
Required
 Project Costs
  Investment Costs              9.2        14.6        16.0     14.5       4.1      0.0      0.0
 Recurrent Costs                0.3          0.3        0.4      0.4       0.2      0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs             9.5        14.9        16.4     14.9       4.3      0.0      0.0
Total Financing                 9.5        14.9        16.4     14.9       4.3      0.0      0.0
Financing
   IBRDllDA                     4.1          6.5        8.1      9.9       3.4     0.0       0.0
  Government                    0.2          0.2        1.o      0.4       0.1     0.0       0.0
       Central                  0.0          0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0
       Provincial               0.0          0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0
  Co-financiers                 0.0                                                0.0       0.0
IFC, Nigerian private sector    5.2          8.2        7.3      4.6       0.8     0.0       0.0
 Total Project Financing        9.5        14.9        16.4     14.9       4.3     0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:




                                                - 58 -

                              Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                    NIGERIA: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Project

Procurement

The procurement system inNigeria i s inthe process o fbeing reformed at all levels. The
Government procurement reformprogram was fashioned inline with the recommendations o f the
year 2000 Nigeria Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR). All the three tiers o f
government are operating under the Financial Regulations (FR), which are essentially an internal
set o f rules for economic controls. The CPAR identified major weaknesses inthe procurement
polices and practices inNigeria and made appropriate short-, medium- and long-term
recommendations. Based on the short-term recommendations o f the 2000 Nigeria CPAR, the
procurement procedures section o f the FR at the federal government level, was revised on June
27,200 1, to ensure clarity and transparency by incorporating details o f the various procurement
methods and their applications for goods, works and services among others. For instance, the
ineffective Federal and DepartmentalTender Boards have been abolished while the Ministerial
Tender Boards have been strengthened with powers to approve contract awards. Also a
Procurement Reform ImplementationUnit (PRIU) and a Steering Committee that would initiate
and supervise initial implementation o f reforms have been established at the federal government
level. It i s envisaged that the states and local governments will review and revise their
procurement system in line with the FGNreform programs. FG i s making arrangements to
disseminate the findings and recommendations o f the CPAR at State and LGAs Levels. The
reforms have five main features:


procurement bill is now before the National Assembly for passage);
.        Enactment o f a new procurement law based on the UNCITRAL model law. (the

         Establishment o f a public procurement oversight body, the Public Procurement
..
Commission (PCC), independent o f the Tender boards with responsibility for the efficiency and
effectiveness o f the procurement function across the public sector;
         Revision o f key areas o f the Financial Regulations to make them more transparent (this
has been effected at thefederal level since June 27, 2001);
         Deep restructuring o f Tender Boards and approval procedures for contracts. Specifically,
.
abolish Federal Tender Board and Departmental Tender Boards and strengthening Ministerial
Tender Boards by vesting them with powers to approve contract awards (partially fulfilled); and,
         Buildingprocurementcapacity inthe public sector through a restorationo f
professionalisminprocurement and intensive training o f procurement staff.

UntilGovernment takes major steps to reformthe procurementpolicies andpractices inthe
country (it i s presumed the reform process will reach an advanced stage by FY04), procurement
risk for doing business inNigeria is assessedas high.Under this project, this risk will be
minimized by incorporating the procurement responsibilitiesinthe terms o f reference for the
PMU, a private entity, and requiring the P M U to follow IDA'Sprocurement guidelines.




                                                   - 59 -

Use of Bank Guidelines

All goods and services financedunder the IDA credit would be procured inaccordance with the
appropriate IDA guidelines (Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,
January 1995 and as revised inJanuary and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999; and
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997
and as revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002). To the extent practicable Bank's
standard biddingdocuments for goods and Standard Requests for Proposals for consultants as
well as all standard evaluation forms would be usedthroughout project implementation.
Procurement procedures, as agreed between NIPC, the P M U and IDA, will be described inthe
Project Implementation Manual.

Advertising

A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and would be publishedbefore Board
presentation in the UNDevelopment Business or Development Gateway and in a national
newspaper as provided under the Guidelines. The GPN would be updated on a yearly basis and
would show all outstanding International Competitive Bidding(ICB) for goods and all
international consulting services. Inaddition, a Specific Procurement Notice (SPN) i s required for
all goods to be procured under ICB and Expressions o f Interest (EOI) for all consulting services
with a value inexcess o f US$200,000. All N C B procurementpackages for goods and works
would be advertised inthe national newspapers.

Procurement Capacity Assessment

To ensure the appropriate procurement capacity i s in place prior to project effectiveness, an
assessment o f the procurement capacity o f the NIPC (as interim PMU) was carried out in
accordance with Procurement Services Policy Group (OPCPR) guidelines dated July 15, 2002.
The assessment outlines main issues and recommendations and i s in the project files. The
assessment revealed that NIPC only carries out small purchases using shopping or direct
contracting methods in an amount less than $16,000.00, while its major procurement activities are
undertaken at the Office o f the Vice President (its supervisingoffice). Hence, the existing capacity
to handle procurement under this project i s inadequate at NIPC. To address this weakness, NIPC
(Project Executing Agency), will select through a competitive process, a private management firm
(the PMU) using the Quality Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method in line with the Bank's
Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants not later than June 30, 2003. -Also, three
months after project effectiveness, the Bank will carry out a procurement capacity assessment o f
the PMUto ensure it has sufficient skills mix and capacity to carry out its project-related
procurement responsibilities. The assessment will determine the ability o f the P M U to perform
procurement coordination responsibilities and will outline the main issues and recommendations
for procurement implementation and include an action plan that addresses the following
requirements: (a) a management and staffing structure with key officials possessing appropriate
technical skills to carry out the day to day procurement activities during the duration o f the
Project implementation; (b) preparation o f a comprehensive Procurement Procedures Manual as


                                                - 60 -

part o f P I M for the project, which will be adopted before project effectiveness; (c) preparation o f
a procurement plan for the first year to be discussed, finalized, and agreed by end-June 2004; and
(d) as appropriate, attendance at procurement workshops organized by the Bank not later than
three months after project effectiveness.

ProcurementPlanning

The Borrower will prepare a Global Procurement Strategic Plan, and a detailed procurement plan
for the first year's activities prior to effectiveness. The plans will be updated yearly, sent to IDA
for clearance not later than three months before the end o f each fiscal year. The procurement plan
for the first year will be prepared by NIPC (under the guidance o f an experienced Procurement
Consultant) based on the initial needs for all project activities. Procurement for subsequent years
will be indicative and based on a predetermined set o f activities projectedby beneficiary
institutions that have met selection and performance criteria duringthe implementation period.

ProcurementImplementationArrangements

The overall coordination and implementation o f the project activities would be the responsibility
o f NIPC for about the first six months o f project implementation. However, such responsibility
will be entrusted to the PMU, which will also be responsible for coordinating all procurement
under the project. The guidelines that will be used inpreparing, screening and implementing
subprojects will be specified inthe project ImplementationManual. As part o f capacity building
under the project, staff o f NIPC and local staff o f the P M U would have access to training on
procurement for IDA-funded projects.

Component 1- Access to finance i s aimed at increasing access and availability o f financial
services to MSMEs through the introduction o f new financial institutions, products and tools,
reinforced with selective financial sector legal and regulatory reforms. One o f the major activities
under this component will be the selection o f MFIs and commercial banksbased onpre-specified
criteria that respect best practice and openness to support MSMEs intheir corporate mission,
strategic objectives, operating policies, etc. Expressions o f Interest (EoI) will be called for from
the interested MFIs and commercial banks, and the EoIs will explicitly state the criteria to
determine the eligibility o f interested applicants. The eligible applicants will submit detailed
business plans which will include their portion o f the contribution (i.e. matching grants) towards
the implementation o f the overall objective o f this component. MFIs and commercial banks who
fulfill the minimumcriteria (which shall be part of a procedures manual prepared for the Credit),
will have an acceptable business planbased on verifiable financial information andwill have the
requisite matching funds to be considered for access to finance under the proposedproject.
Release o f funds will be intranches, based on meeting the contractually agreed performance
indicators for the respective tranche released. As the selection o f beneficiaries will be based on
specified criteria, business plan, performance indicators. etc. the selected MFIs/commercial banks
may use their own procurement procedures to procure the goods and services required to fulfill
their performance obligations. Other activities such as technical assistance for establishing the
laws and regulations that shall be implemented by NIPC. until a P M U from the private sector has
been appointed, will be contracted usingBank procurement procedures.


                                                   - 61 -

Component 2 - Business Development Services. The objective o f this component i s to increase
MSMEs' access to quality business services that are both specialized and well-tailored to the
specific needs o f MSMEs. This component will assist BDS providers to buildtheir capacity to
develop and deliver quality training and consulting services that can assist a large number o f
MSMEs to increase their value added and grow. As in the Access to Finance component,
selection o f these service providers will be based on minimumeligibility criteria that shall be
detailed out inthe project procedure manual which shall be reviewed. The service providers which
will be contracted under a performance based contract agreement will use commercial practice in
procuring goods and services to execute their performance contract. All other activities under the
component such as studies, other consulting services and analytical work, will be contracted using
Bank procurement procedures.

Detailed procedures for the selection o f MFIs and BDS providers will be defined in a Procedures
Manual, which should be acceptable to IDA.

Components 3 - 5 - Investment Climate, PubliciPrivate Sector Partnership Development and
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation are aimed at (i)      assisting CAC to reform its
registration process and conduct awareness to increase MSMEs understanding of the roles and
services o f CAC, (ii) provide advisory services to selected FGN agencies with development
responsibilities and the opportunity to access global best practices, and (iii)
                                                                              fund activities such as
the financial audit, training, and consultancy assignments required to prepare the implementation
manual, monitor and evaluate the impact o f each o f the project components. Procurement o f
goods and services under these component will be contracted usingthe Bank's procurement
procedures.

Procurement Categories

        Goods

The project will finance items such as office equipment, computers and accessories. To the extent
practicable, goods and equipment would be combined inpackages worth at least $150,000 and be
procured usingInternational Competitive Bidding(ICB) procedures, usingIDA Standard Bidding
Documents (SBD).

Each contract for goods estimatedto cost between US$30,000 and US$150,000 up to an
aggregate o f US$0.48 million would be procured through National Competitive Bidding(NCB)
usingnationalprocedures acceptable to IDA.However, since there is no national SBD acceptable
to IDA for now inNigeria, IDA SBD for procurement o f goods will be adapted by the project.
National competitive biddingprocedures will also ensure that: (i)  bids will be advertised in
National dailies o f wide circulation; (ii)methods to be usedinevaluation o f bids and the award o f
contracts are made known to all the bidders and are not applied arbitrarily; (iii)bidders are given
adequate response time at least (four weeks) for preparation and submission o f bids; (iv) bid
evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified inthe biddingdocuments; (v) no
preference margin i s granted to domestic contractors; (vi) interested eligible foreign firms are not


                                                 - 62 -

precluded from participation; (vii) award o f contract will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder
substantively responsive to the bidding documents inaccordance with pre-determinedand
pre-announced/published and transparent methods; (viii) the bid evaluationreports will clearly
state the reasons for rejecting any non-responsive bid; and (ix) prior to issuingthe first call for
bids, the draft standard biddingdocuments preparedby the P M U will be submitted to the
Association and found acceptable.

Procurement for readily available off-the-shelf goods that cannot be grouped or standard
specification commodities for individual contracts o f less than US$30,000, up to an aggregate o f
US$2 million, would be procured under National Shopping; or International Shopping procedures
as detailed in paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 o f the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA
Credits" and June 9,2000 Memorandum "Guidance on Shopping" issued by the Bank.

To ensure that these limits are observed, each quarterly progress report o f the project would
include a list o f the contracts and the table setting out the number and value (inUS$ equivalent)
o f contracts issued through Local, International Shopping and National competitive bidding
duringthe quarter as well as the cumulative total value (inUS$ equivalent) o f contracts under
each o f these two procedures from the date o f the project start-up.

         ConsultingServices

These services would cover implementation and advisory services. As a rule, consultant services
will be procuredutilizing the Ouality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method. All consultancy
assignments estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or more would be procured through QCBS and would
be advertised inthe Development Business and or the Development Gateway and in at least one
national newspaper. Inaddition, the scope o f the service may be advertised in an international
newspaper or magazine seeking ''expressions of interest." Inthe case o f assignments estimated to
cost less than US$lOO,OOO, the assignment may be advertised nationally, and the shortlist made up
entirely o f national consultants provided that at least three qualified national firms are available in
the country, and foreign consultants who wish to participate are not excluded from consideration.
Consultant services (firms) estimated to cost less than the equivalent o f US$lOO,OOO, may be
contracted by usingthe Consultants Oualifications (CQ) method inaccordance with paragraph 3.7
o f the Guidelines. All consulting services o f individual consultants (IC) will be procured under
individual contracts in accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 o f the Guidelines.
Consultants for assignments o f a standard routine nature such as audits may be selected on the
basis o f Least-Cost method (LC). Single Source Selection: in exceptional cases, this method
would be usedin accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.8 to 3.11, with IDA'Sprior
agreement.

        Trainingand Workshops

17.     Training/workshops will be carried out on the basis o f approved annual programs that
would identify the general framework o f training activities for the year, including the nature o f
training/workshops, the number o f trainees, and cost estimates, to be reviewed and cleared by
IDA. Selection oftraining institutions for workshops/training should be based on a competitive


                                                   - 63 -

process usingthe Consultant's Qualifications method o f selection.

          Operating Cost

18.       This will include the incremental operating cost arising under the project on account o f the
maintenance of equipment and vehicles, fuel, office supplies, utilities, consumables, travel per
diem and allowances, travel and accomodation, office rental, but excluding salaries o f public
servants.

IDA Prior Review

19.      Table B provides the prior review thresholds. Each contract for goods estimated to cost
US$150,000 equivalent or more will be subject to IDA prior review as per paragraph 2 of
appendix Io f the Guidelines. The first National Competitive Biddingpackages for goods shall be
subject to IDA prior review. Other contracts will be subject to post review in accordance with
paragraph 4 o f Appendix Io f the Guidelines. All consulting contracts costing US$lOO,OOO
equivalent or more for firms and US$50,000 and more for individuals will be subject to IDA prior
review. All single-source selection o f consultants and terms o f reference for consulting services
will be subject to IDA'Sprior review. Any exceptionalextensions to non-prior review contracts
raising their values to levels equivalent or above the prior review thresholds will be subject to IDA
clearance. All training contracts costing US$15,000 equivalent or more per contract, will be
subject to IDA prior review.

Post Review

20.      Monitoring and evaluation of procurement performance at all levels (national, state,
private organization and institutions) would be carried out during IDA supervision missions and
through annual ex-post procurement audits. The audits would: (a) verify that the procurement and
contracting procedures and processes followed were in accordance with the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA); (b) verify technical compliance, physical completion and price competitiveness
o f each contract in a selected representative sample; (c) review capacity o f participating agencies
inmanaging procurement efficiently; and (d) identify improvements inthe procurement process in
light o f any identified deficiencies.




                                                - 64 -

  Procurement methods (Table A)




                                               Procurement Method'
    Expenditure Category           ICB            NCB         Other2    N.B.F.  Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00           0.00         0.00      0.00     0.00
                                  (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)
2. Goods                           1.40           0.00         0.40      0.00      1.80
Equipment                         (1.40)         (0.00)       (0.40)    (0.00)   (1.80)
3. Services                        2.00           1.oo         10.80    28.00    41.80
Consulting                        (2.00)         (1.OO)       (10.80)   (0.00)   (13.80)
4. Training                        0.00           0.00         2.80      0.00     2.80
                                  (0.00)         (0.00)       (2.80)    (0.00)    (2.80)
5. Operating costs                 0.00           0.00         0.60      0.00      0.60
                                  (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.60)    (0.00)    (0.60)
Grants                             0.00           0.00         13.00     0.00     13.00
                                  (0.00)         (0.00)       (13.00)   (0.00)   (13.00)
   Total                           3.40           1.oo         27.60    28.00     60.00
                                  (3.40)         (1.OO)       (27.60)   (0.00)   (32.00)




                                         - 65 -

                                              Selection Method
  Consultant Services
 Expenditure Category   QCBS   QBS     SFB     LCS       CQ    Other  N.B.F. Total cos(
A. Firms                 2.00  0.00   0.00     0.00      2.50  0.00   26.90    31.40
                        (2.00) (0.00) (0.00)  (0.00)    (2.50) (0.00) (0.00)  (4.50)
B. Individuals           0.00  0.00   0.00     0.00      2.30  7.00    1.10    10.40
                        (0.00) (0.00) (0.00)  (0.00)    (2.30) (7.00) (0.00)  (9.30)
                  Total  2.00  0.00   0.00     0.00      4.80  7.00   28.00    41.80
                        (2.00) (0.00) (0.00)  (0.00)    (4.80) (7.00) (0.00)  (13.80)




                                        - 66 -

Prior review thresholds (Table B)

                 Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'

                                  Contract VaIue                                           Contracts Subject to
                                     Threshold                    Procurement                   Prior Review
   Expenditure Category           (US$ thousands)                   Method                      (US$ millions)
 I. Works

 !.Goods                       US$150,000 and above                   ICB                            A11

                              US$30,000-US$150,000                   NCB                         Post Review
 1. Services                    Less than US$30,000                 Shopping                     Post review

                               US$lOO,OOO and above
                                                                     QCBS                            All
                                 Below US$lOO,OOO
                                       (firms)
                                                                       CQ                        Post review
                                US$50,000 and above
                                     (individual)

                                 Below US$50,000                       IC                            All
                                     (individual)


                                                                       IC                        Post review
 1. Training, workshops,        US$15,000 and above       1        QCBS/CQ                           All
 ;tudy tours



                Total value of contracts subject to prior review: USD 7,000,000
                         Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:           High
      Frequency of procurement supervisionmissions proposed:            One every six months
                                                                        (includes special procurement supervision for
                                                                        post-review/audits)


"Thresholds generallydiffer by country and project. Consult "Assessmentof Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement"and contact the RegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                    - 67 -

            Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
                       NIGERIA: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Project

Financial Management
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagement Assessment

A. General

        Objective of the FMSystem

1.      The objective of the Financial Management systems i s to support the Executing Agency
and implementing unit in deploying project resources to produce the required outputs and with
attention to economy, efficiency and effectiveness. Specifically, the FM systems must be capable
o f producing timely, understandable, relevant and reliable financial information to enable the
implementing units to plan, coordinate, monitor and appraise the Project's overall progress
towards the achievement o f its objectives, as well as ensuring that fimds provided will be used for
the purposes intended.

        FinancialManagement

2.      NIPC i s the executing agency for the project but it will delegate the day to day
implementation o f the project to a private firm, which will be contracted to carry out the role as a
Project Management Unit (PMU). NIPC will serve as the oversight body together with a Review
Committee (RC), which it will establish.

3.      The Finance Department o f NIPC (FDNIPC) will be responsible for managing the
financial affairs o f the Project. F D N I P C i s staffed by relevant qualified accountants. Modem
internal audit functions would be performed by the Internal Audit Unit of NIPC (IAUNIPC).
F D N I P C will be responsible for ensuring compliance with the financial management requirements
o f the Bank and the Government, including forwarding the quarterly financial monitoring reports
and audited annual financial statements to NIPC, the Review Committee, and to IDA.
FDNIPCPMU will jointly prepare budgets. F D N I P C will be responsible for preparing monthly
financial reports, quarterly financial monitoring reports, and annual financial statements, as
required.

4.      All accounts personnel will be sufficiently trained inBank procedures, computer
applications and financial management skills.

B. Risk Analysis

        InherentRisks

5.      The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), which was conducted in C Y
2000, revealed that the systems for planning, budgeting, monitoring and controlling public
resources inNigeria have deteriorated to a level that they do not provide any reasonable


                                                     - 68 -

assurance that funds are used for the purpose intended. Risk o f waste, diversion and misuse o f
funds was highlyrated until such a time as the CFAA recommendations have been implemented.
Some o f the C F A A recommendations have been implemented and some are being implemented.
An update o f the CFAA, which is due before C Y 2006 will be required to confirm the current
level o f risk.

6.      To minimize the aforementioned risks and ensure the appropriate financial management
capacity i s inplace prior to Project effectiveness, an assessment o f the financial management
capacity o f the NIPC has been undertaken.

        ControlRisks

7.      The overall Project risk from a financial management perspective i s considered moderate,
provided: (a) the weaknesses described inparagraph 9 are satisfactorily addressed; (b) the
financial management action plan described inparagraph 18 i s fully implemented; and (c) the
conditions for Board are met.

        Strengths and Weaknesses

8.      Strengths: NIPC has a strong Finance Department (FDNIPC). The department has
relevantly qualified staff, effective financial controls, including adequate segregation o f duties,
internal check and monitoring, and adequate communication. NIPC also has external auditors that
have regularly audited its accounts. NIPC and its R C have an oversight responsibility for the
project and will review Project progress, and review and approve work plans and budgets.

9.       Weaknesses: The main weaknesses are: (a) that the Internal Audit Unit in NIPC
(IAU/NIPC) i s under-resourced and weak and requires strengthening through the recruitment o f a
professionally qualified internal auditor; and (b) that NIPC does not have any experience in
implementing IDA-assisted projects.

C. FinancialManagementSystems

        Funds Flow and BankingArrangements

10.     The overall project funding will be from the IDA credit and investments from local and
foreign investors and beneficiaries. IDA will disburse the credit through a Special Account, which
will be managed by the FD/NIPC.

11.     The following accounts will be opened and maintained by FD/NIPC:

        A Special Account inUS Dollars to which the initial deposit and replenishments from IDA
will be lodged.
        A Current (Draw-down) Account inNaira ina bank to which draw-downs from the
Special Account will be credited once or twice per month inrespect o f incurred eligible
expenditures. Following the immediate payments inrespect o f those eligible expenditures, the



                                                  - 69 -

balance on this account should be zero.




Funds will be credited.
...     A Current (Project) Account inNaira ina bank to which Counterpart Fundswill be
deposited.
        A Current (Naira Interest) Account inNaira ina bank to which interests on Counterpart

        A Current (US$ Interest) Account inabank to which interests on the Special Account will
be credited.

12.     FD/NIPC will maintain an IDA Ledger Loan Account (Washington) in U S
Dollars/Naira/SDR to keep track o f draw downs from the IDA credit. The account will show (a)
deposits made into a bank by IDA, (b) drawn downs by NIPC, (c) direct payments by IDA, and
(d) opening and closing balances.

13.     All bank accounts will be reconciledwith bank statements on a monthly basis by
FD/NIPC. The bank reconciliation statements will be reviewedby designated officials, and
identified differences will be expeditiously investigated. Also, FD/NIPC will reconcile monthly the
IDA Ledger Loan Account with the Disbursement Summary providedby the IDA.

14.     FD/NIPC will be responsible for preparing and submittingto the World Bank applications
for withdrawal, as appropriate. Appropriate procedures and controls will be instituted to ensure
disbursements and flow o f funds are carried out in an efficient and effective manner. The
FD/NIPC will maintain a cumulative record o f draw-downs from the Credit that will be reconciled
monthly with the Disbursement Summary provided by the Bank. Detailedbanking arrangements,
including control procedures over all bank transactions (e.g. check signatories, transfers, etc.),
will be documented by the FD/NIPC as described in the financial procedures manual (FPM).

D. Action Plan

15. The following actions are to be implemented as specified

1. Supervision Plan

16.     Supervision activities will include a review o f quarterly FMRs; review o f annual audited
financial statements and management letters as well as timely follow-up o f issues arising during
implementation; annual SOE reviews; participation in project supervision missions as appropriate;
and updating the FMrating in the Project Status Report (PSR).

2. Audit Arrangements

Internal Audit

17.     The Internal Audit Unit of NIPC (IAU/NIPC) will perform internal audit activities for the
project. NIPC will strengthen the Unit by appointing a professionally qualified internal auditor to
head the Unit. Regular internal audit reports will be submitted to the NIPC, RC and the
Accountant General.



                                                - 70 -

ExternalAudit

18.      Audited Project Financial Statements for the project will be submitted to IDA within six
months after year-end. Relevantly qualified external auditors will be appointedbased on Terms o f
Reference acceptable to the Bank to perform these audits.

19.      Besides expressing an opinion on the Project Financial Statements in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (ISAs), the auditors will be required to comment on whether
counterpart funds have been provided regularly and used in accordance with the financing
agreement.

20.      In addition to the audit report, the external auditors will be expected to prepare
Management Letters giving observations and comments, and providing recommendations for
improvements in accounting records, systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants in
the IDA agreement.


3. Disbursement Arrangements

21.      By effectiveness, the Project will not be ready for report-based disbursements. Thus, at the
initial stage, the transaction-based disbursement procedures (as described inthe World Bank
Disbursement Handbook) will be followed, i.e. direct payment, reimbursement, and special
commitments.

22.      When project implementationbegins, the quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
produced by the project will be reviewed. Where the reports are adequate and produced on a
timely basis, and the borrower requests conversion to report-based disbursements, a review will
be undertaken by the Task Team Leader (TTL) to determine if the project i s eligible. The
adoption o f report-based disbursements by the project will enable it to move away from
time-consuming voucher-by-voucher (transaction-based) disbursement methods to quarterly
disbursements to the Project's Special Account, based on FMRs.

23.      Detailed disbursement procedures will be documented inthe FPM.

Planningand Budgeting

24.      Cash Budget preparationwill reflect financial projections or forecasts for the life o f the
project (analyzed by year) and will be prepared on an annual basis. On an annual basis, FD/NIPC
incollaborationwith the P M Uwill prepare the cashbudget for the coming periodbasedon the
work program. The cash budget should include the figures for the year, analyzed by quarter. The
cash budget for each quarter will reflect the detailed specifications for project activities, schedules
(including procurementplan), and expenditure on project activities scheduled respectively for the
quarter. (Guidance on the preparation o f budgets i s available inthe Bank publication entitled
"Financial Monitoring Reports: Guidelines to Borrowers"). The annual cash budget will be sent


                                                 - 71 -

to the Task Team Leader at least two months before the beginningof the project fiscal year.

25.     Detailedprocedures for planning and budgeting will be documented inthe Financial
Procedures Manual (FPM)


Fixed Assets and Contracts Registers


26.     At the FD/NIPC, a Fixed Assets Registerwill be prepared, regularly updated and checked.
A Contracts Register will also be maintained in respect of all contracts with consultants and
suppliers. Also, a quarterly Contract Status Reports will be prepared. Control procedures over
fixed assets and contracts with consultants and suppliershendors for the States and federal levels
will be documented inthe FPM.

Information Systems

27.     NIPC will hire a financial management consultant who will, among other things, select and
install a computerized accounting package to be used by FD/NIPC for NIPC and the project, and
train FD/NIPC staff inthe use of the software incompliance with the FPM.

Financial Reporting and Monitoring

28.     Monthly, quarterly and annual reports will be prepared to allow monitoring of project
implementation. The reports will be submittedto the PMU, RC, NIPC, FMOF and IDA. On a
monthly basis, the FD/NIPC will prepare and submit the following reports to the aforementioned:


0       A Bank Reconciliation Statement for each bank account;
        Monthly Statement of CashPosition for project funds from all sources, taking into
consideration significant reconciling items;
        A monthly Statement of Expenditure classifiedby project components, disbursement
categories, and comparison with budgets, or a variance analysis; and
0       Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds (by Credit CategorytActivity showing IDA and
Counterpart Funds separately);

29.     The following financial monitoring reports will be prepared by FD/NIPC incollaboration
with the PMU on a quarterly basis and submittedto IDA, RC, NIPC and FMOF:


0       Financial Reports whichinclude a Statement showing for the period and cumulatively
(project life or year to date) inflows by sources and outflows by main expenditure classifications;
beginningand ending cashbalances o f the project; and supporting schedulescomparing actual and
planned expenditures. The reports will also include cash forecast for the next two quarters.
0       Physical Progress Reports, which include narrative information and output indicators
(agreed duringproject preparation) linkingfinancial information with physical progress, and
highlight issues that require attention.
0       Procurement Reports, which provide informationon the procurement of goods, works,


                                                - 72-

and related services, and the selection of consultants, and on compliance with agreed procurement
methods. The reports will compare procurementperformance against the plan            agreed at
negotiations or subsequently updated, and highlight key procurement issues such as staffing and
buildingBorrower capacity.
0       SOE Withdrawal Schedule listing individual withdrawal applications relatingto
disbursements by the SOE method, by reference number, date and amount.
0       The annual project financial statements, which will be prepared by FD/NIPC and
submittedto IDA, RC, NIPC and FMOF will includethe following:

    o A Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds (by Credit Categoryhy Activity showing
    IDA and Counterpart Funds separately);
    o Statement of Cash Position for Project Funds from all sources;
    o Statementsreconcilingthe balances on the various bank accounts (includingIDA Special
    Account) to the bank balances shown on the Statement o f Sources and Uses o f funds;
    o SOE WithdrawalScheduleslisting individual withdrawal applications relatingto
    disbursements by the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount;

    o Notesto the FinancialStatements.

30.     Indicative formats for the reports are outlined intwo Bank publications: (a) Financial

Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH) - monthly and annual reports.
Monitoring Reports: Guidelinesto Borrowers-Quarterly FMRs, and (b) Financial Accounting,


AccountingPoliciesand Procedures

3 1,    IDA and Counterpart Fundswill be accounted for by the Project on a cashbasis. This will
be augmented with appropriate records andprocedures to track commitments and to safeguard
assets. Also, accounting records will be maintained in dual currencies (Le. Naira and US dollars).

32.     The Chart o f Accounts will facilitate the preparation of relevant monthly, quarterly and
annual financial Statements, including information on the following:


0       Total project expenditures
0       Total financial contribution from each financier
0       Total expenditure on each project component/activity, and
        Analysis of that total expenditure into civil works, various categories of goods, training,
consultants and other procurement and disbursement categories.

33,     Annual financial Statementswill be prepared in accordance with International Accounting
Standards (IAS).

34.     All accounting and control procedures will be documented inthe FPM, a living document
that will be regularly updated by the Project Accountants.




                                                - 73 -

  Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)

                                 Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds

           Expenditure Category               Amount in US$million          Financing Percentage
  Goods                                              1.80                      100FE, 90% LC
  Consultant Services                                11.60                           90%
  Training & Workshops                               2.80                           100%
  Incremental Operating costs                        0.60                            80%
  Grant                                              13.00                          100%
IIUnallocated
  PPF                                       II       0.60
                                                     1.60          II                                 II
  Total Project Costs with Bank                      32.00
  Financing
  Total                                              32.00


  Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):

35.      All applications for the withdrawal o fproceeds from the credit will be fully documented,
except for: (i)  expenditures o f contracts with an estimated value o f US$150,000 each or less for
goods, (ii)  $100,000 or less for consulting firms; (iii)
                                                        US$50,000 or less for individual
consultants, and (iv) $15,000 or less for training, workshops and incremental operating costs; (v)
$100,000 or less for payments on account o f Performance Grants. Documentation supporting all
expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained by FD/NIPC, and will be available for review
when requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors. All disbursements are subject
to the conditions o f the Development Credit Agreement and the procedures defined inthe
Disbursement Letter.

  Special account:

36.      To facilitate disbursements for eligible expenditures for goods and services, the
flow-of-funds mechanism has been designed with the following guidingprinciples: (a) the
FD/NIPC controls and accounts for project funds; (b) bottlenecks in the transfer o f funds are
minimized via adequate Financial Procedures Manual, including service standards; and (c)
implementation transparency and accountability. The NIPC will open a Special Account, which
will be managed and administered by the FD/NIPC, ina commercial bank to cover part o f IDA'S
share of eligible expenditures. The flow of funds i s detailed in section C above. FD/NIPC will be
responsible for submittingmonthly replenishment applications with appropriate supporting
documents for expenditures. To the extent possible, all o f IDA'S share of expenditures should be
paid through the special account. Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, all expenditures o f less
than US$l,OOO,OOO will be made through the Special Account.

37.      The Special Account will be replenished through the submission o f Withdrawal


                                                 - 74 -

Applications on a monthly basis and will include reconciledbank statements and other documents
as may be required until such time as the Borrower may choose to convert to report-based
disbursement. All disbursements will be channeled through the SA.




                                              -75 -

                                Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
                    NIGERIA: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Project


  Project Schedule                                          Planned                         Actual
 Time taken to prepare the project (months)              9
  First Bank mission (identification)                                                    05/12/2003

IAppraisal mission departure                    I        1013112003                                      I
I Negotiations                                           11/14/2003
IPlanned Date of Effectiveness                  II       06/15/2004            III                       II

Prepared by:
Peter Mousley


Preparation assistance:


Bank staff who worked on the projec included:
          Name                                           Snecialitv
 Peter J. Mousley                        Task Team Leader, Senior Private Sec. Dev. Specialist, AFTPS
 Akin Adeoye                             Business Development Officer, CSMAN
 Chau-Ching Shen                         Senior Financial Officer, LOAG2
 GokhanAkinci                            Investment Policy Officer, CICFA
 IreneArias                              BusinessDevelopment Officer, CSMDR
 Bay0 Awosemusi                          Senior ProcurementSpecialist, AFTPC
 KarenAlexandra Hudes                    Senior Counsel, LEGAF
 Marilyn SwarmManalo                     Operations Officer, AFTPS
 Victoria Kwakwa                         Lead Economist, AFTP3
 Leila McKimmon Webster                  Senior Program Officer, CSMDR
 Adenike Mustapha                        Financial ManagementSpecialist
 Edward Olowo-Okere                      Sr. Financial Management Specialist, AFTFM
 John Philippe Prosper                   Chief Financial Officer, CAFSI
 Andrew Alli                             Country Manager, CAFWS
 IsmailSamji                             Senior Investment Officer, CGFMF
 GeorgetteB.Johnson                      Program Assistant, AFTPS
 Makanda Kioko                           Program Officer, CGFMF
 Mary Agboli                             Consultant, CSMDR
 Gloria Kwembe                           Team Assistant, AFC12
 Felicia Ogidan                          Program Assistant, AFC12
 Sidonie Jocktane                        Program Assistant, AFTPS




                                                  -76  -

                            Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                    NIGERIA: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Project


A. Project Implementation Plan
Detailcost tables anddraftProject ImplemenationManual(PIM)

B. Bank Staff Assessments
        Results of the Nigeria Firm Survey, RegionalProgramon EnterpriseDevelopment
        (RPED Paper #118, April 2002), World Bank.

        The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on the WorldBank Small and Medium
        Enterprise Development Project (Loan 2995-UNI), Report #16811, June 1997.

        Africa Program Framework Paperfor a Joint IDA/IFC Micro, Small and Medium
        Enterprise Development Pilot Programfor Africa, World BankJIFC (consideredby the
        Boardof ExecutiveDirectors, June 19,2003).

        SME mapping exercise undertakeninparallelwith a survey on Nigerianfirms conducted
        under the WED o f the World Bank, October 2001.

         "Joining the Racefor Non-Oil Foreign Investment, conductedby the Foreign
                                                          "
        InvestmentAdvisory Services;

         "Direct Support to Private Firms - Evidence of Effectiveness",      G. Batra and S.
        Mahmood, 2001 and `YDA's Partnership for Poverty Reduction (FY94-FY00):            An
        Independent Evaluation , OED, 2001,pp 31-33.
                                  "



C. Other
        The recently completed "Evaluation of the Mekong Project Development Facility ",
        Nexusand Assocs., June, 2002 provides important insightsinto the best design parameters
        for BDS provider capacity building.

        Guiding Principlesfor Donor Intervention Business Development Servicesfor Small
        Enterprises: Guiding Principlesfor Donor Intervention, Committeeof Donor Agencies
        for Small EnterpriseDevelopment, February 2001.

*Including electronic files




                                               - 77 -

                                          Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                 NIGERIA: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Project
                                                                27-0ct-2003
                                                                                                                      Difference between expected
                                                                                                                               and actual
                                                                     Original Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements'
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                      Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO69892     2004 NG Local Empowerment & Envir.Mgmt.                 0.00       70.00                      0.00   72.35         1.03      0.00
PO71494     2003 Universal Basic Ed.                                0.00      101.00                      0.00   106.13       18.54      0.00
PO80295     2003 Polio Eradication                                  0.00       28.70                      0.00    18.82        0.16      0.00
PO74963     2003 NG Lagos Urban Transport Project                   0.00      100.00                      0.00   107.76       13.39      0.00
PO72018     2002 Nigeria:Transmission Development Project           0.00      100.00                      0.00   105.40       47.38     15.12
PO70291     2002 HlVlAiDS Prog. Dev.                                0.00       90.30                      0.00    96.32       25.17      0.00
PO70290     2002 2nd Health Systems Dev.                            0.00      127.01                      0.00   142.16       32.02      0.00
PO69901     2002 Community Based Urban Development                  0.00      110.00                      0.00   122.54       32.42      6.37
PO69086     2001 Com.-Based Pov. Reduct.                            0.00       60.00                      0.00    55.33       14.56      8.56
PO70293     2001 NG PRiVATlZATlON SUPPORT PROJECT                   0.00      114.29                      0.00   117.97       37.62      0.00
PO66571     2000 2nd Primary Educ.                                  0.00       55.00                      0.00    44.65       42.92     25.36
PO65301     2000 ECON.MGMT.CAP.BLDG.                                0.00       20.00                      0.00     8.18        0.02      0.00
PO64008     2000 SMALL TOWNS WATER                                  0.00        5.00                      0.00     3.40        3.08      2.06

                                                         Total:    0.00       981.30                      0.00  1001.01      268.30      57.46




                                                                   -  78  -

                                            NIGERIA
                                       STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                    HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                          June 30 2003
                                                    -
                                        InMillions USDollars

                                                          Committed                        Disbursed
                                                        IFC                              IFC
FY Approval     Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic
2000            CAPE FUND                         0.00    7.50      0.00    0.00   0.00    5.40    0.00   0.00
2000            Citibank (Nig)                   18.28    0.00      0.00    0.00    8.28   0.00    0.00   0.00
2001            Delta Contractor                 15.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000            DiamondBank                      14.00    0.00      0.00    0.00   14.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000            FSB                               4.50    0.00     18.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    18.00  0.00
1992193         FSDH                              0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000            GTB                              18.00    0.00      0.00    0.00   18.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000            IBTC                             20.00    0.00      0.00     0.00  20.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1981/85/88      IkejaHotel                        0.00    0.25      0.00     0.00   0.00   0.25    0.00   0.00
1993            Tourist Co Nir                    0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
2001            UBA                              30.00    0.00      0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
1998            AEF Ansbby                        0.10    0.00      0.00     0.00   0.10   0.00    0.00    0.00
1997            AEF Ekesons                       0.06    0.00      0.00     0.00   0.06   0.00    0.00    0.00
1999            AEF Global Fabri                  0.32    0.00      0.00     0.00   0.32   0.00    0.00    0.00
1999            AEF Hercules                      1.30    0.00      0.00     0.00   1.30   0.00    0.00    0.00
1999            AEF Hygeia                        0.19    0.19      0.00     0.00   0.19   0.19    0.00    0.00
1996            AEF Mid-East                      0.00     0.00     0.12     0.00   0.00   0.00     0.12   0.00
1997            AEF Moorhouse                     0.79     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.79   0.00     0.00   0.00
2000            AEF Oha Motors                    0.84     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.84   0.00     0.00   0.00
1997            AEF Radmed                        0.25     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.25   0.00     0.00   0.00
2000            AEF SafetyCenter                  0.50     0.06     0.00     0.00   0.50   0.06     0.00   0.00
1997            AEF Telipoint                     0.08     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.08   0.00     0.00   0.00
1995            AEF Vinfesen                      1.oo     0.00     0.00     0.00   1.oo   0.00     0.00   0.00
1994            Abuja Intl                        1.75     0.71     0.00     0.00   1.75   0.71     0.00   0.00
2003            Adamac                           25.00     0.00     0.00    15.00  11.56   0.00     0.00   6.94
1964166170/89   Arewa Textiles                    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
                       Total Portfolio:         151.96     8.71     18.12   15.00   79.02   6.61    18.12  6.94



                                                      Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval     Company                             Loan      Equity     Quasi    Partic
2002            MTNN                                 0.08       0.01      0.02     0.00
2002            NTEF ANZ
                      -                              0.01       0.00      0.00     0.00
2002            NTEF- SCB                            0.02       0.00      0.00     0.00

                Total Pending Commitment:            0.11       0.01      0.02     0.00




                                                - 79 -

                                               Annex I O : Country at a Glance
                            NIGERIA: Micro, Small and Medium EnterDrise Proiect
                                                                   Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                Saharan   Low-
                                                         Nigeria  Africa income       Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population,mid-year (millions)                             132.8    688    2,495                    Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                          290     450      430
GNi (Arias method, US$ billions)                            38.7    306    1,072                           T


Average annual growth, 1996.02
Population (%)                                               2.5     2.4      1.9
Labor force I%)                                              2.6     2.5     2.3      GNI
                                                                                      per
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                 capita
Poverty (% ofpopulation below nationalpoverty line)
Urban populationI%of total population)                       46       33      30
Life expectancyat birth (years)                               45      46      59
Infantmortality (per 1,000iive births)                      109     105       81
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                    31                            Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)            62      58      76
illiteracy (% ofpopulationage Is+)                            33      37      37            -
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)           82      86      95                    Nigeria
    Male                                                      89      92     103             .____   Low-incomegrouD
    Female                                                    74      80      87

KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                   1982    1992    2001    2002        Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                  49.7    32.7    42.5    43.4
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                                21.8    20.1    23.3
Exports of goods and servicesiGDP                   16.3    42.2    44.4    37.7                         Trade

Gross domestic savingsiGDP                          14.0    23.5    24.5    17.4                           T
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                           11.4    16.9    22.9    14.6

Current account balanceiGDP                        -13.5    -4.0     2.8     -8.5
InterestpaymentsiGDP                                 1.7     5.6     4.6
Total debVGDP                                       24.1    88.7    73.2    69.4
Total debt serviceiexports                          16.1    30.9    19.0    18.1                           1
Present value of debt/GDP                                           72.6
Presentvalue of debVexports                                        160.6                              Indebtedness
                                       1982-92  1992-02    2001    2002  2002-06
(average annualgrowth)                                                                        -Nigeria
GDP                                        4.2       2.3     2.9    -0.9      3.5
GDP Der caoita                             1.2      -0.4     0.6    -3.1      0.5                     Low-incomegroup
                                                                                                ~




                    ~    ~~~




STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                   1982    1992    2001    2002      1 Growth of Investmentand  GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agricuiture                                        30.6     23.8    34.6    37.4
Industry                                           33.3     58.3    35.5    28.8                           A
   Manufacturing                                     9.6     4.3     4.2
Services                                           35.8     17.9    29.9    33.8

Private consumption                                69.9     58.1    45.5    55.4
General governmentconsumption                       16.1    18.4    30.0    27.2
Imports of goods and services                      22.3     40.5    39.9    43.8

                                                1982-92  1992-02   2001    2o02    I
(average annualgrowth)                                                                Growth of exports and Imports (%)     1
Agriculture                                          4.8     3.8     3.8      5.3    2o

Industry                                             2.4     0.8     1.5     -4.8     10
   Manufacturing                                     2.8     1.3     3.6
Services                                             6.0     2.4     3.2     -4.3      O

Private consumption                                 -1.8    -2.0   -12.5      7.2  -lo

General governmentconsumption                       -1.0    10.5    22.9   -11.6   -201
Gross domestic investment                            2.2     6.6    13.3    20.5                 expo exports   *imports
Imports of goods and services                       -8.9     6.5    11.3      8.6




                                                                - ao -

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1982     1992    2001    2002
Domestic prices                                                              Inflation(%)                                     I
(% change)
Consumer prices                              7.7    44.6     18.9   12.9
Implicit GDP deflator                        2.6    83.6      7.8   11.6
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                ..   35.1    46.9    40.2
Current budget balance                      .7.6    16.7      7.1     2.9
Overall surplus/deflcit                                      -3.3    -5.8            -GDP       deflator   -CPI               I
TRADE
                                          1982     1992    2001    2002
(US5 millionsj
Total exports (fob)                      12,154   11,866  17,949  14,912
  Crude petroleum                        11,686   11,642  16,574  13,306
  Liquefled naturalgas                                       708     886
  Manufactures                                        36      86      89
Total imports (cio                       17,730    9,642  13,619  14,752
  Food                                    2,890      807   1,790   1,917
  Fuel and energy                                          2,717   3,470
                                                                                                                              I
  Capital goods
Export price index (1995=100J               166      110     146     152             98   B?   98     99     00    D l

Import price index (1995=100J                63       89      85      64                 EiExports           Imports        O2
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   293      123     175     181

BALANCE of PAYMENTS                                                                                                           I
                                          1982     1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                               Current account balanceto GDP (Oh)
Exports of goods and services            12,607   12,034  16,943  15,932
Imports of goods and services            17,210   11,539  17,041  18,455     l5 T
Resource balance                         -4,602      495   1,902  -2,523     10


Net income                               -1,661   -2,569  -2,482  -2,956      5

Net current transfers                         ..     776   1,773   1,812      0

Current account balance                  -6,693   -1,298   1,193  -3,667      5

Financing items (net)                    4,326      -717    -170     676    -10
Changes in net reserves                  2,367     2,015  -1,023   2,991    .15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$millions)     1,639    2,135  10,423   7,233
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$J            1.0     19.0   111.6   121.0

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1982     1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                               Composltion of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed      11,972   29,019  31,119  30,116
  IBRD                                     674     3,174   1,337   1,275                          A: 1,275
  IDA                                        37       80     621    676                  0:1.723          B: 676

Total debt service                       2,087     3,750   3,659   2,933
  IBRD                                       85      555     285     251
  IDA                                         1        1      13      16
Composition of net resourceflows
  Official grants
  Official creditors                       169       196  -1,464
  Private creditors                      2,417    -1,542   -184
  Foreign direct investment                   ..    714    1,796   1,950
  Portfolio equity                            0        0       0           I                          E:22,446
World Bank program
  Commitments                              I00      581      305    436     A IBRD                             E . Bilateral
  Disbursements                            144      296       27      20     B IDA     D -Other multilateral   F Private
                                                                                                                .
  Principal repayments                      33      295      215     189     C IMF
                                                                               ---                             G -Short-term
  Net flows                                111         1   -188    -169
  Interest payments                         53      262       83      74
  Net transfers                             59     -261    -271    -243




                                                        - 81 -

    Additional Annex 11: Eligibility and Performance Criteria for Financial and BDS
                                         Intermediaries

                   NIGERIA: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Project


1.      DRAFT SELECTIONCRITERIA FOR BUSINESSDEVELOPMENT SERVICE
PROVIDERS

Eligibility

        NGO\Is and enterprises have significant track records inthe relevant areas as set out inthe
objectives identified inthe Expressions o f Interest Notification
        Absorptive capacity (financial, managerial, operationally - human and systems resources,
application o f best practice methodology) for additional operations and programming initiatives
        Highcapacity to deliver good quality financial statements and audited accounts since this
will be one of the key sources o f measuring their performance.
        Demonstrated commitment by their willingness to contribute their own resources to the
development o f the program

Perform ance Criteria

The program will support BDS providers to expand or develop and market new products (to be
defined inthe Expression o f Interest Notification) according to the following criteria related to
sustainability, outreach and impact.

A comprehensive business plan will be requiredwith detailed financial and operational plans
addressing, inter alia:

        Potential outreach, measured by the expected increase in the number of clients reached,
sales growth, and growth inthe number o f new products developed and delivered;
m       Potential impact measured by the expected change inthe percent o f SMEs that purchase
services from the provider;
        Potential sustainability measured by sustained increase innew clients and sales, decrease in
unit costs and increase infinancial sustainability over time, Le., cost recovery (operating
revenues/operating cost) increases.

Proposals will, to the extent possible be benchmarked against industrybest practices.


2.      DRAFT SELECTIONCRITERIA FORFINANCIAL SERVICEPROVIDERS

This comprises various initiatives to develop new institutions and new products to extend
commercial financial services to MSMEs. What follows pertains to the start-up of new
microfinance institutions targeted on MSMEs and development of new products to be
implementedby existing financial institutions.


                                                - 82 -

A.      SelectionCriteriafor Proposalsto Establish New CommercialMicro and Small
Business (MSB) Finance Institutions

Eligibility Criteria

Capacity to fulfill objectives as identified in the Expressions o f Interest Notification, based on:

m       The experience, success record and reputation o f the strategic investor in starting,
managing and expandingcommercial M S B finance institutions.
        The experience, success record and reputation of the technical services provider.
        The experience, track record and reputation o f the proposed shareholders.
        Absorptive capacity (financial, managerial, operationally - human and systems resources,
application o f best practice methodology) for additional operations and programming.
        Demonstratedcommitment by their willingness to contribute their own resources to the
development o f the program.

Commercial investors will be required also to submit a statement o f interest which will be
expected to address, and provide evidence of, the following:

        Corporate mission
        Background o f founder(s), board o f governors and senior management
        Commitment to transparency and good governance
        Commitment to support the mission, goals, objectives and sustainability o f the Project
MFI
        Policy on conflicts o f interest

Performance Criteria:

The program will support micro and small business finance providers to expand or develop and
new financial products and institutions (to be defined in the Expression o f Interest Notification)
according to the following CGAP-compliant criteria related to sustainability, outreach and impact.

        Sustainability and cost effectiveness - commercially viable operation within timebound
period
m       Outreach - growth o f loan portfolio meeting financial prudential standards for commercial
viability
        Impact - A comprehensive 5 year business plan for the project that clearly details how the
project will fulfill sustainability, outreach and impact objectives in line with Expressiono f Interest
Notification.

Proposals will be benchmarked against industrybest practices, including:

(a) Microfinance Consensus Guidelines on the definitions o f selected financial terms, ratios, and
adjustments (reference: http://www.cgap.org/publications/guidelines.html)


                                                   - 83 -

(b) Disclosure Guidelines for Financial Reportingby MFIs (reference:
http://www,cgap.org/publications/guidelines.html)

(c) The MIXMarket which links investors, MFIs and service providers (reference:
http://www.mixmarket,org)

(d) Industryperformancebenchmarks (reference: http://www.mixmbb.org/en/)

B.      Downscalingof Commercial BanksintoMicro, Smalland MediumBusiness
Finance:

Eligibility Criteria:

Commercial banks will be required to submit a statement o f interest which will be expected to
....
address, and provide evidence of, the following:

        Corporate mission
        Background o f founder(s), board o f governors and senior management
        Commitment to transparency and good governance
        Commitment to support the mission, goals, objectives and sustainability o f the
downscaling project inparticular after the technical assistance program i s fully implemented
        Financial capacity
a       Managerial capacity
.       Existence o f a branch network and other infrastructure suitable for implementing a
cost-effective, efficient downscaling program inboth urban and rural areas
        Ability and willingness to implement the programbasedon a good faith effort to ensure
program success, including bearing the costs o f that portion o f the program not covered by grant
fundingand to bear 100%o f the cost o frunningthe downscaling program after the grant funding
i s completed. Such costs to include but not be limited to loan officer salaries, MIS, travel,
.
security, promotion and financial reporting
        Use o f best practice methodology inthe bank's core business
        Policy on conflicts of interest

.
Performance Criteria:

        Sustainability and cost effectiveness - commercially viable operation within timebound
period
.       Outreach - growth o f loan portfolio meeting financial prudential standards for commercial
viability
        Impact - A comprehensive 5 year business plan for the project that clearly details how the
project will fulfill sustainability, outreach and impact objectives in line with Expression o f Interest
Notification.

Proposals will be benchmarked against industrybest practices.


                                                   - 84 -

             Additional Annex 12:Draft Outline of the Performance Framework
                    NIGERIA: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Project

Approach:

e        Assessing results at four levels: output, intermediate outcome, economic outcome and
impact across the three principal components o f the project at the institutional (intermediate level
o f M S M E service providers/facilitators) and at end-user (MSME firm level) target groups.

e        IntermediaryLevelIndicators:           The project provides "performance-based" technical
and capacity buildingassistance to a range o f private, public and NGO/I facilitators and providers
o f policy, regulatory, business development services, and financial services. This funding will be
allocated inaccordance with eligibility and operational performance criteria pertaining to
outreach, impact and sustainability performance indicators.

e        End-User M S M E Firm Performance Indicators: The results measures set out inthe
logframe include - at the impact level - firm and industry-level indicators. Inline with World
Bank Private Sector Development Strategy, these impact-level results look to confirm the link
between project activities and firm performance. Also, it i s recognized, as set out in the Joint
IDA/IFC Africa M S M E Program Framework Paper, that "observing firm level changes.. .to
(project) interventions will require experimental models of evaluation, which can be complex and
costly in execution.. .". This will involve assessments o f the performance o f specific firms that are
beneficiaries o f the project, complemented by industry, regional and national benchmarking (as
appropriate) and PICS-type survey work.

e        RPEDRole: Inaddition to the provision o ftechnical advice on the design,
implementation and analysis of the different enterprise surveys undertakenby the project, RPED
support will be key inthe design o f the performance framework and advising on data
requirements\costs and cost\benefit analyses undertaken o f project impact.

Issues to be Addressed:

e        Indeveloping a picture o fthe project impact, the principal question to be answered is
whether the subsidy provided by the Government through this IDA credit resulted in sustained
improvements in firm performance, additional to what would have been achieved without the
subsidy. To address this question it is necessary to compare with both "before and after" (assess
target firms benefiting from the project both ex ante and ex post) and "with and without" (assess
target firms performance relative to those who have not benefited from the project) controls.

e       Two other major issues will needto be borne inmindwhen trying to isolate the effects o f
the project: (i) needto control for other factors inthe enabling environment that may be
                the
affecting firm performance, inaddition to the project; (ii)the difficulties posed by selection bias,
inthat firms benefiting from the projectwill tendto be ones that are more successful inthe first
place, bringinginto question the additionality generated by the project subsidy.




                                                  - 85 -

0          Inorder to do this, it will be necessary to undertake a baseline collation ofrelevant
performance data o f firms in a given industryand then trace performance o f both client firms and
a random number o f firms that do not receive project benefits. Other statistical techniques and
applications will be required to control for "other factors'' and selection bias. The practicability o f
doing this sort o f analysis varies across the project components.

o          Investment Climate: Inthe case o f the registration, the project i s targeting new entrants,
so before\after scenarios can not be practically assessed. But the project should look at the level
o f investment and access to services at a recently registered firm versus similar firms that remain
inthe informal sector. Inthe case of the ADR sub-component, the project can trace economic
impact o f settling a dispute - by determining from the firms that are part o f the successful pilot
caseload exercises, the ways in which the resolution o f their case impacts on subsequent business
and investment decisions.


0          Financial Services:     It will be necessary to determine iffundingprovidedthe
additionality required to jump-start new financial services to MSMEs and to what extent does the
M S M E portfolio o f institutional beneficiaries (MFIs, commercial banks and leasing companies)
increase as a result o f the intervention. Ex ante and ex post information will be required from the
f i r m s receiving the loans to determine how these funds were used. On this basis it will be possible
to construct a picture o f the productivity impacts that the credit provided to the firms.

o          BDS: Inthe case o f the industrysub-component, baseline productivity, labor and wage
rate information will be required as well as specific ex ante and ex post information on those firms
that receive services that are supported by the project. This will allow a productivity story to be
constructed that addresses both the before\after as well as the with\without project assistance.
This exercise would need to be reproduced for each industrythe project selects for support. In
the case o f the BDS Fund, where the clients are more likely to be informal micro and start-up
enterprises, good data on wages, value-added and labour may be even harder to obtain. But a
decision will need to be made as to whether the cost i s merited and the data i s sufficiently robust
to be usable. A second best solution may be to determine employment and sales level increases.

           One way to control for selection bias might be to weight results by the scores they obtain
that enable them to access funds (assuming a competitive selection process).


0          Inadditionto the firm-level impacts, there are also the additional externalities generated as
a result o f the demonstration effects that the project i s seeking to generate at a sector, regional or
market level. The demonstration effects are intended to have a longer term impact on PSD
perceptions and performance. This can be tracked through survey instruments - designed so they
are consistent with the core PICS - but tailored to industry and State-level target groups as well
as national-level groups.

           M S M E projects are unlikely to have a statistically significant impact on poverty reduction.
There are at least three main reasons for this: (i)   these are smaller projects, targeting a relatively
small sample o f the M S M E population inplaces where there are other major variables at play
within the enabling environment; (ii)the M S M E project will have its own selection bias, focusing


                                                    - 86 -

its support on stronger MSMEs that are arguably less likely to employ the poor; (iii) selection
                                                                                        the
bias issue identified earlier will also likely meanthat the firms that show performance
improvements were pre-disposed this way and it may be difficult to provide statistical evidence
that the project provided additionality inthis respect.

        While it may not be possible to arrive at a quantitative assessment o f the poverty
reduction, qualitative assessments could be generatedthough case studies o f individual firms,
where it i s first ascertained that they employ "poor people". The task would then be to trace the
effects o f project support through to the incomes and other related assets o f the employees in
beneficiary firms (both providers and end-users).

        Another way in which MSMEprojects could have a poverty impact i s on the
consumption, rather than the production side. Where MSMEs lower the price or improve the
quality o f products consumed by poor households - other things being equal - poverty would be
reduced. Again it will need to be shown how the project has contributed to these effects on the
consumption side. This i s a more probable scenario where there i s a strong sector and geographic
focus.




                                                 - 87 -

            Additional Annex 13: Project Management Unit Terms of Reference
                                                                  -
                     NIGERIA: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Project

BACKGROUND

The Federal Government o f Nigeria intends to apply for a credit from the International
Development Association (IDA) inthe amount o f US$32 million equivalent toward the cost o f
the Proposed Micro, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (MSME) Project. The Government
intends to apply the proceeds o f this credit to payments for consulting services and goods to be
procured under this project, which i s scheduled to last five years. The objective of the proposed
M S M E Project i s to increase the growth o f MSMEs Defined as any enterprise with a maximum asset
base ofN200 million excludinglandand working capital; and with a maximumnumber of 300 staff employedby
the enterprise., in non-oil industry sub-sectors. The program will have five components:


(i)     expanding MSMEs' access to financial services;
(ii)     expanding MSMEs' access to business development services (BDS);
(iii)    improving the investment climate, particularly by simplifyingthe firm registrationprocess
and improving the efficiency o f the commercial dispute resolution system;
(iv)    providing targeted, performance-based capacity buildingto foster increased public-private
sector collaboration on M S M E development;
(v)     project management and monitoring and evaluation.

A Project Management Unit(PMU) will be established to manage the project for the FGN. This
PMUis to be runby a private company, reporting to the FederalGovernment o fNigeria's
designated Executing Agent (EA). These Terms o f Reference set out the roles and
responsibilities required o f the PMU.

    ROLESAND RESPONSIBILITIESOF THE PMU


1.      Overall ProjectAdministration:           Serve as the Credit Administrator o f the Project and
provides project administrative support to the EA and the Review Committee (RC) in accordance
with the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). Specific responsibilities include:


I       Organize quarterly meetings to assess progress, identify implementation constraints and
recommend remedial actions with key actors across all project components;
I       Collect from the project beneficiaries and consultants, review, and transmit to the
Executing Agency, the Government and IDA all quarterly progress, audit, mid-term, and
implementation completion reports;
I       Maintain dialogue with IDA, in consultation with the EA, on all aspects o f project
preparationand implementation, including semi-annual review meetings at the time o f the IDA
Supervision Missions;
I       Prepare and consolidate annual and quarterly work plans and budgets for the Project for
review and approval by the EA on a quarterly basis and review by the R C on an annual basis;
        Prepare the minutes and record decisions and actions arising from the quarterly review
meetings with the EA.


                                                  - 88 -

2.      Procurementand Disbursement: The PMU will, once operational, be the coordinating
and responsible agent for all procurement under the Project. The PMU will be subject to a
procurement assessment to confirm capacity o f the contracted party to execute this function
accordingly. The activities of the PMU will be periodically reviewed by the Internal Audit Unit o f
the FederalMinistryo f Finance.

Procurement will follow IDA procurement procedures. The selection and employment o f
consultants will be in accordance with the guidelines set out in The Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997, January 1999,
M a y 2003). The purchase of goods and services would be in accordance with IDA procurement
guidelines (reference Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996). Specific procurement requirements to be followed by the
P M U will be detailed in the Project's Implementation Manual.        The P M U will monitor and
maintain disbursements in line with the performance targets established in the contracts.
Disbursements from the IDA Credit will be made on the basis o f incurred eligible expenditures
and through financial management reporting arrangements. Each beneficiary and consultant
receiving hnds from the project will be responsible for furnishing the P M U with monthly
disbursement plans based on disbursement and withdrawal procedures detailed in the Project
Implementation Manual. The expenditure categories, projected allocation of Project proceeds,
and IDA'Sfinancing percentages would also be provided inthe Project Implementation Manual.

The P M U will be responsible to ensure all applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit
account will be fully documented. Specific disbursement procedures to be followed under this
project will be detailed in the Project Implementation Manual and the Financial Procedures
Manual, both "living documents that will be updated regularly to meet evolving needs. Specific
                                   "
responsibilities include:

        Develop and update quarterly disbursement and procurement plans and progress reports,
covering all aspects o f the project for submission to the EA and IDA;
        Assume responsibility for the procurement processes for all project components; with
input from local and foreign technical experts, as applicable and required, prepare assessments and
recommendations on the selection o f consultantsheneficiaries required for the implementation o f
all the project components for considerationby the EA, RC and IDA;
        Review and approve bids and applications from potential project beneficiaries based on
selection and performance criteria. Applications for project support amounting to over US$
$200,000 will require endorsement by the Review Committee ,based o n recommendations
made by the PMU;
        Prepare all procurement documentation and submit to the EA and for World Bank for no
objection clearance;
        Manage all disbursement requests of each project beneficiary and consultant according to
monthly schedules submitted to it.

3.      TechnicalServices: The PMUwill be required, inaddition to core project management,
budget planning, and procurement, to provide technical expertise, pre-dominantly on a short-term
basis, except inthe areas of: (i)monitoring and evaluation, training, (ii) Fund and; (iii)
                                                                         BDS


                                                 - 89 -

specific industry sub-components, where a decision i s made not to sub-contract an industry
program out to an alternative implementing agent. Inthese three cases, the P M U will - prima
facie - require fulltime specialists suited to the particular performance framework established for
the project, the training programs anticipated and to manage the BDS Fund as a unique cost
center within the program. Specific technical responsibilities include:

         Provide short-term specialist consultants to provide appraisal services on bid documents
received for initiatives being financed under the different Project components;
         Incollaborationwith other project implementingagenciedproject beneficiaries and inline
with work programs, develop overseas and in-country training plans and implement the training in
a timely manner;
         Develop an inventory o f M S M E best practice experience/models in line with priority needs
o f the four components o f the project, drawn from worldwide lessons learned.
         Identify, analyze, and develop, with support from the EA and external experts, a program
for specific industries under the BDS component.


4.       BDSFund: The BDS Fundwill support BDS providers to develop and deliver products
and services tailored to MSMEs for which there i s demonstrated demand. Employingthe same
geographic focus as the larger project, this Fundwill operate initially inLagos and Kaduna, but
also extend to Abia during the project life. A firm-level BDS survey will be carried out to identify
those services for which there i s demand and those that will therefore be eligible for grants from
the Fund. Funds would be made available on the basis o f performance contract agreements in
which capacity-building support for activities such as staff training, information systems upgrades,
and technical consulting services would be dependent on fulfilling outreach and sustainability
targets. Disbursements would be linked to the realization o f these targeted results.
Fundswould also be made available to service providers to use indeveloping products that are
appropriate for MSMEs, typically involving adaptation o f off-the-shelf products for use by local
MSMEs. Inboth cases, activities financed by the Fundshould result in service providers
increasing their outreach to MSMEs, the impact o f their services, and the sustainability o f their
organizations.
The Fund's approach will be inkeeping with current thinking about business services provision,
i.e., products and services supported by the Fund should be delivered to MSMEs on a commercial
basis. Providers financed by the Fundwould be selected on the basis o f their meeting pre-set
organizational and project criteria. The P M U will manage the BDS Fundinaccordance with a
detailed manual, prepared by the EA, inconsultation with technical experts. Grant sizes will vary
depending on the needs o f grantees, but the average size grant i s expectedto be about $100,000.
Specific responsibilities include:

         Undertake site visits to BDS Fundbeneficiaries to complement the project information
obtained from reporting;
         Provide quarterly progress reports to the EA covering financial and project
implementation analysis and an annual report on the overall performance o f the BDS Fund in
terms o f institutional and economic outputs, outcomes and impact;
         Report to the RC on overall BDS Fundperformance on a semi-annual basis these


                                                   - 90 -

semi-annual meetings with the R C should take place prior to the IDA semi-annual supervision
mission.
The PMU will be responsible for (i)    reviewing requests for proposals for funding; (ii)  approving
proposals and institutions meeting selection criteria for proposals costing up to US$lOO,OOO for a
firm and $50,000 for an individual; (iii)  making recommendations to the EA for approvals for
grant requests amounting up to $150,000 for a firm and $75,000 for an individual; (iv) making
recommendationsto the EA and the Review Committee for approvals for grant requests
amounting to over $150,000 for a firm and $75,000 for an individual; depending on the nature o f
the proposals received, the P M U will call upon individual experts to submit a technical review o f
the project proposal; for amounts triggering EA and RC involvement, the P M U will submit its
recommendation and the technical reviews to the EA and RC and agree on final recommendations
to be transmitted to IDA for its consideration; (v) supervising implementation o f beneficiary
financing; (vi) possibly offering technical assistance to beneficiaries, when needed; (vii) identifying
new services that the Fundshould support; and (vii) providing regular reports to the Chairman
and the Review Committee members.

5.      Communications Strategy: The PMU, inconsultationwith the EA, will elaborate and
implement a strategic communicationsplan following the completion o f a needs assessment under
the Project. The communication needs assessment will cover: (i)       stakeholder identification; (ii)
stakeholders' knowledge, opinions and attitudes with respect to the project's goals and approach;
(iii)stakeholders' communicationprofile;(iv)outlineofanappropriatemixofmethodsandmedia
to be used for ensuring effective outreach on project opportunities (for example, access to funding
by local organizations/groups) and feedback on project activities and results with stakeholders.

The P M U will prepare a detailed work plan every year including a list o f key communication
indicators and present it to the EA for approval. Specific responsibilities include:

        Organize annual events (at both Federal and also target State locations) in close
cooperation with Federal and State governments and the organized private sector to present the
Annual Performance Report o f the Project and the BDS FundAnnual Report;
        Undertake targeted capacity building activities with States and Federal agencies in line
with Annual Workplans;
        Provide Best Practice Workshops based on project priorities, as part o f major private
sector events inNigeria, e.g., Nigerian Economic Summit; Banker's Committee meetings etc.

6.      Monitoring and Evaluation: The PMU will monitor the Project based on the overall
project performance framework and specific performance agreements and contractual outputs
required from project beneficiaries and consultants. Each beneficiary and consultant agency will
develop instruments for monitoring its respective component while the PMU will consolidate and
analyze statistical, financial, and physical data on the rate o f implementation. It will also monitor
and analyze the performance under the BDS Fund. Quarterly progress reports will be prepared by
the P M U and submitted to the EA and IDA. The monitoring and outcome indicators will provide
the PMU, the EA, the Government, IDA, etc. with measures to determine progress and form the
basis for joint supervisions.



                                                  -91 -

Formal supervision will take place on a regular basis to review implementationprogress. The EA,
IDA and other donors willjointly prepare the terms o freference and will participateinthe
mission. The P M U will also be required to prepare information required for the completion
annually o f the project status report (PSR).

A mid-termevaluation o fthe Project will take place no later than 24 months after the Credit
effectiveness in accordance with terms o f reference agreed uponby GovernmentlEA, the PMU,
and IDA and other donors. The P M U will be requiredto prepare a mid-term report detailing
implementation progress under all Project components and identifying implementationissues.
This report will be submitted to the EA, IDA and other donors not later than two months prior to
the mid-term review. Duringthe mid-term review, inresponse to the implementationissues
identified, solutions will be developed, and, ifrequired, project redesign steps will be taken. An
ImplementationCompletion Report will also bejointly prepared by the PMU, EA, and IDA within
.
six months after the closing date o f the Credit. Specific responsibilities include:

         Maintain responsibility for monitoring Project performance at the output, outcome and
impact levels in accordance with the project performance framework. This includes: (a) collection
.
o f data; (b) development o f an appropriate database system; (c) assessing data collection systems
o f beneficiaries and consultants and verifying accuracy o f the data reportedby these entities;
         Liaising with IDA, develop the links required with the LSMS team at the FSO and
.
undertake to contract case study work as agreed inthe annual workplan to track firm-level
productivity impacts and poverty reduction implications o f project activities.
         Preparation o f an Annual Monitoring and Evaluation Implementation Plan and appropriate
semi-annual progress reports buildingon reporting provided by beneficiaries and consultants.
This will include the preparationo f an annual report providing a detailedreview o f the project's
achievements inmeeting the performance objectives set out in the project's appraisal document.


CORE EXPERIENCE AND SKILL REQUIREMENTS OF PMU


..
The P M U needs to include staff who can demonstrate:

         Excellent procurement skills and knowledge o f World Bank Group procurement
guidelines
         Knowledge o f financial management systems and procedures conforming to World Bank
Group's requirements

including experience inpartnering with the local private sector (e.g. throughjoint ventures).
..       Five years experience as an administrator o f various development programs/projects,

         Wide experience inimplementationo f development programs and in dealing with donor
agencies.
         Excellent demonstrated management capacity to run a business development services fimd
and experience inadministering small grants ina complex environment
...      Demonstratedtechnical expertise in BDS.
         Demonstratedcapacity to develop and implement a communication strategy.
         Experience indeveloping and implementing a monitoring and evaluation system


                                                 -92 -

appropriate to measure the impact of the Project activities on economic growth and to track
performance of Project beneficiaries on an ongoing basis.
m      Technical expertise suited to the component parts of the project.
m      Excellent organizational skills.
       Excellent knowledge o f Nigeria, particularly of key MSME stakeholders inprivate and
public sectors.




                                              - 93 -

Additional Annex 14: Roles and Responsibilities of the Review Committee and the Executing
                                                Agent

                     NIGERIA: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Project

  1.      REVIEW COMMITTEE

  The M S M E Project Review Committee (RC) i s incharge of providing strategic guidance and
  support to the PMU and EA and making strategic decisions relatedto Project implementation.
  The RC will consist o f representatives from the public and the private sectors.

  A.      Technical Advice:        The Review Committee will be responsible for reviewing the
  PMU's annual work program and providing technical advice on the Project Implementation Plan
  (PIP) to the EA as required. The P M U and EA may seek technical advice from Committee
  members on an ongoing basis duringProject implementation.


  B.      DecisionMaking: Inaccordance with the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), the RC
  will select, on the basis o f agreed-upon selection criteria and procedures and the recommendations
  of the EA, the PMU, the MFIs, commercial banks, the firms managing individual industry
  sub-components, and BDS providers.

  C.      Strategic Directionand Supervision(qualitycontrol): The Review Committee will:

  e       Assist the ExecutingAgency and the P M U inresolving ambiguities and uncertainties
  associated with Project implementation
  e       Provide strategic direction and ensure that the general patterns o f support are consistent
  with the Project objectives
  e       Review reports including the audit, mid-term, and implementation completion report
  (ICR) and evaluate ifthe development objectives of the project are being met.

  The Review Committee (RC) will meet on a semi-annual basis to conduct a review of the
  portfolio. The RC will also meet (on an as needed basis) in order to evaluate proposals above a
  certain threshold, in accordance with the PIP.

  2.      EXECUTINGAGENCY

  The Executing Agency (EA), acting on behalf o f the Federal Ministry o f Finance, has the
  following functions:

  A.      ProjectImplementation,Monitoringand Supervision: The Executing Agency will:

  e       be responsible for the implementation o f the IDA credit on behalf of the FGN;
  e       approve the annual work plan and budgets for each component, in consultation with IDA
  and the Review Committee;


                                                   - 94 -

        provide the Financial Management systems and services for the project;
e       delegate management, operational, procurement, monitoring and evaluation
responsibilitiesto the P M U and oversee its operations;
        monitor the Project implem,entationto ensure that it i s consistent with the PIP and review
reports received from the PMU, including quarterly progress reports, semi-annual reports, audit
reports, and the ICR;
e       conduct a semi-annual Project portfolio review meeting with the RC, the PMU, and key
Project beneficiaries (at the time o f the IDA Supervision Missions)
        act as Secretariat for the Review Committee;
        Inthe event ofpoor performanceon the part o fthe PMU, take appropriate measures, in
consultation with IDA;
e       Ifrequired, review andauthorize, inconsultation with IDA,the RCandthe PMU, the
reallocation o f resources across the various components o f the project as lessons emerge as to
patterns o f demand and development impact.

B.      Coordination:The EA will be responsible for coordinating across government
departments in respect to the Project operations, in consultation with the PMU.


C.      TechnicalAdvice: The EA will provide technical guidance to the PMU, particularly with
respect to industry analysis and support, in line with NIPC's mandate.




                                                - 95 -

Additional Annex 15: Disclosures on Potential IFC Investments and IFC Partners Benefiting
                                           from the Project

                     NIGERIA: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Project

 The proposed M S M E Project i s being prepared (and will also be supervised) by ajoint team o f
 IFC and IDA staff working closely in collaboration with Nigerian partners.

 IFC has already identified and, in some cases is already supporting, several private sector projects
 inNigeria relatedto MSME development. The IDA project preparationteam has determined
 that several o f these projects, inwhich IFC is, or may be, involved are likely to receive support
 from the M S M E Project through performance-based contracts. These entities include the
 proposed first commercial regulated micro-finance bank inNigeria (with ACCION); the Support
 and Training Entrepreneurship Program (STEP); the FATE Foundation; and possibly a strategic
 partner for a commercial credit bureau.

 Both IFC and IDA consider that the design o f the M S M E Project, including the engagement and
 potential engagement o f the parties noted above, offers the most promising option to launch a
 program that will meet the needs o f private businesses inthe micro, small and medium enterprise
 sectors. However, we recognize that this also raises the risk o f potential conflicts o f interest, or
 the perception thereof, between IDA and IFC activities inNigeria. Accordingly, IDA and IFC
 have established a framework for identifying and managing conflicts o f interest inthis project, or
 perceived conflicts o f interest. This framework includes disclosure to concerned parties, in
 communications together with specific measures to manage actual, potential or perceived
 conflicts o f interest arising from the roles o f IDA and IFC.

 Specific measures that will be implemented include:

 a)       Separate teams (combining IFC and IDA staff, as appropriate) will be established for IDA
 project preparatiodsupervision activities and IFC investment activities. These teams will not
 share any team members. Accordingly, no staff who have been part o f the IDA preparation and
 supervision team would be assigned to work on IFC financing o f actual or potential beneficiaries
 o f the IDA Project.

 b)       N o confidential information will be shared among the teams. Accordingly, the IDA
 preparationand supervision team would not provide IFC staff working on financing potential
 Project beneficiaries any confidential or privileged information obtained by the preparationand
 supervision team in the course o f the Project; and IFC staff which may become involved in
 providing financing for potential Project beneficiaries would not provide the preparation and
 supervision team any confidential or privileged information obtained as a result o f their work with
 an IFC client.




                                                    - 96 -

c)       The advice o f the preparationand supervision team has been and will continue to be
separate and independent from any IFC role or investment in a potential Project beneficiary. The
preparationand supervision team will continue to provide stand-alone, independent advice based
on international best practice and experience, and without regard to the possibility that IFC might
eventually become a lender to or investor in a Project beneficiary.

d)       The selection o f Project beneficiaries will be based on best practice and transparent
eligibility criteria which have been developed by the preparation team and agreed with the
Government o f Nigeria. Inthe case o f the ACCION, STEP and FATE components the IDA team
i s prepared at this stage to recommendthat IDA financing be provided from the Credit on the
basis that:



0       These partners will play a key role inproviding an early learning and demonstration
experience for subsequent project implementation partners;


0       ACCION International i s recognizedby IDA ,andIFC as an international best-practice
micro-finance partner. IDA support will facilitate mobilization o f private investment capital and
accelerate expansion o f Accion's Nigerian operations;


0       FATE and STEP are developing track-records as efficient Nigerian `home-grown'
implementation partners inentrepreneurship development with youth, and in the informal
micro-enterprise sector.


0       These partners are ready to move quickly into implementation;


0       These partners will be required under the Project to submit acceptable business and
implementation plans, in line with project eligibility and performance requirements, as a condition
to IDA support;


0        IDA disbursements will be phasedaccording to accomplishmento f agreed performance
targets; and


0       Other entities meeting the same experience, performance and eligibility criteria would be
equally eligible to receive subsequent support on a competitive basis under the Project.

     The attached table provides additional details regarding the ACCION, STEP and FATE
proposals.




                                                 - 97 -

       Nigeria MSMEProject - Proposed Performance Agreement Partners & IFC Relationships

Entity                       Activity           Rationale for Support          IFC Relationship           ProposedIDA
                                                                                                             Support
ACCION Nigeria       Commercial, regulated,          1st Nigerian               ACCION                6 1.8 million
                     microfinance bank         regulated, commercial,      International i s an IFC
                                               MFI- demonstration          'best-practice' partner
                                               impact                           IFC considering an
                                                     Top class             investment in ACCION
                                               international               Nigeria
                                               best-practice partner
                                                     Mobilize
                                               incremental private
                                               investment capital
                                                     Facilitate faster
                                               expansion than
                                               otherwise feasible
                                                     Ready to move
                                               auicklv
STEP Foundation      Microenterprise          '      Home-grown                  IFC best-practice   150,
                     development             Jigerian foundation;          artner; STEP model take] 30
                                             nodel now being               I other African countries
                                               eplicated in Chad & M a l i       IFC has provided
                                              '      Efficient, high       rant support to STEP
                                             mpact, work in informal             IFC staff have been
                                               ector (90%t o f Nigerian    nvolved with STEP
                                             irivate sector), where        Jigeria establishment &
                                             .lmost no others work         Nversight

                                              I      Key training &
                                             lemonstration effect

                                              I      Ready to move
                                             pickly
FATE Foundation      Youth entrepreneur       I      Home-grown                  IFC best-practice    150,
                     development               Jigerian foundation;        lartner                   00
                                               nodel now being                   IFC has provided
                                               eplicated in Chad & M a l i ;rant support to FATE

                                               1     Efficient, high
                                               mpact, work in high
                                             riority sector, where
                                             ilmost no others work

                                               1     Key training &
                                             lemonstration effect
                                               1     Ready to move
                                               pickly
To be established    Commercial credit         1      1st regulated        ipotentialIFCinvestmer    Upto $0.5 million
                     bureau                    :ommercial credit bureau -  ipportunity
                                             lemonstrationimpact
                                               1     Bringproven
                                             nternational best-practice
                                             iartner to Nigeria
                                               1     Mobilize


                                                       - 98 -

                    I           ncremental private
                                nvestment capital
                                1       Facilitate faster
                                :xpansion than otherwise
                                easible
To be established   ILeasing     Promote more rapid,       Potential downstream Up to $0.5 million
                                 sustainable, expansion    IFC investments
                                 o f viable commercial
                                productive leasing
                                 activities




                                          -99 -

                        Additional Annex 16: PerformanceTargets
                  NIGERIA: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Project

At the end of the Project,targets are:

I. AccesstoFinanceComponent

A. Micro-finance Institutions

    1. $15 million new private sector investments and establishment o f at least two new
   micro-finance companies.
   2. Micro-finance institution(s)'s portfolio at risk (arrears over 60 days) not greater than 5
   percent after a second year o f operation.
   3. MFI loan portfolio cumulative disbursed o f $75 million.

B. Commercial Banks

    1. Three commercial banks establish MSME downscaling programs;
   2. Commercial Bank M S M E portfolio at risk (arrears over 60 days) not greater than 5 percent
    after a second year o f operation.
    3. Downscaling loan portfolio cumulative disbursedo f $75 million.

11. BusinessDevelopment Services

A. BDS Fund

    1. At least 20 BDS providers assisted by the Fund
    2. At least 75% cost recovery reached by participating BDS providers within a specified
   time frame
        -
    3. At least 20 products or services with sustained uptake improved or developed through
    support from the Fund
    4. At least 1,000 new MSMEs are supplied with BDS by participating BDS providers;

B. IndustrySupply Chain

    1. At least 20 BDS providers assisted by the Fundwithin a specifiedtime-frame
    2. At least 75% cost recovery reached by participatingBDS providers within a specified
   time-frame
    3. At least 20 products or services with sustained uptake improved or developed through
    support from the Fund
    4. Up to 4,000 new (including indirect) jobs in3-5 supply chains inselected industries

111. InvestmentClimate

    1, Streamlinedprocedures, integratedtax and business registration process, and reduction in



                                               - 100-

    transaction costs for company registrationwith the Corporate Affairs Commission - including
    a reduction innumber o f steps required to register a business from 9 to 6 and a 30 percent
    reduction inthe time required;
    2. Alternative dispute resolutionmechanisms developed and implemented inup to three
    target states;
    3. Secured transactions regime introduced inthe each target States;
    4. Regulatory framework updated for leasing industry;
    5. Framework for and new credit bureau established.

IV.     Public/Private Sector Partnership Development

    1. Three Annual MSME competitiveness Conferences;
    2. Associated roundtable discussions held between Government and private sector to
    disseminate lessons, best practices, and success stories from the Project, and establish
    dialogue to improve policies and programs targeted at MSMEs.
    3, Three Annual M S M E Competitiveness Reports completed.

V. Project Monitoring and Evaluation

An appropriate monitoring and evaluation system has been established to appropriately measure
the Project's impact in the participating States.




                                                -101 -

                         Additional Annex 17: Letter of Sector Policy
                   NIGERIA: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Project

BACKGROUND

1.      Given the structure o f the industrial sector, it i s clear that micro, small and medium
enterprises (MSMEs) hold the greatest prospect for income and employment for the majority o f
Nigerians. Most enterprises in Nigeria at present fall within MSMEs sector, with a few core and
strategic large scale capital intensive industries, mainly still in the public sector. MSMEs are
strategically placed in that they utilized labour intensive production processes with relatively modest
technologies that are easily available and manageable. The entrepreneurship development aspect of
MSMEs bears lrect relevance to empowerment of the population for sustainable development,
improves the welfare content of growth and provides great prospects for employment creation.
The manufacturing sector inNigeria is predominantly small enterprises. Sixty percent of firms have
between 20-49 employees, although it i s the large firms that provide the bulk of formal sectoral
employment, accounting for over 50% of total employment in manufacturing.                Over the last
decade, employment levels have tended to decline in large firms and increase in the micro, small
and m e l u m enterprise sector. The informal micro-enterprise sector remains the major source of
employment for the majority of Nigerians.

2.      MSMEs provide greater possibhties for the use o f locally available raw materials and for
linkages vertically and horizontally, thus facilitating technological adaptation and opportunities for
developing domestically consumer goods industries. This will also assist in reducing dependence on
imported inputs. By virtue of their local raw materials - based on their vast geographical
lstribution, MSMEs guarantee even lstribution o f national wealth. The growth of MSMEs would
greatly improve on the welfare content of the economy by minimizing the incidence of
marginalization and impoverishment of the greater part of the society.

SECTOR POLICIES AND STRATEGIES

Sector Policies

3.      Successive administrations in Nigeria had, over the years, accepted the need for government
to provide an enabling environment supportive of the development of MSMEs, given its role in
economic growth and industrialization in both developed and developing economies. Accorlngly,
government has taken a number of fundamental and deliberate initiatives to promote the
development of the private sector and in particular, the MSMEs. Currently, the President's
Economic Team i s preparing a National Economic Empowerment and Development strategy,
which i s geared towards stability, growth and development. Strengthening MSMEs i s identified as a
core element o f the NEEDS.

4.      To enable government achieve the foregoing objectives and priorities, the Federal
Government has initiated a number of institutional reform initiatives to put in place the enabling
environment for MSMEs to grow. To this end, the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission
was restructured and re-engneered to be more pro-private sector-led both in management and
Governing Council leadership. The Commission's vision and mission are generally towards the
development and promotion of MSMEs, which serves as an engine of economic growth. Indeed,



                                                  - 102-

equally important i s the establishment of the Small and M e d i u m Enterprises Development Agency
of Nigeria (SMEDAN)in 2003, which i s expected to give policy direction to the sector.

5.      Ina renewed determination to create effective and efficient development finance institution
for MSMEs, government undertook a re-structuring of development finance institutions. This
includes the Bank of Industry (BOI), which has been created from the merger of the Nigeria
Industrial Development Bank (NIDB), the Nigeria Bank for Commerce and Industry (NBCI) and
the National Economic Reconstruction Fund (NERFUND).                         T h e Nigerian Agricultural
Co-operative and Rural Development Bank (NACRDB) has emerged from the integration of the
Family Economic Advancement Programme (FEAP), People's Bank and Nigeria Agricultural and
Co-operative Bank (NACB). These reforms are designed to m o v e these institutions away from the
failed paradlgms of the past.

6.      T h e Government has a firm commitment to a market-based financial system and recognizes
the importance of providing the enabling environment that will serve to deepen and broaden
financial intermedlation within the country. Under the auspices of the Bankers' Committee, the
commercial banks have acted to support this goal through an initiative whereby they set aside
annually ten percent (10%) of their profit before tax (PBq to invest as equity in SMEs under a
scheme called Small and M e d l u m Industry Equity Investment Scheme (SMIEIS). This fits into the
government programme of increasing accessibility to funds to promote growth of SMEs. With the
introduction of the Scheme, it i s expected that improved fundlng of the SMEs will facilitate the
achievement of higher economic growth.

7.      These initiatives are striving to make important inroads into the rehabilitation of the MSME
sector in Nigeria. There remain macro-economic; infrastructure and investment climate constraints,
which the diagnostic work indicates, are the major impedlments to the growth and productivity of
the MSME sector in Nigeria. T h e government i s also actively working to address these constraints.

8.      Market failures operating at the meso and micro-levels also contribute sigmficantly to the
weak response of financial institutions and other private sector actors to the MSME sector.
Tackllng these problems will require a robust public-private sector dlalogue and cooperation
between these two sectors of the national economy.             W e recognize that these certain market
failures are not best addressed by public sector intervention in the delivery of these services. T h e
public sector role is, at i t s best, one of facilitation, supporting the private sector to provide these
services.   At the firm level, an effective response that fills the financing and know-how gaps
currently facing MSMEs in Nigeria will require a level of scale-up and replication that i s only
sustainable if it i s demand-driven, commercial and private sector led. This, moreover, i s the
evidence of a growing body of global experience. T h e Government of Nigeria is, in collaboration
with the private sector, committed to identifying and mainstreaming within Nigeria, dlfferent best
practice approaches and models that have proven track records in sustainability and outreach and
can be suitably adapted to the Nigerian context. In support of this, the Government is committed
to lowering the legal, administrative and regulatory costs of doing business. W e are loohng to
achieve a public-private collaboration that brings about necessary changes to the investment
climate, mobilizes private sector actors and fosters innovative market-based responses. In our view
this offers the greatest potential for Nigeria to deepen and broaden MSME access to financial and
non-financial   services and provide thts         sector with the resources it requires to increase
productiveness and grow.



                                                    - 103-

Strategic Actions:

9. In support of the Sector Policies and Strateges outlined above, the Government will:

I. Pursuemacro-economicpolicythatwdlacheveastablebusinessenvironment.

11.      Review and revise existing policy, legslation, regulations, institutions to improve enabling
environment for MSMEs, particularly in the areas of business and tax registration, leasing, credit
bureau, secured transactions and the SMIEIS program.

111.     Establish a permanent advocacy and review mechanism by which to assess impact of policy
and legislation on the MSME sector (along the lines of the USA small Business Administration)
includmg:
0        Increasing Inter-departmental and inter-agency collaboration
0        Increasing coordination with MSME business membership organizations

IV.      Test and disseminate new program models and methodologies- including:
0        Initiatives that mobilize new private sector investment inMSMEs and their intermediaries.
         A private sector driven approach to the development of the MSMEintermediary market for
the provision o f financial services - one based on commercial viability (sustainability) demand-
driven (outreach) and impact (results-based)
0        Innovative new public- private sector partnerships with international best practice
institutions and practitioner.

V.       Prepare an Annual MSME Competitiveness Report- includmg
a.        Benchmarhng o f Best practice in support o f MSMEs that
b.       Identify and u d z e international benchmarks to establish goals and track performance.
c.       Use of enterprise surveys as means of verifying M S M E and market perceptions of
government and sector performance.



ROLE OF THE PROJECT INSUPPORT OF STRATEGIC ACTION

10.      In this regard, the IDA MSMEDevelopment Credlt represents a critical component of the
Government's overall Sector Policy to bring about sustained improvement in the performance of
the non-oil MSME sector in Nigeria. The project - through initiatives designed to improve the
investment climate, strengthen intermedlaries delivering services to MSMEs and supporting public
sector institutions with key critical facilitator roles - will be contributing to the Government's core
objectives for the MSME sector.         The approach adopted by the Government for this project
includes: (i)  the mainstreaming of best practices; (2) leveraging the involvement of international
partners to develop strong local Nigerian institutions; (iii)    the use of performance-based contract
agreements with intermedaries to ensure sustainability and outreach targets are met, and: (iv) a
strongmonitoring and evaluation component to effectively assess impact o n the MSMEs benefiting
from the project.

11.      The Government also confirms i t s strong interest, through this project, in participating in
the Joint IDA\IFC Micro and Small and Medium Enterprise Pilot Program for Africa.                  Ths


                                                   - 104-

Nigeria MSME project will be the first under this n e w program.   T h e opportunity to work in a
more coordmated manner with both IDA and IFC and achieve a greater synergy in the use of the
instruments available from these two arms of the World Bank Group is welcomed. Depending on
the success achieved with this pilot project, the Government would b e interested in discussing with
IDA the possibility of extendmg it, in order to serve other States outside of the three States
&agos\Lagos,   I<aduna\I<aduna,   Abia\Umuahia) which are the primary focus of this first pilot
initiative. Going forward the Government will also look to find further innovative ways to lever
more private investment in the Nigerian MSME sector.




                                                - 105-


MAP SECTION


