Docwnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5146-YDR
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 7.9 MILLION
TO
THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR AN
EMERGENCY FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 8, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
CURRENCY AND EOUIVALENT UNITS
As of October 1989
The official currency unit in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen is the
Yemeri Dinar (YD).
US$1.00      -   YD  0.345
YD 1.00      -   US$ 2.898
US$1.28      -    SDR 1.000
US$1.00      -    SDR 0.784
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
DFRC              District Flood Relief Committees
DOI               Department of Irrigation
EFRP              Emergency Flood Reconstruction Project
ERU               Emergency Reconstruction Unit
FAO               Food and Agriculture Organization
FRP               Flood Reconstruction Program
GFRC             Government Flood Relief Committees
HCFRC             High Committee for Flood Relief Coordination
ICB               Internacional Competitive Bidding
MAAR             Ministry of Agricultare and Agrarian Reform
MCH              Ministry of Construction and Housing
MOE               Ministry of Education
MOH              Ministry of Health
PDRY             People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
SOE              Statement of Expenditures
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
UNDRO             United Nations Disaster Relief Organization
UNICEF            United Nations Children's Fund
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Beneficiaries:                Ministry of Construction and Housing;
Ministry of Education;
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform;
Ministry of Health
Amount:                       SDR 7.9 million (US$ 10.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                        Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Financing Plan:               IDA                   US$ 10.0 million
UNDP                 US$  1.0 million
GOVERNMENT           USS  4.4 million
TOTAL              US$ 15.4 million
Economic Fate of Return:      Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:       Not applicable.  A Technical Annex
has been prepared and is attached.
IBRD No. 21899.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rec.pients ory in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wt.how ':lord Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR AN EMERGENCY FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1.    The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed development
credit to the People's Democratic Repu.lic of Yemen for SDR 7.9 million (US $10
million equivalent) is submitted for approval. The proposed credit would be on
standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity and would help finance an Emergency
Flood Reconstruction Project, which is part of a larger Flood Reconstruction
Program. The project would be co-financed by the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) for about US$ 1.0 million equivalent.
2.    Backgroumd. In March and April of this year, heavy rainfall and widespread
flooding caused devastating damage to houses, buildings, flood control and
irrigation structures, crops, livestock and public infrastructure in the five
Governorates of Hadramawt, Shabuwa, Al-Mahra, and to a lesser extent in Abyan
and Lahej. Total direct damages have been estimated at about $161 million. In
monetary terms, most of the damage affected the housing sector, accounting for
$90 million or about 56 percent of total damages. The flooding caused the death
of at least 23 persons and damaged or destroyed 4,200 hiouses, or about three
percent of the country's housing stock, leaving around io,000 people homeless.
Ten schools were completely destroyed, 443 primary and secondary schools
sustained damage, and many other education facilities are now occupied by
homeless families. As a result, about a quarter of a million students will be
deprived of normal school attendance at least for the next one to two years.
Essential health services have also been interrupted, and portions of the highway
system were damaged. An estimated $24 million of damages occurred in the
irrigation subsector and included broken weirs, canals, pumping facilities, wells
and machinery. Many flood control bunds were destroyed thereby endangering rural
communities and jeopardizing crop production, while elsewhere, wadi courses
require new control structures. In addition, about 6 percent of total annual
agricultural production was destroyed, 5,500 animals were lost, and about 20,000
hectares of arable land in the country suffered serious erosion.
3.    Emergency relief efforts began almost immediately after the heavy rains
and flooding with assistance from the United Nations Disaster Relief Organization
(UNDRO) and coordinated by the UNDP. Many donors, including international,
regional, governmental and non-governmental organizations, provided assistance
towards the immediate relief needs of the flood victims through the provision
of food, medicines, blankets and temporary shelter, as well as emergency medical
relief, amounting to $6 million. These efforts were successful and prevented
the potential outbreak of epidemics.
4.    On March 23, 1989 the Government created a High Committee for Flood Relief
Coordination (HCFRC) headed by a Deputy Prime Minister (and Minister of
Interior), to handle all flood disaster relief activities and coordinate with



2
aid donors on the reconstruction effort. An IDA mission visited PDRY in May/June
1989 to assist the Government in assessing the flood damage and in preparing a
Flood Reconstruction Program (FRP). The Government's Flood Reconstruction Program
has been designed to include essential reconstruction and rehabilitation
requirements to be carried out during the 1989-94 period.  The estimated cost
of the total FRP amounts to about $105 million. In late August 1989, the
Government requested IDA to co-host a meeting with potential donors to discuss
possible financial participation in the Government's FRP. This meeting was held
in Washington D.C. on September 28, 1989 during the Bank/IMF Annual Meetings.
In addition to a contribution of $1 million from UNDP for the proposed project,
the Islamic Development Bank is providing about $2 million for the rehabilitation
of health and education facilities. Other donors are reallocating funds under
existing operations and reviewing the contents of future lending operations to
support the Government's FRP.
5.    Economic Impact.   The March/April 1989 rains and flash flooding caused
considerable physical damage and interrupted economic activity throughout the
country.   The Government's assessment of total damages (para. 2) represents
about 13 percent of GDP in 1989. The level of economic activity in both 1989
and 1990 will no doubt be affected due to agricultural crop losses of about $6
million (wheat, cotton and tobacco) and disruption of transport, communications,
services and trade.   Despite continued high levels of investment (about 35
percent of GNP) financed mostly from concessional foreign assistance, the
Government estimates that the overall real growth rate will be lower than
expected, i.e. about 2 percent during 1989 and 1990 as against 4 percent
anticipated for the same period prior to the floods.
6.    The recent rains and floods hit the country at a time when it is
experiencing a difficult economic situation. The fiscal deficit is estimated
to reach an unprecedented $832 million (about 60 percent of GNP) and the current
account deficit is estimated at $300 million (about 22 percent of GNP).
Indications are that the Government intends to introduce reforms in order to
reduce the fiscal deficit mainly by drastic cuts in capital expenditures.
Efforts will also be made to increase revenues by about 10 percent through
increases in import duties, consumption taxes and contributions from a few public
sector enterprises. The current account deficit of the balance of payments is
also expected to be reduced to about $150 million in 1990, reflecting a sharp
reduction of imports mainly for capital goods. Although PDRY's external debt
has increased in recent years, debt service payments remain manageable (16
percent of foreign exchange earnings in 1989), reflecting both the concessional
terms of the debt as well as the rescheduling of principal and interest payments
to socialist countries. In the medium term, prospects for a sustained recovery
are reasonable because of the recently discovered oil which is expected to
generate about $150-$250 million per year in export earnings as of 1992.
However, there is also an urgent need for changes in policies aimed at easing
existing rigidities and distortiors in price structures, of liberalizing trade,
providing more opportunities for private sector activities, and improving the
performance of public sector enterprises.
7.    Immediate IDA Reconstruction Supo_rt.  To support immediate reconstruction
efforts, IDA has amended the Fourth and Fifth Highways Credit Agreements (Credits



3
1617-YDR and 1823-YDR) to avail about $7 million in credit proceeds for the
repair of flood damaged asphalt roads. About $2 million in proceeds from the
Fourth Education Project (SF-19-YDR) have also been reallocated for the
rehabilitation of about 25 flood damaged schools.
8.   Rationale for IDA Involvement.   IDA has traditionally been involved in
most of the sectors that sustained flood damages. The proposed project would
support the Government's objectives to restore economic productivity and social
services that were severely disrupted as a result of the recent rains and
flooding. In order to provide assistance to the Government after the 1982 rains
and flash flooding which caused major damage to key sections of the highway
network and to bridges located in the Abyan and Aden Governorates, IDA approved
a credit of US $7 million equivalent for a Roads Flood Reconstruction Project
(Credit 1295-YDR). The Project Performance Audit Repclrt No. 7311 dated June 24,
1988 noted that project objectives were met. The main lesson learned was to
ensure that adequate institutional arrangements for project implementation are
in place at the outset. This has been taken into account in the design of the
proposed project.
9.   In addition to the proposed project, IDA's strategy has been to (i) assist
in the flood damage assessment immediately following the rains and flooding and
in developing a five-year Flood Reconstruction Program; (ii) help the Government
to mobilize donor assistance in support of the FRP; (iii) reallocate about $9
million in proceeds from three ongoing IDA operations in the highways and
education sectors to provide immediate support to the Government's reconstruction
efforts; and (iv) review the content of IDA's country assistance program for PDRY
to accommodate, in the medium to long term, possible projects aimed at flood
mitigation and prevention, and refocus sector work to address flood preparedness
and prevention measures.
10.   Project Objectives.  The proposed Emergency Flood Reconstruction Project
would help restore the country's essential economic infrastructure destroyed or
damaged by the heavy rains and flooding and reduce human deprivation and
suffering through restoration of social services and shelter.   It would
strengthen PDRY's institutional capacity to manage disaster recovery programs
and develop future programs to mitigate the country's vulnerability to floods.
The proposed project would also serve as a catalyst for donor financing and
coordination of the reconstruction effort.
11.   Project Description.  The proposed project would finance a self-contained
portion of the most urgent components of the Government's Flood Reconstruction
Program, and would consist of the provision of materials, equipment and civil
works for: (i) the construction of low-cost housing units to replace totally
destroyed housing; (ii) the rehabilitation and equipping of damaged schools;
(iii) the rehabilitation of flood protection and irrigation structures (flood
bunds, weirs, and wadi embankments); and (iv) the rehabilitation of damaged
healtn centers, hospitals and health units and the replacement of medical
equipment. Technical assistance would be included for a flood preparedness and
mitigation study and consultants' services in engineering, construction contract
management and construction supervision to assist in project implementation. The



4
specific rehabilitation and reconstruction works to be financed under the
proposed project would be selected on the basis of general criteria to be
applied to all sectors, as well as specific sectoral criteria. These criteria
and eligibility guidelines for beneficiaries of t0. housing reconstruction
program have been discussed arnd agreed with the Government. A more detailed
description of the Government's FRP, the components of the proposed project and
the eligibility criteria is provided in the Technical Annex (paras. 25, 26 and
Annex II).
12.    Project Cost and Financing.   The total cost of the project is estimated
at $15.4 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of $7.6 million
which amounts to about 49 percent of total project costs. The proposed project
has been exempted from custom duties and taxes. IDA's financial contribution to
the proposed project would be SDR 7.9 million (US$ 10 million equivalent) which
amounts to 65 percent of total project costs. Local cost financing by IDA is
justified in view of the emergency nature of the project and the extra Government
budgetary burdens generated by the floods. The UNDP is providing $1 million
equivalent on a grant basis. A breakdown of costs and the financing plan are
shown in Schedule A. Through the prepased project and the reallocation of IDA
proceeds, IDA would finance about 9.5 percent and 8.5 percent, respectively, of
the total cost of the Government's FRP, or 34 percent of the total foreign
exchange component of the FRP. Because of the emergency import needs and the
shortage of foreign exchange, the proposed credit would include retroactive
financing of up to about six percent of the credit amount for materials and
equipment expenditures required for critical reconstruction works which are
incurred after October 31, 1989.
13.    Pri1ect ImDlementation. The project will be implemented under the general
supervision of an Emergency Reconstruction Unit (ERU) which reports directly to
the Deputy Minister of Planning, who in turn, reports to the Deputy Prime
Minister and Chairman of the HCFRC.   The ERU will be headed by a National
Reconstruction Coordinator and will consist of a Sector Coordinator appointed
from each of the technical agencies involved in the reconstruction effort. These
agencies already have technical departments familiar with IDA procedures and
their responsibilities are as follows:
(i)       the Ministry of Construction and Housing will be responsible
for housing reconstruction and rehabilitation to the highways
network;
(ii)       the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform will be
responsible for rehabilitation of irrigation and flood
protection schemes, and for the carrying out of the flood
preparedness and mitigation study under the general guidance
of the Ministry of Planning;
(iii)      the Ministry  of Education will be  responsible  for  the
rehabilitation and equipping of damaged schools; and



5
(iv)       the  Ministry  of  Health  will  be  responsible  for  the
rehabilitation of damaged health institutions and for the
provision of medical equipment.
IDA has long-standing working relationships with the above mentioned ministries
which are all implementing satisfactorily ongoing IDA financed projects. The
ERU will also coordinate donor activities and supervise the implementation of
the proposed project with assistance from technical advisers.   An annual
implementation review, to be carried out jointly between the Government and IDA,
would assess progress made towards the implementation of the proposed project
and agreed monitoring targets, and the Flood Reconstruction Program. Physical
works under the proposed project would be implemented over a two and a half year
period. The methods of procurement and disbursement, as well as the disbursement
schedule are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key processing events and the
status of Bank Group operations in PDRY are provided in Schedules C and D,
respectively. A map is also attached.
14.    Agreed Actions.  The Government has agreed on the following actions: (i)
eligibility criteria for works being financed under the proposed project and for
selection of beneficiaries under the housing reconstruction program; (ii)
recovery of costs from each beneficiary of a new low-cost housing unit,
equivalent to at least 15 percent of the household's monthly income until the
total cost of such housing unit is paid in full; (iii) an annual review of
project implementation and of the forthcoming year's investment program; and
(iv) completion of a flood preparedness and mitigation study not later than
January 1, 1992.   As conditions of effectiveness, the Government would (i)
establish an Emergency Reconstruction Unit (for which a National Reconstruction
Coordinator to head the ERU and the Sectoral Coordinators have already been
selected); and (ii) confirm execution of the UNDP Grant Agreement.
iS.    Benefits and Risks.  The proposed project would reduce the impact of
future floods on the housing sector by constructing houses in. non-flood prone
areas, decrease human suffering by providing shelter to the homeless, help to
normalize the education system and health services, and assist in the restoration
of agricultural productivity and flood protection structures. Low income groups
have been targeted to be the main beneficiaries of the housing reconstruction
efforts. To the extent feasible, labor-intensive methods will be used and are
estimated to generate about 5,000 new job opportunities in the construction
sector for low income families. The proposed flood preparedness and mitigation
study would recommend administrative reforms to introduce a flood preparedness
program and engineering measures to reduce the country's vulnerability to similar
disasters. Therefore the proposed project is expected to have a positive impact
on the social and physical environment.
16.    The main risk associated with the proposed project relates to potential
implementation delays due to the limited administrative and institutional
capacity of Govertment agencies.   This risk would be minimized through the
provision of technical assistance to the ERU and ministries involved in project
execution. Moreover, a combined annual implementation and investment review
between the Governrient and IDA will ensure close monitoring of project
implementation.   rinally,  intensive levels of IDA project supervision are
envisaged during the first two years of execution.



6
17.    Recommendatin.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington `%C.
November 8, 1989



7
Wo"EUL A
PIOLF'sI DEH CRT  WULIO YEME
ERSEY FLU   CTRCTIO  PROJECT
Estluted Project Costs I/
Sector                                  Local  Foreign      Total        Local  Foreign    Total
---YD Nillo-                    --   Millon-
Nola                                     1.34      1.10      2.44         3.3       3.18    7.07
EmOcIi                                   0.29      0.29      0.30         0.4       0.M      1.67
AICWLTUR/FLU CN                          0X        0.2       0.34         0.76      0.7X     1.57
N6EA1T                                   0.21      0.26      0.47         0.41      0.75     1.
TECNIICAL ASSISTANCE                     011       0.19      0.30         0.31      0.57    0.U
FLOMD rRTr_    IY                        0.10      0.15      0.25         0.29      0.43    0.72
- -- -n- -
bm  cut lkOcXb  IN}                 2.32    2a.a       4.9             .n      6.55   lJ3sV
CONTIC IEUs
Piricll                                0.23      0.23      0.46         O.N       0.64     1.3
Price                                  0.13      0.13      0.24         0.3B      0.38    0.74
subtotal                     0.34     0.34      0.72          1.05     1.04     2.09
MOTAL RJECT COIT               2.65     2.42      5.30          7.77     7.59   15.X3
mu        m        amu          ammsn    a      asnin
Project FIncIng Plan
(Us S million)
Local             Foraei                 Totl
IDA                            3.1                 4.9                   10.0
BOMMIENT                        4.4                0.0                    4.4
UW                              t0.3               0.7                    1.0
7.8                7.4                   15.4
11 bt of tan ad dutis.



8
SCHEDULE 8
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS FOR PROJECT COMPONENTS
(USS Million)
Prolect Comuonents                 Procurement Methods
ICB              P A    Othe      Total
Materi.ls and Equipment   0.88    -         -    0.66        1.54
(0.79)                  (0.59)     (1.38)
Civil Works                -    11.13      0.84     -       11.97
(7.77)   (0.00)            (7.77)
Technical Assistance       -      -         -    1.00        1.00
(0.00)     (0.00)
Flood Study                -      -         -    0.85        0.85
(0.85)     (0.85)
....    -- --    --- -- -- --     ........._..
tOTAL                0.88   11.13     0.84   2.51      15.36
(0.79)  (7.77)   (0.00) (1.44)    (10.00)'
RISBURSEMENS
Credit Category               Credit Allocation     X of ExDenditures
=USS)              to be financed
Civil Works                      7,200,000            70X
Materials and Equipment          1,000,000            100l   of foreign
expenditures
Consultants                        800,000            1001
Unallocated                      1.000.000
Total                10,000,000
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
(US Mfillion)
ES90       FY9                   XY99
Annual                        1.5        3.2        3.4        1.9
Cumulative                    1.5        4.7        8.1       10.0
'Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts, in $ million
equivalent, to be financed by IDA.  Total costs include contingencies.



9
SCHgWJULE C
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SMOIARY
TIMETABLE OF XEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a)         Time Taken to Prepare:                    Five Months
(b)         Prepared by:                              Government/IDA
(c)         First IDA Mission:                        May/June 1989
(d)         Appraisal Mission Departure:              September 22, 1989
(e)         Donors' Meeting:                          September 28, 1989
(f)         Negotiatiors:                             October 7-11, 1989
(8)         Planned Date of Effectiveness:            February 28, 1990
(h)         Credit Closing Date:                      December 31, 1992
(i)         List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs:          Roads Flood Reconstruction
Project, PPAR No. 7311



10
SCHEDUE D
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE PEOPLE'S DMOCRATIC   PUBLIC OF YEMEN AS OF OCTOBE   31, 1989
Amut in M  milosf
(lft emtlatio)
Loan or    Fesla                                                            .......Cl..i..
Credit go.  Yar  8orrwr                            Pp                                                "s- CAofD
Credits
20 Credits(s) closed                                                                       122.73
C12220*YR  1982   YOU., PEOPLES DENOCRTtC UEP   EDIIATION III                               6.00       1.9  8430~9()
C12M40TDR  1982    YEME. PEOPLES DEMOCRTIC BEP   FI5118115 III                              6.00       1.85  06/30/90)
- c1344.YD   1983    y8UN  PEOPLE DEWMOATIC RIP   Wol HADRAMAT It                           9.00        3.50  84/3/90()
C013?0-YD   1983    YEME, pEOPE DEOCRATIC RVP   HEATH DIV.                                  7.60       :01  12/3189()
C14I80-YD   1984   YUgS, pEOPLE DEIMORTIC Rgp   EDUATIO iUpv                               10.40       3.47  12/3/90()
C1418-VDR  194 Tg,POLE   EORTCRP    AU   LPYI                                               7.00        .92  12A/31/9()
C1557-1DR1985  YEMN, PEOPlS DEOMOATIC REP   AGRIC. RESEAMC  A EA                       5.00       299  ¶2/3/90
C16170-YDR  1985       E  PEOE  DMOTIC REP   HI_WAs iv                                     14.40       8.65  8/30/n0
c17M9-YOR  1987   YEM-N PEOPLS DEWMORTIC RVP   GRE  AT       M E  W. 11                     5460      6.2B  12/31/93
C18230YDR  1987    YEen. PEOPLE DEOAn TIC REP   HIGNIYS V                                  16.80      11.80  12/31/9
C19fA0-YOR  1989    YEMN, PEOPLE DEWMORTIC RU   AL MWCALLA WATER                           12.00     21.10  12/31/95
C19M-0YOR  198    YEME, PEOPLES DEOCRATIC RU   HEALTN  II1                                  4.50       4.47  06/30/9
c20450YDR  1989    YEME, PEOPLES DEMOCRTIC RUP  HADRAUIT A0.111                            12.00      11.86  06/30/97
TOTAL mrbar Credits a   13                                                                  116.30      68.90
TOTAL*e                                                                   23P.0
of uAIch repid                                                             2.0
TOTAL held by Bn AIA                                                      236.9I
Amount sold
of hich roepoid
TOTAL Undiebursed                                                                      48.90
NOTES:
, ....................
Not yet effective
** Not yet signed
Total ApproVed, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
(R) indicates formally reviseod Closing Date.
The -et AWproved end Dank Repayents are historical value, sli others are market vaLue.
The Signing, Effective and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department officat date and are not taken
from the Teask Budget fiLe.



TECHNICAL ANNEX
PtLE'O S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENC! FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
A. BACKGROUND
The March&April 1989 Rains and Flooding
1.    From March 18 to April 3, 1989, five Governorates in PDRY were struck by
torrential rains and flash floods. The most severely affected areas were the
urban and rural areas in the vicinities of Seiyun, Tarim, Shibam, Al-Qatin and
Shihir in the Hadramawt Governorate, the towns of Atag in the Governorate of
Shabuwa, and Sayhut in the Al-Mahra Governorate. The amount of daily rainfall
in some of the affected areas was recorded at over 180 millimeters (greater than
three times the annual average) and had rarely occurred before. The rainfall
was followed by high levels of flooding including sheet flooding down wadis.
The peak discharge measured in the Wadi Sarr (Hadramawt Governorate) was over
2,000 cubic meters per second. Areas affected to a lesser extent are located in
the Governorates of Abyan and Lahej. The flooding from accumulated rains,
particularly in the Wadi Hadramawt area, has an estimated probability of
recurrence of once every fifty years; in the Abyan and Lahej Governorates the
recurrence is once every ten years.
Economic Impact
2.   The level of economic activity in 1989 and 1990 will be affected by the
loss of agricultural productive capacity and disruption of transport,
communications, services and trade. The annual growth rate during 1989 and 1990
is estimated to drop from the previous projection of 4 percent, to about 2
percent. Although rehabilitation and reconstruction works have started, full
restoration of facilities to pre-flood conditions will take years. The order
of magnitude of external financial contributions received thus far to support
the Government's Flood Reconstruction Program is small and further assistance
will be required (paras. 17-19).
3.    To redress the deterioration of the fijcal a4  balance of payments
situation exacerbated by the floods, the Government has announced a program to
reduce the fiscal deficit from 60 percent of GNP in 1988 to about 28 percent of
GNP in 1990. This will be brought about by drastic cuts in capital expenditures
including the postponement of new development projects and revenue raising
measures through increases in import duties and consumption taxes; increased
contributions from public sector enterprises are also contemplated. Similarly,
the balance of payments deficit (estimated at about $300 million in 1988 and
1989), will be reduced by restricting imports of non-essential goods, while at
the same time, efforts to increase inflows of workers' remittances and grants
will be pursued. Until the development of new oil discoveries come on stream,
external and domestic financial constraints aggravated by the flood damages will
dominate the economic situation.



2
B. GOVERNIZKT RESPONSE AND RECOVERY STRATEGY
4.     Emergency relief efforts began almost immediately after the heavy rains
and flooding with the assistance of the United Nations Disaster Relief
Organization (UNDRO), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the
support of the international community and non-governmental organizations. The
provision of food, medicines, blankets and temporary shelter helped to avoid
widespread disease, but restoring the affected population to its productive
capacity before the floods will require a major reconstruction effort and
consioerable time.
Government Objectives and Strategy for Recovery
5.     The Government's objectives are to reduce human deprivation and suffering
through restoration of social services and shelter and restore the country's
agricultural productive capacity and essential economic infrastructure destroyed
or  damaged by  the  flood.    Because  the Government  faces  financial  and
institutional limitations, emphasis will be placed on the low-income population
group and self-help initiatives, particularly in housing rehabilitation.
6.     The Government's approach to the Flood Reconstruction Program (FRP) has
been pragmatic. On March 23, 1989 the Government created a High Committee for
Flood Relief Coordination (HCFRC) to coordinate with donors, handle all flood
disaster relief activities and oversee general execution of the reconstruction
program (paras. 14-16). An assessment of the flood damages was undertaken, and
an FRP was designed to concentrate the efforts of both the Government and the
international community on restoration of the highest priority items as a means
to assist the most seriously affected portion of the population. In preparing
specific sectoral programs, the Government has developed simple administrative
arrangements and has utilized the existing institutional organizations at the
central, governorate and local levels (Annex I).   Eligibility criteria and
targeting mechanisms aimed at reaching the poorest flood victims have also been
developed.
Assessment of Damages
7.     The  Government,  in  collaboration  with  the  Food  and  Agriculture
Organization (FAO), the UNDP and IDA, undertook an assessment of overall flood
damages. These damages amounted to about YD 55.4 million, or US $160.7 million
equivalent (Table 1). About 40 percent of total damages was in foreign exchange.
The damage caused by rains and flooding affected critical infrastructure
including housing, social services such as schools and health facilities,
irrigation and flood control structures and resulted in losses of personal
effects.   There was also extensive damage to the country's agricultural
productive capacity due to losses of fertile topsoil, livestock and agricultural
prodttction. The damage assessment includes the costs of direct damages, but
excludes unquantifiable losses, such as the socio-economic impact and disruption
to the educational system.



3
TABLE 1: FLOOD DAMAGE ASSESSNENT                      F r  1
Total Damage Costs
Sector      YD million  US million
TorAL OAW.E ASUSSEI
Housing          31.0      89.9
Education        10.8      31.3
Agriculture       8.4      24.4
Highways          4.0      11.6
Health            1.        3.5
Total          55.4     160.7
8.    Close to $90 million in damages or 56 percent of the total flood damages
occurred in the housing sector. About 2,000 houses were totally destroyed and
another 2,200 houses were partially damaged in the Hadramawt, Shabuwa and Al-
Mahra Governorates. The towns of Shihir and Tarim were amongst the most severely
affected. About 30,000 people were left homeless and have sought temporary
shelter in schools, other public buildings and tents.
9.    Education facilities also sustained heavy damages, amounting to about
$31 million. Ten schools (of which six are in the Hadramawt Governorate) with
an enrollment of 6,500 students were totally destroyed. About 443 primary and
secondary schools were damaged, thus displacing a significant portion of the
160,000 enrolled students. Moreover, many of the schools in flood damaged areas
have been occupied by homeless families, which further hampers the educational
system.
10.    In the agriculture sector, damages to infrastructure are estimated at
about $24 million. The Governorates of Hadramawt, Shabuwa and Abyan were the
most severely affected. The loss of wheat, cotton, tobacco and other crops has
been estimated at $6 million (or about six percent of the annual agricultural
output), about 5,500 heads of livestock have been lost, and about $18 million
worth of flood protection structures, irrigation works, earthworks, canals,
wells, pumps and engines were damaged or destroyed. About 20,000 hectares of
arable land, or a third of the annual cultivated land in the country have
suffered serious erosion. Rehabilitation works would involve an estimated one
million cubic meters of earth moving, 330,000 cubic meters of gabion structures,
about 28,000 meters of water piping, about 16,000 cubic meters of concrete,and
the repair or replacement of about 350 irrigation pumps.
11.    The highways sector, particularly in the Wadi Hadramawt area, sustained
damages of about $12 million. Dimage to asphalt roads estimated at about $7
million was mainly to shoulders, culverts and Irish crossings.   About 850



4
kilometers of tracks (gravel and earth roads) will also require rehabilitation.
No damage was sustained to the road network built under IDA projects.
12.    The health sector was affected to a lesser extent. Two health centers in
Shibam and Naifa'a, and four hospitals located in the towns of Tarim, Shihir,
Modia and Nasr, were partially damaged. Ten health units were totally destroyed
and twenty others scattered throughout the flood affected Governorates were also
partially damaged. In addition, five mobile health units, medicines and medical
equipment were swept away by the flood. Damage was not sustained to either
health or education facilities constructed under IDA projects.
13.    The Seiyun and Al Mukalla airports incurred heavy damages which have been
repaired. The telecommunications sector suffered minor damage which has already
been repaired, and the heavy rains and floods caused only slight disruptions to
the industrial sector. Virtually no damage occurred to the manufacturing sector
which contributes less than 10 percent to GDP and consists primarily of the Aden
refinery, where about a fifth of the estimated 10,000 workers in the
manufacturing sector are employed. Outside the agriculture sector, damage to
existing water supply and sewerage facilities was insignificant.
Flood Reconstruction Proaram (FRP)
14.    In line with the Government's objectives and strategy described above,
the FRP has been designed to include the main rehabilitation and reconstruction
requirements to be carried out during 1989-94. The most critical elements of the
FRP would be implemented during the first three years of the 1989-94 period, and
have been taken into account in the scope and content of the proposed Emergency
Flood Reconstruction Project (paras. 25 and 26). The estimated cost of the
Government's FRP amounts to $105.3 million and is less in cost than the total
damage assessment of $160.7 million since the latter includes losses to the
country's agricultural productive capacity (lost crops and livestock) as well
as disruption of transport, communications, services and trade. Table 2 provides
a breakdown of costs by sector.



5
TABLE 2: GOVERNMENT FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROGRMA  (FRP)
(1989-94)
SECTOR              Local   Foreign      Total      Local   Foreign   Total
---------------YD Million--- -                     ---------US $ Million------
Housing            12.80      11.07       23.87       37.10   32.08     69.18
Agriculture         0.87       3.37        4.24        2.52    9.77     12.29
Roads               1.19       2.13        3.32        3.45    6.17      9.62
Education           1.80       1.41        3.21        5.22    4.09      9.31
Health              0.38       0.54        0.92        1.10    1.57      2.67
T.A. and Study      0.23       0.54        0.77        0.67    1.57      2.24
FRP Total Cost   17.27      19.06       36.33      50.06   55.25    105.31
Figure 2
15.    The FRP provides for the
rehabilitation/reconstruction of                FL= FEWNSTUCrION PRGRAM
rain    and    flood    damaged                      D "
infrastructure and equipment in
each  of  the  flood  affected
sectors    throughout    the
Hadramawt,  Shabuwa,  Al Mahra,
Aden,    Abyan    and    Lahej
Governorates. The FRP consists
of the following sectoral and          EUt1t (9.00
technical assistance components:
(i) in the housing sector, the
FRP   provides   for   the
rehabilitation of about
1,500 damaged houses and
the construction of about
1,000    new    low-income
housing units in the Hadramawt and other affected Governorates;
(ii) in the agriculture sector, the FRP focuses on: (a) the rehabilitation of
diversion structures and conveyance and distribution systems for spate
irrigation; (b) the rehabilitation of irrigation wells, water storage
facilities and pumping stations; (c) the replacement of pumping equipment
and destroyed pipes; and (d) the rehabilitation of flood control
structures such as wadi bank and wadi training protective structures;
'Total cost estimates include 10 percent physical contingencies and 4.4
percent for foreign price contingencies for 1989-94; local price contingencies
were calculated at 3 percent for 1989-92 and 3.5 percent thereafter.



6
(iii) the highways sector program includes: (a) the rehabilitation of all
flood-damaged asphalted roads, for which the repair of embankments,
shoulders, culverts and Irish crossings is being financed through the
reallocation of $7 million in proceeds from the Fourth and Fifth Highways
Projects (Credits 1617 YDR and 1823-YDR (para. 23)); and (b) the
rehabilitation of about 850 kilometers of gravel and earth roads;
(iv)  in the education sector, the program consists of the rehabilitation of
about 100 damaged schools in the Hadramawt, Abyan and Aden Governorates
and the reconstruction of five totally destroyed schools ,n the Hadramawt
and Abyan Governorates. The reallocation of about $2 million from the
proceeds of the Fourth Education Project (SF-19-YDR) would finance repairs
to damaged schools in the Hadramawt and Abyan Governorates (para. 23); and
(v)   the health sector program consists of: (a) the rehabilitation of two
health centers located in the towns of Shibam and Naifa'a, four hospitals
located in the towns of Tarim and Shihir (Hadramawt Governorate) and Modia
and Nasr, which are in the Abyan and Lahej Governorates, respectively;
(b) the reconstruction of ten health units and the rehabilitation of
twenty others that are scattered throughout the flood-affected
Governorates; and (c) the replacement of medical equipment and five mobile
health units.
16.    Technical Assistance and Studies.  The FRP includes technical assistance
for a study to develop flood emergency preparedness and mitigation programs.
The study would evaluate flood hazards in the country and propose measures for
flood mitigation control in rural and urban areas, including administrative and
legal steps which could be implemented in the short to medium term to reduce the
vulnerability of the population at risk.   The FRP provides  for various
consultancy services in such areas as engineering, construction contract
management and construction supervision.
Donor Coordination and Aid Reauirements
17.   The proposed IDA project (US$ 10 million equivalent) and the reallocation
of $9 million in IDA proceeds from ongoing operations would help meet about 18
percent of the total financial requirements of the Government's Flood
Reconstruction Program amounting to $105 million. To solicit additional support
from the international community, a meeting with potential donors was held on
September 28, 1989 in Washington, D.C. In addition to a $1 million grant from
UNDP designed to support the proposed project, the Islamic Development Bank is
providing $2 million towards the rehabilitation of damaged schools and health
facilities. The Arab Fund has allocated close to $1 million for rehabilitation
of damaged flood control and irrigation structures in some areas of the Wadi
Hadramawt. Donors who attended the meeting agreed to assess the prospects for:
(i) reallocation of funds under their respective ongoing operations to meet
critical reconstruction works; (ii) advancing projects already under preparation
which could mitigate the social and economic effects of the flood; and (iii)
reviewing the scope of future lending operations to focus on measures for flood
mitigation and prevention.



7
18.    Since the torrential rains and flooding, the Government has taken a
number of steps to restore economic activity and social services. Emphasis has
been placed on providing shelter for the homeless currently living in tents and
occupying schools and other public buildings, and providing construction
materials to homeowners whose houses were damaged. Through assistance in kind
from external donors, the Government is receiving sufficient quantities of
construction materials for the rehabilitation of rain and flood damaged houses:
more than 6,000 tons of cement have been distributed and another 5,000 tons of
cement, 20,000 square meters of glass, 1,500 cubic meters of timber and 500 tons
of steel are due to arrive before the end of the year. Under the Government's
self-help program for housing repair, these imported construction materials are
being distributed to eligible owners whose homes have been damaged.   This
distribution program is made on a grant basis and is based on household income
levels, allowing each eligible beneficiary to receive construction materials
with a total value of up to YD 1,500 ($4,300 equivalent). The Governmen-: has
also distributed to eligible farmers about 500 pumps received in kind from
donors to replace damaged water and irrigation wells.  A total of about $6
million in foreign emergency relief in the form of food, medicine and
construction materials received from donors has already been distributed.
19.   For the 1989-1994 period, budgetary allocations of about YD 9 million ($26
million equivalent) have been targeted towards the FRP. This includes about YD
2.5 million ($7.2 million equivalent) for new housing construction and about YD
1.2 million ($3.5 million equivalent) for rehabilitation and maintenance of
education facilities. So far, the Government has received commitments of an
additional $5 million from external sources. aiiis leaves a financing gap in the
Government's FRP of about $51 million (of which about $30 million is in foreign
exchange) to be financed through further assistance which has yet to be
identified (Table 3).
TABLE 3:  GOVERNMENT FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION
Financing Plan
Local         Forei             Total    Percent
-----US $ Million-----------------
Government                   26.0             -              26.0       24.7
IDA Reallocations              -             9.0              9.0        8.5
IDA Proposed Project          3.1            6.9             10.0        9.5
UNDP                          0.3            0.7              1.0        0.9
Islamic Development Bank       -             2.0              2.0        1.9
Arab Fund                                    1.0              1.0        0.9
Other Donors                   -             5.0              5.0        4.8
Unidentified                 20.7           30.6             51.3       48.8
50.1           55.2            105.3      100.0



8
C. IDA RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
20.    IDA's strategy has been to: (i) assist the Government in carrying out a
flood damage assessment immediately following the rains and flooding; (ii)
assist in developing a five-year FRP and in mobilizing financial assistance from
the international community to support the Government's FRP; (iii) reallocate
proceeds from ongoing IDA projects to support the Government's reconstruction
efforts; and (iv) provide financial assistance through the proposed project for
the most critical components of the FRP.
21.    In early May 1989, the Government requested an IDA mission to assist in
assessing the extent of damage in key sectors and in developing a FRP which
could be supported by the donor community. At the request of the Government,
an IDA identification/preappraisal mission visited PDRY in May/June 1989 and
prepared a report on damage assessment.   A draft FRP was handed to the
Government on June 3, 1989. At that time, the Government's preference was to
contact potential donors on a bilateral basis to solicit support for emergency
flood reconstruction works. Due to limited donor response, in August 1989 the
Government requested IDA to co-host a meeting with potential donors (para. 17).
22.    The proposed project aims at supporting the Government's objectives to
restore vital physical and social infrastructure, strengthen the country's
institutional capacity to manage disaster recovery programs, and develop
programs to mitigate the country's vulnerability to future floods. It has been
designed to finance a self-contained portion of the most critical physical and
technical assistance requirements of a two and one half year time slice of the
Government's five year FRP.
23.    To support the Government's immediate reconstruction efforts, three
ongoing IDA credits have been amended. The Credit Agreements of the Fourth and
Fifth Highways Projects (Credits 1617-YDR and 1823-YDR) avail about $7 million
in credit proceeds, resulting from cost savings, for the repair of flood damaged
asphalt roads.   About $2 million of the proceeds from the Fourth Education
Project (SF-19-YDR) have been reallocated for the rehabilitation of schools
which sustained rain and flood damages.          The content of IDA's country
assistance program for PDRY will be modified to accommodate a possible
irrigation flood reconstruction and mitigation project and a first rural roads
project aimed at rendering such roads less prone to damage from heavy rainfall
and flooding.   The proposed Tarim Water Supply Project which was recently
appraised, would include the provision of water supply to flood affected areas.
Sector work planned on operation and maintenance of municipal infrastructure
would also review and make recommendations on flood drainage, protection and
preparedness in urban areas.
Previous IDA-Financed Disaster Reconstruction Prolect
24.    In March 1982, severe rains and flash flooding caused, inter alia, major
damage to key sections of the highway network and to bridges located in the
Abyan and Aden Governorates.   In order to assist the Government in its
reconstruction effort, an IDA credit of SDR 6.3 million (US$7 million
equivalent) was approved in October 1982 for a Roads Flood Reconstruction



9
Project (Credit 1295-YDR). The Project Performance Audit Report No. 7311 dated
June 24, 1988 noted that the project objectives were met despite initial delays
in establishing the construction unit under the project. The main lesson learned
was to ensure that adequate institutional arrangements for project
implementation are in place at the outset. This has been taken into account in
the design of the proposed project.
D. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Emergency Flood Reconstruction Prolect DescriRtion
25.    The proposed project would finance a time slice of the Government's FRP
and would consist of:
(i)   the reconstruction of totally destroyed housing, including off site
infrastructure;
(ii) the rehabilitation and equipping of damaged schools;
(iii) the rehabilitation of damaged flood control and irrigation
structures such as flood bunds, weirs, and wadi embankments;
(iv) the rehabilitation of damaged health centers, hospitals and health
units, and the replacement of medical equipment; and
(v) technical assistance for: (a) a flood emergency preparedness and
mitigation study. The study aims at recommending administrative
and engineering measures and introducing policies for disaster
preparedness and prevention; and (b) the provision of technical
experts to assist the ERU and the technical ministries in such areas
as contract management, construction supervision and monitoring of
project execution.
Selection Criteria
26.    Structures which have been damaged or destroyed by the March/April 1989
rains and flooding would be eligible for IDA financing under the proposed
project provided that such rehabilitation and reconstruction works: (i) can be
implemented within a two and a half year period; (ii) benefit the greatest
number of homeless inhabitants in the cities and areas that were the most
severely affected by the rains and flooding; (iii) are critical to restoring
health and education services; (iv) are essential to restoring flood control
structures and agricultural production; and (v) are vital for mitigation or
prevention of future flood damages. Building sites located in flood prone areas
or encroaching on agricultural land have been declared unsuitable for
construction by the Government.   Inter-sectoral priorities have been ranked in
order of importance as follows: housing, education, health and agriculture.
Specific eligibility criteria for sectoral components, and eligibility criteria
for beneficiaries of new housing units to be financed under the project have
been agreed upon with the Government (Annex II).



10
Project Cost and Financing
27.   The total cost of the proposed project amounts to $15.4 million including
contingencies. The proposed project has been exempted from customs duties and
taxes. Details of project costs and the financing plan are provided in Schedule
A. The UNDP is providing $1.0 million equivalent, on a grant basis, to support
the ERU and implementing ministries through the provision of consultants who
would assist in project execution. The Government will contribute $4.4 million
equivalent for local cost financing. The proposed IDA credit of US$ 10 million
would finance about 65 percent of total project costs or about 91 percent of the
foreign exchange requirement and 40 percent of the local cost component. Local
cost financing by IDA is Justified given the emergency nature of the project and
the extra budgetary requirements generated by the rains and flooding. Annex III
provides a breakdown of project components by cost category.
D.  INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Imvlementation of the Government's FRP and the Proposed Proiect
28.   The High Committee for Flood Relief Coordination, established on March
23, 1989, has overall responsibility for implementation of the FRP. The HCFRC
members meet regularly on a monthly basis and represent the housing, education,
health,  agriculture  and  highways  sectors.    Day-to-day  coordination  and
monitoring of implementation of the FRP and of the proposed Emergency Flood
Reconstruction Project will be the responsibility of a national, multi-sectoral
and temporary Emergency Reconstruction Unit (ERU) under the juristiction of the
Ministry of Planning. The ERU will report to the Deputy Minister of Planning,
who is a member of the HCFRC and therefore has direct access to the Deputy Prime
Minister and Chairman of the HCFRC. The ERU will be chaired by a National
Reconstruction Coordinator who has been appointed by the Deputy Prime Minister,
and will consist of Sector Coordinators who have already been nominated for each
sector involved in the FRP. The ERU will be supported by technical advisers
(engineers, architects etc.) who will assist in financial and physical project
monitoring and reporting.
29.    The ERU's main functions are to: (i) coordinate the implementation of
the FRP and the proposed project; (ii) assist in overcoming implementation
bottlenecks; (iii) alert the Minister of Planning and/or the office of the Prime
Minister to major obstacles impeding the timely implementation of the project;
(iv) monitor overall progress of the project and prepare monthly briefings and
quarterly progress reports for the Government and donor community; (v) liaise
with IDA and other donors supporting the FRP; and (vi) maintain project records
and coordinate all submissions of withdrawal applications, statements of
expenditure and audit reports under the project. The terms of reference of the
ERU and its staffing requirements have been agreed with the Government. The
Government has also agreed to hold annual implementation and investment reviews
with IDA to review project execution, availability of financing and the proposed



11
investment program Cot the following year. Details of implementation
arrangements for each of the sectoral components are described in paras. 39 to
33.   The Implementatior. Schedule and Monitoring Criteria agreed with the
Government are attached as Annexes IV and V, respectively.
Sectoral Organization
30.   The  relevant  government  ministries  would  be  responsible  for  the
implementation of sectoral components being financed under the proposed project.
The Sector Coordinators would meet with the National Reconstruction Coordinator
to review monthly progress and coordinate multi-sectoral actions (para. 28).
31.   Housing Sector.  The Ministry of Construction and Housing (MCH) will be
responsible for the construction of low-cost housing developments which will be
implemented by local civil works' contractors (para. 41). Through the existing
local institutional organization described in para. 34, the Government has
collected and verified data on housing damages and identified beneficiaries for
the self-help housing and new housing construction programs. Agreement has been
reached with the Government on the beneficiary eligibility criteria for the
allocation of newly constructed houses to be financed under the proposed project
(Annex II). The Directorate of Housing under the MCH will be responsible for the
allocation of new low-cost housing units and for the administration of the
Government's cost recovery program (para. 47).
32.   Health_nEducation Sectors.   The Ministry of Health (MOH) and the
Ministry of Education (MOE) would be responsible for the rehabilitation of
health and education facilities which will be implemented by local civil works'
contractors  (para. 41).   Procurement of medical and educational equipment
(including vehicles) will also be under the direct responsibility of these
ministries. IDA has had a long standing and a good working relationship with
the MOH and MOE, and implementation procedures being followed under ongoing IDA
credits for health and education would also be applied under the proposed
project.
33. Agriculture Sector. Execution of flood control rehabilitation activities
to be implemented under the project would be the responsibility of the
Directorate of Irrigation (DOI) under the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian
Reform (MAAR), which would undertake these works by force account.   DOI would
procure directly the necessary construction materials and equipment to carry out
such works. Under the Ministry of Planning's overall supervision and with the
assistance of consultants, the DOI would also play a signficiant role in
carrying out the flood emergency preparedness and mitigation study.
Institutional Ornanization
34.   A detailed organizational chart of various agencies involved in the
reconstruction effort is provided in Annex I. The Government has utilized the
Local Development Councils, an existing organizational structure at the local
level, to assess and monitor the reconstruction efforts. In the housing sector,
Block Committees, District Flood Relief Committees (DFRC) and Governorate Flood
Relief Committees (GFRC) have been formed in each community which sustained
flood damages.   The Block Committees have been responsible for collecting



12
information on damaged and destroyed houses. Standardized reporting forms were
used to collect basic information on the inhabitants and the extent and cost
estimates of damage. This data has been verified by the Block Committees, and
the DFRCs have made recommendations to the GFRCs on the level of assistance
needed per family. This information is also being used by the Government to
implement its self-help housing repair and cost recovery programs and to
establish priority guidelines for reconstruction assistance to affected
inhabitants (paras. 18 and 47).   The MOH and MOE formed inter-ministerial
committees consisting of representatives of different departments and sectors,
to assess the damages to each school and health facility and to establish
preliminary cost estimates of rehabilitation and reconstruction activities. The
technical assessment of the type and nature of flood damages sustained to
buildings in the housing and health sectors was completed in September 1989.
The technical assessment of damages to education facilities for components to
be financed under the proposed project was also finalized in September 1989.
The complete technical assessment of all remaining damaged education facilities
will be carried out with UNDP technical assistance and is scheduled for
completion during the first half of 1990.
35.   The Governorate offices of the MAAR played an important role in collecting
information on flood damages and identifying the most severely affected rural
communities and farmers. With assistance from the FAO, the DOI of the MAAR
prepared an evaluation report of the flood damage and rehabilitation needs in
the agriculture and irrigation sectors. Subsequently, DOI prioritized a list
of project proposals for rehabilitation of flood damages to irrigation and wadi
bank protection works, and suggested emergency and long-term measures for flood
protection and control.   The DOI prepared technical proposals which either
recommended the rehabilitation of structures to their pre-flood standard or the
improvement of their structural and hydraulic designs to enhance the level of
flood protection.
Status of Project Pregaration2
36.   Site Selection and Acquisition.  Sites for reconstruction in the housing,
health and education sectors have been identified. The process of site selection
and acquisition began in June 1989 and is consistent with the agreed selection
criteria.   The Government has confirmed that it owns the land for all new
building sites. Moreover, sites located in flood prone areas or encroaching on
agricultural land have been declared unsuitable for housing and public building
reconstruction and rehabilitation. In the agriculture sector, specific details
of priority locations and required flood control and irrigation works for
emergency rehabilitation in the affected Governorates of Hadramawt, Shabuwa, Al
Mahra, and Lahej have been prepared by the DOI and reviewed and found acceptable
by IDA.
37.   Bullding and Structural Designs.    The MCH has developed a prototype
design for an expandable, two-room low-cost housing unit, which was reviewed and
found acceptable by IDA. Existing school designs and drawings prepared under
2 Annex VI provides a list of selected documents and data available in the
Project File.



13
ongoing IDA education projects will be utilized under the proposed project.
For newly acquired sites, draft site development plans have been designed taking
into  account  topographical  surveys,  orientation,   exposures,  utilities
connections etc., and have been reviewed and found acceptable by IDA.   The
technical survey prepared for damaged public buildings will serve for the
rehabilitation of schools and health institutions in accordance with the
established scope of works, technical recommendations and detailed construction
drawings.   The original designs will be used to rehabilitate damaged flood
control schemes. The FAO has outlined the manpower requirements needed to carry
out the studies for those structures in the agriculture/flood control sector
which require upgraded designs. Since physical implementation of such works is
not expected to commence before 1992, they have been excluded from the proposed
project.
38.     Tender Documents.   Preliminary drawings and bid documents for civil
works' construction of houses, health and education facilities have been
prepared and include complete sets of required plans, technical specifications,
bills of quantity, special and general conditions, bid, performance bond, and
contract forms. Tender documents for flood control rehabilitation works have
also been prepared by DOI. During appraisal IDA reviewed such documents and
found them satisfactory.
39.    Local Construction Methods. Materials and Costs.   Local construction
methods will be applied to the extent feasible using available local materials.
However, basic construction materials such as steel reinforcement bars, gabions,
cement, lumber, electrical and sanitary fittings and fixtures, hardware and
glass panes will be imported.  For new housing construction, the stone load
bearing walls method will be used in regions and areas where stones are
abundantly available. Alternatively, the cement block and reinforced concrete
tie beam method will be used for the construction of new low-cost houses. The
unit cost of construction and costs of materials and labor have been reviewed
by IDA and found acceptable. Local stone and imported gabion baskets would be
utilized for flood control repairs. Earth moving works will be ur.dertaken to
repair bunds and embankments for wadi training.
43.    Custom Duties and Taxes.   All imported construction materials and
equipment under the project are exempted from custom duties and taxes, ard will
be directly imported by contractors and technical ministries.
Procurement
41.    The procurement methods are summarized in Schedule B.  All goods to be
financed under the project would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines
for international competitive bidding (ICB) except for: (i) goods, including
vehicles, estimated to cost not more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, and
not more than $200,000 equivalent in the aggregate, which may be procured under
contracts through international shopping on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers; and (ii)
vehicles and equipment for the health and education sector components which may
be procured through the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF). Civil works
would be procured under contracts awarded on the basis Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) procedures, which have been reviewed and found acceptable by IDA. Due to



14
the size and dispersal of the proposed civil works, local competitive bidding
open to foreign companies represented in PDRY is considered adequate.  Since
local manufacturing industries for constriction material are virtually non-
existent in PDRY, civil works' contractors are expected to import almost all
required construction materials. All procurement documentation of ICB and LCB
for contracts of $50,000 or more will be subject to IDA's prior review and
approval.   Consultants to be financed under the proposed project would be
selected in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Disbursement
42.    The proposed project would finance:
(i)   100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of imported materials,
equipment and vehicles;
(ii)  100 percent of the cost of consultant services; and
(iii) 70 percent of the total cost of civil works' contracts.
43.    Full documentation would be sent to IDA in support of withdrawal
applications in respect of goods and vehicles, and civil works' contracts,
except for small civil works' contracts of less than $50,000 equivalent which
would be reimbursed against Statements of Expenditures (SOE) for which related
documentation would be retained for review by IDA supervision missions. It is
expected that physical implementation of the proposed project will be completed
within two and a half years. To allow for payment of contract retention monies,
a six month period has been provided. Hence, the closing date of the credit
would be December 31, 1992.
44.    Sgecial Account.  To ensure the uninterrupted flow of funds for approved
project activities, a Special Account would be opened at the National Bank of
Yemen to which IDA will make an initial deposit of US$ 1.0 million which is
expected to finance IDA's share of eligible expenditures over a period of four
months. The Special Account will be denominated in US dollars and replenished
on the basis of standard documentation for eligible reimbursable expenditures.
45.    Retroactive Financing.  In view of the emergency iaport needs and the
strained foreign exchange cash flow position of the country, the proposed credit
would include retroactive financing of up to six percent of the credit amount
for  expenditures  (for  critical  construction  and  goods  required  for
reconstruction and rehabilitation works) incurred after October 31, 1989.
Accounting and Auditing
46.    Each  sectoral  implementing  agency  responsible  for  the  day-to-day
administration of their project components would maintain separate records and
accounts of all project activities and expenditures incurred in conformity with
normal accounting practices. Each Ministry involved in the proposed project
would prepare an annual report summarizing the financial situation of all
project operations, which would then be submitted to the ERU for its review and
subsequent submission to IDA. Agreement has been reached during negotiations



15
that annual financial statements for the project would be submitted to IDA not
less than six months after the end of the fiscal year. Annual audits, performed
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, for each sectoral implementing
agency, including audit'; of Statements of Expenditures and the Special Account,
would be submitted by the ERU to IDA not later than nine months after the end
of each fiscal year.
Cost Recoverv and Government Financial Assistance
47.   The Government's existing cost recovery policy,  administered by the
Directorate of Housing under the MCH, would be applied to beneficiaries of new
low-cost houses constructed under the proposed project: beneficiaries are
required to pay at least 15 percent of their monthly income as monthly
installments until the full cost of the house has been recovered.
Environmental Impact
48.   The reconstruction of urgently needed housing, the rehabilitation of
damaged health and education facilities in addition to priority highways and
irrigation works, would have a positive impact on the environment. The project
will include a flood preparedness study aimed at identifying nationwide
preventive measures which could be taken into account to mitigate future losses
resulting from similar disasters. Houses, health units and schools that have
been totally or partially destroyed will be reconstructed in sites that are out
of the flood zones and do not encroach on agricultural land. Site selection
shall also take into account environmental aspects and provision has been made
to provide safe water supply and on-site sewage disposal facilities. Finally,
there are no historical monuments that would be affected by the proposed
emergency works.
Benefits and Risks
49.   The activities to be financed by the proposed project would reduce
economic losses and human suffering, help to normalize the education system and
restore health services. The project will also help to revitalize agricultural
activity. Emphasis on low income groups is appropriate since they have little
savings or protection to meet basic needs. To the extent feasible, labor-
intensive methods will be used, which are estimated to generate about 5,000 new
jobs in the construction sector for low income families. The proposed flood
preparedness and mitigation study will help to establish measures to reduce the
impact of such disasters over the medium to long term.
50.   The main risk associated with the project relates to potential project
implementation delays due to the limited institutional and financial absorbtive
capacity of Government agencies. To reduce such a risk, the proposed project
will provide technical assistance to strengthen the technical and managerial
capacity of the ERU and to sector implementing agencies in the areas of
engineering, contract management and contract supervision. Moreover, through
the Deputy Minister of Planning, the National Reconstruction Coordinator who
heads the ERU will have access to the Deputy Prime Minister (and Chairman of the
HCFRC), which should help to overcome potential bottlenecks. In addition, IDA
supervision will average twenty staff weeks (or twice as much as the normal



16
staffing of IDA supervision) during the first two years of project
implementation.  An annual implementation and investient review of the project,
carried out jointly by the Government and IDA, will also help to reduce
potential  delays  in project  implementation.    This will  also  afford the
opportunity to review the financing prospects for the FRP in forthcoming years,
since the secured financing sources for the FRP are, at present, insufficient
to cover its -.ot.1 financial requirements (para.19).
Agreed Actions
51.     The Government has agreed on the following actions: (i) the terms of
reference and staffing of the ERU; (ii) the implementation arrangements with
each sectoral agency; (iii) the eligibility guidelines for beneficiaries of new
low-cost housing units, and that all rehabilitation and reconstruction works to
be financed under the project would meet the agreed selection criteria; (iv)
design standards for low-cost housing units; (v) beneficiairies of new low-cost
housing units will pay to the Borrower the equivalent of at least 15 percent of
the monthly family income until the total cost of such housing unit is paid in
full; (vi) an annual review of project implementation and the presentation of
a financial plan for the next year's investment program; and (vii) completion
of a flood emergency preparedness and mitigation study by January 1, 1992. As
conditions of effectiveness, the Government would: (i) establish the ERU with
adequate staffing and facilities, for which a National Reconstruction
Coordinator to head the ERU and the Sectoral Coordinators who represent the
Government agencies involved in project implementation have already been
appointed; and (ii) confirm execution of the UNDP grant agreement between the
Government and UNDP.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBUC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Orgwizatlon Chart
OFRO
CMWWU  CHWO"         cm EWI ,cd lrd r  =        Pmp
t t t t t Lt tt] ~~~~~~~~~~~~~oneIL  E1 



18
ANNEX -II
Page 1 of 4
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FLOOD EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ELIGIBILITY CRITERI4 FOR REHABILITATION UORKS AND
BENEFICIARIES OF THE HOUSING PROGRAM
GENEAL
1.    The general eligibility criteria for the selection of works to be financed
under the Project are as follows:
(i)   physical implementation of the works should be carried out by June
30, 1992;
(ii) housing program benefits should accrue to the greatest number of
homeless inhabitants in the cities and areas which were the most
severely affected by the rains and flooding;
(iii) works should address the critical restoring needs of health and
education services; and
(iv)  in the agricultural sector, works should restore irrigation/flood
protection structures to ensure food security for the next crop
season.
2.    Inter-sectoral priorities are ranked, in order to importance, as follows:
housing, education, health and agriculture.
SECTORAL SPECIFIC CRITERIA
A. HOUSING SECTOR
Allocation of New Housing Units to Eligible Beneficiaries
1.    An "eligible beneficiary" for a new housing unit should meet the
following criteria:
a.    the  Borrower  (Block  Committees,  District  Flood  Relief
Committees (DFRC) and Governorate Flood Relief Committees
(GFRC) in the Executive Offices of each Governorate) certify
that homeowner's/tenant's houses had been substantially
destroyed or rendered uninhabitable due to their location in
flood prone areas;
b.    the homeowner/tenant had occupied a housing unit prior to the
date of the rains and flooding; and
c.    the homeowner/tenant owns or rents no other house.



19
Page 2 of 4
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FLOOD EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ELIGI TILITY CRITERIA FOR REHABILITATION WORKS AND
BENEFICIARIES OF T   HOUSING POGRAO
2.   New houses would be allocated on the following priority basis:
a.    first priority for the homeless staying in schools or other
public buildings;
b.    second priority for the homeless staying tents; and
C.    third priority for the homeless staying with relatives or other
families.
3.   Within each of the above groupings, priority will be given to
households with the greater number of children under 16 and the lower average
annual income, taking into account the proximity of the new housing unit to the
previously destroyed house.
Desin Standards and Costs for Newl Housiag Units
4.    Works to be financed under the project for new housing construction
should meet the following criteria:
a.    the site is located out of flood prone areas and is in close
proximity to basic offsite infrastructure networks (such as
water, drainage, electricity and transport); and
b.    construction works for the entire development (including land
acquisition and the provision of and connection to basic
infrastructure) should be completed by June 30, 1992.
Cost Recovery for New Housing Units
5.    In line with the Council of Ministers' Decree Number 159 of 1983
concerning the calculation of the cost of housing and monthly installments, the
Borrower shall charge the Beneficiary of a new housing unit an amount equivalent
to at least 15 percent of the monthly household income. The collection of these
charges will continue until the full cost of construction of the housing unit
is recovered by the Borrower.



20
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FLOOD EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR REHABILITATION TORRS AND
BENEFICIARIES OF THE HOUSING PROGRAM
monitoring Requirements
6.    The Governorate Executive Offices will maintain adequate records on
the selection of beneficiaries for neo housing carried out under the Project
described in paragraphs A.1, A.2 and A.3.
7.    The Directorate of Housing in each Governorate shall maintain records
on the terms and conditions and repayments of charges for housing provided under
the Council of Ministers' Decree Number 159 of 1983 (para. A.5).
8.    The HCFRC shall be provided a status report on the actions required
under paragraphs A.6 and A.7 above.
B.    EDUCATION SECTOR
The order of priority for selection of works for financing under the
Project would be as set forth below and would focus on rehabilitation works
benefitting the greatest number of students:
1.    rehabilitation of damaged schools where students are attending
classes in unsafe and unsuitable public buildings or tents; and
2.    rehabilitation of damaged schools where double shift classes are
being held.
C.    AGICULTURE SEC7
The eligibility criteria to be applied to works in the agriculture sector
would focus on rehabilitation of communal flood control and irrigation structures
in the Hadramawt, Shabuwa and Abyan Provinces, with a view to benefitting
communities or groups of farmers. The works to be selected, which should meet
the following criteria, would:
1.    benefit a minimum of 300 hectares of crops, including about 200
hectares of food crops;
2.    cost less than YD 2,000 per beneficiary family;
3.    be located where rain and flood damage is such that there is a high
risk of continued flooding from future rains;
4.    be located where at least 20 families are at risk due to damage or
inadequate flood protection;



21
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FLOOD EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR REHABILITATION WORKS AND
BENEFICIARIES OF THE HOUSING PROGRAM
5.    be located where there is a demonstrable need to construct/rebuild
flood bunds to ensure the safety of villages or towns; and
6.    be located where there is a demonstrable need for wadi protection
to prevent soil erosion and further losses.
D.    HEALTH SECTOR
The principle objective is to reinstate health sector services to the
previous and acceptable level of standard prior to the rains and flooding. In
line with  this  objective,  the selection  criteria  for  rehabilitation  of
investments are:
1.    the provision of health services to all the population at risk within
the coverage of the existing facilities;
2.    the rehabilitation of damaged hospitals and health centers to restore
routine and emergency services; and
3.    the replacement of damaged and lost medical equipment and ambulances
to enable delivery of essential health services.



22
ANNEX III
PEOPLE'S DENUTIC REMLIC OF YEM
EIEINCY FLOOD RECWITRUCTIN PRMJECT
Estimated Projoet Costs by Category
Local   Forelgp    Totel          Lo&l  Foreip   Total
RIHU ILITMTION                          -YR   RI llion-                   ----          11in-
CIVIL MKS
Health Setor                            0.21     0.16      0.36          0.58     0.47     1.05
Education ector                        0.28      0.23      0.51         0.32      0.67    1.49
AgriculturelFlood Control Setor        0.24      0.01      0.25         0.70      0.03    0.73
subtoal                               0.73      0.0       1.13         2.10      1.17    3.27
UIIE0                                  0.04      0.41      0.46         0.13      1.20    1.33
TOTAL REAILITATION                   0.77     0.82      1.9           2.23     2.37    4.60
IN C9tWtRCION
In hbouns (civil vork  lncludi         1.3       1.10      2.44          3.   .18    7.07
equipmnt & constrction  aterials)
TEWIICAL ABI8TAMCE
VhIW  Tethnical A sistane                0.11      0.20      0.31         0.31      0.57    0.68
Flood Preparedmne Study                  0.10      0.15      0.25         0.29      0.       0.72
Sbtotal                               0.21      0.35      0.56         0.60      1.00    1.60
tOtAL BASE COST                     2.32      2.26      4.56         6.72      6.55   13.27
Ulmm=                       mas%     RMm        um
CITINTSENCIE
Physlca                                  0.23      0.23      0.46         0.67      0.66     1.33
Prici                                    0.13      0.13      0.26         0.38      0.38    0.76
Subtotal                              0.36      0.36      0.72         1.05      1.04    2.09
TAL PRJECT COST                      2.68      2.62      5.30         7.77      7.59   15.36
mum      vum        at          So         mm      mm



23
ANNA IVU
Page 1 of 3
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROECT
Impleaentation Schedule
Target Dates
RESPONSIBLE AGENC        KEYACTIONS                               DATES
I.   GENERAL
GOVT/IDA       Donors' Meeting                                09/28/89
IDA            Appraisal Completion                           10/05/89
GOVT/IDA       Credit Negotiations Completion                 10/11/89
MOP/GOVT       Establishment of ERU                           10/89
MOP            Appointment: National Coordinator              10/89
MCH/MOE/
MAAR/MOH       Appointment: Sectoral Coordinators             11/89
MCH/MOE/MOH    Retroactive Financing                          11/01/89
IDA            Board Presentation                             12/89
GOVT/IDA       Credit Signing                                 12/89
GOVT/UNDP      Ratification of UNDP Grant                     12/89
UNDP           Selection of TA Consultant                     01/90
GOVT/IDA       Credit Effectiveness                           02/90
II. MAIN WORKS, PROVISION OF CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT
MINISTRY OF HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION (MCHI)
Final Detailed Design                                          12/89
Final Site Planning                                            12/89
Preparation of Bid Documents (Contracts 1 to 3)                12/89
Civil Works' Contract 1
Invitation for Bids                                          02/90
Bid Evaluation                                               04/90
Contract Award                                               05/90
Civil Works' Contract 2
Invitation for Bids                                          03/90
Bid Evaluation                                               05/90
Contract Award                                               06/90
Civil Works' Contract 3
Invitation for Bids                                          04/90
Bid Evaluation                                               06/90
Contract Award                                               07/90



24
ANNIE-V
Page 2 of 3
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND AGRIARIAN REFORM (MAAR)
Procurement of Materials and Equipment                          DATES
Preparation of Bid Documents                                  11/89
Invitation for Bids                                           02/01/90
Bid Opening                                                   03/15/90
Bid Evaluation                                                03/20/90
Contract Award                                                05/15/90
Supply of Goods                                               08/15/90
Works' Commencement (Force Account)                           09/01/90
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE)
Procurement of Equipment and Vehicles
Preparation of Technical Specifications                       12/89
Procurement through UNICEF                                    01/90
Supply of Equipment and Materials                             04/90
Rehabilitation Contract
Preparation of Bid Documents                                  11/89
Invitation for Bids                                           02/90
Bid Evaluation                                                04/90
Contract Award                                                05/90
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Procurement of Equipment and Vehicles
Preparation of Technical Specifications                       01/90
Procurement through UNICEF                                    02/90
Supply of Equipment and Materials                             05/90
Rehabilitation Contract 1
Preparation of Bid Documents                                  11/89
Invitation for Bids                                           01/90
Bid Evaluation                                                03/90
Contract Award                                                04/90
Rehabilitation Contract 2
Preparation of Bid Documents                                  02/90
Invitation for Bids                                           05/90
Bid Evaluation                                                07/90
Contract Award                                                08/90
Rehabilitation Contract 3
Preparation of Bid Documents                                  05/90
Invitation for Bids                                           08/90
Bid Evaluation                                                10/90
Contract Award                                                11/90



25
Page 3 of 3
IIr. FLOOD PREPAREDNESS AND MITIGATION STUDY
MINISTRY OF PLANNING (MOP) AND DIRECTORATE OF IRRIGATION (DOI)
Flood Preparedness and Mitigation Study                         DATES
Invitation of Consultants                                     01/90
Opening of Proposals                                          03/90
Bid Evaluation                                                04/90
Contract Award                                                06/90
Inception Peport                                              10/90
Draft Report                                                  09/91
Final Report                                                  01/92



26
amE v
PEOzLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YENEN
EMERGENCY FLOOD RECQOSTRUCTION PROJECT
MONITORING CRITERIA
NEW HOUSING CONSTRUCTION
Measurement
SITE 1: Earthmoving                               m3
Compacted Area                          m2
Number of Housing Units:
-- Under Construction               number
-- Completed                        number
SITE 2: Earthmoving                               m3
Compacted Area                          m3
Number of Housing Units:
-  Under Construction               number
-- Completed                        number
SITE 3: Earthmoving                               m3
Compacted Area                          m2
Number of Housing Units:
= Under Construction                number
- Completed                         number
EDUCATION SECTOR
School 1 Rehabilitation                     X completed
School 2 Rehabilitation                    X completed
School 3 Rehabilitation                    X completed
School 4 Rehabilitation                    Z completed
School 5 Rehabilitation                    X completed
HEALTH SECTOR
Rehabilitation of Hospitals               number completed and
X completion of each
Rehabilitation of Health Centers           number completed and
X completion of each
Rehabilitation of Health Units            number completed and
X completion of each
AGRICULTURE
SITE 1:  Earthmoving                             m3
Gabion Construction                    m3
SITE 2:  Earthmoving                             m3
Gabion Construction                    m3



27
ANNEX VI
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIU RLPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. GENERAL REPORTS AND STUDIES
A1.     Report entitled  "Evaluation of March/April  1989 Flood Damage and
Rehabilitation Needs", dated June 1989, prepared by the Food and Agriculture
Organisation.
A2      Draft UNDP Project Document for a Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of
Flood Damage Project (PDY/89/A/13/31).
A3      Inter-ministerial Decree No. 159 of November 29, 1989 concerning the
determination of housing costs and owner repayment terms.
AA      Law No. 20 of 1976 concerning the conveyance of houses; and standard
forms relating to housing contractual arrangements.
A5      Resolution No. 1 dated March 23, 1989 establishing the High Committee
for Relief Coordination and its terms of reference.
A6     Inter-ministerial Decree No. 81 concerning the Government's flood damage
rehabilitation program.
A7      Statistical data on the Flood Damage Assessment.
AS      Status Report dated October 8, 1989 on ongoing and planned rehabilitation
and reconstruction efforts supported by external donors and budgetary
allocations.
B. GENERAL STUDIES AND TERMS OF REFERENCE RELATED TO THE PROJECT
B1      Terms of Reference for the Flood Preparedness and Mitigation Study.
B2      Terms of Reference for the Emergency Reconstruction Unit and its staffing
requirements.
C.  SELECTED WORKING LAPE=S PREPARED BY IDA STAFF
GI      Agriculture/Flood Control Sector: detailed cost estimates and working
papers on proposed rehabilitation components.
C2      Health and Education Sectors: detailed cost estimates and working papers
on proposed rehabilitation components.
C3      Housing Sector: detailed engineering designs for low-cost housing units,
bills of quantity, cost estimates, draft tender documents and working papers on
proposed housing reconstruction program; and a random sample of completed and
certified housing damage assessment forms.



IBRD 2189
45'                                                4B'                                                                                                   IDA Assisted Projects
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                                                                                                                                      FISCAL
-.1 --        ~PROjECT;             YEAR APPROVED
EMERGENCY FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT (EFRP)                                                                                    e,                            W d-f-            4 HIGHWAYS r                 1971
p,                        -  Ud-tftfh'Cbtt   0
> tg            *_ \\          pas otrhvirbrufMaUfle    1 FISHERIES 1                1973
EXISTING FEATURES:                                                                          \ \                                                  'tCONofo          2 EDUCATION 1                 1975
o   Selected Towns and Villoges                                                               _o    v3 HIGHWAYS U                                                                                    1975
*   Governorate Capitols                                                                         .                                                OfS                  4 ADEN PORT REHABILITATION 1976
*    National Copital                                                                  j' f WADI HADRAMAAWT AGRIC. 1 1976
1°0    .+o   Airports                                                                                                                                                            6 WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURE  1978
Ports                                                                        /                                                                                     7 WADI HADRAMAWT POWER  1978
Primary Roads                                                                                                                          10                             WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING 1978
5econdory Roods  /                        {Z                       \\                        & TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Secondary Roads                                                                                                                                                    8DCTOn17
- Troch                        D                                          XY      zo                  \\                   8 ~~~~~~~~~~       ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EDUCATION U  1979
- --- Tracks                                                                 /                                                                                             c FISHERIES I                1979
Wadi-   - Go3ernorote 80undories                                  j\        s0             Rp  Tho   d                                                                      PETROLEUM DFVELOPMENT   1980
Governorate Boundaries                                                                                                           A  Iha dASSISTANCE
-.- - Internationol Boundaries                                                                                                                                               ADEN WATER SUPPLY          1980
HIGHWAYS m1981
/` -A\  a  ( Z   #      H   A? a        IJ WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURE  1981
14 AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY  1981
s  /   f  _w~X\\ 15 EDUCATION m         1982
/ Zamakh                                    <'    j                                         z~9 -          16 FISHERIES M               1982
z           ~~~17 POWER n                  1982
/5                                                              "I 20    t  -GIydoI  18 ROADS FLOOD RECONSTRUC- 1983
16                          ~~~~~~~TION
/                                                                                                                     \Jd 5 tJiJI o-D,., \ ( N,5hl ' 19 WADI HADRAMAWT AGRIC U  1983
i/ 2 .- - \ 3. 9  4 HEALTH DEVELOPMENT         1983
20SEIYUN WATER SUPPLY        1984
21EDUCATION  IZ              1984
22AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH 1985
AND EXTENSION
5     Y                            l E  AA  E   N                                                3                                                                                23HIGHWAY IV                 1985
5'  Al Ayn                                                                                                                     15    24 ADEN WATER SUPPLY II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11~  4 DE   ATR UPL 1  18
A  R  A  B                                        B'til   W A125HIGHWAY V                                                                                                                              1987
Beilian    ScAm   I                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~26 ALMUKAUA WATER SUPPLY    1988
R EP.            ~         ±o%Wst4 HEALTHII1                                                                                                                                                         1988
10/i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o a28 WADI HADRAMAWT AGRIC. 11 1989
2 Lowcar       Nqoboh
AO rIs,,  7N-o<44; W -tS Q qabah<    Ah'                                                                                                         Projects spread over several or
1  K  )>QThur>   ?<¢',}   ZrJ %)%                                                                                                                      numerous loccations
TO rTizi
nji8or mAz N °    - *   2:    -                                 -                                                                           U 1    ! I I  Major Flood Affected Area!
16 16,1616             97                      .   /Z C!-~e1020-
Id                                                                         ~~~~~                      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 io0  200.
-ilometers
12'  -              54'                                                   48'                                                   51'
12  -    ,  _    -            I                                                     .1                                    I I                              SEPTEMBER I FE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETEBR P



