Report No. PID8014
Project Name                     Tajikistan-Rural Infrastructure (@+)
Rehabilitation Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Irrigation & Drainage; Other Agriculture
Project ID                       TJPE58898
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
Implementing Agency
Project Management Unit/Ministry Of
Water Resources
Address: Room 145-147, No: 44 Rudaki Street,
Dushanbe, Republic of Tajikistan
Contact Person: Mr. T. Ostanaev,
Director of the PMU and Mr. Koimdadov
Kozidovlat, Deputy Prime Minister (Rural
Development ) Cabinet of Ministers.
Tel: (992-372)+21-85-66;21-00-21 ; 21-13-67
Fax: 992 372.51 01 17
Email: r_center@Tajnet.com; rirp@Tajnet.com;
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                February 12, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 29, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 6, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Tajikistan is a landlocked, mountainous country of 143 thousand square
kilometers and is one of the poorest areas in Central Asia. Presently, it
is estimated that about 859 of the country's 6.2 million people can not
meet their basic needs for food , health and educational services. The
vast majority of the poor - about five million -owe their circumstances to
the collapsed economy and post-civic conflict situation in the country.
Agriculture lies at the heart of Tajikistan's economy. Presently, the
sector accounts for about 30 percent of GDP, half of employment and 40
percent of exports. However, only less than nine percent of land area (one
million hectares) is suitable for agricultural use of which only about six
percent (854 thousand hectares) is being used for crop production. If
on-farm and off-farm employment opportunities are not made available in
the rural areas, it would not be possible to improve the living standards
of the people in Tajikistan.The main issues of the irrigation sub-sector
Operation and Maintenance: Since the break-up of the Former Soviet Union
in 1991, almost all the pumping stations, main irrigation and drainage
works have not been maintained. This has resulted in the rapid
deterioration in operating efficiency of the pumping stations, increased
losses in the main canals, and low field level water use efficiency. The
main system facilities have deteriorated to the extent that water supplies
from the main supply canals to the field level are reduced by over 50
percent or more.   Since 1990, the budget allocation for operation and
maintenance became limited and the available funds were used mainly for
system operation (including salaries). The little maintenance that is



still being carried out is for those activities for which the equipment
and staff are available and for which consumable could be obtained through
barter, or other means.Institutions involved in Irrigation: A number of
organizations are involved at the State, Oblast and Raion levels for water
resources management. These are the Ministry of Irrigation and Water
Resources at the State level (MIWR); Oblast level organizations called
Obijineniya Machinogo Orosheniya (OMO); inter-Raion level organizations
such as Meshraivodkhoz and raion level water management organizations
(Raivodkhoz). In the past few years, due to severe budget constraints, and
the overall macro-economic instability, these organizations have shrunk
dramatically in their activities. Many skilled personnel have left these
organizations and practically no investment in new machinery or much
needed spare parts has taken place.Economic and financial viability of
lift irrigation: The energy sector is highly subsidized in Tajikistan.
Given that electricity, pumping, and operation and maintenance of
irrigation and drainage systems have historically been provided free to
the farms, water use is excessive, and particularly in pumped schemes.
The irrigation and drainage systems are generally at least 30 years old
and in some regions, highly energy intensive due to the need to lift water
to various lifts ranging from 50 to over 250 m. The price of
hydro-electric power, at 0.18 US cents per KWh, makes the economics of
high lift irrigation one of the important issues in this project. This
issue has been analyzed in detail in this project and establishes the
economic viability of the proposed investments required for the
rehabilitation of the irrigation infrastructure. Cost recovery: The low
level of irrigation water charges (at 0.02 US cents per cum - often not
collected) has been a disincentive for the efficient allocation and use of
water and hence of power. The continuing changes occurring in the
structure of farm organization - caused by the breakup of the state and
collective farms and the low levels of farm family incomes, makes cost
recovery one of the most difficult issues of this sector.
2. Objectives
The Project's main objectives are:(i) to increase the overall water use
efficiency in the main and field canals servicing the ten demonstration
farms being supported under the Farm Privatization Support Project and all
the adjoining farms; (ii) to reduce the costs of lift irrigation and
improve operating efficiency through the rehabilitation of selected
pumping stations; and other critical irrigation infrastructure;(iii) to
establish water user associations in the project areas and introduce
progressive cost recovery measures;(iv) to improve the quality of drinking
water in a few selected villages in the project area;    and   (v)
institutional development
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The justification for Bank involvement in the project revolves around four
points: (i) the need to reinforce developments under FPSP; (ii)
supporting the Government in studying the alternative approaches for
resolving the problems of irrigation water supply and improving rural
utility services; (iii) the demonstration effect that the proposed
developments will provide that will help Government to devise precise
strategies for extending such activities nationwide and help to attract
financial assistance from other aid agencies; and (iv) ensure the
integration of policy and institutional changes including the formation
Water User's Association and transfer of O&M & Cost recovery
- 2 -



responsibility of the tertiary canals and drainage that are necessary for
ensuring sustainable irrigation development. Tajikistan has recently
emerged from several years of civil strife, political and
macro-instability. Much progress has been made during the last year in
maintaining peace and accelerating institutional reforms in a wide range
of sectors. Bank's support in the most critical sector would help prevent
further deterioration of the main irrigation and drainage works serving
over 130,000 ha, which without external assistance would progressively
decline and further decrease the very low living standards of some of the
poorest areas of Tajikistan; (ii) the proposed investments would
complement the activities being undertaken in the FPSP; and would
contribute greatly to the sustainability of both the investments; (iii)
help garner support for rehabilitation of infrastructure works from other
bilateral and multilateral donors; (iv) application of Bank's procurement,
financial and accounting procedures is expected to have a spill over
effect to other concerned agencies and promote transparency in the use of
public funds; and (v) would help maintain continued commitment at various
levels to carry out agreed project activities in a timely manner.
4. Description
The project objectives would be realized through the following components,
all of which would be associated with the farms being transferred to
private operators. The project consists of four components: 1.
Rehabilitation of essential main irrigation and drainage works;2.
Provision of community based village water supply in a few selected
villages in the project areas; 3. Strengthening institutional capacity
for better management of irrigation and drainage works; and 4.
Strengthening Project Management and Implementation
Component One: Rehabilitation of main Irrigation and drainage works
This component would support the following activities: i) repairs and
improvement of the head-works, downstream protection works relating to
main water supply systems to the project areas, upgrade emergency escape
structures; (ii selective desilting of the canals (about 1 million M3),
structural repairs and replacement of damaged canal linings in some
sections and provision of new canal linings wherever necessary; iii)
repair and replacement of cross regulator gates (140) selective
rehabilitation of siphons and aqueduct structures, outlets to the on-farm
canals - including repairs to gates and surrounding structures and, in
many cases, the installation of new gates and rebuilding of the turnout
boxes; (iv) rehabilitation of drainage works involving desilting,
improvement and reformation of the main drains, cross sections, cleaning
and repair of vertical drains and replacement or installation of new
equipment and collector drains-both open and closed, and repairs to
out-falls; (v pump stations supplying the irrigation systems would have
some structural rehabilitation (in about 29 locations), in addition to
replacement or repairs to the pumps, motors and transformers, outlet/
delivery bay works from pump stations; (vi water measurement devices (in
about 99 points) would be re-established on the main canals and at the
off-take points to each of the ex-state farms; and (vii) selective
improvement to the access roads (101 kms), including gravel surfacing, to
of the main and secondary irrigation canals and pump stations.
Component Two: Rural Drinking Water Supply in selected villages:     This
component would support the provision of community based village water
supply. The following activities would be supported by the project: (i)
-3 -



construction of tube-wells with submersible pumps in the villages of
Akkurgan, Leninsky raion; all the nine villages in Matcha raion; and in
all the seven villages in Zafarabad raion; (ii) rehabilitation of the
pump unit in the existing water supply pump station (Firdausi farm) and
construction of a new pump station (Ittifok farm) as well as laying the
main water delivery pipelines in Kulabad village of Yavan raion; and in
three villages i.e. Rokhi-Lenin, Suyunabad, Yangiabad, of Kolkhozabad
raion.
Component Three: Strengthening institutional capacity for better
management of irrigation and drainage System
The project would support activities aimed at improving operation and
maintenance of the irrigation and drainage system at essentially two
levels, one at the main system level, (pumping stations, head-works to
main and secondary canal systems); and two, at the field systems level
(tertiary systems).
(i) Main system level : At the water intake level, the Oblast water
management organization responsible for the pumping of water from the
source to the main distribution system, the water distribution and
management organization responsible for ensuring the supply of water to
the end-users at the raions would be strengthened to improve the record
keeping, monitoring, analysis of supply and demand, setting of water rates
and collection of water charges, 0 and M rules, regulations and
procedures, clearer definition of agency roles, responsibilities,
authority and performance incentive programs. Communication and office
equipment, training, office supplies would be provided. This is expected
to result in improved water system management, e.g. provision of timely,
and reliable quantities of the needed amounts of water demanded by fee
paying water users. Existing staff would be trained and exposed to new
methods of water management, planning, allocation, design, economics and
finance of multi-purpose water resources projects, and cost recovery
mechanisms;
(ii) Field systems level: The project would support the creation of water
user's associations (WUAs) to operate and manage field level (tertiary)
irrigation and drainage systems and provide the needed training, technical
assistance and the start up facilities needed for their establishment.
Essentially, it would be a "bottom up" process which would take into
consideration the views and desires of the water users and what types of
arrangements would work best in each location. A draft code has been
drafted by the MIWR and MOJ, and these are in process of being ratified.
The main function of these WUAs would be to develop their ability to
operate and manage field level irrigation and drainage systems; collect
water charges from beneficiaries, and pay for the services provided by the
raion level water management organization. The project would provide
support for the initial establishment of these organizations, technical
assistance, on-site training, and training abroad.
(iii) For Development of Human Resources Skills Institutional
Strengthening: The Tajik Agricultural University TAU) and The Scientific
Irrigation Research and Training Center (IRTC), would be supported to
provide new courses at the undergraduate and graduate levels in water
management, economics and finance, recent advances in irrigation and
drainage technology, legislation, water user organizations, etc. The
National Center for Land and Water Resources Management would be
established to provide practical training for farmers, students and
undertake applied field research on a variety of land and water resources
management issues. The project would also support faculty exchange
- 4 -



programs, twinning arrangements with foreign universities, study programs.
The project would support Institutional study for a phased restructuring
of the Irrigation sector.
Component Four: Strengthening Project Management and Implementation
The existing PMU of the FPSP would be strengthened with additional
technical, financial, accounting and procurement staff. For day to
implementation and supervision of on-site construction and quality
control, the Project Implementation Unit, which has been established in
the MIWR in Dushanbe would be strengthened. The project would support
training, technical assistance, office establishment and operating costs
on a declining basis during the project implementation period.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               1.00
Others (beneficiaries)   2.00
IDA                      20.00
Total Project Cost       23.00
6. Implementation
Implementation of the proposed project would primarily build on existing
institutions.   The implementation period for the project is five    years.
(2000 - 2004).    Irrigation and Drainage rehabilitation works would be
delegated to the Oblast level irrigation Agency called Upravolenia
Machinnogo Orosheniya (UMO) , under the overall supervision of PIU in the
MIWR consisting of local and international consultant engineers. These
teams would be responsible for deciding the technical supervision for all
the on site works. Execution of agreed works would be carried out by
contracting to the construction enterprises through competitive bidding
following LCB/LIB procedures depending upon the package of works to be
executed. Rural Drinking water supply: This would be undertaken with the
active involvement of the beneficiaries. They were actively involved in
the detail design of the drinking water facilities, and would take an
active role in the selection of the construction firm and for supervision
of the construction. The construction work would be contracted out on a
competitive basis and would be supervised by the Raivodkhoze and would
include an environmental and social scientist in the team; in order to
ensure community participation in the construction and to transfer
Operation and Maintenance responsibility to the village community.
Initially the asset would belong to the Government in the Raivodkhoz and
over a time, the ownership of these facilities would be transferred to the
village communities in a phased manner in due course.     The Rural Water
Department (RWD) of the MIWR and the Ministry of Ecology and Natural
resource management (ME & NRM) in the raion for the concerned villages
would be responsible for supervising the quality of construction work with
the assistance of an NGO.    The village communities would sign an
agreement with the RWD/PMU, that inter alia include undertaking to: (i)
provide the labor for constructing the works; (ii) ensure operation and
routine maintenance; and (iii) ensure payment of water charges sufficient
to fully cover operation, maintenance and amortization of the works.
Installations would be carried out by private contractors under the
technical supervision of RWD of the MIWR and ME & NRM . The communities
- 5 -



concerned would provide the labor necessary for these works. This
component would cover the procurement of civil works, equipment, spare
parts, materials, and construction costs necessary for improving the
delivery and monitoring reliability of drinking water for approved
schemes. Construction works under this component would commence in PY2
however procurement of Laboratory equipment and conduct of training
program for the Regional laboratories of the MIWR and ME & NRM will be
done during PY1.     b.  Project management:Overall project coordination: A
State level steering committee (SLSC) would be established headed by the
Deputy Prime Minister at the Cabinet of Ministry's level. . This would be
responsible for (i) overall coordination of the project implementation at
the national level; (ii) review and approval of the annual work program
and budget; and (iii) coordination of inter-ministerial
activities.Project Management Unit (PMU) : The project management unit
(PMU) of the Farm Privatization Support Project, established in Dushanbe
will be responsible for : (i) overall coordination of the project, (ii)
carrying out all the work related to procurement, disbursement, accounts,
audit, monitoring, evaluation and reporting day to day implementation and
supervision of on-site construction and quality control will be the
responsibility of , the Project Implementation Unit, which has been
established in the MIWR in Dushanbe. Project Implementation Unit (PIU):
The project implementation unit established in the Ministry of Irrigation
and Water Resources consists of a project coordinator, engineer
accountant, secretary and a driver. It would be responsible for: (i)
assist the PMU in the preparation of bidding documents; (ii) supervision
of the construction works, and quality control of the works being carried
out with the assistance of other related agencies, and an international
expert in construction quality control; (iii) supervision of water
allocation procedures by Oblast water management organizations (UMO) and
Raion level water management and distribution organizations (Raivodkhozes)
; and (iv) assist in the creation of field level water user organizations;
and (v) monitor the quality of drinking water with the assistanceof the
regional laboratories.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of the project would depend on : (i) effectiveness of the
project management to closely monitor the rehabilitation works being
proposed in various raions; (ii) creation of Water User's Associations in
the project areas and their ability to operate and manage the water
distribution of the secondary and tertiary canals of the irrigation
system; (iii) the speed at which land privatization and the creation of
private farms takes place in the areas directly benefiting from the
assured and timely supplies of irrigation resulting from project
activities; (iv) ability of these private farm families to diversify their
cropping patterns, increase crop yields and obtain market prices for their
products; (v) the introduction and implementation of progressive cost
recovery measures for operation and maintenance of the main I& D works.
The proposed project design incorporates these factors to ensure that the
improved state of the irrigation and drainage works, following project
completion would not deteriorate. .
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank has recently begun to lend for the development of the irrigation
sector in the Former Soviet Union countries. However, several decades of
experience from Bank lending and support for over 600 projects with
- 6-



irrigation components during the period 1950 to 1993, have resulted in the
following critical success factors for the realization of project
benefits. A review of World Bank Experience in Irrigation. November 3,
1994. OED report No. 13676. : (i) importance of timely availability and
use of complimentary agricultural inputs, such as improved seeds,
fertilizer, better husbandry, integrated pest management and ready market
access for the surplus production; (ii) improvements in secondary,
tertiary and field level works are needed to realize the full benefits
from enhancements in primary irrigation works; (iii) need for clear
mechanisms to channel revenues earned from water charges for the intended
O & M purposes, promoting financial autonomy of the institutions involved;
making irrigators responsible for their own O&M and the provision of
technical support are necessary to ensure sustainability of project
investments; (iv) emphasis on strong oversight, implementation capacity
and supervision to ensure that construction quality standards are adhered
to and to take quick remedial actions when the need arises; (v)
beneficiary participation in the project design and implementation - even
though it is time consuming - increases project ownership and helps
maintaining implementation schedule. In addition to the above, the
problems encountered during project implementation and the practical
solutions to overcome these with regards to the rehabilitation of main,
secondary and field level irrigation and drainage works; and the formation
of water User's associations in the Farm Privatization Project in
Azerbaijan (CR-2933-AZ) have been a major source of lessons for this
project. With regard to development of village drinking water services,
experience indicates that the following points are important for
sustainable development: (i) upstream involvement of the beneficiaries;
and (ii) efficient organization of community services.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Yes
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Environment Category: B.The project will have a
positive impact towards solving environmental problems the Ministry of
Ecology and Natural Resource Management ME & NRM) has identified for the
irrigation sub-sector.    ME&NRM have identified the following
environmental issues that relate to the irrigation sub-sector: (i)
ineffective water resources management; (ii) increasing areas affected by
water-logging and soil salinization, caused by inefficient irrigation
water management and improper working of drainage systems; (iii) soil
erosion due to poorly designed farm irrigation systems and (iv) discharge
of town waste waters into major rivers polluting the water. The
environmental impact of the proposed project is expected to be small, but
will be positive. The proposed project would help improve water use
efficiency, check the process of salinization, water logging and arrest
the process of land degradation. It is expected to foster more prudent
use of irrigation water through privatized farms. Rural drinking water
services component will improve the availability of protected water and
reduce the incidence of waterborne diseases in those selected project
villages. The Community involvement in the operation and maintenance
(O&M) of the village drinking water facilities is expected to instill a
greater sense of community responsibility. The formation of Water Users
Associations proposed to be formed, as a bottom - up institution of the
irrigators for the cost recovery and O&M is expected to instill a greater
sense of individual and community responsibility, perhaps sufficient to
- 7 -



collectively take measures to protect the environment. The rehabilitation
of the main and subsidiary inter farm irrigation and drainage canals will
enhance the ability to enhance field level water use and conveyance
efficiency with possible beneficial applications for monitoring and
control of the environment. Justification/Rationale for category rating:
Although the environmental impact of the proposed project is expected to
be positive, the project is classified as Category "B" because of the
need to monitor the possible indirect impact of the rehabilitation and
development of the infrastructure under the project. New challenges may
emerge in the use of pesticides by the privatized farms that may also
increase from the present depressed levels utilizing the reliable and
enhanced irrigation facility under the project. The use of fertilizers
and agro-chemicals, which currently is very low, is likely to increase in
future, when the intensive agriculture will be practiced when the farm
sector returns to higher profitable levels. This is likely to result in
increase in water pollution and contamination, but not to past levels due
to the introduction of advisory services under the ongoing FPS and the
proposed agricultural research, education and transfer of technology
project which should lead to the adoption of improved and environmentally
sound technologies, including integrated pest management techniques.
Construction impacts will be negligible and possible environmental damage
caused by contractors during construction would be avoided through proper
clauses in the tender documents and through closer monitoring of soil and
water samples from the project command area during implementation. The
Minister MIWR and the Director PMU reported that that Public
consultations were held during project preparation between December 1,
1999 and February 15 at the Moholla and Jomat level in the Project area.
Finally, public consultations were held on 29 February 2000 in Dushanbe at
the State level as required under operational policy of the Bank ( OP
4.01).   Further, the Government assured that measures would to be taken
by the ME & NRM, MIWR and MOA and their departments at the Hukumat,
oblast and State level would implement the Environmental Management Plans
developed for the project and provide advice to the village community on
the sustainable management of the infrastructure providing irrigation,
drainage, and drinking water facility development and would be responsible
for the prudent management and use of these assets and protection against
degradation.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Thirumangalam V. Sampath
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-7715
Fax: 202-614-0736; 202-614-0696
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
-8-



Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 31, 2000.
-9-



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
- 10 -



