Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20496 - TJ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.9 MILLION (US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
FORA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
May25, 2000
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Tajikistan Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 25, 2000)
Currency Unit = Tajik Rubles (TR)
1TR = US$ 0.00061
US$ = TR 1631
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIS          Commonwealth of Independent States  EAP         Economic Advisor to the President
EMP          Environmental Management Plan       EA          Environmental assessment
FPSP         Farm Privatization Support Project  FSU         Former Soviet Union
ICB          Intemational Competitive            MIWR        Ministry of Irrigation & Water Resources
Bidding
ME&NRM    Ministry of Ecology and Natural        MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
Resources Management
MOF          Ministry of Finance                 NCB         National Competitive Bidding
PIP          Project Implementation Plan         PSC         Project Steering Committee
PMR          Project Management Report           PITJ        Project Implemenitation Unit
PPF          Project Preparation Facility        PMU         Project Management Unit
RID          Raion Irrigation Department         PY          Project Year
RIU          Raion Implementation Unit           RIRP        Rural Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
RRS          Raions under Republican Subordination   TACIS   Technical Assistance to Commonwealth
SLC          State Land Committee                            of Independent States
TASIF        Tajikistan Social Investment Fund   TR          Tajik Ruble
TAU          Tajikistan University of Agricultural  TLWRMI   Tajik Land and Water Resources
Sciences                                       Management Institute
VWO          Village Water Organization          WUA         Water Users' Association
GLOSSARY
Dekhan Farm        Privately Managed Farm
OMO                Obijineniya Moshinnogo Orosheniya Divisional Irrigation Union
Meshraiomo         Inter-raion Irrigation Union
Oblast            Region (or province)
Raion              District below oblast
Hakumat            Administrative Unit of the District
Jomoat             Administrative Unit at the Village or group of villages below raion
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:    Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Director/Manager:    Kevin Cleaver/Joseph R. Goldberg
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    T. V. Sampath / S. Janakiram



TAJIKISTAN
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Govemment strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     10
3. Benefits and target population                                                    11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                          14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  17
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       17
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          18
2. Financial                                                                         19
3. Technical                                                                         20
4. Institutional                                                                     21
5. Environment                                                                       23
6. Social                                                                            25
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                28
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    28
2. Critical risks                                                                    29
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    30



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           30
2. Other                                                                             30
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         32
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        32
Annexes
Annex l: Project Design Summary                                                         33
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            37
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        52
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  53
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              73
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      74
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    80
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  81
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 82
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           83
Annex I 1: Letter of Development Policy                                                 85
Annex 12: Environmental Analysis                                                        94
MAP(S)
IBRD 30745



TAJIK1STAN
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: May 25, 2000                                Team Leader: Thirumangalam V. Sampath
Country Manager/Director: Kiyoshi Kodera          Sector Manager/Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Project ID: P058898                               Sector(s): Al - Irrigation & Drainage, AY - Other
Agriculture
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development; Poverty Reduction; Private
Sector; Water
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
O Loan         1 Credit        El Grant        FI Guarantee    D Other (Specify)
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $ 20 Million Equivalent (SDR 14.9 Million)
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 40
|Commitment fee: 0.50%                                 Service charge: 0.75%
GOVERNMENT                                                     1.50           0.00           1.50
IDA                                                            3.07          16.93         20.00
BENEFICIARIES                                                  2.50           0.00           2.50
Total:                                                         7.07          16.93         24.00
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
Responsible agency: PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT/MINISTRY OF WATER RESOURCES
Address: Room 145-147, No: 44 Rudaki Street, Dushanbe, Republic of Tajikistan
Contact Person: Mr. T. Ostanaev, Director of the PMU and Mr. Koimdadov Kozidovlat, Deputy Prime Minister (Rural
Development ) Cabinet of Ministers.
Tel: (992-372)+21-85-66;21-00-21 ; 21-13-67            Fax: 992 372.51 01 17               Email:
r_center@Tajnet.com; rirp@Tajnet.com;
Other Agency(ies):
Tajik Agricultural Academy, Tajik Land and Water Resources Management Institute
Estimated disbur ements ( Bank FY/US$M_:
Annual     2.2           3.8         3.7         3.9         4.3         2.1
Cumulative     2.2          6.0          9.7       13.6        17.9         20.0
Project implementation period: Five and a half years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/2000  Expected closing date:  03/31/2006
OMS PAD Fam FW. MDI, 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project's main objectives are:
(i) to increase water supply and efficiency in the main and secondary irrigation canals supplying the
farms being privatized under the Farm Privatization Support Project and adjoining farms;
(ii) to develop institutional capability in land and water resources management; and
(iii) to improve the quality of drinking water in selected villages.
These objectives would be realized through the following project activities: (i) rehabilitation of critical
irrigation and drainage infrastructure in uigent need of repairs over the project area (130,000 ha, about
one-sixth of Tajikistan's total irrigated area); (ii) establishment of Water Users' Associations; (iii)
introduction of cost recovery for irrigation water supply; (iv) promotion of community-managed village
water supply systems; (v) development of institutional capability in land and water resources management
at the Tajik University of Agricultural Sciences and Tajik Land and Water Resources Management
Institute; and (vi) training of faculty, students, agricultural and irrigation specialists, and farmers. The
project would be implemented in areas which offer good prospects for continued operation and maintenance
of project-financed infrastructure and overall project sustainability.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators of the project are:
(i)  Infrastructure indicators:
Increase in (a) water conveyance efficiency in the main and field canals, (b) energy efficiency
of the pumping stations selected for rehabilitation, (c) area serviced with timely delivery of
water in optimal quantities for crops; (d) nurnber and types of farm groups being serviced by
the improved irrigation and drainage infrastructure.
(ii)  Water Users'Associations and irrigation cost recovery indicators:
(a) Formulation and adoption of a Water Code providing a suitable legal basis for the
establishment and functioning of independent organizations providing water supply, delivery,
and operations and maintenance (O&M);
(b) Increase in number of Water Users' Associations (WUAs) responsible for operations and
maintenance of water delivery systems from the hydro-post to the individual farmers' fields;
(c) Establishment of a transparent system of irrigation service fees, with progressive increases
in level and improvement in collection rates in each of the project schemes. Fees would arrive
at the level of full cost recovery (specifically, cost of operation and maintenance over a
ten-year period for the delivery of water from the source to the farmer's fields). The
Government would provide funds to meet the shortfall during the transition period.
(iii) Drinking water indicators:
Improvement in quality of drinking water; increase in the number of independent,
community-based Village Water Organizations (VWOs) with responsibility for operation and
-2 -



maintenance of the drinking water supply facilities in their villages; increased level of
community contributions of labor, local materials or funds for village drinking water supply
facilities; increase in number of families receiving safe drinking water.
(iv)  Capacity indicators:
Increase in number of persons trained in water resources management; adoption of improved
agriculture and irrigation practices; increased level of practical applicability of the new
subjects and training courses being introduced; increase in the number of multi-disciplinary
land and water resource management programs and increase in other forms of collaboration of
water resources management faculty with specialists outside their departments and disciplines.
The impact indicators of the project are:
Farm production indicators:
(a) Measurable increase in overall crop production in the project area as a result of timely and
optimal delivery of water; and
(b) Measurable increase in income levels of the farm households benefiting from the project.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: CAS Report 1 8075-TJ                       Date of latest CAS discussion: 07/30/98
The proposed project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, which identifies
rehabilitation of rural infrastructure as a principal means to stimulate economic growth in the rural sector,
essential to the process of farm restructuring and essential to development of private land lease rights. The
pace of farm privatization depends on rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure, for in a privatization
program, each state or collective farm would be subdivided and the plots distributed. But as a result of the
recent deterioration of infrastructure, the water supply no longer reaches all areas of the former state farms;
some formerly irrigated plots have gone out of irrigation. As a result, these plots are now uncultivable, and
would not provide livelihoods to the farmers receiving them in a privatization distribution. The farmers do
not want to take the risk of receiving such plots. This is an important barrier to land privatization.
Tajikistan's natural endowment of an abundant supply of water - a scarce resource in Central Asia
- is the rationale for emphasizing rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage infrastructure in the proposed
project. Tajikistan's water resources were recognized during the Soviet era, resulting in the development of
hydro-electric power generation and extensive irrigation systems which this project builds on. This project
complements the Farm Privatization Support Project, currently under implementation, by focusing on the
same geographical regions, i.e., selected raions under Republican Subordination and in Khatlon and
Leninabad Oblasts. These interventions, together with the proposed Post Privatization Credit Project (FY
2002) and other future operations in the rural sector will comprehensively address the fundamental
constraints on rural growth and will raise the living standards of the majority of the poor who depend on
agriculture for their livelihoods.
It should also be noted that Tajikistan has very recently emerged from a post-conflict situation.
Continuing support during the transition from conflict to peace has been provided by the Bank, several
donors, and intemational NGOs, addressing almost all important sectors of the economy.
- 3 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The agriculture sector is of vital importance to the economy of Tajikistan, accounting as it does for
about 30% of GDP and 50% of employment. Within the agricultural sector, the irrigation sub-sector is
pre-eminent: of Tajikistan's arable land (about 10,000 kni, 7% of the total), almost 80 percent is irrigated.
Tajikistan's irrigated areas are devoted to cotton (which alone accounts for half the value of crop
production), grain, fodder, potatoes, vegetables, melons, vineyards and fruit production. In this context,
issues affecting the irrigation sub-sector vitally affect Tajikistan's economy as a whole. The most
important issues are as follows:
Critical irrigation and drainage infrastructure (I&D) is in danger of failure. Most of the
principal irrigation and drainage infrastructure (pnumping stations, delivery pipes, diversion structures, main
canals, etc.), now 30 years old, is in danger of collapse. Almost everyone living in the project area depends
on these delivery systems not only for irrigation but also for drinking water and domestic water needs.
Since the break-up of the Soviet Union in 1991, the budget for operations and maintenance of I&D has
been very limited and available funds have been used mainly for system operation and salaries. This has led
to practices such as making temporary repairs and cannibalizing parts which aggravate the situation even
further. The system now manifests a rapid deterioration in operating efficiency of pumping stations,
increased losses in the main canals and low water use efficiency at the field level. The water supply from
the main canals to the field level has been reduced by 50 percent, in some areas even more. Fertile
agricultural areas are being abandoned at an alarming rate and, if nothing is done, continued deterioration
of rural livelihoods could lead to large scale migration from the rural areas to urban towns adding to the
high unemployment and urban poor.
Economic and financial viability of lift irrigation.  The energy sector is highly subsidized in
Tajikistan. As electricity, pumping, and O&M of irrigation and drainage systems have historically been
provided free to the farms, energy use is excessive, particularly in lift irrigation schemes. These are highly
energy intensive as they lift water in a series of steps ranging in cumulative heights of 50 to 250 m and
deliver water across hills. Virtually all the power now produced in Tajikistan is hydro-power, supplied
only during the three seasons of the year which coincide with the agricultural and irrigation seasons. Thus
it does not provide for winter heating nor does it keep Tajikistan's large aluminum smelter operating
year-round. While hydro-power for agricultural purposes is provided at US 0.15 cents per KWh, recent
preliminary sector work carried out indicates that the long run marginal cost of hydro-power is about
US2.2 cents per KWh (to cover routine maintenance of all working facilities, and taking into consideration
about 2000 MW of generation and transmission that are not operational at present). This could be
exported to Uzbekistan in the summer, and Tajikistan could receive thermal power in exchange during the
winter months.
Cost recovery. The current level of water charges, TR3/m (US 0.18 cents/hn), does not cover the
cost of operations and maintenance for the systems which deliver water from the source to the farner's
fields. Moreover, it does not differentiate between areas dependent on gravity versus those dependent on
lift irrigation schemes where energy costs may be a significant share of the total cost. This pricing
arrangement has been a disincentive for the efficient allocation and use of water and hence of power. At
the same timne, the continuing changes occurring in the structure of farm organization (as state farms
undergo privatization), together with the low levels of farm family incomes, makes cost recovery one of the
most difficult issues of this sector.
-4 -



Declining human resource skills and institutions involved in irrigation.  A  number of
organizations are involved in water resources management at the state, oblast and raion levels. These
include the Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources (MIIWR); oblast level organizations, (OMOs --
Obijineniya Machinogo Orosheniya); inter-raion organizations such as Meshraivodkhoz; and raion-level
water management organizations (Raivodkhoz). In the past few years, due to severe budget constraints,
civil war and macro-economic instability, these organizations have shrunk dramatically in their activities
and their facilities have completely deteriorated. Many skilled personnel have left these organizations and
practically no new investment in machinery or even procurement of spare parts has taken place.
Meanwhile, education, research and experimental stations continue to use teaching and training methods
and materials now unsuitable for Tajikistan's market economy. Moreover, teaching methods and materials
are unsuitable for training in sustainable development of agriculture; the training institutions have been
isolated from recent advances in land and water resources management as taught in similar agro-ecological
regions elsewhere.
Government strategy
The main elements of Government strategy were presented in a Letter of Development Policy
addressing the agricultural sector ("Letter from the President of the Republic of Tajikistan to Mr. Johanmes
Linn, Vice President of Europe and Central Asia Region, World Bank, May 12, 1999" - see Annex 11).
Topics addressed which are relevant for the proposed project are:
(i) Sustainability of project investments. The Government recognizes the need to consider
economic, financial, social and environmental aspects in the selection and prioritization of rural
infrastructure for rehabilitation, rather than only technical and administrative aspects, and that
it must create enabling conditions and institutional mechanisms to set and collect a level of
water charges which will cover the cost of operations and maintenance of infrastructure
investments being financed by foreign borrowing.
(ii) Commitment to institutional reform. The Government is committed to redefining the role of the
Government in the agricultural sector (the first step would be divestiture of the construction and
machinery departments from the Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources); reforming the
irrigation sector; strengthening institutional capacity along sustainable lines by decentralizing
planning, administration and management of primary and secondary irrigation and drainage
canals; preparing a legal framework and operating procedures to provide a basis for the
establishment of independent, self-financing institutions to aid in managing water resources;
transferring the operation and maintenance of tertiary irrigation and drainage canals to WUAs;
and promoting community-based Village Water Organizations.
Other strategic areas affecting project viability are:
(i) Creation of private family farms. The policy of the Government of Tajikistan is to develop
private family farms and create a market in land-use rights. Since 1997, progress has been made
in the restructuring of former state and collective farms. Private use of land is taking hold
throughout the country; a variety of farm structures have emerged with varying degrees of
success. The Government recognizes that if this process is not managed carefully, a lack of fair
and transparent processes may emerge as well as inequities in land distribution. Therefore, the
Farm Privatization Support Project, now in implementation, is assisting the Government to: (i)
establish a simple land registry system; (ii) develop mechanisms which will ensure equitable
distribution of land use rights; (iii) promote creation of a market in land use rights; (iv) increase
people's awareness of all aspects of land privatization and farm restructuring; and (v) make it
easier and less expensive to obtain land certificates.
-5 -



(ii) Agriculturalprice and trade environment. The Government has fully liberalized prices of fruits,
vegetables, grain and livestock products, and agricultural inputs. Moreover, Government quotas
for these products have been abolished. However, the most important crop, cotton, continues to
be affected by low raw seed cotton prices (partly a result of high levels of taxation -- about
30%), as well as by high transaction costs for marketing, transport and export of lint cotton.
Although privatization of the 22 state owned cotton ginneries have proceeded slowly, the pace
has now accelerated following recent understandings reached between the Bank and the
Government as part of the Structural Adjustment Credit.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The development of a sustainable irrigation sub-sector in Tajikistan will require a number of
simultaneous interventions and a continued commitment from the Governnent to reform, considering that
agriculture is currently dependent on a combination of gravity and lift irrigation systems, private family
farming is in an early stage of development, allocation of land use rights is proceeding slowly, and neither
rural credit nor agricultural support services are readily available. This project's focus is essentially limited
to maintenance of the water lifeline to the rural population in the project area, at least cost.
Accordingly, this project would address the following main sector issues:
(i)  Preventing the imminent collapse of irrigation and drainage infrastructure and halting the
ongoing shrinkage in irrigated area. Detailed investigations have been carried out in the project
area to identify the I&D structures which are near failure. The rehabilitation works proposed in
the project would start with those schemes which are dependent on gravity and low lifts, and
where private family fanns are being created. These are in the raions under Republican
Subordination. They would be followed by works in Khatlon Oblast and then Leninabad Oblast.
(ii)  Putting in place a legal framework for creation and functioning of independent water
institutions. Efforts were initiated early in project preparation to revise the Water Code to
provide for the legal recognition of Water Users' Associations and for their systematic growth
with the necessary autonomy, responsibility and authority to set, collect and use water fees. This
revision is in the fnal stages. During negotiations, agreement was reached that funds for the
rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage works shall be made available only if the Draft Water
Code, which has taken into account the comments from the Association, is submitted within
ninety (90) days from the date ofproject effectiveness.
(iii) Promoting an optimum level of water and power subsidies to agriculture. Because increases in
agricultural productivity and raising the income levels of the newly emerging private farmers
would take time, full cost recovery for water delivery from the source to the farmers' fields
(salaries, energy, system repairs, periodic maintenance and amortization) will take more than the
five-and-a-half-year life of the project. 4t negotiations, it was agreed that achievement of full
cost recovery of O&M shall be spread over a ten year period, and shall be reviewed and
adjusted annually in each of the project areas, based on a system of progressive cost recovery
for O&M of irrigation and drainage works. In the interim, the funds shortfall shall be
reviewed every year, beginning in year 2001, and made up from the project, as needed. The
level of subsidy of the power sector would be monitored during the project implementation period
and adjustments made in the irrigation service fee structure to reflect changing power tariffs.
(iv) Supporting institutional capacity building. The project, besides emphasizing the continuous
need to upgrade the skills of those involved in project implementation, also lays the foundation
-6 -



for development of the next generation of skilled specialists who will be needed for a
market-oriented agricultural sector. The emphasis on bringing together different skills and use of
demonstrations and practical training is expected to address immediate and short-term needs for
transfer of appropriate technology for more efficient land and water resources management.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project area of 128,432 ha is spread over eight raions in three administrative zones. (i) Among
raions under Republican Subordination (RRS), the project covers 23,852 ha in Leninsky, Hissar and
Shahrinau raions; (ii) in Khatlon Oblast, the project covers 39,969 ha in Yavan, Gosimalinski, and
Kolkhozabad raions; and (iii) in Leninabad Oblast, the project covers 64,611 ha in Macha and Zafarabad
raions (ref: Map - IBRD 30745). The project areas include the areas where the Farm Privatization Support
Project is currently supporting privatization of ten former state and collective farms.
The project area represents three distinct agro-ecological regions of Tajikistan. In RRS, 91% of
the area depends on gravity-fed irrigation systems from the weir diversion of the glacier-water-fed
Dushanbinka, Karatog and Chui rivers. This area is in the Kofarnigon Valley, with highly undulating
topography and well-drained, fertile alluvium soils. In Khatlon Oblast, about 50% of the area is gravity-fed
and the remaining areas are dependent upon lift irrigation systems up to 200 m, particularly in the Yavan
raion. These areas depend upon water which is pumped from weirs off the Kumasangir, Vaksh and
Yavansu rivers. More than 50% of pumping stations are not working and the remainder need extensive
repairs. In Leninabad Oblast, only 8% of the area is irrigated by a gravity-fed canal system, while the
remainder is serviced by water diverted through a weir from the Syrdarya river pumped to higher ground.
Alnost all pumping facilities use standby purnps which have deteriorated in turn and need repairs or
replacement. Most of these systems are in urgent need of rehabilitation. In the Leninabad Oblast,
groundwater is used to supplement surface water. The main focus of the rehabilitation works is the main
water supply and delivery system serving the project area, viz., from the source to the hydro-post.
Management of these schemes is as follows: (i) At the water intake level, the OMOs, located at
Dushanbe, Kurgontube and Leninabad, are responsible for pumping water from the source to the main
distribution system.  (ii) At the raion level,  the water distribution and management organization
(Raivodkhoz) is responsible for ensuring the supply of water to end users. Conditions in the Raivodkhoz
have deteriorated due to declining budget allocations and low morale of the limited staff (many of the
skilled staff have left for better paying jobs elsewhere). These two organizations are responsible for the
delivery of water to the hydro-post. From the hydro-post onwards, water delivery would be carried out by
WUAs, which would be created from the privatized fanning units resulting from the privatization of former
state and collective farms in the project area.
The formation of WUAs initiated for ten farms under the FPSP would be supported to further
expand to other state and collective farms (74) serviced by the irrigation infrastructure of this project.
Support to these organizations in new methods and technologies is virtually absent because the main
institutions responsible for education and applied research have deteriorated considerably and lack basic
inputs and operating materials. The institutional capacity-building component aims to address some of
these constraints.
-7 -



Availability of quality drinking water in rural areas of Tajikistan is one of the major problems
affecting the well-being of the rural population. According to the household sample surveys carried out in
the project area, the main sources of water are centralized water pipes (29%), water channels and irrigation
canals (28%); wells and springs (22%); and other sources, including rivers, rain water, transported water,
etc. (21%). The low quality of the water from these sources often leads to diseases (such as typhoid,
dysentery, typhus, malaria and kidney-related diseases). Given the poor state of rural health facilities,
ready treatment is often not available on time, which adds to the suffering of the people. Over 75% of the
people in the project areas expressed dissatisfaction with the status of the drinking water supply systems,
for almost all the water systems are in need of repair: pumps often break down, pipes are leaking, electric
connections are missing; etc. Almost all the community members were willing to contribute either in cash
or in kind to ensure a reliable supply of drinking water, and also were willing to pay for clean water. The
proposed village drinking water supply sub-component aims to rehabilitate selected schemes in the project
area, using arrangements based on community participation in order to ensure ownership and sustainability.
The project consists of the following components:
Component One: Rehabilitation of main irrigation and drainage works
The following works would be carried out:
(i)   Repair of head-works, downstream protection works addressing main water supply to the
project areas, upgrade of emergency escape structures;
(ii)  Desilting of canals (about 1 million m.), structural repairs and replacement of damaged canal
linings wherever necessary;
(iii) Replacement of cross regulator gates (140) and selective rehabilitation of siphons, aqueduct
structures and outlets to the on-farm canals, including repairs to gates and surrounding
structures and installation of new gates and turnout boxes;
(iv)  Rehabilitation of drainage works, involving desilting, improvement and reformation of the
main and collector drains and cross sections, cleaning and repair of vertical drains and
replacement or installation of new equipment, and repairs to out-falls;
(v) Rehabilitation of pump stations supplying the main irrigation systems (in about 30
locations); repair of electro-mechanical equipment; provision of essential spare parts for the
pumps, motors and transformers; repair of pump station forebays and delivery bays; and
replacement of delivery pipes where necessary;
(vi)  Repair of electric motors and submersible pumps for tube wells;
(vii) Re-establishment of water measurement devices (at about 99 points) on the main canals and
at the off-take points to each of the ex-state and collective farms; and
(viii) Selective improvement of access roads (101 km) to the main and secondary irrigation canals
and pump stations, including gravel surfacing.
Component Two: Provision of community-based village water supply in selected villages
The project will support the following activities:
(i)   Construction of tube wells with submersible pumps in the village of Akkurgan (Leninsky
Raion) and water supply for nine hamlets in Macha Raion and all seven villages in
Zafarabad Raion;
(ii)  Rehabilitation of the pump unit in the water supply pump station of Firdausi Farm and
construction of a new pump station at Ittifok Farm, as well as laying of the main water
- 8 -



delivery pipelines in Kulabad village of Yavan Raion and in three villages (Rokhi-Lenin,
Suyunabad, Yangiabad) of Kolkhozabad Raion.
Component Three: Institutional capacity building for improved land and water resources management
The project will support the following activities:
(i)  Improvement of management and operations of main water supply organizations. Water
supply organizations are located in each project raion and in the oblasts. This component
would improve their record keeping and monitoring; analysis of water supply and demand;
needs-based budget estimation; administration; setting and collection of irrigation service
fees; O&M rmles, regulations and procedures; and communication systems. Support for
rehabilitation of offices would be provided, as also office equipment, office supplies, training
and technical assistance.
(ii) Establishment of WUAs at the field systems level. The project will assist in the fornulation
of a Water Code suitable for the creation and functioning of independent and self financing
Water Users' Associations in the project areas. The main functions of these WUAs would be
to operate and manage field level irrigation and drainage systems, collect water charges from
beneficiaries, and pay for the services provided by the raion level water management
organization. The project would provide support for the initial establishment of these
organizations, i.e., office equipment, vehicles, training, technical assistance and operating
costs. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the PMU and PIU shall ensure: (i)
the timely establishment of Water Users' Associations in each of the project raions where
the irrigation and drainage works are being undertaken; and (ii) maintenance by each
WUA of records, in accordance with appropriate accounting practices, of their operations
andfinancial conditions.
(iii) Strengthening of the Tajikistan University of Agricultural Sciences: The Tajik University
of Agricultural Sciences (TAU) would receive support to provide new courses at the
undergraduate and graduate levels in water management, economics, finance, recent
advances in irrigation and drainage technology, legislation, Water Users' Organizations, etc.
The project would rehabilitate facilities, upgrade the laboratories of the hydro-melioration
department, provide support for the library, training equipment and materials, and support
faculty exchange programs, twinning arrangements with foreign universities and study tours.
(iv)  Establishment of the Tajikistan Land and Water Resources Management Institute
(TLWRMI). This institute would be established as a center of excellence for applied research,
training and demonstration of the efficient use of land and water resources in the country. It
will build upon the currently unused facilities of the Hissar Polygon, where such research
was carried out in the past. Emphasis would be placed on design and implementation of a
multi-disciplinary applied research program involving technical, economic, financial, social,
environmental, legal, and institutional aspects of land and water management. This institute
would provide practical training for farmers and students in a variety of land and water
resources management technologies and practices suitable for private farming. The project
would rehabilitate the training facilities, upgrade the laboratories, provide essential
equipment including office equipment, and finance operating costs, training and technical
assistance.
-9-



(v)  Study of irrigation institution restructuring. The project would support a study on the
restructuring of irrigation institutions with a view to evaluation of various institutional
options and recommendation of suitable mechanisms for the sustainable development of land
and water resources in Tajikistan. The study would encompass a detailed review and
assessment of existing organization and management systems, policies for land and water
resources development, the legal framework, lessons of experience from the implementation
of the Farm Privatization Support Project and activities being undertaken in this project,
evaluation of a variety of organizational structures from around the world. Stakeholder
workshops would be held with all the relevant agencies, institutions and beneficiaries, and a
suitable plan for the restructuring of irrigation institutions would be recommended. The
project would finance technical assistance and study tours.
Component Four: Strengthening of Project Management and Implementation Unit
The Project Management Unit (PMU) established for the implementation of the Farm Privatization
Support Project would be strengthened with additional technical, financial, accounting and procurement
staff. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would be established under PMU in Dushanbe for day-to-day
management and supervision of on-site construction and quality control. The project would finance
rehabilitation of the offices, equipment, training, technical assistance and operating costs.
1. Rehabilitation of Main Irrigation  Irrigation &    16.04      66.8      13.40      67.0
and Drainage Works                 Drainage
2. Village Drinking Water Supply   Rural Water         1.52        6.3      1.20       6.0
Supply &
Sanitation
3. Institution Capacity Building   Institutional       3.55       14.8      3.00      15.0
Development
4. Project Management and          Institutional       2.89       12.0      2.40       12.0
Implementation                     Development
Total Project Costs                   24.00      100.0     20.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                   24.00      100.0     20.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed project would support implementation of the Government's program to create a firm
and sustainable basis for the efficient allocation and use of water resources in different agro-ecological
zones of the country. The continued commiitment of the Government to reform in the agricultural sector has
been expressed in its Letter of Development Policy for agricultural development. Following are the key
policy and institutional reform areas which would be supported by the project and which are necessary to
ensure the project's success:
(i)    Creation of Water Users' Associations. The interventions proposed in the project would be
the first concrete step toward clearly defining the rules, regulations, procedures and
organizational mechanisms for the creation of Water Users' Associations. This is expected to
lead to the establishment of these legally recognized democratic unions of new private farmers,
- 10 -



who would have responsibility for operations and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage
systems below the main canal outlets.
(ii)   Accelerated decentralization of the Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources. The process
of decentralization of the Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources has already begun,
primarily as a result of hard budget constraints during the last several years. The project would
support design and implementation of improved procedures, policy formulation, and
development of management practices needed to operate the complex network of irrigation
systems throughout the country.
(iii)   Development of private local contractors. The project would build upon and encourage the
development of private contractors, following the divestiture of the construction and machinery
departments of the MIWR into independent entities. This breakthrough will require training in
new ways of doing things for the responsible staff of MIWR, PMU and other Government
agencies, who are frequently in an adversarial role of enforcing achievements of specifications
and quality norms on construction contractors.
3. Benefits and target population:
The proposed project would yield the following benefits:
(i)    Prevent further declines in living standards of up to 400,000 people dependent on irrigated
agriculture in the project area, by ensuring reliable and timely water availability during
critical periods of crop growth.
(ii)   Improve organization and management of the irrigation sector. The project would be a pilot
to test various organization and management reform modalities for nationwide adoption.
Expected benefits from the proposed activities in capacity building include: (a) increased
accountability of main water supply organizations at the raion and oblast levels to deliver
water on demand; (b) ensuring of reliable and adequate water delivery to the project
beneficiaries through the transfer of O&M responsibility to WUAs; (c) improvement of
implementation capacity of the PIU and PMU in the areas of construction quality and selection
and supervision of contractors.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The implementation period for the project is five and a half years. The individual project components
would be implemented as follows:
(i) Rehabilitation of main irrigation and drainage infrastructure works:
The I&D works will be implemented in three overlapping packages, each taking two years to complete.
*  The first package would be comprised of the identified rehabilitation works in Leninsky and
Shaharinau raions. The detailed design and bidding components for the works in Leninsky and
Shaharinau raions have been prepared. Works in the field would start in these raions during the
second half of 2000 and be completed in the second half of 2002.
*  The detailed design and bidding documents of the next package of rehabilitation works, those for
Kalkhozabad and Yavan raions, will be prepared during the second half of 2000, rehabilitation
- 11 -



works would start in the second half of 2001 and finish during second half of 2003, and so on.
*   During the second half of 2000 and the first half of 2001, the pressure pipes at all pumping
stations under the project will be tested to determine the exact replacement/repairs required.
(ii) Village water supply:
This component would be undertaken with the active involvement of community members. They
would be involved in the detailed implementation of the drinking water facilities and take an
active role in the selection of the construction firm and in supervision of the construction. Detailed
design work would be contracted out on a competitive basis by the PMU with the assistance of the
PIU and the Rural Water Supply Department in the MIWR. The team will include a social
scientist and an environmental specialist, in order to ensure comnmunity participation in the design
and construction and, later, the transfer of operation and maintenance responsibility to the village
community. The actual works would be undertaken by contractors. Over time, the ownership of
these facilities would be transferred to the village communities.
(iii) Institutional development component:
This would be undertaken by the respective institutions which have been identified for
strengthening. These are the Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources (MIWR), the OMOs
located in Dushanbe, Kurgontubpe and   Leninabad, water distribution and management
organizations (Raivodkhoz) in each of the project raions, various forms of water user organizations
in the project areas, Tajikistan University of Agricultural Sciences and the Tajikistan Land and
Water Resources Management Institute.
Financial Management
Financial Management Assessment: The PMU of the Farm Privatization Support Project would
have overall responsibility for the financial management of this project.  The Association
conducted a fnancial management assessment of the PMU and concluded that it satisfied the
minimum requirements of the Association. The PMU currently has two full time staff, one
responsible for accounts and the other responsible for finance, who serve the needs of the Farm
Privatization Support Project (FPSP). An international financial management adviser has been
recruited and is presently working with the PMU to design, implement and provide on-the-job
training to the staff on various aspects of project accounts and financial management. The existing
accounting staff of the PMU would maintain the fnancial management arrangements of the project
until such time as one additional accountant and one finance specialist have been recruited
specifically for the RIRP, which is due to happen by October 1, 2000. Additional financial
management staff will be recruited as needed during project implementation. Separate Special and
Project bank accounts will be maintained for each of the two projects under management by the
PMU. Further details of the project's financial management arrangements may be found in the
Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Project Management Reports: Detailed guidelines and sample formats of the Project Management
Reports (PMRs) are included in the PIP. During negotiations, agreement was reached on a
time-bound action plan to strengthen the financial management system to enable the PMU to
prepare quarterly PMRs; project funds shall be initially disbursed under the Association's
established procedures, including Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), and a move to PMR-based
disbursements would be made at the mutual agreement of the Government and the Association
- 12-



once the PMU is familiar with the project's monitoring aspects and is considered able to produce
the PMRs in a sufficiently timely and reliable manner; and a change to PMR-based
disbursements shall be considered by December 31, 2001 in accordance with the agreed
time-bound action plan; the first full set of PMRs would be produced in respect of the period
ending December 31, 2001 and quarterly thereafter; however, PMRs indicating sources and uses
offunds, uses offunds by project activity, project cash withdrawals (disbursement) and special
account statement would be produced in respect of the period ending December 31, 2000 and
quarterly thereafter.
Audit Arrangaements: An audit of the project will be performed annually. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that: (i) the appointed independent auditor must be a member of a
professional accounting body that is a member of the International Federation of Accountants
(IFAC) and the audit must be conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing
as issued by the IFAC; (ii) the terms of reference already developed for the audit of the Farm
Privatization Support Project (FPSP) would serve as the basis for the audit of this project; and
(iii) the auditor engaged for FPSP would be used for the audit of this project, and subject to
satisfactory performance, over the life of the project. The project would finance the cost of the
audit. The results of the audit will be available within six months of the end of every fiscal year.
Procurement
Most of the goods required for the proposed project activities are available internationally.
However, specialized parts for some equipment (large-scale water supply pumps) are only
manufactured in one company. This would require specific procurement arrangements. Civil works
involving a large number of small operations would be packaged in a smaller number of contracts.
Local and international specialist consultants would be procured in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. The staff of the Project Management Unit has gained some experience with World
Bank procurement procedures during the implementation of the Farm Privatization Support
Project. However, due to the limited number of foreign suppliers in the country at the present time,
the large number of procurement contracts which includes a large number of ICB contracts, and
considering that the private sector is still in a rudimentary stage, the procurement assessment rated
this project in the high risk category. Risk minimization measures include training of local staff and
the appointment of an international procurement specialist during project implementation and
intensive supervision of the project, at least in the initial years of project implementation. During
negotiations, agreement was reached on the following: (i) mandatory publication of the General
Procurement Notice every year of the project implementation period for all ICB procurement;
(ii) systematic and properfiling of all contract documents and organized by individual contracts;
(iii) the necessity of ensuring confidentiality of the contract documents, especially during the
procurement process until all the clearances are obtained and thefinal award of the contract has
been awarded; (iv) to keep up to date the list of those countries which are not eligible to
participate in IDA financed projects (the current list of these countries was provided to the
Delegation and subsequent updates will be provided as and when carried out); and (v) to seek
advice as and when necessary on all procurement related matters from the project IDA team.
(Details of Procurement are in Annex 6).
- 13 -



Monitoring and Evaluation
Project monitoring and evaluation would be the responsibility of the PMU and would be based on
data gathered by the PIU and various organizations involved at the oblast and raion levels; and
through periodic surveys undertaken by independent consultants. Implementation progress would
also be monitored through periodic IDA supervision missions. During negotiations, agreement
was reached on the following: (i) the Project Management Unit would report to IDA on a
half-yearly basis on the status of the agreed key monitorable indicators; (ii) a mid-term review
would be undertaken in mid-2003 to determine the lessons learned and to make appropriate
changes, as necessary, in the project objectives, scope and components; (iii) the project would
comply with the environmental management and monitoring requirements and the PMU will
annually submit to IDA an environmental status report by June 30 of each year of project
implementation; and (iv) an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be prepared within
six months of the IDA credit closing.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The following two altematives were considered in arriving at the proposed project design and scope
of activities:
(i) Rehabilitation of critical I&D infrastructure versus resettlement of population or
comprehensive re-investment: Ahnost all the population in each of the project areas depends
on the timely availability of water for irrigation, drinking and domestic needs. Continued neglect
of the irrigation systems would lead to a virtual collapse of the system in a very short period of
time. This would necessitate the resettlement of a large number of population, a prohibitively
expensive option. At the same time, the Government has little or no resources available to
provide even the minimum investments required to continue operating the pumping stations,
diversion structures and main feeder canals. Therefore, the option of rehabilitating only critical
I&D infrastructure and assuring its maintenance was chosen.
(ii) Limited or nationwide in scope: Delivery of water for irrigation in each of the chosen project
areas depends upon a combination of gravity and lift irrigation systems. Concentrating the
rehabilitation of I&D works in a few limited areas, complementing the support of FPSP, will
result in a much greater impact on crop productivity and farm incomes than would the
rehabilitation of only gravity schemes and low-lift schemes throughout the country. This
geographically limited approach also permits more funds to be allocated to O&M, with the
project contributing a major portion initially and gradually declining over the project period -
with the creation and functioning of WUA's and associated rise in farm family incomes.
- 14 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                        Project                    (PSR) Ratings
____ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___  ________  (Bank-financed  projects only]
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                        Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Withdrawal of government intervention Agricultural Recovery and          S              S
in agricultural production; price and    Social Protection Credit
trade liberalization; land privatization   (Completed)
and farm restructuring
Appropriate delivery mechanisms for   Pilot Poverty Alleviation      In progress        S
social services, availability of credit,   Project
local empowerment, linkages between
public and private sector institutions
and enterprises
Rehabilitation of communications and  Post Conflict Emergency        In progress        S
utility structures.                  Rehabilitation Project
Reform of public administration and    Second Institution Building and   In progress    S
the budget system; consolidation of    Technical Assistance Credit
overlapping Government agencies and
Ministry departments; simplified legal
processes for creation and operation of
private businesses
Policy reform and privatization      Structural Adjustment Credit I   In progress       S
Recovery of areas damaged by July    Emergency Flood Assistance      In progress        S
1999 floods through rehabilitation of   Project
roads, bridges, river embankments and
power transmission lines
Creation of private family farms, land  Farm Privatization Support   In progress        S
reform, agricultural support services   Project
and credit.
Agricultural research, education and    Rural Development Project
extension and marketing and non-farm  (Under preparation)
employment creation
Short, medium and long term credit for
privatized farm and non-farm         Post Privatization Credit
enterprises                          (Under preparation)
Other development agencies
Reform of the power sector           Sector studies by ADB under
progress
- 15 -



Communications and rural roads      Sector studies by ADB under
progress
Agricultural input and output markets, Aga Khan Foundation
land privatization, and minor irrigation
works in Gorno-Badakshan Oblast and
Karetegan Valley
Rural Drinking Water Development    EU TACIS
Program
Agricultural Development Program in   GTZ
the Leninsky Raion and Karetegan
Valley
lP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank has recently begun to lend for the development of the irrigation sector in the countries of
the former Soviet Union. Some of the early lessons from a few projects which are being implemented in
Armenia, Kazakhstan and the Kyrgyz Republic are:
(i)  Selection of I&D infrastructure for rehabilitation should be based on economic, financial, social,
environmental and management grounds rather than merely technical and administrative
requirements as in the past.
(ii)  It is important to take into consideration the pace of land ownership and creation of sustained
private family farming;
(iii) Operations and maintenance of large, main water delivery structures is best managed by public
agencies, which have been found to be adequate if they are supported by appropriate training and
hands-on involvement of field engineers and if simple water control and measurement devices are
used.
(iv)  Adoption of a suitable and easily understandable legal framework and set of procedures for the
creation and operation of Water Users' Associations (WUAs) is a pre-requisite for ensuring the
orderly transfer of operations and maintenance of I & D infrastructure from state control to the
water users.
(v)  Introduction of WUAs should be carried out in a step by step process, as the process involves
new concepts that require intensive training, learning-by-doing and water users' acceptance,
which take time.
(v)  Full cost recovery of the rehabilitated schemes' O&M should be a gradual process, which should
take into consideration the willingness and ability to pay by the beneficiaries.
These lessons have been taken into account in the project design in the following ways:
(i)  Project areas selected are those where private fanning and provision of long termn land lease
rights are taking place, supported by the IDA financed Farm Privatization Support Project.
(ii) Implementation of I&D works would be carried out in a phased manner - beginning with the
- 16 -



most viable gravity and low lift schemes and proceeding to higher lift schemes, taking into
consideration the economic, financial, social, technical, institutional, and environmental factors.
(iii) Emphasis has been placed on the passage of an appropriate Water Code by the Government and
on intensive training and provision of adequate technical assistance for the creation and
functioning of WUAs.
(iv)  A graduated system of full cost recovery of operation and maintenance over a ten year period has
been put in place.
(v)  Strengthening of public water institutions at the raion and oblast levels for the operation and
maintenance of main I&D structures has been provided through appropriate training and use of
appropriate technologies.
(vi) Complementary interventions by IDA and other agencies to support agricultural services and
credit are under preparation and implementation.
(vii) Policy and public sector institutional reform support is being provided by structural adjustment
operations and institutional building and technical assistance projects.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government's commitment to the Rural Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project has been strong
ever since the project was included in the FY99-01 Country Assistance Strategy. This has been indicated in
the following ways: (i) active interest has been shown and follow-up has been made by senior Government
officials both at the decision-making and at the operational levels throughout the project processing period;
(ii) the Government has shown readiness to consider changes in the Water Code and legal framework to
support creation and functioning of WUAs, to set irrigation service fees and to improve collection rates, as
shown in the Letter of Development Policy by the President of the Republic of Tajikistan (May 12, 1999);
(iii) the project has engaged the involvement of the most experienced and skilled specialists in engineering,
agriculture, legal, environment, economics and other areas, who have shown ready willingness to
incorporate new ideas and ways of doing business from international specialists; (iv) oblast and raion
administrations have stressed the importance of the project activities in the development of the local
economies and offered full support for implementation; and (v) support of project beneficiaries has been
shown during the focus group discussions and household surveys.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's involvement in this project would bring the following expertise to bear on development
of the rural infrastructure in Tajikistan: (i) best practices in the areas of technical design, institutional
mechanisms and participatory methods from different parts of the world; (ii) appropriate institutional
mechanisms, rules and procedures to ensure financial sustainability of proposed project investments
following project completion; and (iii) Bank procurement, financial and accounting procedures, which
would have a spill-over effect to other concemed agencies and promote transparency in the use of public
funds. Further, the Bank's support for this project would: (i) complement the activities being undertaken in
the FPSP and provide the necessary infrastructure to expand the pilot activities; (ii) help gamer support
for rehabilitation of infrastructure works from other bilateral and multilateral donors and (iii) help maintain
continued commnitment at various levels to carry out agreed project activities in a timely manner.
- 17 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$23.8 million; ERR = 34 % (see Annex 4)
C Cost effectiveness
(D Other (specify)
Project investments in the rehabilitation of critical irrigation and drainage infrastructure and
institutional capacity building address the issues of poverty reduction, sustainable use of land and water
resources and equity in the project areas. The project beneficiaries, up to 400,000 people, depend on the
timely and reliable quantities of water for their livelihoods. Following the proposed investments, analysis
of crop budgets using economic prices indicates that the gross margin per personday in the project area
could increase 2-3 times, or even more, from the present low levels of less than a dollar a day, making a
noticeable impact on farm family incomes in some of the poorest sections of Tajikistan. This would be
the effect of reducing the probability of crop failure through the timely and assured supply of water in the
areas needed. Further, improvements in pumping and water conveyance efficiency are expected to result
in energy and water savings. The overall economic rate of return of the project over a fifteen year period
has been estimated at 34%. This return is based on conservative increases in crop yields, especially for
wheat and cotton, from the present levels of 1.5 t!ha and 1.8 t/ha to 2.1 t/ha and 2.3 t/ha respectively over
a ten year period, and assumes these to occur as a result of relieving crop moisture stress. About 70% of
the total command area is dependent on gravity (38%) and lifts of 100 m or less (33%); with the
remainder of the areas dependent on lifts between 100 and 250 m. Operation and maintenance costs have
been included throughout the project implementation period. Projected prices of agricultural inputs and
outputs have been used using the forecast prepared by the Commodities Team of the Development
Prospects Group of the Bank. These indicate real intemational price increases for the two major crops -
wheat and cotton of 19% and 16% respectively to occur by 2005 from current depressed price levels of
$122 per mt for wheat and $1180 per mt for cotton A" index middling 1-3/32 inch). No benefit has been
assumed in the calculations of the ERR for improvements in the village drinking water supply and
institutional capacity building components of the project due to the difficulty of measuring this benefit.
The gradual rationalization of water and energy pricing for agricultural purposes to reflect
economic costs and the stated Government policy of creating the enabling environment for the creation and
functioning of independent water supply and distribution organizations, together with the overall public
sector reforms being supported through other Bank interventions, are expected to result in better use of
land and water resources in the project areas. The project's emphasis on the formulation and adoption of a
suitable Water Code, simultaneously with empowering three regional and eight raion level irrigation
organizations and supporting the creation of water user associations at the field level, is expected to begin
the process of change in the ways of doing business in the overall management and operations of land and
water resources. A multi-disciplinary approach toward the development of human resources and
enhancement of skills for land and water resources management has been built into the project design in
order to ensure that a service delivery approach and an outward-looking organizational structure takes
root.
Investments being made in the rural village water supply would ensure the availability of safe
drinking water, reduce water borne diseases, and promote new concepts of community managed rural
water supply systems. Close linkage with the Farm Privatization Support Project (FPSP) will complement
FPSP's support for the creation of private family farms in the adjoining state and collective farms in
- 18-



project areas, as the infrastructure investments being made would instill confidence among the directly
affected population to invest their labor in farm and non-farm activities. The continued emphasis on
"bottom up" participatory approaches toward land distribution and farm restructuring, coupled with the
creation of Water Users' Associations, is expected to promote equity in the allocation of land and water
resources.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Project Costs:
The project is estimated to cost US $24 million, based on May 2000 prices. The cost of various
components and sub-components and detailed cost tables are in the Project Implementation Plan. The
foreign exchange component has been estimated at US $17 million, or 71% of the total project cost. This
cost includes physical and price contingencies of US$1.55 million and US$2.85 million respectively. The
project costs exclude duties and taxes. Physical contingencies vary between 0 percent and 20 percent
depending on the items. Local costs have been converted to their US$ equivalent using an exchange rate of
Tajik Rubles 1700 to one US Dollar. Price contingency estimates assume an increase in local currency
costs of 7 percent per year from 2001 to 2006, which is the projected inflation rates, and for foreign
currency costs from 2001 to 2006, the following: 2.5%, 2.6%, 2.3%, 2.5%, 2.5% and 2.5%.
Project Financing:
The project would be financed by an IDA credit of US$20 million, by the Government of
Tajikistan (US$1.5 million) and beneficiaries (US$2.5 million). Funds from IDA would be used to finance
a portion of the goods, civil works, training, technical assistance, and operating costs required for
implementation of the project components. Due to the tight budgetary constraints and fiscal difficulties
faced by the Government at the present time, IDA would finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange
costs and a portion of the local costs. The operating costs of project management would be financed on a
declining basis during the project implementation period. All taxes and duties for the goods, works, and
services required for the project would be financed by the Government. Agreement was reached during
negotiations on the project financing plan, budgetary provisions, allocation of counterpart funds, deposit
of an amount of $50,000 (fifty thousand) equivalent in local currency in a project account, established
in a commercial bank (acceptable to IDA), to meet the initial requirement for counterpart funds for
project implementation; and provision of a line item in the National Budget annually to provide for local
funds required for the implementation of each of the project components, in accordance with the agreed
work plan and budget.
Fiscal Impact:
The annual state budget for the MIWR has been steadily declining and is about TR3 billion for this
calendar year. The Government has recognized that the state is no longer in a position to fund the real
costs for the supply of water for the entire command area of over 700,000 ha in the country. The MIWR
has, therefore raised the water fee to TR 3/mi, from TR l/in, which each user should pay for water
delivered by the oblast and raion water agency. If the IVVWR were able to collect this fee on about 9 billion
m of water supplied in the whole country, it would provide about 27 billion TR - nine times what it
receives from the state budget. However, due to lack of enforcement capacity, lack of reliable measurement
techniques, and the low income levels of the fanners, the Government has not been able to collect even 20
% of the water fees owed to it. About 17 billion TR is still owed to the MIWR from the past four years
- 19 -



alone. This has also resulted in the MIVWR's inability to pay the National Energy Authority for the use of
power for the pumping stations, despite the low power tariffs of TR2.5 per KWh, (estimated to be about 10
percent of the long-run marginal cost). These distortions, lack of data, and the reforms being initiated
makes the determination of reliable fiscal impact of this project difficult. However, during the life of this
project, overall positive fiscal impact could be expected. This would arise mainly from reduced future
expenditures on 0 & M of the irrigation and drainage works; savings in energy costs as a result of
increased efficiency of pumps; and introduction of progressive cost recovery for O& M to WUA's. A
progressive irrigation service fee structure has been designed for this project in order to recover the full cost
of 0 & M, which is now estimated to vary from $10 to $30 per ha at prevailing financial prices depending
upon the energy requirements for water supply, crop water requirements, etc. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that a gradual increase in the Irrigation Service Fee would be designed and
implemented over a ten year period to achieve full cost recovery of 0 & M at the end of this period;
during the interim, the funds required to cover the shortfall would be reviewed every year, beginning in
year 2001, and made available from the project, as needed. The PMU shall prepare a schedule of the
ISF in each of the project raions and the timetable for its implementation by December 1, 2000 and
submit every six months beginning July 1, 2000 until the project closing date a status report on the
collection rate of the ISF in the project areas where the irrigation and drainage works are being
rehabilitated. ISF would be reviewed and adjusted annually in each of the project areas. taking into
consideration the willingness and ability to pay of the water users. Separate accounts would be
maintained for ISF collections and the use of these funds.
3. Technical:
The MIWR design criteria for canals are based on the system used before the break up of the
Soviet Union. This assumed that on average 1 liter/sec would be sufficient for one hectare. In practice there
was considerable flexibility built into the systems, as design freeboard levels were generous and the mean
and maximum designs could vary by 50%. Therefore, if the systems operating under design flow conditions
could not meet the demands, it was easy for the operators to increase the flows in the canals as long as
there was water available. This practice discouraged maximizing system efficiency, and the low water
charges further contributed to the low overall water use efficiencies.
The designs and technologies which would be used for the rehabilitation of pumps, irrigation and
drainage canals and structures have been closely worked out with each of the Departments of the MIWR at
Dushanbe and oblast and raion level. The designs were prepared by the Tajik Irrigation Design Institute
and reviewed, verified and modified as needed by intermational irrigation engineering consultants from
FAO/CP, who worked together with the local specialists. Site assessment of the layout and detailed
quantitative engineering assessments of each of the proposed items and works were carried out during June
and November, of the peak and lean periods respectively for the agricultural season. Given the lack of
exposure and no experience in executing Bank financed projects, emphasis has been placed on training and
technical assistance in the areas of construction management, preparation of bid documents, cost estimates
and quality control procedures.
Technical manuals would be prepared by the intemational consultants recruited by the PMU under
the project that would cover topics on O&M, construction standards, quality control, water allocation and
distribution procedures, and crop-water requirement. Similar manuals would also be prepared for
community water-supply operations. These manuals would be used for the project implementation and
operation. An independent technical auditing team, consisting of intemational consultant engineers and
engineering specialists from local institutions, would be engaged to ensure confornity to project scheme
cost-effectiveness in technical design, adherence to appropriate technical and quality standards, and
- 20 -



procurement procedures. The project is designed to expose the local engineers to more modem engineering
by working in close collaboration with foreign consultants who will introduce the concepts of "least-cost"
and modem simple designs; and local engineers would be sent on observation study tours abroad where
modem technologies are in use.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The main executing agencies of the project components and activities are: Ministry of Irrigation and Water
Resources; oblast water management organization (Obijineniya Machinnogo Orosheniya) located at
Dushanbe, Kurgontubpe and Khojand; Water distribution and management organization (Raivodkhoz) in
each of the project raions; Tajikistan University of Agricultural Sciences, Tajikistan Land and Water
Resources Management Institute; regional soil and chemical laboratories of MIWR located at Dushanbe,
Kurgontubpe and Khojand, and the water analysis laboratory of ME & NRM located in Dushanbe; and
the emerging Water User Associations and Village Water Organizations in the project areas. Overall
project management and coordination would be provided by the Project Management Unit of the Farm
Privatization Support Project and the Project Implementation Unit for this project.
4.2 Project management:
Project Steering Committee (PSC): has been established, chaired by the Prime Minister, and consists
of the Deputy Prime Minister as Vice-Chairman and members drawn from the MIWR, MOA, MOF,
ME & NRM, Ministry of Justice, State Land Committee, TAU, TLWRMI, PMU, PIU and
participating raion administrations. The main functions of this committee are: (i) to provide
administrative direction, guidance and necessary authority, and formulate policies at the state level;
(ii) to review and give approval of the work program and budget; and (iii) facilitate and ensure
coordination of inter-ministerial activities; and resolve implementation bottlenecks.
Project Management Unit (PMU) : PMU, which has been established for the management of the
Farm Privatization Support Project (FPSP), will be responsible for the overall coordination and
management of this project. The PMU director is under the authority of the Prime Minister. The main
functions are: (i) overall coordination of the project, (ii) preparation of the work program and budget
in coordination with participating agencies and institutions and submitting it to the Project Steering
Committee for approval; (iii) carrying out all the work related to procurement, disbursement,
accounts; audit, monitoring, evaluation and reporting; and (iv) coordinating training, technical
assistance activities required for project irnplementation. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that the PMU shallfurnish to IDA not later than December 1 of each year, detailed annual
work plan for the calendar year and budget for each of the tasks being undertaken in the project
components for review and comments by the Association; and that the rehabilitation of irrigation
and drainage works would start in those areas where these structures are in immediate danger of
collapse, where private family farms are being created, operating and are able to market their
produce in a timely manner and obtain fair and competitive prices and where the Water User's
Associations could function effectively; and following this, rehabilitation would be carried out in
other project areas in accordance with the agreed work plan.
Project Implementation Unit (FlU): PIU has been established for this project and consists of a project
coordinator, technical specialists, accountant, and support staff. The PIU will be under the overall
authority of the PMU, with the project coordinator reporting to the PMU director. The main functions
of the PIU are: (i) preparation and evaluation of bidding documents for the procurement of civil
- 21 -



works, goods and services; (ii) supervision of construction works and ensure quality control of the
works being carried out with the assistance of local and international specialists; (iii) provide
guidance and supervise water allocation procedures by oblast water management organizations
(OMO) and raion level water management and distribution organizations (Raivodkhozes) ; (iv)
facilitate the creation of water user associations; (v) identify implementation bottlenecks and facilitate
their resolution in a timely manner, seeking assistance of the PMU and the PSC as needed; and (vi)
prepare progress and M & E reports tracking the key project performance indicators.
Ensuring qualitv of zovernance and adequate management capacitv: The PMU is being assisted by
international specialists in the areas of procurement, finance and accounts; which would be continued
during the first year of implementation of this project, with possible extension, as deemed necessary.
Currently, an international auditing firm is carrying out the review of the finance and accounts of the
Farm Privatization Support Project, and the implementation of the findings are expected to enhance
transparency and use of funds for intended purposes. The project has placed a large emphasis on
capacity building, not only in the areas of project management, but also in technical, social,
environmental, land and water resources management areas - through a combination of short to
medium term technical assistance and in-country and foreign training programs.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The PMU would be responsible for all procurement activities for the project. Currently, PMU is assisted
by an international Procurement Specialist and Procurement Assistant (PA). The PMtU has maintained
proper records and documentation for the procurement and contracts procured to date, established an
automated procurement monitoring system. However, procurement assessment rates Tajikistan as a
high-risk country, as the country's procurement legislation is unclear, lacks harmony and consistency and
the overall uncertainty and security considerations have reduced the number of international firms,
businesses and companies operating in the country. The general procurement environment in which the
PMU operates is not conducive to fair and transparent procurement processes, and therefore, the prior
review thresholds recommended are those applicable to a high-risk country. During negotiations,
agreement was reached on the following: (i) mandatory publication of the General Procurement Notice
every year of the project implementation period when ICB procurement be undertaken; (ii) systematic
and proper filing of all contract documents, organized by individual contracts; (iii) ensure
confidentiality of contract documents, especially during the procurement process until all the clearances
are obtained and the final award of the contract has been awarded; (iv) keep up to date the list of those
countries which are not eligible to participate in IDA financed projects ( the current list of these
countries was provided to the negotiating team from the Government and subsequent updates will be
provided as and when carried out); and (v) to seek advice as and when necessary on all procurement
related matters from the IDA team.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management risks for Tajikistan have not been the subject of a detailed review by IDA.
However, primarily because of other implementation considerations, any weaknesses that may exist in the
financial accountability and management capacity within Tajikistan have been mitigated for this project by
using the PMU of the FPSP, and by using international auditors for the audit of the project. Specific
weaknesses of the PMU in respect of its financial management capacity and accountability are being
addressed by the internationally recruited financial management consultant. Weaknesses in the Tajikistan
banking sector will be mitigated by the use of a bank deemed eligible by the IDA to hold the project's
Special Account. However, these weaknesses neither compromise the fiduciary responsibilities of the
Borrower nor of the Association.
- 22 -



5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Justification/Rationale for category rating: The Environmental Assessment carried out for the project
area, identified the following environmental issues: (i) disposal of solid wastes such as old worn out gates,
impellers, transformer oil, cables, excavated sediments from irrigation and drainage canals and damage to
natural vegetation that may possibly be caused by contractors during rehabilitation activities of the
infrastructure (ii) ineffective water conveyance in the off-farm system causing water logging and water pool
leading to mosquito breeding; (iii) possible increase in areas affected by water-logging leading to soil
salinization, caused by inefficient off farm irrigation conveyance system, on-farm water management and
clogged drainage systems; and (iv) possible pollution of river water. The proposed project would have a
positive impact on these problems. Improvements in the irrigation and drainage infrastructure would allow
a more efficient conveyance and use of water, a better control of the groundwater table and drainage water.
Improvements in the institutional capacity to provide adequate and timely operation and maintenance would
improve the on-farm water management in the project areas. No new canals or structures that would allow
increase in the water diversion or delivery capacity are envisaged. The proposed project does not include
any investments in dams or involve resettlement of people. Funds have been provided in the project for
implementation of a comprehensive monitoring program to monitor any impact the irrigation and drinking
water facilities would have on surrounding areas and to mitigate any negative impacts (see below in Section
5.2). In these circumstance the project has been classified as Category "B" for the purpose of OP 4.01.
There is need for monitoring the possible direct and indirect impact of the rehabilitation and
development of the infrastructure under the project. The important direct negative impact such as solid
wastes, dumping of excavated sediments from irrigation and drainage canals and damage to natural
vegetation that may possibly be caused by contractors during rehabilitation activities of the infrastructure.
The indirect impact that may emerge in the use of pesticides by the privatized farms that may increase from
the present depressed levels utilizing the reliable irrigation facility under the project. The use of fertilizers
and agro-chemicals, which currently is very low, is likely to increase in future, when the intensive
agriculture will be practiced when the farm sector returns to higher profitable levels. This is likely to result
in increase in water pollution and contamination, but not to past levels due the introduction of advisory
services under the ongoing FPSP that should lead to the adoption of improved and environmentally sound
technologies, including integrated pest management (IPM) techniques. more judicious use of fertilizers,
agro-chemicals. During the rehabilitation works the construction impacts will be negligible and possible
environmental damage caused by contractors during construction would be avoided through proper clauses
in the tender documents and monitoring during implementation. The Environmental Management Plan
(EMP) has been incorporated with a comprehensive monitoring plan, and is available in the Bank's
Infoshop. During project negotiation, agreement was reached on the measures to be taken by the
Government for meeting the requirements of the EMP and for involvement of the local community and
stake holders at the Jomoat Hukumat, oblast and State levels during project implementation.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The main features of EMP include detailed description of the mitigating measures for any potential
negative impacts that are described in the previous section. Continuous review and monitoring of the
environmental indicators by carrying out periodic analysis of the irrigation water, soil quality and the
drinking water in accordance with the standard practices. For this purpose, the project has made adequate
provision of funds to strengthen the regional chemical laboratories at Dushanbe, Kurgantubpe, and
Khojhand with the required equipment for conducting periodic analysis of the water and soil samples.
The project also has made provision for training staff of the Regional Chemical Laboratory of the Ministry
of Environment and Natural Resource Management (ME & NRM) and the Regional Water and Soil
- 23 -



Chemical Laboratories of the MIWR in modem rapid methods in conducting analysis of the soil,
irrigation & drainage water samples. The drinking water will be periodically tested, at the source, for the
total Coliforms and E-coli using  WHO methods to detect whether the potable water source is
contaminated. The EMP also contains key mitigating measures against the potential negative impact such
as noise, dust, solid wastes, dumping of excavated sediments from irrigation and drainage canals and
damage to natural vegetation that may possibly be caused by contractors during construction activities.
The EMP has been incorporated with a comprehensive monitoring plan, which has been submitted to the
Bank's Infoshop. The EMP has been annexed to the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
The identified items for mitigation measures are: (i) disposal of solid wastes such as old wom out
gates, impellers, transformer oil, cables, excavated sediments from irrigation and drainage canals and
damage to natural vegetation that may possibly be caused by contractors during rehabilitation activities of
the infrastructure; (ii) possible increase from agrochemical pollution and surface water contamination,
resulting from increased use of pesticides and fertilizers, along with improved availability of irrigation
water, would be addressed by agricultural advisory services that are being established under the ongoing
Farm Privatization Support Project.
Items (i) would be addressed during the execution of works and supervision. Contractors would
be required to prevent, minimize or mitigate environmental damage. Sediments and other debris would be
displaced in an orderly manner, rather than dumped indiscriminately. There would be reuse of suitable
excavated materials, limiting the need for old and new quarries. Where possible, existing quarries would be
used for required additional materials. Contractors would also have to restore to quasi-original condition
the landscape after completion of rehabilitation works and after use of quarries. The Raivodkhoze, PIU,
PMU staff will keep a constant vigil on the compliance to these contractual obligations to observe the
environmental precautionary clauses.
Item (ii) would be addressed by the specialists of the FPSP extension and advisory services, as well
as training in proper application techniques, timing and handling of residues of fertilizers and pesticides. It
is anticipated that since subsidized inputs will no longer be available, the actual use of pesticides, chemicals
and fertilizers would not be used indiscriminately, as before independence. The extension and advisory
services is expected to educate the farmers on the integrated approach to pest management (IPM), more
judicious application of fertilizers, and agro-chemicals to keep the negative impact of increased input use to
a minimum. The environmental specialist of the PMU, the Director PIU, Raivodkhoze engineering staff,
would review the results of the water and soil samples analysis periodically and report to the Project
Steering Committee. They are also represented in the annual environmental seminars of local NGOs and
Civic Society for discussions.
The project EMP adequately addresses all the elements of environmental protection
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: on March, 27, 2000,
The EA Report and EMP have been submitted to the Bank's Infoshop. They are available for the public,
on demand, from the office of the PMU office located at 44, Rudaki Avenue, Dushanbe; and in the office of
the Director PIU located in MIWR in Dushanbe.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
- 24 -



The consultants engaged by the PMU for EA along with the ME & NRM local staff held series of public
consultations between December 1, 1999 and February 15, 2000 at the Moholla and Jamoat level in each
of the project raions. The borrower also held a public consultation at the state level in Dushanbe on
February 29, 2000.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The raion level trained staff of Raivodkhoz will periodically, before the crop planting season and after
crop harvest (every April and September ), collect soil samples from selected and designated
(statistically randomized) command area farms, and drainage water samples will be collected from the
selected points by the ME & NRM. These samples will be tested on site and also will be sent to the
regional water and soil chemical laboratory of their respective jurisdiction in, Dushanbe, Kurgantubpe
and Khojhand for detailed analysis. These test results would be sent to PIU, MIWR and the ME &
NRM.
The division for environmental analysis and management within the MIWR  responsible for
environmental aspects of the irrigation projects will coordinate and review the test results received from
these laboratories with ME & NRM as per the procedures and guidelines for environmental standards
and provide recommendations on environmental parameters for mitigation of negative impacts, if any.
Besides this ME & NRM staff would independently supervise and conduct periodic specialized
inspections to monitor for protection of water, land, air, fauna and flora, and report to oblast,
municipal, raion environmental committees. ME & NRM engineers will also periodically inspect for
the environmental aspects of the construction works at site.
The project provides for the laboratory equipment and operational expenses for monitoring the
environmental parameters during the duration of the project. Details of the institutional arrangement
for the collection of periodic water and soil samples and feedback mechanisms are illustrated in chart 1
of the EMP. The Environmental Advisor in the PMU would be responsible for strictly following the
environmental protection clauses in the contract Bid Documents so that all the works executed under
the project conform to the environmental regulations. The Environmental Advisor in the PMU and
the ME & NRM would review the periodic reports of the Raivodkhoz engineers, NGOs, news media
reports during the execution of rehabilitation/ construction works with regard to noise, dust, improper
disposal of solid wastes and loss of vegetation and would recommend appropriate mitigation measures
to restore the environmental conditions and in the event of severe damages would issue direction for
change of construction regime and/or stop the work.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The key stakeholders in this project are: (i) the various types of farming organizations which continue to
emerge as a result of the privatization of former state and collective farms, such as individual or group
family farms, dekhan farms and associations, joint stock companies, etc; (ii) mahallas (neighborhood) and
other community leaders; (iii) Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources (MIWR), regional and raion
level water distribution and supply organizations; (iv) rayon- and jamoat-level municipalities; and (v) the
rural population in the project area. During the preparation of the project, a rapid rural appraisal was
carried out in two of the project raions, viz. Leninsky and Kholkhozabad. The main findings were: (i)
without irrigation water, most of the economic activity would come to a virtual standstill and that water
was essential for the survival of the people; (ii) almost all the direct beneficiaries were sufficiently
- 25 -



motivated to contribute towards the cost of operation and maintenance of the works in order to ensure the
timely availability of adequate supplies of water as needed for agricultural production; (iii) realization of
the enormity of the challenges faced by the newly emerging farmers to adjust to a privatized farming system
and to form new forms of organizations based on mutual trust; and (iv) the need to build new on-farm
irrigation infrastructure and to prepare additional tertiary and field canals. This was followed by detailed
social assessments, which have been carried out by local specialists who have been trained in SA
methodologies by Bank staff.
The SA consisted of a series of semi-structured interviews with: (a) water providers and users,
viz., MIWR, local governments, state and collective farms, and dekhan farm associations to assess their
needs, capacity and willingness to participate in the project; (b) conmmunity leaders to establish a
socio-economic profile for each of the project areas. Also, a socio-economic survey of 400 rural
households was undertaken to gather information on demographics, irrigation and drinking water use, and
agricultural production.
At the household level, the SA found a number of significant problems: i) inadequate utilities
(electricity, water, garbage collection), ii) unemployment, iii) salary, social allowance and pension arrears,
and iv) quality and/or cost of health and education services. In Zafarabad rayon, residents were concemed
about the economic and social impact of the border closing with Uzbekistan. Most respondents feel that
their socio-economic situation has deteriorated since the collapse of the Soviet Union but is improving since
the signing of the peace settlement in 1997. The SA also found that privatization is going well with only a
few problems: access to water and/or land causes most conflicts but effective dispute resolution
mechanisms exist, agricultural production is impeded by state-directed production decisions for cotton,
drinking water facilities and supplies are inadequate and of poor quality, and irrigation facilities suffer from
broken measuring devices, broken pumps, clogged canals and inadequate drainage. Severe irrigation
shortages exist in some areas due to pump failure or breakage of aqueduct. Most respondents are unhappy
with the current irrigation and drinking water systems and are willing to organize water user associations to
address problems. Overall, respondents living on or near privatized land seem to be more informed and
positive about the changes taking place. Conversely, those living on kolkhoz or sovkhozes tend to be more
suspicious and negative about their future.
At the community level, the SA found problems with: i) utilities (electricity, garbage collection),
ii) social services (health and education), iii) salary (especially for teachers), social allowance and pension
arrears, and vi) infrastructure (roads), vii) outmigration, viii) significant war damage, ix) constrained
access to agricultural inputs, x) inadequate health care xi) poor education, and xii) underdeveloped
trade/marketing infrastructure. Conflicts associated with land and/or water on farms are settled by the
dekhan association, kolkhoz or sovkhoz. Most community leaders are open to the idea of setting up water
user associations, though they are not clear on how they would work in practice. Initially contributions of
labor not cash were suggested.
At the institutional level, lack of funds and spare parts at the MIWR limit its functions of water
O&M, cost-recovery and regulatory oversight and enforcement. Due to severe budget and technical
constraints, most Raivodkhozes are in favor of the creation of water user associations to operate and
maintain on-farm infrastructure.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The active involvement of the different types of stakeholders would be continuously sought to increase local
ownership of the project activities, management and use of project resources. The main emphasis would be
in the creation of water user groups and associations through participatory methods, which would require
intensive training and regular follow up by local and intemational WUA specialists. Direct involvement and
- 26 -



consultation with the farming community would be encouraged in the identification of key problem areas in
the design and implementation of field experiments, demonstrations, etc, which are to be carried out by
Tajikistan University of Agricultural Sciences and Tajikistan Land and Water Resources Management
Institute. Methods and procedures would be designed to ensure that local communities and farmers who are
willing to contribute in kind or cash in the rehabilitation of I and D works and village water supply facilities
are given priority to participate in the implementation of the project. The close linkage with the activities of
the FPSP, especially through the information and advisory services centers in each of the project raions is
expected to increase the awareness of the largely ignorant rural community about their rights and
responsibilities, new forms of organizational mechanisms being supported by the project, etc, as informed
stakeholders is an essential element for effective participation by the rural project beneficiaries.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The formation of an active NGO in the rural area devoted to agriculture sector is in the early formative
stage. However, the project team has involved the participation of civil society organizations and the
community leaders such as the maholla councils and the rais representing their communities in project
preparation and design. These civil society organizations and the community leaders will continue to be
involved through out the project implementation to ensure social sustainability and the effectiveness.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The social development activities essentially focused on: involvement of Stakeholders in the project
development process; analysis of water users' interests, aspirations and constraints; analysis of water
providers, i.e., institutions that are involved in water and irrigation services that will have roles in the
Project; assessment of social and economic conditions of stakeholders in the project area; assessment of
stakeholders knowledge about, experience with and attitude toward irrigation rehabilitation and the
provision of village drinking water; evaluation of farmers' willingness and ability to maintain irrigation
systems; assessment of water users' ability and willingness to pay for water; assessment of water users'
motivation and willingness to participate in the formation of future WUAs; farmers' willingness to shift
agricultural production from single annual crop of either wheat or cotton, to multiple cropping and high
value plantation crops, for example - ahmonds/ pistachio/ peaches/ raisins etc.
The project provides for extensive involvement of the community in the project implementation.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Progress in the participatory processes, degree of involvement of the key stakeholders and performance in
terms of social development outcomes would be monitored and evaluated by periodic social assessment,
and discussed in public workshops and seminars. The main performance indicators which would be
monitored are:
*   Formation of water user groups and associations and who are taking increasing responsibility for the
operation and maintenance of tertiary and field level irrigation and drainage works
*   Ability of the new types of social organizations to work together as a group and ensure fair treatment
of all its members
*   Extent of transfer of responsibilities from MIWR to regional and raion level water organization, and
degree of reorientation of MIWR to policy planning, regulation and enforcement
*   Increase in economic activity in the project areas
- 27 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard Policies apply to the project?
'IN.' ...,''1,...........
O Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)              2] Yes O No
L Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04. GP 4.04)                      O Yes 1 No
O Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                       D Yes Z No
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        E Yes O No
O Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                     O Yes M No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     Il Yes M No
O Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                EI Yes 1 No
O Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                 II Yes Z No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50 BP 7.50. GP 7.50)      Ol Yes I No
El Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           El Yes M No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Please refer to Para 5.2 above
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability of the project would be achieved through the following measures:
(i) containing unit costs for material, labor and different types of works within the estimated amounts and
acceptable limits in the project by closely monitoring them during supervision and making timely
adjustments in technical design parameters and methods of construction, to the extent feasible, as this
would be a significant factor to rehabilitate all the infrastructure needed to provide timely delivery of
water to the entire project command area of 128,400 ha;
(ii) provision of training and technical assistance to the project management and implementation unit in
evaluation of contract proposals, monitoring and supervision, ensuring quality of works carried out by
the contractors meet agreed standards; etc.
(iii) simultaneous emphasis on institution development and capacity building in a variety of disciplines at
the state, oblast, raion and education and training facilities would contribute to sustainability by
promoting transparency, debate, need for consensus building, and consideration of various location
specific alternatives for the efficient use and management of limited financial resources;
(iv) adoption of participatory approaches in the establishment and functioning of Water Users' Associations
in the project areas, training and technical assistance to improve their ability to operate and manage the
water distribution of the secondary and tertiary canals of the irrigation system; set irrigation service
fees, collection procedures and use of these funds for intended purposes;
(v) close coordination with the Farmn Privatization Support Project in the project areas to promote
marketable long-term land lease rights, creation of private family farms, crop diversification and
marketing in the areas covered under RIRP;
(vi) providing support as needed through other projects and interventions to promote competition in the
processing and marketing of cotton enterprises, formulation and implementation of transparent
processes for price setting and informing seed cotton producers of cotton prices before planting season,
and ensuring adequate producer incentives - including written agreements between cotton farmers and
marketing intermediaries. These measures are expected to improve the profitability of cotton, which
despite the declining trend, continues to be a significant crop grown by farmers, increase the level of
- 28 -



cash income to farm families, and improve the prospects for the realization of the progressive cost
recovery of 0 & M of irrigation and drainage works; and
(vii) accelerating the processing of subsequent projects on post privatization credit and rural development
to provide complimentary services to the project beneficiaries.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Supportive and facilitating environment     S         Hard budget constraints are making this happen,
for independent functioning of water                  but resistance to change from local
supply and delivery organizations                     administrators could be expected - which would
be dealt with through continued dialogue,
demonstrating the benefits of decentralization,
wide information dissemination, consensus
building and encouraging participatory
approaches.
Unstable political environment, violations  S         Continued acceptance of recent Presidential and
of peace agreement and civil disturbances             Parliamentary elections by the public and
continued support by international and bilateral
organizations for restoring macro-economic
stability.
Farm incomes do not rise as rapidly as      H         Introduction of new types of agricultural
envisaged, thereby decreasing possibilities          technologies, crop cultivation practices which
for reasonable levels of cost recovery                are being supported under the FPSP;
required for 0 & M                                    continuation of Government' s reform program
to completely liberalize the cotton sector,
accelerate privatization of cotton ginneries, and
align cotton producer prices with border prices.
From Components to Outputs
Timely implementation of acceptable         S         Continuous training on-the-job and during
quality of project works                              missions in latest IDA procurement and
disbursement procedures; timely review of
technical specifications by internal and external
specialists as needed; periodic inspection of
construction works for quality in
(introduction of rewards or penalties for meeting
or not meeting standards); provision of
counterpart funds in the required amounts and
on time.
Contract enforcement between :(a) oblast    S         Supervision follow-up and active involvement of
and raion level water supply organizations           the Project Steering Committee in resolving
and WUAs for delivery of water; (b)                   contract problems; development of legal systems
private contractors and state agencies for            and institutions through other programs for fair
civil works                                           settlement of disputes.
- 29 -



Availability and recruitment of skilled      M         Continuous and timely training of skilled
specialists                                            specialists as and when needed in various
aspects of land and water resources management
and simultaneous implementation of the
institutional capacity building activities.
Setting of adequate level of irrigation      S         Gradual increase of price of water and energy
service fees, by WUAs, ability and                     prices for agricultural purposes, provision of
willingness of farmer's to pay to cover                intensive training to WUA's, strengthened record
O&M  costs                                             keeping, financial and management information
systems, intemal audit from the outset; and
information dissemination of collection rates,
use of funds, etc.
Overall procurement risk assessment          H         Provision for an internationally recruited
procurement specialist to work with the PMU,
training of PMIU local staff in international
procurement procedures, supervision and follow
up of project procurement activities.
Overall Risk Rating                          S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Deposit of an amount of US$50,000 (fifty thousand dollars) equivalent in local currency in the
project account in a local commercial bank, acceptable to IDA to meet the initial requirement
of counterpart funds for project implementation, (Section E, 2).
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
A. Disbursement Condition
Funds for the rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage works shall be made available only
if the Draft Water Code, which has taken into account the comments from the Association,
has been submitted to the Parliament for the establishment and functioning of WUA's and
this would be submitted within ninety (90 ) days from the date of project effectiveness
(Section B, 3 (ii)).
B. Counterpart funds and Cost Recovery Arrangements
(i) A line item shall be provided in the National Budget annually for the provision of local
funds required for the implementation of each of the project components, in accordance with
the agreed work program and budget (Section E,2).
(ii) The PMU and PIU shall ensure (i) the timely establishment of Water Users' Associations in
each of the project raions where the irrigation and drainage works are being undertaken; and
- 30 -



(ii) maintenance by each WUA of records in accordance with appropriate accounting practices
of their operations and financial conditions; (Section C); and
(iii) The PMU shall submit every six months beginning July 1, 2001, until the Project Closing
Date, a status report on the collection rate of the Irrigation Service Fee structure in the Project
Raions; full cost recovery of 0 & M shall be spread over a ten year period, and shall be
reviewed and adjusted annually in each of the project areas, based on a system of progressive
cost recovery for the operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage works and in the
interim, the funds required to cover the shortfall shall be reviewed every year, beginning in
year 2001, and made available from the project, as needed, (Section B, 3 (iii)).
C. Accounts and Audit
(i) The Borrower shall open and maintain a Special Account in a commercial bank acceptable
to IDA. The Association will, upon request, make an authorized allocation of US$ 0.5 million;
and initially, the allocation would be limited to US$ 0.25 million, until disbursements have
reached SDR 3.0 million, at which time the full authorized allocation could be claimed. (Annex
6).
(ii) The PMU will implement a time-bound action plan to strengthen the financial management
system to enable the PMU to prepare quarterly PMRs. Project funds shall initially be
disbursed under the Association will  established procedures, including Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). and a move to PMR-based disbursements would be made at the mutual
agreement of the Government and the Association once the PMU is familiar with the project's
monitoring aspects and is considered able to produce the PMRs in a sufficiently timely and
reliable manner. A change to PMR-based disbursements shall be considered by December 31,
2001 in accordance with the agreed time-bound action plan. The first full set of PMiRs would
be produced in respect of the period ending December 31, 2001 and quarterly thereafter;
however, PMRs indicating sources and uses of funds, uses of funds by project activity, project
cash withdrawals (disbursement) and special account statement would be produced in respect
of the period ending December 31, 2000 and quarterly thereafter (Section C, 4).
D. Management
The Project Management Unit and Project Implementation Unit would be maintained and
adequately staffed with qualified persons with the required skills and expertise needed for
project implementation, selected on a competitive basis and provided with performance based
incentives (Section C 4).
E. Implementation
(i) The PMU shall furnish to IDA, not later than December 1 of each year, a detailed annual
work plan for the calendar year and budget for each of the tasks being undertaken in the
project components for review and comments by the Association. Rehabilitation of irrigation
and drainage works would start in those areas where these structures are in immediate danger
of collapse, where private farnily farms are being created and operating are able to market
their produce in a timely manner and obtain fair and competitive prices and where the Water
Users' Associations can function effectively; following this, rehabilitation would be carried out
in other project areas in accordance with the agreed work plan (Section E, 4.2). and
- 31 -



(ii) The PMU and PIU shall ensure that timely measures and actions would be taken by the
Government to meet the requirements of the EMP and for involvement of the local community
and stake holders at the Jomoat  Hukumat, oblast and  state levels during project
implementation (Section E, 4.2);
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
(i) Project Management Unit would report to IDA on a half-yearly basis the status of the
agreed key monitorable indicators. (ii) A mid-term review would be undertaken in mid 2003 to
determine the lessons learnt and make appropriate changes, as necessary, in the project
objectives, scope and components. (iii) The PMU and PIU shall ensure compliance of the
project activities being undertaken with the environmental management and monitoring
requirements and shall submit an annual environmental status report by June 30 of each year
of project implementation. (iv) An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared
within six months of the IDA credit closing. (Section C, 4).
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
I 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Ll 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
5l 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
The project does not qualify for the PMR-based disbursement
ThiVuan  . Sampath  Kevin Cleaver                            i Kodera
Team  dader                        Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 32 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
TAJIKISTAN: RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
-   E  ; -   : - EKesy-Pei*iaEe              ; ;;; - :- -qduaiOm:                  - -;- -00
frI~   pfIO          b~v          lndIlatQ:  r- Moynitoisg a                                              ; alua1on -; t; al Auncai Q sriors
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Environmentally sustainable  Increase in soil fertility, water Environmental monitoring    Continued commitment at the
development and management quality, decrease in land   data from Ministry of      State, Oblast and Raion levels
of water and land resources   erosion, and overall efficient  Environment and other  for sustainable development as
use of land and water      organizations               outlined in Governmenfs
resources                                             letter of development policy
for sustainable agricultural
development
Stimulating economic growth Increase in per capita rural    Poverty surveys, Government Political and macro-economic
and reduction in rural poverty incomes in real terms and  statistics and country situation stability
employment rates, positive    updates from other national
changes in poverty profile in  and international agencies
project areas              and organizations
Project Development        Outcome I Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Increase overall water use    Increase  in:  (i)   water Periodic field surveys to test  Gradual rationalization of
efficiency in main and field   conveyance efficiency in main against benchmark data  water and energy pricing for
canals and reduce costs of lift and  field  canals (%), (b) during critical times of crop   agricultural purposes to reflect
irrigation                 pump-motor efficiency for lift season                  economic costs
irrigation schemes, (c) area
serviced with timely delivery
of water in optimal quantities,
and (d) increase in crop areas
not subject to water stress;
Decrease in : (a) amount of
water supplied from source
and water use at field level
from present levels, (b) unit
costs for supply of water in
TR/cum at headworks and at
field level in TR per irrigated
ha for various lifts for major
crops
Develop institutional      Adoption of suitable water    Publication of Government   Government's continued
capability in land and water   code which promotes     resolution of water code,  commitment to recognize
resources management       autonomous water user       periodic progress reports on   independent water
organizations;             institutional changes, review   organizations, roles and
MIWR transfers             of annual work plans of     responsibility; Demand based
responsibilities for planning   MIWR, progress reports on   selection of training programs
and management of main    training programs, annual    and provision of performance
water supply to Oblast and    work program, and        based incentives
raion organizations        supervision missions
Reorientation of MIWR to
policy planning and
enforcement of water laws and
regulations
- 33 -



Improve quality of drinking   Improvements in water    Periodic field testing of water Continued ownership of
water in selected villages  quality, increase in no. of  quality and reports from local community in the operation
households receiving safe  health authorities, PIU and    and maintenance of village
drinking water, reduction in  supervision missions     water systems
water borne diseases
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Rehabilitation of main     Physical indicators of civil    Periodic progress reports,    Implementation of acceptable
irrigation and drainage    works completed, e.g.km of   work programs and IDA     quality of project works;
infrastructure             canals rehabilitated, lined;    supervision reports    meeting contractual
nos. of pumps restored, water                          obligations between (i) oblast
control structures, drains,                            and raion level water supply
control structures, etc.;                              organizations and (ii) private
establishment of a transparent                         contractors and state agencies,
system of irrigation service                           timely procurement and
fees and progressive increases                         disbursement of funds,
in these fees, collection rates                        availability of counterpart
and achievement of full cost                          funds, setting of adequate
recovery over a ten year                              level of irrigation service fees
period; No. of water users                             by WUA's, ability and
paying the agreed irrigation                           willingness of farmer's to pay
service fees , amount collected                       to cover 0 and M costs,
in TR per agricultural season                         farmers receiving fair and
by each association                                    competitive prices and ready
availability of inputs, free
movement of goods without
interference across local, raion
and Oblast borders
Improvement in quality of    Number of independent     Monitoring and Evaluation    Community's ability to operate
drinking water in selected  community based village    reports and IDA supervision   and manage drinking water
villages                   water organizations, increase  reports                 schemes, and a supportive,
in level of community                                  facilitating environment
contributions and number of
families served
-34 -



Improvement in capacity of   Number of functioning,  Periodic progress reports    Timely availability of
land and water resources  independent and           from PMU and WUA's        qualified persons to be trained,
management institutions and  self-financing water   Periodic progress reports and  continued positive attitude to
training facilities       organizations and WUA's,   IDA supervision          learning new techniques and
number of persons trained in                       in transfer of knowledge, and
various disciplines, best                           acceptance by intended
practices in various training                       beneficiaries
and land and water resources
management methods,
adoption rates of improved
agriculture and irrigation
practices, number of facilities
rehabilitated, increase in the
number of multi-disciplinary
land and water management
programs and collaborations
among faculty and the
farming community
Efficient project management Meeting implementation  Work program and budget,   Timely resolution of
and implementation system,  targets set out in work  periodic project         implementation problems by
monitoring and evaluation    program within allocated    implementation status reports, Project Steering Committee,
budget, number of persons    Supervision mission reports  close coordination between
trained in procurement,                             PMU, PIU and MIWR,
disbursement, finance and                           retention of qualified staff in
accounting procedures;                              PMU and PIU
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
Rehabilitation of main    $16.04 million            Quarterly reports, on-site    No delays in appointment of
irrigation and drainage works                       inspection reports by quality  contractors and strict
control engineer, procurement enforcement of quality
and financial reports    standards and contracts,
trained and skilled persons to
collect, analyze and
disseminate required
information
Village Drinking Water    $1.52 million             PMU reports, and surveys    Communities will be able to
schemes                                                                       operate with the needed
autonomy and in a
participatory way
Institutional capacity building $3.55 million       PMU reports, Supervision    Selection of staff for training
mission                   based on merit and
competence, no political
interference
- 35 -



Project Management and   $2.89 million             Supervision mission      Competent staff will be
Implementation                                                              appointed to manage and
implement the project
activities, active role of the
Project Steering Committee in
review and approval of
bi-annual work program and
budget
- 36 -



Annex 2: Project Description
TAJIKISTAN: RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Background
Tajilistan's soils and climate give it a comparative advantage in production of grains, cotton and
other commercial crops. Tajik cotton yields were once among the highest in Central Asia, and the country
was an exporter of karakul, silk, and other agricultural products. However, in the past ten years Tajik
agriculture has been increasingly constrained by shortages of inputs, above all of irrigation water which has
been short during critical periods of crop growth. Largely as a result of water shortages, a large area of
agricultural land is no longer being used, and yields of major crops including cotton have been declining.
In this context, reforms that will secure the sustainability of irrigation are a Government priority.
The Government has initiated the process of land privatization and farm restructuring; has introduced water
fees to promote conservation (in May 1996); has initiatives underway to increase water charges to a level
that will recover costs of operation and maintenance; and is in the process of revising the Water Code to
incorporate the role of Water Users' Associations (WUAs) in management to assure the sustainability of
irrigation schemes. However, these initiatives will take time to implement. Apart from the introduction of
water charges, few reforms have yet effected change at the farm level. Land reform and farm restructuring,
still at an early stage, are taking place in an ad-hoc manner: many former state-owned farms have
nominally been converted into joint stock companies or associations, but there is little evident change in the
role of centralized management. Water fees are not yet at the level of cost recovery, and Water Users
Associations are still few and in their infancy. To assist the Government in its reforms, the Bank has
agreed to support a phased program of three projects to demonstrate effective and sustainable procedures
(Farm Privatization Support Project, Rural Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project - this project, and Post
Privatization Credit Project). All three are scheduled for implementation during the period 2000 to 2008.
The first of these projects is now in implementation and is supporting the reform program through issues
associated with farm privatization and management of on-farm irrigation and drainage (tertiary canals and
supply and drainage ditches). This, the second project, is to address the reform program through
interventions to rehabilitate off-farm infrastructure (primary and secondary canals) associated with
irrigation and drainage. The third will address post-privatization requirements of private farmers.
Irrigation System
Water. Tajikistan is well endowed with renewable water resources. Its total annual runoff is on the
order of 60 billion m3 (6 billion m3 in the Syr Darya basin and 54 billion m3 in the Amu Darya basin). On
a per capita basis, this amounts to 10,345 m3/year, a value on the same order of magnitude as that in the
USA and considerably exceeding the 6,650 m3/year available per capita in Switzerland. However, when
Tajikistan was a part of the former Soviet Union, arrangements were made to allocate the water of the Syr
Darya and Amu Darya basins among the Central Asian Republics. These arrangements allocate 38 billion
m3 of the annual flow of the Syr Darya basin (7%) and 86 billion m3 of the flow of the Amu Darya basin
(11%) to Tajikistan. As a result, Tajikistan has an actual water availability of 12.1 billion m3, or 2,068
m3 per capita per year, a level similar to that of Spain.
Land. The principal agricultural areas of Tajikistan are located in the flood plains of the
Kafinnigon, Vakhsh, Yaksu, Pyanj and Kyzylsu rivers, in central and southwestem Tajikistan, and along
the Syr Darya in the Leninabad oblast in northem Tajikistan. These areas have hot, dry summers and mild,
warm winters, and require irrigation during critical stages of growth in May and June if used for
high-yielding agriculture. All project raions fall in climatic zones which require irrigation, as shown by
- 37 -



Table 2.1 (below). Water is short during critical periods of crop growth.
Table 2.1: Average monthly temperature in Project Raions, in C 0
Raions      January February March April May  June  July  August  Sept.   Oct.  Nov. Dec.   Max
Lenin            0.8     3.7   8.8  14.9  19.8  24.4  27.0   25.1    19.9   13.7   8.6   4.0    25.1
Gissar           1.0     3.7   8.4  14.7  20.0  24.9  28.1   26.6    21.7   15.5   9.3   4.3    26.6
Shahrinav        1.0     3.7   8.4  14.7  20.0  24.9  28.1   26.6    21.7   15.5   9.3   4.3    26.6
Yavan            2.1     5.3  10.5  16.3  21.5  27.3  31.0   29.6    24.3   17.2  10.6   5.5    29.6
Gozimalik        0.9     5.2  10.8  17.2  22.8  26.7  28.3   26.4    21.1   15.0   9.2   4.4    26.4
Kolkhozabad      0.4     5.0  10.3  17.1  23.5  28.0  30.0   27.4    21.5   14.5   8.2   3.5    27.4
Zafarobod       -1.8     1.8   8.2  15.1  21.2  25.6  27.5   25.2    19.9   13.1   6.4   1.8    25.2
Macho           -0.3     3.4   9.2  15.8  21.8  27.4  29.7   27.5    21.6   14.7   7.3   1.7    27.5
Distribution Preci itation  in Project Raions, (in mm)
Raions      January February March April May  June  July  August  Sept.   Oct.  Nov. Dec. Annaual
Lenin           66.0    73.0 116.0 113.0  75.0  17.0   0.0    0.0       0.0   21.0  51.0  63.0   595.0
Gissar          70.0    84.0 125.0 112.0  67.0  13.0   0.0    0.0       0.0   29.0  51.0  68.0   619.0
Shahrinav      70.0    84.0 125.0 112.0  67.0  13.0   0.0    0.0        0.0   29.0  51.0  68.0   619.0
Yavan          71.0    79.0 116.0 113.0  75.0  17.0   0.0    0.0        0.0   21.0  54.0  68.0   614.0
Gozimalik       43.0    43.0  68.0  50.0  23.0   5.0,  0.0    0.0       0.0    6.0  24.0  33.0   295.0
Kolkhozabad    30.0    30.0  46.0  34.0  25.0   3.0   0.0    0.0        0.0    4.0  18.0  23.0   213.0
Zafarobod       22.0    39.0  59.0  55.0  29.0   8.0   2.0    3.0       2.0   14.0  35.0  30.0   298.0
Macho           24.0    33.0  68.0  51.0  24.0   7.0   0.0    0.0       2.0   19.0  38.0  29.0   295.0
Irrigation in the Project Area. The eight project raions covered by the proposed project represent
three main administrative zones which represent three distinct agro-ecological regions in Tajikistan as
summarized in Table 2.2 below:
Table 2.2. Raions and command area under the project, by zone
Zones Oblast/Area              Command Area of the Project                 Raions
in Ha
1.  Raions  under    Republican                                          1. Shaharinav
Subordination (RRS)                                23,852                2. Lenin
3. Gissar
2. Khatlon Oblast                                                        1.Kolkhozabad
39,969                2.Yavan
3.Ghozimalik
3. Leninabad Oblast                                                      1. Macha
64,611                2. Zafarobod
Infrastructure. A total of approximately 720,000 ha of cropland are irrigated, of which about
370,000 ha are served by medium- to large- scale gravity flow irrigation projects. About 350,000 ha are
served by pumps which lift water from 1Om to 200m, and in a few cases still higher. High lift pumps are
found principally in Leninabad and Khatlon oblasts. While gravity irrigation schemes rely on a river intake
structure (headworks and/or diversion barrage) to divert flow into a gravity conveyance system for delivery
to the fields, pumped irrigation schemes lift water from rivers up to main canals at a higher level, or to pipe
conveyance systems. Some of the pump schemes used in Tajikistan, known locally as cascades, involve
- 38 -



pumping lifts of several hundred meters through a succession of staged pump stations. There are 445
pumping stations in the Republic comprising a total of 1,861 pump/motor units, or about four pump units
per station. Some statistics characterizing the network of irrigation canals are presented in Table 2.3:
Table 2.3: Network of Irrigation Canals in Tajikistan
Irrigated    total         canal types
Area   canal length Earth Concrete pipe Efficiency
Oblast/Region          Ha      Km   m/ha            %               %
Leninabad             267 000  9 568    36  42,2   28,9   28,9    63
Raions of Republican  325 000  6 568    20  34,8   32,4    32,8    65
Subordination
Khatlon               104 000  2 021    19  51,3   20,3    28,4    66
Gomo Badakhshan        24 000    127     5  78,7   8,3       13     57
Total:  720 000 18 284    25  40,8   29,1    30,1      64
Source: MIWR
These irrigation systems were originally well engineered, as demonstrated by the stability of most
canals, which are lined and have self cleansing velocities, and by the continued operation of control
structures and pumping stations, some of which have been in use for more than 30 years. Moreover, until
1992, irrigation infrastructure was maintained in relatively good order through adequate provision of
central funding. However, resources have declined drastically since then (the budgetary provision for
1998, about $4.2 million, was reportedly less than 10 percent of actual requirements). The lack of funds
for operation and maintenance is all too evident in the deterioration of infrastructure. Some radial gates,
gears, bearings, and other components of the head works, tumout gates and siphons have had no
maintenance for at least 15 years and have wom out. Many canals and pumping stations, originally
automated, no longer function automatically, causing inefficiencies in water delivery. While there is
generally sufficient construction equipment to undertake desilting work, operational funds are insufficient
even for the purchase of fuel to undertake this.
As a result, main system facilities providing water to the project farms have deteriorated overall
such that water supplies are reduced by 30 to 40 percent and sometimes water is not available at all during
critical demand periods. Moreover, the pumping stations are in bad shape. Even when water is available
in the main facilities, on the average only three out of five pumps are now working in a typical pumping
station - and these require constant repairs, which are difficult as the funds needed for spare parts are
wanting. Most turnout gates to the tertiary channels are not functioning properly and will need to be
repaired or replaced.
Rural Water Supply System
A large share of the rural population still have no access to clean, treated dninking water. At the present
time, about 20 percent of the rural population has been supplied with clean domestic water supplies, treated
with chlorine. The remainder obtain their drinking water from untreated canals, rivers or tube-wells, which
are often contaminated by sewage and agricultural chemicals. In most communities, water is provided
either through a piped distribution network using public standpipes or else from hand pumps drawing water
-39 -



from wells. (These systems also supply the water requirements for livestock.) Many pumps and pipes are
broken. In some raions where water is especially scarce, water is supplied to communities by road tanker.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$16.04 million
Rehabilitation of main farm irrigation and drainage works
The irrigation and drainage systems of the project area were examined in detail by international
engineering consultants to determine the investment requirements needed to keep these systems operational
for the next 8 to 10 years. This examination involved preparation of detailed engineering assessments of
the works required to rehabilitate, replace, and/or repair critical parts of the irrigation water delivery and
collector systems of the project farms. The results are based on assessment of the status of pumping,
irrigation and drainage systems, including head-works, canals, drains, structures, pump stations, access
roads and other infrastructure. For each site, the scope of works has been obtained from the NIWR at
Central, Oblast and Raion level; site assessment of the main infrastructure has taken place with attention to
principal problem areas highlighted by the Raivodkhoz staff and the farns; and results have been quantified
using MIWR field data supplemented by observations and measurements of the consultants. Cost
estimates were made using unit data derived by the consultants from MIIWR data, adjusted to reflect
current market rates. The requirements and scope of work for the systems supplying the project area are
discussed below. These are supported by detailed Bills of Quantities provided in the project PIP, and are
reflected in the detailed cost estimates.
I. Raions under Republican Subordination (RRS)
Leninsky Raion:
The following works are to be undertaken:
*   Repairs to the main headwork across the Dushanbe River for the BGK main canal, repair of the radial
gates, operational gears, equipment and controls;
*   Repair and replacement of motors, cables and other electrical equipment necessary for the operation of
the headworks;
*   Cleaning of the main canal to remove silt and also debris of Akkurgan and Chortut-2 canals,
*   Realignment of Akkurgan canal at the main Sakhovat Bazaar;
*   Rehabilitation of the closed section of the Dushanbe canal;
o   Construction of new water measurement stations;
*   Selective improvements to access roads along main canals with gravel surfacing;
*   Repair and protection of the first drop structure at Chainage 0-85; and
*   Construction of a new drop structure at Chainage 1+15.
Shahrinav & Gissar Raions
On Karatag Canal System:
*   Headworks repairs, replacement of the two radial gates, control equipment (both mechanical and
electrical) and ancillary equipment and outlet works;
*   Cleaning of silt and debris for most of the canal's length from Chainage 0+00 to 55 + 00, providing
uniform grade between structures & turnouts;
*   Trimming of the banks and side slopes to clearly define canal cross section;
-40 -



*   Protection of the main canal with gabions in exposed reaches along the Karatag river;
*   Repair and replacement of damaged lining;
*   Improvements to access/ inspection roads along main canal through provision of new sub-base in th
indicated specific problem areas and gravel surface in others.
*   Repairs and improvements of escape structures, cross regulators, tumouts and bridges, repair of all
gates, frames and rising spindles, renewal of seals and water-tight grooves;
*   Repairs to support piers, inlet and outlet protection works (aprons), and gate controls;
*   Improvement of access to gate controls;
*   Rehabilitation of Novabad Pump station supplying former experimental area;
*   Repairs and improvements to outlets to on-farm systems;
*   Construction of new water measurement stations.
Works under Chuzi Canal System:
*   Headworks improvements
*   Provision of a gabion protected diversion bund'
*   Construction of a new gated intake structure close to the diversion bund and the provision of an
overflow return spillway constructed from gabions. This will prevent flood flows from entering the
initial reaches of the main canal with subsequent heavy siltation, and will also facilitate the diversion of
river flows at times of low river stage;
*   On Chuzi main canal repairs and improvements for two main escape structures at Chainage 4+00 and
42+21;
3   Rehabilitation of siphon structures at Chainage 90+00 and 93+00;
3   Repairs and improvements to outlets to on-farm systems;
3   Construction of two new Cross Regulator Structures at Chainage 70+00 and 90+00;
3   Construction of one gate structure;
*   Construction of new water measurement stations;
3   Improvements to access/ inspection roads along main canal and gravel surfacing.
o  Cleaning of main collector drains comprising KI & K2 & 0 - M (along BGK);
*  Rehabilitation and desilting of cross drainage and outfall structures;
*  Repairs to Karatag Pump Station;
*   Repairs to the intake works, head regulator and pump station building at the Karatag New PS No. 1
supplying the New Karatag Cascade;
*   Desilting of the main collector (K-1) under BGK canal;
*   Improvements for the access road along BGK which facilities access both to BGK and the main
drainage systems.
II. Khatlon Oblast
Kolkhozabad Raion
*   Repairs to Kumsangir Pump Station;
*   Desilting of canals R-1-2-1;
*   Repair to pump station 2B and improvements to pump station 2b and R- 1-2-1;
*   Cleaning of silt from all canals R-1-1; R-1-2; R-1-2-1; R-1-2-2; R-1-2-3;
*   For the full length of the above canals, provide uniform grade between structures and turnouts;
*   Repair and replacement of damaged lining and renewal ofjoints;
*   Re-grading and excavation to correct grade and side slopes for channel to Pump station PS2C;
*   Improvements to access/inspection roads along main canal through provision of new sub-base and
-41 -



gravel surface in others;
*   Rehabilitation of Kumsangir main canal cross regulator that controls the supply to Pump Station No. 1
and the Kumsangir cascade - this will include the removaVrepair of all gates, frames and rising
spindles, the replacement of lining in the downstream stilling basin, the protection of the downstream
limit of the stilling basin and the reconstruction of the downstream transitions to the Kumsangir main
canal for 40 meters below the structure;
*   Repairs to support piers and re-plastering of exposed surfaces, inlet and outlet protection works
(aprons) and improvement of access to gate controls and improvements to outlets to on-farm systems;
*   Construction of new water measurement stations;
*   Repair and rehabilitation of pump station No.2, replacements of intakes, forebays, pump houses,
pumps, motors, electrical and ancillary equipment and delivery bays;
*   Cleaning and desilting of the GMK main canal;
*   Repair and extension of lined sections of the GMK canal wherever seepage is a problem;
*   Desilting of main canal from PSI to PS4, as well as repair and replacement of damaged lining and
provision of new lining in some specific areas - especially where the canal is in fill;
*   Refurbishment of cross regulators with repairs to all gates and control mechanisms;
*   Rehabilitation of all other main canal structures, five main collectors V-S-1, V- 1, V-2, and two main
drain outlet channels;
*   Replacements to intakes, forebays, pump houses, pumps, motors, electrical and ancillary equipment
and delivery bays for pump stations PSI, PS3 and PS5, which are three of the five pump stations of the
Guliston pump cascade.
Yavan and Ghozimalik Raions
*   For the PVMK, drainage improvements from the Yavan Tunnel outlet to reduce the damage being
caused to the left bank of the tunnel outlet channel to the main water distribution structure;
3   Repair of emergency escape structure to Yavan-Su from PVMK:
3   Repairs to right bank stilling basin, repair and provision of lining and the improvement of the
downstream protection to the structure with gabions and broken out concrete;
3   Repairs to aqueduct over Yavan-Su at Chainage 45+00: aqueduct will need repair and replacement and
the PVMK main canal will require desilting;
a  Repairs to the canal lining and aqueduct at Chainage 88+00, PVMK works, desilting of the main canal
and repair and relining of the main canal at Chainage 61+88;
*   Construction of new water measurement stations;
*   Provision of pump for small area at head of canal at Firdausi;
*   Cleaning of main collector drains K6 and KS;
*   Pump stations - PSI and cascade, PS2, PS3, PS4 and PS7;
*   Removal of silt from all canals R-0-2, R-2-1, R-2, R-2-2, R-2-3, R-2-4, over the full length (the
average depth of silt is 0.6m);
*   Regarding of long slope of canal to ensure uniform grade between structures and turnouts;
*   Replacement of damaged lining and renewal of joints;
*   Repair to roads along main canal through provision of new sub-base in some problem areas and gravel
surface in others.
Yavansu Canal
*   Repair and rehabilitation of the Yavansu pump stations in the cascade;
*   Replacement of the delivery pipelines (one of the principal reported problems). As this is a high-cost
item, testing of the delivery pipes needs to be carried out to assess precise requirements;
*   Repairs to the delivery lines;
- 42 -



*   Improvements/ repairs/ replacements to intakes, forebays, pump houses, pumps, motors, electrical and
ancillary equipment and delivery bays at all of the pump stations except No.7;
*   Relocation of pump station No.7, which has suffered from land slides;
*   Repair and resurfacing with gravel of the access road to PS No.7; and pumps need to be refurbished
locally.
IH. Leninabad Oblast
All of the main canals of the irrigation systems in this oblast were built with linings. These were built to a
good standard and, in spite of a lack of routine maintenance, they have performed well, with only minor
repairs needed for the canal systems. On the other hand, the pump stations, gated structures and drains
require attention, and sub-surface and vertical drainage systems which equip some of the schemes have
fallen into disrepair. The project has opted for rehabilitation of the existing pumping stations rather than
installing new systems.
Macha Raion
The works envisaged include:
*   Cleaning/desilting of all main canals including VDK main canal and each of the main canals from the
pump stations DMK-1, DMK-2 and DMK-3;
a   Repairs to the concrete canal lining and joints for the complete length of the pump station main canals
and for selected sections of VDK, replacement of gated structures and replacement of the gated outlets
to on-farm canals for the whole length of main canal;
*   Selective improvements to access/ inspection roads along main canal;
*   Construction of new water measurement stations;
*   Cleaning of open collector drains VSK-1-5, VSK-1-4, VSK-lA, VSK-12, VSK-1, VSK-2 and the
Main Drain;
*   Repairs/replacements of the three groups of pump stations up the Dilverzin cascade, to include
*   desilting and repairs to forebays, trash racks and gates;
o  repairs and replacement of intakes and associated pipe work refurbishment of pump houses;
v replacement of pumps, motors and electrical and ancillary equipment;
v provision of non-return valves where necessary;
o   desilting and some repairs to pipe delivery pipe outlets, delivery bays and canal transitions;
*   Desilting of the main canals from the pump stations YMK-2; YMK-3; YMK-4; YMK-5; repairs to the
gated structures and the gated outlets to on-farm canals for the whole length of main canal;
*   Improvements to access/ inspection roads along main canal through provision of new sub-base and
gravel surface;
*   Construction of new water measurement stations;
*   Repairs/replacements to the five pump stations of four groups up the Yantak cascade to limited
pipeline replacement;
* Desilting and repairs to pipe delivery pipe outlets, delivery bays and canal transitions; and Repairs /
replacement to the transformer for Pump Station Yantak No.2.
Zafarabad Raion
The water delivery system supplying the command area in this raion is unique. Water is pumped from the
Syr-Darya diversion canal by the largest pump stations in the country, each with a capacity of 6 cubic
meters per second and an installed capacity of 8MW.
-43 -



Anticipated works include:
*   Cleaning/desilting of both main canals for the length from delivery bay to Kanz farm (an average
desilting depth of 0.5m);
*   Repairs to the concrete canal lining and joints for the length of the two main canals from the pump
stations to the Kanz farm, replacement of gated structures and of the gated outlets to on-farm canals
for the farm areas;
*   Improvements to access/inspection roads along main canal through provision of new sub-base and
gravel surface;
*   Construction of new water measurement stations;
*   Cleaning of open collector drains VD-5-5 & MK; repair of upstream culverts from MK and provision
of new gates; and installation of new equipment for vertical drains (new pumps and transformers are
required for wells and new pipe work from the submersible pump to the surface also required);
*   Cleaning and repair of pipe drains that take drainage water from the vertical drains to the collector
MK; cleaning and repair of pipe drains that connect the two collectors (five No. length of 4400m); and
subsurface outfalls to the main collector MK; and cleaning and repair of observation wells;
*   Desilting and repairs to approach channels, forebays, trash racks and gates;
*   Repairs and replacement of intakes and associated pipe work refurbishment of pump houses;
*   Repairs/replacements of pumps, motors and electrical and ancillary equipment;
*   Desilting and repairs to delivery pipe outlets, delivery bays and canal transitions; construction of new
cross regulators at the intakes from the main collector drain;
*   Provision of equipment and spare parts to enable the repair of the existing equipment and to
replenish required spare parts and consumables for pumps and motors in pump stations GNS1,
DVGNS, GNS2, and GNS3. (The objective is not complete refurbishment of the respective
pump stations, but rather provision of required spare parts such as main bearings for the
pumps and other wearing parts to ensure that they do not break down during the peak
irrigation periods.)
Project Component 2 - US$1.52 million
Rehabilitation of Village Drinking Water Services:
The objective of this component is to ensure that drinking water of acceptable quality is supplied in
a cost-effective, affordable, environmentally sound way to rural communities. Supply of clean drinking
water is an issue of vital importance for Tajikistan's rural population. Formerly, some state farms
operated treatment systems for farm communities and villages; however, these systems usually do not
operate any longer, as a result of neglect and lack of maintenance. Currently, it is estimated that
three-quarters of farm communities in the project areas obtain drinking water from irrigation canals. They
are experiencing significant health problems as a result.
This component would help to transform the present system into a community-managed system by
supporting five pilot centers for drinking water supply within the project area. While the ownership of
infrastructure would remain public, operations and management would rest with elected community
representatives. The component is to be implemented in a demand-driven, participatory way in order to
maximize the efficiency and effectiveness of the new system.
These villages were selected based on criteria including clear need, support from the local
community and administration and written commitment by the communities. The component would be
implemented through Village Water Organizations (VWOs). Each VWO is to have an independent status
- 44 -



and carry out its activities on the basis of self-financing and self-management, in accordance with a charter
developed in conformity with the law "On Association" of the Republic of Tajikistan. Each VWO will
have an executive board, comprised of a full-time chairman and four other members, elected by the village
community for periods of three years.  The chairman will be assisted by staff, including a
mechanic/operator, an accountant and an office manager. The office manager will manage the whole
activity of the VWO and will be accountable to the Chairman, who bears full responsibility for the
operation and activity of the VWO, gives approval to the works, and issues orders and instructions
obligatory for all employees. The chairman and staff of the VWO will manage infrastructure operations.
These arrangements take into account experience gained from recent developments in other areas of
Tajikistan (IDA poverty relief and emergency assistance projects [ongoing] and EU-TACIS [completed]).
These experiences have taught two consistent lessons: First, the quality of leadership is essential for a
successful VWO; second, villagers can not make cash payments in advance at the beginning -- to be
successful, arrangements must allow for in-kind (labor) contributions initially.
Works undertaken would involve either (i) installation of bore-holes and reticulation to stand
pumps in the villages; or (ii) pumping from rivers or canals and treating the water before reticulation. Cost
estimates for these centers are based on detailed engineering proposals for each.
The following activities would be undertaken:
-   Construction of tube-wells with submersible pumps in Akkurgan village of Leninsky raion;
*  Construction of tube-wells with submersible pumps in all the nine villages in Macha raion and in all the
seven villages in Zafarabad raion;
i Rehabilitation of pump unit in the existing water supply pump station in Firdausi farm village;
*  Construction of a new pump station in Ittifok farm village;
i  Laying the main water delivery pipelines in Kulabad village of Yavan raion and in the three villages of
Kolkhozabad raion, i.e. Rokhi-Lenin, Suyunabad and Yangiabad. (Details in Table 2.4).
Inspection of Works
All completed works shall be inspected by Raivodkhoze. When they are certified as satisfactorily
completed, they will be legally conveyed to the VWO. These steps will be taken before the last payment is
made to the contractor. A sub-project completion report shall then be co-signed by the community and the
Raivodkhoze to indicate that they are satisfied with the completed works. A guarantee period of I year will
be provided for major civil works and equipment.
Operations and Maintenance
Operations and maintenance will be the sole responsibility of the community (through the VWO). However,
backstopping technical services will be provided by the Raivodkhoze and the PMU. Depending on the
requirements of the VWOs, these services could include: (i) training of the communities in operations and
maintenance of the new facilities; (ii) training of area mechanics to carry out installation and repair; (iii)
ensuring the availability of spare parts for pumps; (iv) promoting and establishing linkages to other support
facilities; and (v) support for service management contracts.
-45 -



Table 2.4: Summary Estimates for the Pilot Centers for Providing Drinking Water
Center 1. Estimates for Akkurgon Village ofLeninsly Raion
Type of work                                Unit        Quantity
1     Drilling works, pipe placement ,Bore-hole of I 0 M                    no.         2
2     Installation of pump, transforner, electricity lines                  set          2
3     Grid barrier around well, including the materials                     m           260
4     Water analysis building with equipment                                set          2
5     Access road from gravel-sandstone mixture                             km          0,6
6     Auxiliary building, including cost of materials                       no.          1
7     Lavatory, including the cost of materials                             no.          1
8     Excavation by machinery                                               m3          2900
9     Installation of steel pipes (diameter 159 mm)                         km           2,9
10    Installation of intake taps                                           no.          II
11    Cost of intake taps                                                   no.         i I
12    Design works                                                          Contract
Ce ter 2 Estimates for Kulabad village. Firdausi Farm. Yavan Raion
Type of work                                 Unit       Quantity
I     Installation of pump 105/147 in set with electric engine,             no.         1
2     Installation of hydro-mechanical electric equipment,                  set
3     Excavation by machinery                                               m3           5300
4     Installation of steel pipes (diameter 159 mm) and materials           km           5,3
5     Installation of intake taps                                           no.          24
6     Cost of intake taps                                                   no.          24
7     Installation of disaffection facilities, including materials          no.          1
8     Design works                                                          Contract   I
Ce. ter 3. Estimates for Rohi Lenin, Suyunobod. Ittifok village of l alkhozabat I Raion
Type of work                                                         Unit         Quantity
I     Installation of assembly reinforced concrete construction (wall       m3           150
boards, ceiling slab, columns, repairs to roof, other works) of
pumping station
2     Installation of pump CNS 180/225 in set with engine, including        no.          3
the cost of equipment
3     Installation of hydro-mechanical equipment, including                 set         3
equipment cost
4     Concrete lining                                                       m3           40
5     Excavation by machinery                                               m3           5000
6     Installation of steel pipes (diameter 273 mm) with hydro-             kim          5
isolation, including the cost of materials
7     Installation of transformer E-I - 160/1 0,                            set          1
8     Roofing                                                               rn2         281
9     Painting works                                                        m2           216
10    Installation of intake taps                                           no.          19
11    Cost of intake taps                                                   no.          19
12    Installation of bacteriological facilities                            set         2
13    Design works                                                          Contract   1
-46 -



Center 4. Estimates for 9 villages of Ex-Ch. Ergachev Farm in Matcha Raion
Type of work                                            Unit       Quantity
I    Drilling works, pipe placement, including the cost of materials    No:.  3
(hole depth = 110 meters)
2    Installation of pump, transformer, electricity lines and other  set  3
equipment
3    Grid barrier around well, including the cost of materials  m        3903
4    Excavation by machinery                                  m3         4000
5    Installation of steel pipes (diameter 159 mm) with hydro-  km       4
isolation, including the cost of materials
6    Installation of intake taps                              no.        21
7    Cost of intake taps                                      no.        21
8    Acquiring and installation of bacteriological facilities  set      2
9    Design works                                             Contract
Center 5. Estimates for 7 villages of Kanz Farm, Zafarabad Raion
Tyoe of work                                            Unit      Ouantity
1     Drilling works, pipe placement, including the cost of materials    m  3
(hole depth = 150 meters)
2     Installation of pump, transformer, electricity lines and other  set  3
equipment
3     Grid barrier around well, including the cost of materials  m      390
4     Excavation by machinery                                 m3        4800
5     Installation of steel pipes (diameter 219 mm) with hydro-  km     4,8
isolation, including the cost of materials
6     Installation of intake taps                             no.       2,3
7     Cost of intake taps                                     no.       2,3
8     Acquiring and installation of bacteriological facilities  set     l
9     Design works                                            Contract  I
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.55 million
Institutional capacity building for improved land and water resources management
(A) Improvement of management and operations of main water supply organizations ((pumping
stations, head-works to main and secondary canal systems): At the water intake level, the oblast water
management organizations (Obijineniya Mashinnogo Orosheniya - OMO) are responsible for pumping
water from its source to the main distribution system. These organizations are located at Dushanbe,
Kurgontube and Leninabad. In the raions, the water distribution and management organizations
(Raivodkhoz) are responsible for ensuring the supply of water to the end-users. Both the OMOs and the
Raivodkhozes would be strengthened by activities under this sub-component, which will improve their
record keeping, monitoring, analysis of supply and demand, setting of water rates, collection of water
charges. The sub-component will help to clarify operations and maintenance rules; organizational
regulations and procedures; agency roles, responsibilities and authority; and performance incentive
programs. The sub-component would provide communications and office equipment and office supplies.
Staff would be trained and exposed to new methods of water management, planning and allocation; as well
as the design, economics and finance of multi-purpose water resources projects; and cost recovery
mechanisms.
- 47 -



(B) Establishment of WUA's at the field systems level (tertiary systems):
Support for formation of WUAs:
The project would support the creation of a Water Users' Association (WUA) for each unit of
1000 to 1500 ha of contiguous farnland in the project area to operate and manage the field level (tertiary)
irrigation and drainage systems. The main functions of these WUAs would be to operate and manage field
level irrigation and drainage systems, collect water charges from beneficiaries, and pay for services of the
raion-level water management organization. Establishment of each WUA would be a "bottom up" process
which would take into consideration the views and desires of the water users, selecting the arrangements
that would work best in that location. The project would provide the needed training, technical assistance
and start-up facilities to establish the WUAs. Courses that would be provided for WUAs will include the
following:
*   Training of Trainers - To develop trainers who can propagate the training program.
*   WUA Promotion Seminars - To introduce farmers to WUAs as a solution to the need for a sustainable
institution to operate and maintain on-farm irrigation.
*   WUA Support Functions - To train oblast and raion irrigation department staff on how to provide
support services for WUAs. These courses will focus on the technical, management and administrative
needs of WUAs.
-   Irrigation Improvements - To strengthen the capability of oblast and raion technical staff to work with
WUAs on planning viable improvements to irrigation systems.
*   Conflict Resolution - To teach staff concemed with WUAs at the oblast and raion levels how to
address conflicts within the WUAs, and to develop skills for conflict resolution.
   WUA Governance/Administration - To provide to WUA Councils and staff the skills needed for WUA
management, including budgeting, personnel management and office administration.
-   WUA Financial Management - To train WUA accountants in such needed skills as use of the
standardized WUA bookkeeping system, estimation of WUA operations and maintenance costs, and
working with local suppliers and contractors.
*   WUA Operations - To train operational staff in staff management, budgeting, deternination of water
supplies, and estimation of water requirements.
-   WUA Maintenance - To teach on-farm irrigation maintenance techniques, techniques of budget
estimation and how to formulate short- and long-term maintenance programs.
Support for WUA Law in Water Code. A new Water Code is under review, and is proposed for
submission to Parliament soon. MIWR is in the process of drafting a specific WUA law, because the
present water laws do not address the new case of non-profit farmer govemed associations. The Ministry
of Justice has noted that Tajikistan will need such a law to provide a legal basis for the responsibilities of
WUAs. The law being drafted draws on the experiences of other Central Asian republics, including
Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan. Evidently, the formation of legal WUAs is an important
element to the FPSP and RIRP, and so adoption of the new law will be promoted by the PMU staff, by
providing the assistance of an intemationally recruited specialist in organizing WUAs including the
suggestions for the amendment to the water code and in drafting the law on WUA law. Intemationally
recruited specialist will also provide necessary training to the MIWR, PIU, Raivodkhoze staff and as well
in organizing the promotion campaign to educate teach farmers on the WUA.
-48 -



Promotion Campaign for WUAs. Farmers in Tajikistan do not have a strong understanding of the role
played by WUAs in other countries, nor how WUAs can address the vacuum in management of tertiary
systems. Given Tajikistan's history and the lessons of Bank experience in Turkey, Ecuador, Nepal, China
and Mexico, it seems clear that a promotional program will be required to publicize the role of WUAs.
As a prelude to launching a national promotion campaign, it is important that staff of the PMU, PIU,
MIWR, and oblast and raion irrigation departments become thoroughly familiar with the Government's
vision of the role of WUAs in Tajikistan. (i) The first activity would be a one-day seminar to be held in
Dushanbe for senior policy makers in the Government. (ii) This would be followed by a one-day workshop
for staff from MIWR, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Agricultural University, the PMU and the PIU.
This workshop will provide an opportunity to learn more about WUAs, to study the governance structure
and approaches that have been used in other countries to ensure WUAs are both financially, technically
and institutionally sustainable, and to discuss how they would be organized in Tajikistan. (iii) That
workshop would be followed by three additional workshops, to be held in two Oblasts and Dushanbe , to
include staff from PIUs, oblast irrigation departments, and raion irrigation departments.  Topics to be
covered in the workshops would include:
* WUA organization and govemance including the role of the WUA Council;
*   WUA administration and the roles of the various staff members and training requirements;
*   Irrigation service fees and methods of calculating and collecting;
*   WUA accounts and book-keeping;
a   Irrigation systems operations, maintenance, improvements and water allocation and
*   WUA relationships with the Raion and Oblast Irrigation Departments.
Following these workshops, the promotion campaign is to be instituted project-wide, using videos, TV
spots, posters, audio-visual materials, brochures and other literature. Project staff and staff of the relevant
government agencies will assist.
In order to form WUAs that can be govemed and managed by a locally elected council and their
staff, the WUAs must be of manageable size. WUAs that cover very large areas or have multiple inlet
gates will be complicated to operate and will likely be taken over by local power elite, as management of
very large associations would not be transparent to the local electorate. Taking into account lessons
leamed in other countries, it is recommended that WUAs be co-extensive with former state and collective
farms, typically an irrigated area of 1,000 to 1,500 ha. As there were formerly about 600 state and
collective farns in the country, it is estimated that about 600 -700 WUAs will eventually be created.
(C) Strengthening the Tajik University of Agricultural Sciences
The project would support the TAU to provide education and training in multidisciplinary
approaches for land and water resources management, and encourage the interaction between technical and
non-technical specialties. This would be undertaken through the following activities:
(i) introduction of two new specialization in the Hydromelioration Department, designed to increase
the understanding of service oriented management and formation of water users. These are:  (a)
management of irrigation and drainage systems; and (b) erosion., soil and water conservation: topics would
include water user organizations, participatory methods, group formation, data base management in
agro-hydrology,  crop water modeling, pressurized irrigation systems, tradable water rights, asset
management; soil erosion, water conservation technologies;
(ii) upgrading the laboratories of the Hydromelioration department,
(iii) improve access to information and knowledge through the internet, periodicals, books, etc. and
-49 -



(iv) short and long term training in country and abroad for faculty in modem methods of land and
water resources management; economics,finance, environment, legal, organization and management.
(D) Establishment of the Tajik Land and Water Resources Management Institute
The project would support the development of applied research and training on sustainable land
and water resources management practices. This would be undertaken through the following activities:
(i) Applied research in the following areas:(a) development of crop coefficients to arrive at correct
estimates of crop water requirements and irrigation volumes in order to reduce water logging;(b)
development of surface run off under different types of land use and cultivation to calculate peak
discharges and sediment loss from a catchment; (c) establishment of design factors for furrow length and
furrow discharge in different types of soil in order to calculate suitable length, minimize tail end run off and
thus increase irrigation efficiency; (d) establishment of salinity tolerance of crops in various development
stages and establish leaching requirements for various crop-soil relationships. These topics would also be
used by MSc students for their thesis work.
(ii) Upgrading research facilities: The project would support the following:
(a) upgrading the meteorological station to provide reliable data for the establishment of
crop water requirements and in the estimation of water losses under different types of land use and
cultivation practices: the station would be provided with : Mechanical precipitation recorder,Standard rain
gauge, Wind path meter, Hut psychrometer, Thermo-hygrograph, Piche evaporimeter, Sunshine
recorder,Class A evaporation pan, Lysimeters
(b) hrrigation Experimentation Facility: this facility would be used to demonstrate the
principles of furrow irrigation, advance time, recession time, deep percolation etc. It would put into
practice the formulas used in the calculation of furrow design and other experiments
(c) Soil Physics Laboratory: The soil physics laboratory will be upgraded to establish soil
characteristics like, particle distribution, field capacity and wilting point, soil moisture content and
permeability. The following equipment would be provided: Soil moisture meter system Watermark, Set for
the pF-determination, sandbox method (pF 0 - 4.2), set for pF curve detennination, ceramic plates, Pipette
apparatus for the determination of cfay content, table model, Granular composition test set, Sand ruler,
Double ring infiltrometers, Tensiometers, Electronic Balances, Drying oven, Soil stirrer, Salinity meter,
Vane test apparatus, Hydraulic conductivity set model Hooghoudt, Air pycnometer, Permeability test set,
Electronic Balance, Soil sampling set for sampling different types of soil, and survey equipment set.
Project Component 4 - US$2.89 million
Project Management and implementation
The project would provide support to the PMU and PIU in the following areas: (i)
technical assistance in the areas of finance and accounting; procurement, monitoring and
evaluation, quality control of I & D works and structures; (ii) rehabilitation of offices; (iii) office
equipment and supplies; (iv) vehicles and (v) operating costs consisting of staff compensation,
communication, vehicle operating costs, utilities. The organizational arrangement of the PMU and
the PIU is shown in Chart 2.1.
- 50 -



Chart 2.1 - Rural Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
Organization Chart
Project Steering Committee
Chairman: Deputy Prime
M inister
PROJECT MANAGEMNT
- I,                                 t               S , : W-ivB '" UNIT
DIRECTOR                       - - - - - - -
K,                   _        _t    [PELT[ Ut_IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
DIRECTOR
. .. ... .. ...... .. .. .... ... ... ............ .........  .....   .......  .........  ..   ..................  . .   ......................   .......................  ...  .........  ..  .....  ..........  ...................  .......................   ........... ..... ... .....  ... ..    ...   .. .
H1              1      Oblast Irrigation                                 Oblast  Hgation
3               ~~~~~~Organization                                 Organization                                   Organization Kurgan -
O                 ~~~~~~~Khojand                                    Dushlanbe                                              Te Fpe
0) 1 1 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~F                                                                        1I1F1
Raion         ~Rajon                Raion              Raion                 Raion              Raion              Raion              Raion
Irrigation     Irrigation           Irrigation         Irrigation            Irrigation         Irrigation         Irrigation         Irrigation
Organization        Organization         Organization    Organization             Organization       Organization       Organization       Organization
<   | Macho       | Zafarobod            Lenin              Gissar                Shahrinav          Kalkhozabad        Ghazimatik         Yavan
'tN             I wil'&                                       1                i
-51 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
TAJIKISTAN: RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
i0L =:....
Rehabilitation of Main Irrigation and Drainage Works     3.73          9.11        12.84
Village Drinking Water Supply                            0.36          0.88         1.24
Institutional Capacity Development                       0.32          2.72         3.04
Project Management and Implementation                    0.54          1.93         2.47
Total Baseline Cost                                      4.95         14.64        19.59
Physical Contingencies                                  0.86          0.70         1.56
Price Contingencies                                      1.27         1.58         2.85
Total Project Costs              7.08        16.92        24.00
Total Financing Required              7.08        16.92         24.00
Goods                                                      0.90          9.62        10.52
Civil Works                                                2.19          0.90         3.09
Technical Assistance                                       0.00          2.14         2.14
Training                                                   0.00          0.83         0.83
Operating Costs                                            1.86          1.15         3.01
Physical Contingency                                       0.86          0.70         1.56
Price Contingency                                          1.27          1.58         2.85
Total Project Costs     7.08         16.92        24.00
Total Financing Required     7.08          16.92        24.00
- 52 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
TAJIKISTAN: RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Crop budgets indicating gross margins, using economic prices in constant 2000 US$ have
been developed to analyze the economic viability. The crops analyzed are: cotton, wheat, corn for
grain, pulses, sunflower, potato, onions, eggplant, apples, grapes and almonds. The crop models
have been analyzed under three types of conditions: (i) current status of crop productivity; (ii)
improvement in crop yields as a result of the timely provision of water during critical stages of crop
growth, so as to alleviate crop moisture stress; and (iii) improvement in crop yields and productivity
if all supporting agricultural services are provided, viz., improved seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, cultural
practices, etc. This result would be likely if the initiatives being carried out under the Farm
Privatization Support Project were to be spread over the entire project area, resulting in the creation
of private family farms and a diversified cropping structure.
Under current levels of crop productivity and prevailing world commodity prices, wheat and
cotton yield negative gross margins in those areas requiring pumping water beyond 150m and 50 m
respectively.  The situation changes significantly under fully irrigated conditions, modest and
achievable improvements in crop yields and real projected increases in international prices in the year
2010, especially for wheat and cotton. Gross margins, in this case, are about $130 per ha in the case
of wheat and $300 in the case of cotton in areas dependent on lifts of lOOm and about $ 100 per ha for
wheat and $200 per ha for cotton in areas dependent on lifts of 250 m. In the case of fruits and
vegetables,  under current conditions, positive gross margins of over US$100 per hectare are
obtained in areas dependent on lifts of 50 m or less. Under fully irrigated conditions, the gross
margins per ha for fruits and vegetable are in the range of $ 100 to $400 per ha in areas dependent on
lifts of 250 m or less. The results have been summarized in Table 4.1. Realization of these returns to
the farm producer rests, ultimately on the ability to find ready markets at the assumed economic
prices in these calculations. Incremental economic gross margins per ha for all the crops in the
project areas dependent on lifts of 250 m are more than adequate to cover the economic costs of
energy associated with water delivery under fully irrigated conditions. Since productivity gains are
expected to take time, a phased approach for the rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure,
commencing with the gravity fed areas and gradually to higher lifts has been envisaged in the
proposed project. At full development of the project, in the year 2010, the breakdown of the with
project benefits indicates that cotton and wheat revenues contribute 60% and 19% respectively to the
benefits from the proposed investment. Vegetables and fruits contribute 16 %; Corn, pulses and
oilseeds contribute 5% to the project benefits. The economic rate of return of the project has been
estimated at 34% over a fifteen year project period.
Main Assumptions:
Following are the main considerations and assumptions used in arriving at these returns.
Main considerations
Approach: The economics of the proposed rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure has been analyzed
in two inter-related steps. The first is the analysis of the economic profitability of crops, and given the
limitations of data and analytical simplicity, partial budgets using gross margins have been used. The
- 53 -



second is the determination of the economic rate of return for the proposed investment. For the
purposes of this analysis, the irrigation infrastructure is defined as consisting of pumping stations,
motors and buildings associated with them; main canals, diversion structures, drainage systems which
are necessary to deliver water from the source to the entrance of the former state and collective farms.
It does not include the tertiary canals and field ditches which serve the individual or group private
plots/farms created as a result of land privatization and farm restructuring.
Investment costs: In the with project case, investment costs associated with the rehabilitation of
Irrigation and Drainage (I& D) structures, institutional capacity building, project management and
implementation have been included in the costs. The cost of village water supply has not been
included in the project investment costs. In addition, an annual 0 & M at an average cost of $75 per
ha per year of the command area has been included throughout the project implementation period. In
the without project case, no capital investments or 0 & M costs have been assumed.
Production costs: Economic production costs on a per hectare basis, including the cost of power
required for the delivery of water have been used for the with project situation. In the without project
situation, the current levels of production cost per ha including the cost of power have been assumed
to prevail throughout the fifteen year period of analysis. The detailed crop budget calculations using
economic prices for wheat, cotton, corn, pulses, potato, onions, eggplant, and apples have been
presented in Tables 4.2 to 4.9.
Without project scenario: If the status of existing deteriorated conditions of the irrigation
infrastructure throughout the project area is any indication of what could happen "without the
project", one could come up with either the extreme case of a total collapse of the system or a
progressive decline in the operations of the main I & D infrastructure facilities. A combination of the
two scenarios has been used for the purpose of this analysis. The areas dependent on gravity fed
irrigation schemes (48,000 ha or 38% of the total comrnmand area) would continue to obtain water
throughout the project period. Areas dependent on lift irrigation schemes would be subject to
decreasing supplies of water, and given the status of the pumping stations and the lack of funds, the
pumping stations are likely to cease functioning within five years, leading to a gradual decline in the
areas, and loss of agricultural production and adversely affecting the livelihoods of the rural
population. No agricultural production has been assumed in the areas dependent on pumping from
year five onwards.
Project alternative: The only alternative for the population for the near future is their re-settlement to
other areas in Tajikistan, and this has been confirmed by the social assessment undertaken in the
project areas. This possibility is ruled out for the foreseeable future as employment opportunities in
other areas are scarce or non-existent and costs of resettlement and development of associated
supporting infrastructure (estimated at between US$5000 to 10,000 per family) is prohibitive to
justify this option.
Water requirements and use: The introduction of improved water management practices, the creation
of water user's organizations, cost recovery mechanisms built on the willingness and ability to pay by
the water users, are expected to decrease the per ha water requirements during the project. The
amount of water required to be supplied from the source is expected to decrease with the project. For
example, in the case of cotton, wheat, and corn, the amount of water has been assumed to decrease
from the present 12,000 cubic meters/ha, 8,000 cubic meters /ha and 10,000 cubic meters/ha to
3,000 cubic meters/ha, 9,100 cubic meters/ha and 7,600 cubic meters/ha respectively. Table 4.10
indicates the crop water requirement assumptions with the project at the headworks and at the field
- 54 -



level with the project.
Energy requirements and valuation of power: The rehabilitation of the pumping stations would result
in an increase in the overall pump-motor efficiency from current levels of 60 % to 80% or more,
especially in the case of singular systems (one pumping station). For the purposes of this analysis,
following the rehabilitation, a combined pump-motor efficiency of 80% has been assumed. Study of
the power sector is presently underway by the Asian Development Bank. Preliminary estimates of the
long run marginal cost of hydro-power have been determined to be about US2.2 cents per Kwhr.
With this assumption, the energy requirements and the costs for lifting 1000 cum of water to various
heights are presented below:
Energy requirements and costs for lifting 1000 cum to various lifts (in Kwhr)
Lifts (in m)           Energy required (in Kwhr)/l    Cost of energy @US2.2 c per
Kwhr
(in US$)
50                            186                            4.09
100                           371                            8.16
150                           557                            12.25
200                            743                           16.35
250                            928                           20.42
1/ The following formula has been used to derive the energy requirements: Energy required to lift V cum of water by a dynamnic
pumping lift of H m is equal to 0.0027*V*H/Pump-motor efficiency. (Dynamic pumping lift has been assumed to be 1. I times
static lift.
Agriculture and price assumptions
Command area and irrigation systems: The command area of the project was divided into the
following two broad categories according to the type of water delivery systems being practiced in
each area. They are: (i) gravity fed areas; and (ii) areas dependent on pumping. The areas dependent
on pumping were further divided into five levels, according to the lifts needed to bring irrigation water
to these areas, viz. (a) 50 m; (b) 100 m; (c) 150 m; (d) 200 m; and (e) 250 m. The distribution of
these areas is presented in Table 4.11. The physical location of agricultural lands are not in the
uplands, where the pumps are proposed to be rehabilitated, but are at lower elevations - the
rehabilitation works would enable pumping the water from lower areas (where the sources of water
are located) to different heights and then use diversion systems for delivery of water to agricultural
lands through gravity canals and pumps to lift water through cascades ranging in height from 14 to
27 meters. Unlike in other central Asian Countries, Tajikistan has developed a unique irrigation
system of gravity and pumping. Some project farms in the southern raions are 100% gravity
irrigation and some through combination of gravity and lift irrigation systems. Of the total project
command area of 128,432 ha, 48,240 ha (38%) is gravity irrigated, about 20, 057 ha (16%) is
irrigated by lifting the water to a height of less than 50 meters, 22,363 ha (17%) less than 100 m;
11,384 (9%) less than 150m; 22060 ha (17%) less than 200 m and 4,328 ha (3%) less than 250 m.
- 55 -



Present Cropping system: Most of the project area has fertile agricultural lands. Yet, during the last
few years, production levels in these areas have declined sharply. Low relative humidity and high
sunshine hours during crop growing season create a very favorable environment for crop growth, with
relatively low incidence of pests and diseases. The current and projected cropping patterns of the
project area have been presented in Table 4.12. Cotton would continue to be the major crop in the
with project situation and in the without project situation, followed by wheat, corn and vegetables.
Crop yields and potential: Grain and cotton yields are now 1.5 tons /ha and 1.8 tons/ha respectively,
leaving much room for improvement. Low level yields are primarily due to the use of local variety of
seeds, low levels of input usage, lack of timely supplies of water in the desired quantities, leading to
severe moisture stress at the maturity stage (which occurs during the months of June, July and
August). Long duration low yielding local corn suffers from silk-bum and in many cases the grain
filling is severely hindered. Corn is mostly grown for fodder (silage); oil seeds and pulses area are not
widely grown. There is a wide scope for introducing photo-insensitive short duration pulses and
oilseeds crops utilizing the residual moisture in the soil after the harvest of the main crops. With the
privatization of farms, farmers are beginning to exercise their freedom and choices to decide what
they would like to grow, depending on availability of all necessary inputs and assured supplies of
water. Crops such as chickpeas, mung-bean and oilseeds (sunflower, sesame and rape-seeds) are
being cultivated in family plots. Rice is restricted to less than 500 ha in the low lying marshy areas of
Kolkhozabad. Onion is and would continue to be an important cash crop and is grown in private
plots.
Tlhe with project case assumes gradual and conservative increases in crop yields, for
example, wheat, cotton, and corn yields are expected to increase from the present levels of 1.5tlha,
1.8 t/ha and 1.4 t/ha to 2.1, t/ha, 2.3 t/ha and 2.2 tlha respectively under fully irrigated conditions,
which are expected to occur in year 2010, although these could be achieved soon after completion of I
and D works in the project areas. If all support services were to be made available, then these yields
are expected to reach 2.4 tlha, 2.5 t/ha and 4.8 t/ha for wheat, cotton and corn respectively. Other
cash crops, such as onions and vegetables are expected to increase from the present level of 8 t/ha
and 14.5 t/ha to 11 t/ha and 24.4 tlha over the ten year project period. Hybrid-sunflower, 0-0-canola,
high oil-containing mutant peanuts, early maturing sesame, (which would help introduce effective
crop geometry) hold good promise in the project area. Inter-cropping or relay cropping systems in
cotton - wheat based crop systems, short duration pulse/oil seeds crops in wheat/cotton rotations to
enhance cropping intensity would be introduced. The current and potential yield of crops grown in the
project area have been presented in Table 4.13. For the purposes of this analysis, the crops
considered to determine the benefit stream in both the with and without cases are : wheat, cotton,
corn, pulses, sunflower, potatoes, onions, eggplant, apples and grapes.
Prices: Pricing of tradable agricultural inputs and outputs: All tradable inputs, such as fertilizers,
chemicals, fuel and other imported inputs have been priced at import parity ex-farm gate prices. In
the case of tradable outputs, for wheat and maize, import parity prices have been used (as Tajikistan
is and would continue to be a net importer - more so if the irrigation systems were left to deteriorate);
and for cotton, export parity prices have been used. These prices have been derived from the
prevailing and projected World Market Prices as determined by the Development Prospects Group in
the World Bank (January 2000). All calculations have been carried out in constant 2000 US$, using
the G-5 manufacturing unit value indices for conversion from current price projections to constant
2000 values. A sumnmary of the economic prices used have been provided in Table 4.14. Import
parity prices have been used in the case of wheat, corn, phosphate rock, Urea, TSP, DAP, and
Potassium Chloride and export parity prices in the case of seed cotton.
- 56 -



Labor: The lack of rigorous analytical studies of the skilled and unskilled labor markets in rural
Tajikistan makes the estimation of the economic value of labor and true opportunity cost difficult.
However, given the large scale unemployment in the country, surplus labor in the rural areas, and
seasonal nature of labor requirements (as most of the labor demand occurs during the harvest seasons
only), a shadow price of 50 % of the market wage rate has been used, which is US 50 cents per
personday.
Sensitivity analysis I Switching values of critical items:
The base economic rate of return (ERR) of 34 % is extremely sensitive to changes in benefits and
costs and delays in the realization of project benefits. Using switching value, (defined as the value of
the variable tested which would reduce the present value of the project's net incremental benefits to
zero when discounted at an opportunity cost of capital of 12% in US$ terms), the analysis indicates
that a nine percent decrease in benefits or a 11 percent increase in production costs (consisting of
crop production costs and 0 & M costs), would result in the project yielding an ERR of 12%. Delays
in project benefits by one year would give an ERR of 13% and by two years would make the project
non-viable - resulting in an ERR of 6%. The project, however, is not as sensitive to increases in
investment costs, as a 200 percent increase (equivalent to an investment cost of $410 per ha of total
command area), would give an ERR of 11%.
Given the highly conservative estimates made in the projections of crop yields, the probability of
achieving higher crop productivity gains is greater than further decreases. The risk of implementation
delays, to some extent, is mitigated by commencing the rehabilitation of I & D works in simpler
gravity and low lift irrigation schemes, and then to higher lift schemes of 150 m or more. However,
these analysis suggest the necessity for containing production and investment costs, timely execution
of rehabilitation works, provision of counterpart funds and farmer's obtaining fair and competitive
prices for their products, especially for wheat and cotton. The benefits resulting from improvements
in village dninking water supplies and from fodder, grasses and nuts have not been included in the
analysis - the addition of which could result in a higher base economic rate of retum. Details of the
ERR calculation have been presented in Table 4.15.
- 57 -



TABLE 4.1
Summary of Economic Gross Margins of Crops
by Types of Irrigation Systems in the Project Area
(in Constant 2000 US$ per Hectare)/'
Current Conditions                    Fully irrigated           Fully irrigated and with support
(in 2010)?"                    services (in 2010)/?
Crops        Gravity 50  100  150  200  1250  Gravity 50  100  150 200  250 Gravity 150  100  150  200 250
m  m   m   m   m                     m  In  m  m   m                   m  m   m   m  m
1. Wheat       53    36 4    -29   -62  -95    151   145  133  121  108  96    167             1       [136  124  IT
2. Cotton      17    -7  -56  -105  -154  -203   387   369  332  295  257  220   436   418  380  343  306  269
3. Corn        55    34   -6   -47   -88  -129   186   170  140  108  77   46    432   417  386  355  323  293
4.Pulses       5      -7  -31   -56   -80  -IOS    28    23   14   4    -6  -16    32    27   17    7    -3  -12
5. Sunflower   -9   -25  -58   -91  -123  -156    42    30   6   -19  -43  -68    51    39   14   -10  -35  -59
6.Potatoes     -17   -37  -78  -118  -160  -200   193   181  157  133  109  85    350   338  314  290  266  242
7.Onion       192   161  100   39   -23   -84    296   272  223  174  125  76    621   597  548  499  450  401
8.Eggplant    137   113  64   15   -34   -83    578   560  523  486  448  411   710   691  654  617  578  543
9.Apples      404   383  342  302  261   220    481   464  431  398  364  331   513   497  464  430  397  364
10. Grapes     48    24  -25  -74  -124  -172   151   136  105  75   44   13   313   298  267   236  206  175
11. Almonds   158   138  97    56    15   -25    102    87   59   30   2   -27   176   162  134  105  76   48
Notes: 1/ Gross margin is defined as gross revenues less variable costs, which are seeds, fertilizer, chemicals, machinery services for various
farm operations, transport, labor and energy costs of water delivery systems. Energy costs are those associated with pumping water to
the various lifts indicated. Power has been valued at the estimated long run marginal cost of US2.2 cents per KWhr and a combined
pump-motor efficiency of 80% following the rehabilitation of pumps by this project have been assumed. .
2/ Represents the situation following the completion of the rehabilitation of the main irrigation and drainage works and structures in the
project area.
3/ Represents the situation following the completion of the rehabilitation of the main irrigation and drainage works and structures in the
project area and provision of support services, such as improved seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, and provision of agricultural such as
improved seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, and advisory services.
- 58 -



Table 4.2: Crop Budget using Economic Prices (in Constant 2000 US$ per Hectare)
WHEAT
Current conditions    Fully irrigated (in    Fully irrigated with support
20l&11            services (in 2010)/
Unit      Unit Quantity Value Unit   Quanti Value  Unit    Quantity Value
Price                Price  ty            Price
A. Revenue
Wheat - Product           mt    148.00      1.5 222.00 165.22   2.10 346.96  165.22      2.40  396.53
Total Revenue                $                     222.00               346.96                    396.53
B. Variable Costs
(i) Inputs
Seed                     kg       0.14   210.0  29.40   0.16    IS0  21.00    0.16      180    28.80
Fertilizers
Urea                    kg       0.11     0.0   0.00   0.14    100  11.00    0.14     100    14.00
AmmoniumNitrate         kg       0.11    75.0   8.25   0.14    150  16.50    0.14     150    21.00
TSP                     kg       0.19    75.0  14.25   0.16     50   9.50    0.15      50      7.50
Potash                  kg       0.15     0.0   0.00   0.14     50   7.50    0.13      50      6.50
Compound Fertilizer     kg       0.19     0.0   0.00   0.16      0   0.00    0.15     100    15.00
Farm Yard Manure        kg      0.003  1500.0   4.50   0.00   1500   4.50    0.00    1500      4.50
Plant protection chemicals   liter  7.50    2.0  15.00   7.50      2  15.00    7.50        5    37.50
Machinery Services
Ploughing              ha      18.00      1.0  18.00  18.00     2  36.00   18.00        1    18.00
Land preparation       ha      10.00      1.0  10.00  10.00     1  10.00   10.00        1    10.00
Sowing                 ha       5.00     1.0   5.00   5.00       1   5.00    5.00       1      5.00
Fertilizer application  ha      5.00      1.0   5.00   5.00      1   5.00    5.00       1      5.00
Cultivation            ha       5.00      1.0  5.00   5.00       1   5.00    5.00       1      5.00
Harvesting             ha      16.00      1.0  16.00  16.00      1  16.00   16.00       1    16.00
Transport              lump sum    7.50     1.0  7.50   7.50       2  15.00    7.50       2    15.00
(ii) Labor               person-    0.50     30  15.00   0.50      25  12.50    0.50      30    15.00
day
Total variable costs         $                     152.90               189.50                    223.80
C. Gross margin (w/o water   $                      69.10               157.46                    172.73
charges )
D. Gross margins - with energy costs of water delivery
systems/3
Case one :Gravityfed     IOOOM      2.05    8.00  16.40   2.05   3.00   6.15    2.05    3.00      6.15
irrigation
Gross margin           S                      52.70                151.31                   166.58
Case two: area dependent on  looo M  4.09    8.00  32.72   4.09   3.00  12.27    4.09    3.00    12.27
50 m lift
Gross margin           $                      36.38                145.19                   160.46
Case three: area dependent  IOOOM'    8.16    8.00  65.28   8.16   3.00  24.48    8.16    3.00    24.48
on 100 m lift                                                                 l
Gross margin           $                       3.82                132.98                   148.25
Case four: area dependent on  IOOOM'   12.25    8.00  98.00  12.25   3.00  36.75   12.25    3.00    36.75
150 m lift
Gross margin           $                     -28.90                120.71                   135.98
Casefive:areadependenton lOOOM'   16.35    8.00 130.80  16.35   3.00  49.05   16.35    3.00    49.05
200 m lift
Gross margin           $                     -61.70                108.41                   123.68
Case six: area dependent on  looo m    20.42    8.00 163.36  20.42   3.00  61.26   20.42    3.00    61.26
250 m lift              l
Gross margin       |   $                     -94.26                96.20                    111.47
- 59 -



Table 4.3: Crop Budget using Economic Prices (in Constant 2000 US$ per Hectare)
COTTON
Current conditions    Fully irrigated (in 2010)/ Fully irrigated with support
services (in 2010)?
Unit     Unit  Quantity Value  Unit   Quantity Value  Unit   Quantity Value
Price                 Price                  Price
A. Revenue
Seed Cotton            mt    261.27      1.8 470.29  382.00    2.30 878.60    382    2.50   955.00
Total Revenue              $                    470.29                 878.60                   955.00
B. Variable Costs
(i) Inputs
Seed                   kg       0.22    80.0  17.60    0.30     45  13.50    0.35      45    15.75
Fertilizer
Urea                 kg       0.11    80.0   8.80    0.14     150  16.50    0.14     200    28.00
AmmoniumNitrate      kg       0.17   150.0  25.50    0.14     200  34.00    0.14     200    28.00
TSP                  kg       0.17   150.0  25.50    0.16     150  25.50    0.16     200    32.00
Potash               kg       0.15     0.0   0.00    0.14      50   7.50    0.14      50      7.00
Compound Fertilizer    kg     0.17   100.0  17.00    0.16     100  17.00    0.16     100    16.00
Farm Yard Manure     kg      0.010  2000.0  20.00    0.01    1500  15.00    0.01    3000    30.00
Plant protection       liter    7.50    12.0  90.00    7.50      15 112.50    7.50      15   112.50
chemicals
Machinery Services
Ploughing            ha      18.00     3.0  54.00   18.00      2  36.00   18.00        2    36.00
Land preparation     ha      10.00     2.0  20.00   10.00      2  20.00   10.00        I    10.00
Sowing               ha       5.00     1.0  5.00    5.00        1   5.00    5.00       1     5.00
Fertilizer application    ha  5.00     1.0  5.00    5.00        1   5.00    5.00       1     5.00
Cultivation          ha       5.00     4.0  20.00    5.00      4  20.00    5.00       4    20.00
Harvesting           ha      16.00     0.0   0.00   16.00      0   0.00   16.00        0     0.00
Transport           lump sum    7.50     2.0  15.00    7.50       2  15.00    7.50       2    15.00
(ii) Labor            person-    0.50   210.0 105.00    0.50     260 130.00    0.50     280   140.00
_  day
Total variable costs       $                    428.40                 472.50                   500.25
C. Gross margin (w/o       $                     41.89                 406.10                   454.75
water costs)
D. Gross margins - with energy costs of water delivery systems/i
Case one: Gravity fed    IOOOM3    2.05    12.0    25    2.05    9.10     19    2.05    9.10       19
irrigation
Gross margin         $                     17.29                 387.45                    436.10
Case two: area dependent  Iooo m  4.09    12.0  49.08    4.09    9.10  37.22    4.09    9.10    37.22
on 50 m lift                   I
Gross margin         $   j                 -7.19                 368.88                    417.53
Case three: area       1000 M     8.16    12.0  97.92    8.16    9.10  74.26    8.16    9.10   -74.26
dependent on 100 m lift
Gross margin         $                     -56.03                 331.84                   380.49
Case four: area dependent  jOOjmj   12.25    12.0 147.00   12.25    9.10 111.48   12.25    9.10   111.48
on 150 m lift         |
Gross margin    |        $                -105.11                294.63                    343.28
Case five: area dependent  looo M3   16.35    12.0 196.20   16.35    9.10 148.79   16.35    9.10   148.79
on 200 m lift
Gross margin         S                   -154.31                  257.32                   305.97
Case six: area dependent  loo mj   20.42    12.0 245.04   20.42    9.10 185.82   20.42    9.10   185.82
on 250 m lift         I
Gross margin         $                   -203.151                220.28                    268.93
- 60 -



Table. 4.4: Crop Budget using Economic Prices (in Constant 2000 US$ per Hectare)
CORN
Current           Fully irrigated (in 2010)/' Fully irrigated with support
conditions                                services (in 2010)?
Unit     Unit   Quantity Value  Unit   Quantity Value  Unit  Quantity Value
Price                 Price  I         _      Price
A. Revenue_                                                                         _
Corn                        mt    135.00    1.40 189.00 144.92    2.20 318.82   137       4.80    657.60
Total Revenue                                        189.00                  318.82                  657.60
B. Variable Costs
(i) Inputs
Seed                       kg       0.13   50.00   6.50   0.20       35   7.00  0.20       30       6.00
Fertilizer
Urea                     kg        0.11    0.00   0.00   0.14     100  11.00  0.14       200     28.00
Ammonium Nitrate          kg       0.17   75.00  12.75   0.14      50   8.50  0.14       200     28.00
TSP                       kg       0.17   50.00   8.50   0.16      75  12.75  0.16       150     24.00
Potash                    kg       0.15    0.00   0.00   0.14       0   0.00  0.14        50      7.00
Compound Fertilizer       kg       0.17    0.00   0.00   0.16       0   0.00  0.16       100     16.00
Farm Yard Manure          kg      0.010    0.00   0.00   0.01       0   0.00  0.01         0      0.0
Plant protection chemicals    liter  7.50    0.00   0.00   7.50        1   7.50  7.50        1      7.50
Machinery Services
Ploughing                ha      18.00    2.00  36.00  18.00        1  18.00 18.00         1     18.00
Land preparation         ha      10.00    1.00  10.00  10.00        1  10.00 10.00         I     10.00
Sowing                   ha       5.00    1.00   5.00   5.00        1   5.00  5.00         1      5.00
Fertilizer application   ha       5.00    1.00   5.00   5.00        1   5.00  5.00        2      10.00
Cultivation              ha       5.00    0.00   0.00   5.00        0   0.00  5.00         0      0.00
Harvesting               ha      16.00    0.00   0.00  16.00        0   0.00 16.00        0       0.00
Transport               lump sum    7.50    1.00   7.50   7.50         1   7.50  7.50        2      15.00
(ii) Labor                 person-    0.50   45.00  22350   0.50      50  25.00  0.50        70     35.00
day
Total variable costs           $                     113.75                 117.25                   209.50
C. Gross margin (w/o water     $       -       -      75.25                 201.57                   448.10
costs)
D. Gross margins - with energy costs of water delivery systems/l                    -
Case one: Gravity fed    T IOOOM      2.05   10.00     211  2.05    7.60      16     2      7.60        16
irrigation                I _ _ _ _ 1_ _ _         1 _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _   _ _ _
Gross margin             $               1      54.75J                185.99:     |            432.52
Case two: area dependent on  10  Mj    4.091  10.00  40.90   4.09    7.60  31.08  4.09      7.60     31.08
50 m    lift              I  _       1 _    1 _      _      1                                    1
Gross margin         1   $    1      j          34.35_      j         170.491   1          1  417.02
Case three: area dependent on  1 OOOM|  8.16   10.00  81.60   8.16|   7.601  62.021  8.16|    7.601    62.02
1100 m liftI                                                                                     I
Gross margin                                    -6.35                 139.561     |            386.08
Case four: area dependent on  | IOOOM    12.251  l0.00 122.50| 12.251   7.601  93.10 12.25   7.60i    93.10
Go150 m lift                                         -                      1                        355.00
Gross margin                               1         47.25                  108.47|                   355.0
Case five: area dependent on   1000 M    16.35   10.00 163.501  16.351   7.60 124.26 16.351    7.60T   124.26
G200 m lift                         1                -                       7                       323.84
|  Gross margin         | $      j               |-88.25|      |        |7.1         ||  323.84
I 0 m l f                          .  .     ._ _         _ I _       _                       _     
Case six: area dependent on    1000 M    20.42   10.00 204.201  20.42    7.60 155.19 20.42  7.60    155.19
Gross margin             $   J _         J     128.95|                 46.38      |        |  292.91
-61 -



Table 4.5: Crop Budget using Economic Prices (in Constant 2000 US$ per Hectare)
PULSES
Current           Fully irrigated (in 2010)1 Fully irrigated with support
conditions                                services (in 2010)!
Unit     Unit   Quantity Value  Unit   Quantity Value  Unit  Quantity 1 Value
Price                  Price                  Price |
A. Revenue                           _               _                     7
Pulses                      mt    250.00    0.50 125.00 250.00    0.70i 175o00   250        0.80    200.00
Total Revenue                  $                      125.00                 175.00                    200.00
B. Variable Costs
(I) Inputs
Seed                        kg       0.13   30.00   3.90   0.13       30   3.90  0.13        30      3.90
Fertilizer                                              I
Urea                      kg       0.11    0.00   0.00   0.14        0   0.00  0.14         0       0.00
Anmnonium Nitrate         kg       0.17  100.00  17.00   0.14      100  17.00  0.14       100      14.00
TSP                       kg       0.17   50.00   8.50   0.16      150  25.50  0.16        150     24.00
Potash                    kg       0.15    0.00   0.00   0.14        0   0.00  0.14         0       0.00
Compound Fertilizer       kg       0.17    0.00   0.00   0.16        Ol  0.00  0.16       100      16.00
Farmn Yard Manure         kg       0.01  1500.00  15.00   0.01    3000  30.00  0.01      3000      30.00
Plant protection chemicals    liter  7.50    1.00   7.50   7.50         1   7.50  7.50         1      7.50
Machinery Services
Ploughing                 ha      18.00    1.00  18.00  I&00         1  18.00 18.00          1     18.00
Land preparation          ha      10.00    1.00  10.00  10.00        0   0.00 10.00         0      0.00
Sowing                   ha        5.00    0.00   0.00   5.00        0   0.00  5.00         0      0.00
Fertilizer application    ha       5.00    1.00   5.00   5.00        1   5.00 70            1      5.00
Cultivation               ha       5.00    O.OO   O.00   5.001       0   0.0   5.00         0      0.00
Harvesting               ha       16.00    0.00   0.00  16.001       0   0.00 16.00         0      0.00
Transport                lump sum    7.50    1.00   7.50   7.50         1   7.50  7.50         1      7.50
(ii) Labor                 person-    0.50   30.00  15.00   0.50       55S  27.50  0.50        75     37.50
day
Total variable costs           5                      107.40                 141.90                    163.40
C. Gross margin (w/o water Costs) $                 17.60                  33.1                 i   36.60
D. Gross margins - with energy costs of water delivery systemsl
Case one: Gravity fed     |        1  2.051    6.001    12   2.05    2.40              2      2 405
lirrigation                                                  
Gross margin                                      5 5.30                28.18                     31.68
Irrg to                           M .~          -    -__ :_                                   _ _ ._    _
Case two: area dependent on   I    M'    4.091   6.00  24.54   4.09    2.40   9.82  4.09.    2.40       9.82
5 Om     lift                I__   _ I _ _    I_ _   1               _  _ _                 _ _  _  _  _  _
Gross margin           _       $   _     1    1 -6.94                 [23.2                       26.78
Case three: area dependent on  1000 M'    8.161   6.001 48.96   8.16    2.40  19.58  8.16    2.40j    19.5
lOO m lift                                                                               I _   _   [111111  ____
Gross margin                                    -3136    1              13.52                     17.02
Case four: area dependent on   1 000 M'   12.25    6.00  73.50  12.25    2.40  29.40 12.25    2.40     29.40
150Om lift                                   ___-3.072
Gross margin             $            L         -55.90                1 j  3.70_ j           |     7.20
Case five: area dependent on   1000 M-3  16.35j   6.001 98.10  16.351   2.401 39.24 16.35     2.40j    39.24
200 m lift                 |          I          6  i                       1           [ i        I i  
Gross margin              $                   |-80.50j [                -6.14|                    -264
Case six: area dependent on  j     m    20.42    6.00j 122.52  20.42f   2.40  49.01j 20.421    2.40    49.01
250   m     liftI__            _  _   __ _    __ _ __                  _ _  I__  _2.0
Gross margin         |   $      _      1 _      -104.92        _    _  -15.91|               ____12.4
- 62 -



Table 4.6: Crop Budget using Economic Prices (in Constant 2000 US$ per Hectare)
POTATO
Current conditions   Fully irrigated (in  Fully irrigated with support
2010)/       _          services (in 201O
Unit     Unit  Quantity Value  Unit  Quan Value   Unit   Quantity  Value
Price                Price  tity          Price
A. Revenue
Potato                             mt    50.00   13.20 660.00 50.001 21.40 1070.00      50    24.60 1230.00
Total Revenue                         $       =            660.001             1070.00                  1230.00
B. Variable Costs
(i) Inputs
Seed                               kg      0.13 1500.00 195.00  0.13  2000  260.00   0.13     2000  260.00
Fertilizer
Urea                             kg      0.11    0.00   0.00  0.14   300   33.00   0.14       300    42.0(
Ammonium Nitrate                 kg      0.17  350.00  59.50  0.14   200   34.00   0.14       200   28.00
TSP                              kg      0.17  250.00  42.50  0.16   200   34.00   0.16       200   32.00
Potash                           kg      0.15  200.00  30.00  0.14   100   15.00   0.14       100   14.00
Compound Fertilizer              kg      0.17    0.00   0.00  0.16   100   17.00   0.16       250   40.00
Farm Yard Manure                 kg    0.010 5000.00  50.00  0.01  3000   30.00   0.01       3000   30.00
Plant protection chemicals        liter    7.50    4.00  30.00  7.50    15  112.50   7.50         10   75.00
Machinery Services
Ploughing                        ha    18.00    3.00  54.00 18.00      4   72.00  18.00         4   72.00
Land preparation                 ha    10.00    2.00  20.00 10.00      2   20.00  10.00         2   20.00
Sowing                           ha      5.00    0.00   0.00  5.00     0    0.00   5.00         0    0.00
Fertilizer application           ha      5.00    2.00  10.00  5.00     3   15.00   5.00         4   20.00
Cultivation                      ha      5.00    0.00   0.00  5.00     0    0.00   5.00         0    0.00
Harvesting                       ha    16.00    0.00   0.00 16.00      2   32.00  16.00         2   32.00
Transport                       lump sum   7.50    4.00  30.00  7.50      4   30.00   7.50        4   30.00
(ii) Labor                        person-   0.50  270.00 135.00  0.50   320  160.00   0.50       345  172.50
day
Total variable costs                   $                   656.00               864.50                   867.50
C Gross margin (wlo water costs)      $       _4.0                              205.50                  362.50
D. Gross margins - with energy costs of water delivery systems/l  _
Case one: Gravity fed irrigation  1000 M_     2.051  10.001   21  2.05  5.90      12   2.05      5.90      12
Gross margin                     $          I       j -16.50              193.41                   350.41
Case two: area dependent on 50 m lift  1000 Mj  4.09f  10.001 40.901 4.091 5.901  24.13   4.091    5.901  24.13
Gross margin                I $    [ _              j -36.901 _      1    181_371          _       338.37
Case three: area dependent on 100 m lift 1000 M  l  l    l      l                                     
Gross margin                                 |         -26.00|          |  93.001      1           287.50
Case four: area dependent on 150 m lift 1 o000 m   112.251   0.001  1      .00    0.001 12.25s    0.00    0.00
Gross margin                J   $      _ _          1  4.001 i     i      205.501|     1 |         362.50
Case five: area dependent on 200mlift  1000          0.0 l  06.31    0.001   .00 16.35J  0.001   0.0Oj 16.351    0.001   0.00
Gross margin                     $   l      l       |  4.001 |j_  | 205.501            |           362.50
Case six: area dependent on 250 m lift  1000 M' 1 20.421   10.001 204.201 20.421 0.001   0.001 20.421  0.001   0
Gross margin                     $   |      |       | -200.20|            205.501      |        | 362.50_
-63 -



Table 4.7: Crop Budget using Economic Prices (in Constant 2000 US$ per Hectare)
ONIONS
Current conditions   Fully irrigated (in   Fully irrigated with
2010.)/       support services (in 201 ('
Unit    Unit 1PQuantity Value  Unitce Quantity Value  Unit Quantity  Value
Price              Price                   Price     e
A. Revenue                                        I
Onions                            mt      80.00    8.00 640.00 80.00    11.00 880.00    80    15.80 1264.00
Total Revenue                                              640.00                880.00                 1264.00
B. Variable Costs
(i) Inputs
Seed                              kg      0.13   75.00   9.75  0.13       55   7.15  0.13        55    7.15
Fertilizer
Urea                            kg       0.11  100.00  11.00  0.14    200  22.00  0.14        200   28.00
Ammonium Nitrate                kg       0.17  200.00  34.00  0.14     250  42.50  0.14       250   35.00
TSP                             kg       0.17  200.00  34.00  0.16     250  42.50  0.16       250   40.00
Potash                          kg       0.15  150.00  22.50  0.14    250  37.50  0.14        250   35.00
Compound Fertilizer             kg       0.17    0.00   0.00  0.16       0   0.00  0.16       100   16.00
Farm Yard Manure                kg      0.010 3000.00  30.00  0.01    5000  50.00  0.01      5000   50.00
Plant protection chemicals       liter     7.50    6.00  45.00  7.50       15 112.50  7.50        15  112.50
Machinery Services                                            I
Ploughing                       ha      18.00    3.00  54.00 18.00       4  72.00 18.00         4   72.00
Land preparation                ha      10.00    2.00  20.00 10.00       3  30.00 10.00         3   30.00
Sowing                          ha      5.00    0.00   0.00  5.00        0   0.00  5.00         0    O.0O
Fertilizer application          ha       5.00    2.00  10.00  5.00       3  15.00  5.00         3   15.00
Cultivation                     ha      5.00    0.00   0.00  5.00        0   0.00  5.00         0    O.0O
Harvesting                      ha      16.00    0.00   0.00 16.00       0   0.00 16.00         0    0.00
Transport                      lump sum    7.50    3.00  22.50  7.50        4  30.00  7.50        4   30.00
(ii) Labor                     personday    0.50  250.00 125.00  0.50      196  98.00  0.50      295  147.50
Total variable costs                 $                     417.75                559.15                  618.15
C. Gross margin (w/o water costs)             =      =     222.251               320.851                 645.85
D. Gross margins - with energy costs of water delivery systems/i
Case one: Gravity fed irrigation  I 1000 M'f 2.051  15.001   311 2.05   12.00      25  2.05    12.00       25
Gross margin                I       [ I     I        1 191.501             296.25                  621.25
Casetwo: areadependenton 50mlift  I 000 M    4.091  15.00  61.35  4.091  12.00j 49.08i 4.09j    12.001  49.08
Gross margin                |   $   L         _      | *60.90_    I        271.771     |         | 596.77
Case three: area dependent on lOOm   j   m    8.16   15.00  122.40| 8.16   12.00  97.92  8.16    12.00   97.92
lift                              .         .                              1           1
Gross margin                     $                                          85  222.93             547.93
Case four: area dependent on 150 m lift |            15.00  183.75 12.25   12.00 147.00 12.25    12.00  147.00
Gross margin                |   $                     38.50j     |        | 173.85     |           498.85
Case five: area dependent on 200 m lift  1000 M            16351   15.00 245.251 16.35   12.00 196.20 16.351    12.001  196.20
Gross margin                |   $   |         |      j-23.00| j           |                        449.65
Case six: area dependent on 250 m lift 1 000M3 | 20.421   15.001 306.30| 20.421  1200 245.04 20.42    12.001  245.04
Gross margin                I   $   I       I        -8405                1 758'      1            400.81
- 64 -



Table 4.8: Crop Budget using Economic Prices (in Constant 2000 US$ per Hectare)
EGGPLANT
Current conditions    Fully irrigated (in 2010)/ Fully irrigated with support
services (in 2010)?
Unit     Unit   Quantity Value  Unit   Quantity  Value   Unit    Quantity Value
Price                  Price                    Price
A. Revenue
Eggplant                mt         50.00    14.50 725.00  50.00    24.40    1220       50   28.80    1440
Total Revenue             $                          725.00                     1220                 j   1440
B. Variable Costs                                             _
(i) Inputs        ___                _                      _
Seed                   kg           1.00   25.00  25.00    1.00       50   50.00      1.00     50   50.00
Fertilizer                                                                                        I
Urea                   kg           0.11   100.00  11.00   0.14      100   11.00    0.14      100    14.00
Ammonium Nitrate        kg           0.17  300.00  51.00   0.14       200   34.00    0.14      300   42.00
TSP                   kg          0.17  350.00  59.50   0.16       350   59.50    0.16       350   56.00
Potash                kg          0.15  250.00  37.50   0.14       250   37.50    0.14       250   35.00
Complex Fertilizer       kg          0.17  100.00  17.00   0.16        200   34.00    0.16      250   40.00
Farm Yard Manure         kg           0.01    5000  50.00   0.01      5000   50.00    0.01    8000    80.00
Plant protection chemicals liter    7.50    8.00  60.00   7.50          8   60.00    7.50       10   75.00
Machinery Services                                 _
Ploughing            ha          18.00    4.00  72.00  18.00         4   72.00   18.00        4   72.00
Land preparation     ha          10.00    2.00  20.00   10.00        2   20.00   10.00        2   20.00
Sowing               ha           5.00    2.00  10.00   5.00         2   10.00    5.00        2    10.00
Fertilizer application    ha      5.00    2.00  10.00   5.00         3   15.00    5.00        4   20.00
Cultivation          ha           5.00    0.00   0.00   5.00         0    0.00    5.00        0    0.00
Harvesting           ha          16,00    0.00   0.00  16.00         0    0.00   16.00        0    0.00
Transport              lump sum    7.50    2.00  15.00   7.50           4   30.00    7.50        5   37.50
(ii) Labor               person-     0.50  250.00  125.00   0.50       280  140.00    0.50      320   160.00
day
Total variable costs      $                          563.00                   623.00                    711.50
C Gross margin (w/o water  $                         162.001                  597.00                    728.50
costs)                    I                                                                  I
D. Gross margins - with energy                                         .            I  _ _
costs of water delivery systems/3                   I___I
Case one: Gravity fed    |I0M   |  2.05    12.00       25   2.05       9.10      19    2.05     9.10       19
irrigation                I________                 _____
Gross margin        |                          137.40                   578.35                    709.85
Casetwo: areadependenton IOOO M3      4.09    12.00  49.08   4.09      9.10   37.22    4.09    9.10   37.22
50 m lift                                          I                                I                         I
Gross margin        $                          112.92                   559.78          __  |_ 691.28
Case three: area dependent  TOOOM3 |  8.16   12.00  97.92   8.16       9.10   74.26    8.16    9.10   74.26
on 100 m lift
Gross margin                                 | 64.08                    522.74                    654.24
Case four: area dependent on  IIOOOM'i   12.25   12.00 147.00  12.25    9.10   111.48   12.25    9.101  111.48
150 m lift
Gross margin         $                          15.00                   485.53                    617.03
Case five: area dependent on I 000    | 16.35   12.00 196.20  16.35    9.10  148.79   16.35    9.10   148.79
200 m lift
Gross margin         $                         -34.20                 | 448.22         |          579.72
Case six: area dependent on  I 0jj  | 20.42   12.00 245.04  20.42      9.10   185.82   20.42    9.10   185.82
250  m   lift              _         _                                                                 ______
Gross margin       |$is        ___-83.04                                411.181                   542.6
- 65 -



Table 4.9: Crop Budget using Economic Prices (in Constant 2000 US$ per Hectare)
APPLES
Current conditions    Fully irrigated (in 2010)!' Fully irrigated witl support
services (in 2010)12
Unit   Unit   Quantity Value  Unit   Quantity  Value       Unit|Ouantil  Value
Price                  Price                       Price
A. Revenue                                 l
Apple                      mt      60.00   14.40 864.00  60.00      16.20  972.00       60    17.80  1068.00
Total Revenue                              l         864.00                   972.00                   1068.00
B. Variable Costs                              .              _            _                     _   _
(i)  Inputs__                 _ _   __ _   __  _ __                  _ _ _   _ _ _
Seed                       kg       0.50   25.00  12.50    1.00       25   25.00      1.00      25    25.00
Fertilizer                      _                               _                     _
Urea                     kg       0.11     0.00   0.00   0.14         0    0.00    0.14        0    0.00
Ammonium Nitrate         kg       0.17  250.00  42.50   0.14        250   42.50    0 14      250   35.00
TSP                      kg       0.17  200.00  34.00   0.16        200   34.00    0.16      200    32.00
Potash                   kg       0.15  200.00  30.00   0.14        200   30.00    0.14      200   28.00
Compound Fertilizer      kg       0.17    0.00   0.00   0.16        100   17.0(    0.16      100    16.00
Farm Yard Manure         kg      0.010 5000.00  50.00   0.01       5000   50.00    0.01    5000    50.00
Plant protection chemicals   liter  7.50    8.00  60.00   7.50          8   60.00    7.50        8   60,00
Machinery Services         ._....
Ploughing                ha      18.00    2.00  36.00   18.00        2   36.00    18.00        4   72.00
Land preparation         ha      10.00    1.00  10.00  10.00         1   10.00    10.00        2   20.00
Sowing                   ha       5.00    0.00   0.00   5.00         0    0.00    5.00         0    O.00
Fertilizer application   ha       5.00    2.00  10.00   5.00         2   10.00    5.00         4   20.00
Cultivation              ha       5.00    0.00   0.00   5.00         0    0.00    5 00         0    0.00
Harvesting               ha      16.00    0.00   0.00   16.00        0    0.00    16.00        0    0.00
Transport               lump sum    7.50    4.00  30.00   7.50          4   30.00    7.50        4   30.00
(ii) Labor                person-    0.50  250.00 125.00   0.50        260  130.00    0.50      300   150.00
day                  _                           _
Total variable costs          $                      440.00                   474.5                     538.00
C. Gross margin (w/o water    $                      424.001                  497.51                    530.00
Costs)                    I  _             1         _         -    _        _       I  _     _
D. Gross margins - with energy costs of water delivery systems/3
Case one: Gravity fed     I IOOOM' |  2.05   10.00     2 1      2      8.15      17       2    8.151       17
irrigation                I        I       l       l       I      llIl
Gross margin        |                          403.501                  480.791                1  513.29|
Case two: area dependent on  I IOOOM     4.09    10.00  40.90   4.09   8.15   33.33    4.091    8.15j   33.33
50  m   lift              I                                                  _       llllI
Gross margin             S                     383.10            1      464.17         1          496.67
Case three: area dependent  1|  i M|  8.16    10.   81.60   8.16       8.15|  66.50    8.16     8.15   66.50
on  100  m   lift         l_l             l__l__ll_ll_
Gross margin             S $    |      _| ___342.40                     431.00                    463.50
Case four: area dependent on     m    12.25   10.00 122.50  12.25       8.15   99.84   12.25      8.15   99.84
150 m lift                I          Il                    Il                       I               _ _l   _I
Gross margin             $                     301.50 __|_397.66                       | _      j 430.16
Casefive:areadependenton  IoooMj   16.35   10.00 163.50  16.35         8.15  133.25   16.35      8.815   133.25
200 m lift
Gross margin             $    _       _        260.50                   364.25         j         i 396.75
Case six: area dependent on |IOOO'     20.42    10.00 204.20  20.42    8.15   166.42   20.42    8.15   166.42
250  m   lift             l         l      l        l      l       l        l__ll                            _
Gross margin             $                    1219.80|  |_               331.08| _   _     _      363.58
Notes:l/ Represents the situation following the completion of the main irrigation and drainage works and structures in the project area
2/ Represents the situation following the completion of the main I and D works and structures and provision of agricultural support services,
such as improved seeds, fertilizer, pesticides and advisory services
3/ The costs indicated here are only the energy costs associated with pumping water at the various lifts indicated. Power has been valued at
US2.2 cents per kWh. A combined pump-motor efficiency of 80% has been assumed to derive the energy requirements following the
rehabilitation of the pumps.
- 66 -



Table 4.10
Crop Water Supplied at Headworks and Requirement at Field Level
(in M3 per ha)
Crops           Water supplied from  Water required   Number of
headworks/1         at field level!2   irrigations/3
1. Grains
(i) Wheat
- winter                     2400                 1850               3
- spring                     2950                 2280               3
(ii) Maize for grains            7600                 5860               7
(iii) Sorghum                    8860                 6200               8
(iv) Pulses                      2400                 1740               3
2. Cotton                         9100                  6960               8
3. Vegetables
(i) Potatoes                    5900                 4540               7
(ii) Carrots
- early carrots              6700                 4950                8
- late carrots               6700                 4950                8
(iii) Cabbages
- early                      6700                 4950                8
- late                       8000                 5600                8
(iv) Eggplant                  9100                  6995               11
(v) Tomatoes                   9100                  6995               11
(vi) Onions                    12000                 8400               14
(vii) Green Pepper             9100                  6995               11
4. Fruits
Apples                         8150                 6250               4
Apricots                       9000                 6300               6
Almonds                        7000                 4900               4
Vine-yards                     7550                 5810               4
Pomegrenates                   7200                 5000                5
Melons                        4650                 3580                5
S. Fodder crops
Lucerne                       6700                  5150               8
Barley                        9750                  7520               7
Maize for fodder              8860                  6200               8
Note 1: Indicates the amount of water which is supplied from the source through
river diversion and/or pumping
2: Indicates the amount of crop water requirements for different crops
at the field level, expected to be realized following the rehabilitation of the I & D works
3. Indicates the number of irrigations per crop which varies between
580 and 1562 cum per irrigation for pulses and apples respectively
- 67 -



Table 4.11
Distribution of Project Command Area
by Gravity-fed and Lift Irrigation Schemes /'
Zones      Raions       Command    Gravity                 Range of Water Lift Heights (in Meters)
Area        Flow         0 -50       50 -100    101-150   151-200      >200
in Ha                            I .
___.                  lAreaArea  %   Ara0Area   %   Area   %Area    %Area   %
RRS zone lLenin               5,625    5,625  100      0   O       0  0.0h      0  0       0  0     0 0.0
Gissar            11,020    9,280   84  1,740  16       0  0.01      0 0       0  0      0 00.(
Shahrinav         7,207    4,665   65  1,1 04  151    68  0.91   890 12        0  0   480 6.71
Subtotal         23,852   19,570   83  2,844  16       68  0.    890  6        0  6   480   3
Khatlon    Kalkhozabad        8,647    4,837   56  3,477  40    333   3.9       ol o       o        ol 0.(
oblast                                                                           I
Yavan            21,637   15,932   74    781   4    532  2.5  2,779113        450   1,568i 7.2
Ghozimalik         9,685    5,605     |  6441           0     | 3,338          0 o   I  742
Subtotal         39,969   26,374   651 4,258  22    865  3.21 6,1l7| 61    451   2,310 3.6
Leninabad Macha        |    30,210   2,296    81 11,434  38  5,550  18.4  4,377 14   5,015|17 1,538 5.1
Oblast    |                                       _____
Zafarobod   |    34,401        0    0  1,521  4  15,880 46.2         0 0  17,000|49      00 (
Subtotal    I    64,6111   2,296    4 12,955  21 21,430 32.3  4,377  71 22,015 33 1,538 2.5
,TOTAL Project          J   128,4321  48,2401  381 20,0571 161 22,3631  171 11,3841 91 22,0601171 4,3281 3.4
Source MIWR.
Note: 1. Represents the status as of 1999
-68 -



Table 4.12
A. Present Cropping Pattern in the Project Area - as of 1999 (in Ha)
Raions       Project Area Wheat Cotton Corn*  Pulses Oilseeds Fodder Potatoes Onion  Vegetables Orchards Vineyards
ILenin               5,625   1841   3290       0      4        0    167      281     14        671       153        10
2Gissar              11,020   3614   5055    424       8      65    231        3      12       198        16         6
3 Shahrinov          7,207   1280   2372    180        0      12    240        5      18       370       494         14
4Kalkhozabad         8,647   1167   3625       12     12       2      30       11      2        67        183      422
5 Yavan             21,637   5897   7226       0               0   1340      272      37       389       540       432
6 Ghozimolik         9,685   2250   3650      62       0       0    380       16     22        520       556        48
7 Macho             30,210  11680  13306    471        6      12    312       36       6        322      591        128
8 Zafarobod         34,401   8212  15570   2850       12       8   1836        0       6       867       284        86
Total             128,432  35941  54094   3999      42      99   4536      624    117        3404     28171    1146
Note: * Com is mostly grown for fodder (silage); Oil seeds are not widely grown in the State and collective famis,
Pulses like chickpea and green gram and oilseeds like sesame and rape seeds are being grown by private farmers.
B. Without Project - Cropping Pattern in the Project Area - as of Year 20101l
Raions       Project Area Wheat Cotton Corn   Pulses Oilseeds Fodder Potatoes Onion  Vegetables Orchards Vineyards
Lenin         5,625      1672   840    0        15     0       240    250       12     248        150       10
2    Gissar        11,020      2245   3745   250    6       52       210    0        10     120        15        6
3    Shahrinov      7,207      814    1230   180    0       12       185    0        10     370        490       14
4    Kalkhozabad   8,647       889    2667   12      35     2        230    5        2      65         180       80
5    Yavan        21,637       2570   3260   0       0      0        1200   65       18     128        540       256
6    Ghozimolik   9,685        1998   2766   12      0      0        130    12       10     410        550       42
7    Macho         30,210      1550   1890   471    12      12       310    25       7      120        590       85
8    Zafarobod     34,401      1405   1760   2850   12      8        1700   0        7      155        275       40
- otal             128,432     13143  18158 3775   80        86      4205   357      76      1616      2790      533
Note VTndicates a reduction in irrigated area to 55,000 if the rehabilitation works are not carried out and the farmers would adopt
cropping pattem which require less water and inputs.
C. With Project Cropping Pattern in Project Area - as of 2010 (Fully Irrigated /X)
Raions       Project Area Wheat Cotton Com* Pulses Oilseeds Fodder Potatoes Onion  Vegetables Orchards Vineyards
I Lenin              5,625   2810   1630    350    400       150             650      15       670       240         10
2Gissar              11,020   3080   5135    800    600      350      45     350    150         200      460          6
3 Shahrinov          7,207   2300   2800    350    250       420      25        5    150        370       700        14
4 Kalkhozabad         8,647   2600   3800    300    350      350      20     400    100         120       550       122
5|Yavan             21,637   5800  10300    550    380    1450    980        600    150         150      850       432
6 Ghozimolik         9,685   29051  4065    450    120       380    480        16     22        340      480         48
7 Macho             30,210  13680  14000   1600    600    2400    312        360       6        340       650       128
8 Zafarobod         34,401  12000  16000   3500    550    2800   1200        350    150         860     2400         86
Total       T    128,432 451751 577301  79001  32501   83001 30621   27311   7431            30501    63301       846
Note: 1/ Represents the situation following the completion of the main irrigation and drainage works and structures in the project area
*Adoption of short duration hybrid com variety as second crop after harvest of potatoes/winter wheat/pulse or peanut as row crop
Assumes shift to short duration pulse crops such as mung-bean, chickpea, cow-pea and introduction of oilseeds crops - peanut, rape,
sunflower, sesame for rotation.
D. With Project Cropping Pattern in Project Area - as of 2010 (Fully Irrigated with Support Services P')
Raions       Project Area Wheat Cotton Com   Pulses Oilseeds Fodder Potatoes Onion  Vegetables Orchards Vineyards
I Lenin              5,625   2810   1630    800    450       300      25     850    120         680      280         10
2 Gissar             11,020   3580   5635   1200    600      550      25     450    250         220       600         6
3 Shahrinov           7,207   1800   2200    450    420    1400       25       50    150        620       850        14
4Kalkhozabad          8,647   2200   3800    550    580      350    120      450    250         480       750       422
5 Yavan             21,637   7280  11300    850    980       450    450      850    220         180      1100       432
6 Ghozimolik         9,685   3105   4065    550    6001    8001   2001    150    120|           5801    12501        48
7 Macho             30,210  13680  14000   1600   1650    24001   3121    360          6        3501      9001      130
8 Zafarobod         34,401  12000  16000   3500   1450|   3400   1200        350    150         9001    36001        90
Total             128,432 46455  58630   95001 67301   96501  2357[   35101  12661           40101    93301    1152
Note: I/ Represents the situation following the completion of the main I and D works and structures and provision of agricultural support
services, such as improved seeds, fertilizer, pesticides and advisory services
-69 -



Table 4.13
A. Present Crop Yields in the Project Area -as of Year 1999 / (Tons/Ha)
Raions      Project  Wheat Cotton  Corn  Pulses Oil  Fodder Potatoes Onion Vege- Orchards Vine-
Area            I              I       seeds                        tables          yards
I Lenin          5,625      1.9     2.3     0    0.4    0      21      14.61    8    16         10    3.7
2 Gissar        11,020      2.2     2.2   1.4   0.5  0.5        22       14      9   17.6     17.3      4
3 Shahrinov      7,207      1.8     2.3    1.5     0  0.6       24       I       9    18        18    3.7
4 Kalkhozabad    8,647      1.5     2.5   1.4   0.6  0.5        22      10.6     9   12.5     10.5      2
5Yavan          21,637      1.6     1.4     0      0    0       1 8      12      8   14.5     16.2    1.5
6 Ghozimolik    9,685      0.9      1.1   1.4      0    0       16      14.5     9   14.5     10.3   3.5
7 Macho         30,2101    1.2      1.4   1.4   0.51  0.6       15     16.5      7    9.6     14.5    1.8
8 Zafarobod     34,4011    1.2      1.3   1.2   0.4  0.5        16     12.5      7    13        18    3.5
Total        128,4321    1.5      1.8   1.4   0.5  0.5       19.      13.2     8   14.5     14.4      3
NRote: 1.Low crop yields are due to severe moisture stress at the maturity stage (May &June); incidence ofLeaf rust in
wheat; and in case of long duration com "Silk-bum" during June;
B. Without Project Crop Yields - as of Year 2010 (Tons/Ha)
Raions       Project  Wheat Cotton 1 Corn  Pulses Oil  Fodder potatoes Onion Vege- Orchards Vine-
Area            _                    seeds                         tables          yards
I Lenin           5,625   1.80      2.01   0.0   0.4    0    22.0      12.0   7.0    14          8      2
2 Gissar          11,020   1.40     1.61   1.0   0.5  0.5   25.0        0.0   6.0    15         10    2.2
3 Shahrinov       7,207   1.40      1.6]   1.2     0  0.6   25.0        0.0   6.5    15         10    1.7
4 Kalkhozabad      8,647   1.20     1.2]   1.0   0.4  0.5    18.0       10.0   6.0    10         6    1.6
5 Yavan          21,637   1.00       1.2   0.0    0    0    16.0       8.0   6.0    10         10      1
6 Ghozimolik      9,685  0.80       1.0   1.0      0    0    26.0       10.0   7.5    10         8    1.5
7 Macho          30,210  0.60       0.6   0.8   0.4  0.6    18.0        8.0   6.0   7.5         10    0.8
8 Zafarobod      34,401   0.60      0.6   0.8   0.4  0.5    18.0        0.0   5.5   7.5         10    1.2
Total         128,432   1.10      1.2   1.0   0.4  0.5   21.0         9.6   6.3  11.1          9    1.5
C. With Project Crop Yields-as of year 2010 - Fully Irrigated /1 (Tons/Ha)
Raions       Project  Wheat Cotton 1Corn  Pulses Oilse Fodder Potatoes Onion Vege- Orchards Vine
Area                                 eds                           tables          yards
I Lenin           5,625    2.4    2.60      0    0.5    0       28       20     11-  28       12.5   4.0
2 Gissar          11,020    2.4    2.60     2    0.6  0.7       32       24     12    28        18    5.0
3 Shahrinov       7,207    2.2    2.50      3      0  0.8       30       20,   12    30       18.5   4.0
4 Kalkhozabad      8,647    2.1    2.40     2    0.5  0.7       32       201    12'   24        14    3.-0
1    Yavan       21,637    2.21   2.40      0      0    0       28       20     121   22        18    3.0
6 Ghozimolik       9,685    2.0    2.20     2      0    0       32       23    12    22         14    4.0
7 Macho          30,210    1.8    2.00      2    0.6  0.8       24       24    14    21         16    5.0
8 Zafarobod      34,401    1.8    2.00      2    0.5  0.7       24       20    14    20       18.5   4.0
Total         128,432   2.1       2.3   2.2   0.5  0.7   28.8        21.4  12.41  24.4      16.2   4.0
Note: 1/ Represents the situation following the completion of the main irrigation and drainage works and structures in the
project area. Adoption of short duration photo-insensitive, hybrid com variety as second crop after Potatoes and/or
pulse/sunflower peanut as row crop, include short duration pulse crops such as mung- bean, Chick pea, Cow-pea; and
oilseeds crops like peanut rapes, sunflower, etc
D. With Project Crop Yields -as of year 2010 - Fully Irrigated with Support Services/' (Tons/Ha)
Raions      Project  Wheat Cotton  Corn  Pulses Oil  Fodder Potatoes Onion Vege- Orchards Vine-
Area                                  seeds _____ Itables                          yards
I Lenin          5,625    2.6    3.00      5    0.8 0         351       25     16   31.0     14.0   6.0
2 Gissar        11,020   2.5    2.60       6    0.8  1.5       42       24     18  30.0      18.51   8.0
3 Shahrinov      7,207    2.3    2.80      6    0.6  1.4       35       22    16  30.0       20.0    5.0
4 Kalkhozabad    8,647    2.4    2.60      6    1.0  1.4       38       26     16  27.0      16.0   6.0
5 Yavan           1,637   2.3    2.50      ol  0.6 0 o         361      25     15  27.0      20.01   6.0
6 Ghozimolik     9,685    2.2    2.40    5.5    0.6            36       25    15  29.0       16.0   5.0
7 Macho         30,210    2.0    2.20      5    1. [ 1.5       30       26     15  28.0      18.0    6.0
8 Zafarobod     34,401    2.01   2.20      5    1.0  1.8       31       24     15  28.0      20.0    6.0
|    Total      j 128,432    2.31   2.54   4.81   0.80  1.52    35.4     24.6  15.8| 28.8       17.8    6.0
Note: 1/ Represents the situation following the completion of the main I and D works and structures and provision of agricultural
support services, such as improved seeds, fertilizer, pesticides and advisory services.
-70 -



TABLE 4.14
Economic Farm Gate Prices of
Tradable Agricultural Crops and Inputs
(US$ per mt in Constant 2000 Prices)
CALENDAR YEAR            2000 )2001 12002  12003 )2004 12005  12006 12007 2008 12009 | 2010-
1                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2015
1. AGRICULTURAL CROPS
Wheat'                   155   159   165    168   170   173    171   170   168   167   165
Seed Cotton/'            261   295   302   327  342   357   380  380  381   382  382
Maize"                   135   142   143    144   144   145    143   141   140   138   137
___________    __ __         __              l __ __   __
2. AGRICULTURAL INPUTS
Phosphate Rock/4         74    73    72     71    70    69      68    68    67    67    66
Urea5      -             108   116   123    130   136   143    143   144   144   145   145
TSP'                   .171   163   162    162   161   160    158   155   153   151   149
DAPP'                    195  201   201    202  203   203    201   198   196   193   191
Potash/"                 153   151   148    146   143   141    139   136   134   132   130
NOTES:
1. Wheat: Import parity prices derived from the projected prices for Wheat (US), No. I, hard red winter, ordinary
protein, export price, delivered at Gulf ports.
2. Seed Cotton: Export parity prices derived from the projected prices for Seed Cotton: Cotton "A" index, middling
1-3/32 inch, CIF, Europe.
3. Maize: Import parity prices derived from the projected prices for Corn (US), No. 2 Yellow, FOB, Gulf Ports.
4. Phosphate rock: Import parity prices derived from the projected prices for Phosphate rock (Moraccan), 70%BPL,
contract, FAS, Casablanca.
5. Urea Import parity prices derived from the projected prices for Urea, varying origins, bagged, spot, FOB, Europe.
6. TSP: Import parity prices derived from the projected prices for TSP, bulk, spot, FOB, Gulf
7. DAP: Import parity prices derived from the projected prices for DAP, Bulk, Spot, FOB, US, Gulf.
8. Potassium Chloride: Import parity prices derived from the projected prices for Potassium Chloride, standard grade,
spot, FOB, Vancouver.
Source: World Bank. January 2000. Global Commodity Markets - a comprehensive review and price forecast. Commodities Team,
Development Prospects Group. A World Bank Quarterly.
- 71 -



TABLE 4.15
Economic Rate of Return Analysis
(Thousand US Dollars in Constant 2000 Prices)
Year            2001 2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008j 2009  20101 20111 20121 20131 20141 2015
L WITHPROJECT
A. COSTS
1. InvestmentCosts     3946  3189  3369  3651  3419
2. Operating Costs    41832 42046 42259 42473 42687 52561 52774 52988 53202 53416 53416 53416 53416 53416 53416
Total Costs           45778 45235 45628 46124 46106 52561 52774 52988 53202 53416 53416 53416 53416 53416 53416
B. BENEFITS            41331 44086 48619 52213 55788 59974 61895 63783 65635 67454 67454 67454 67454 67454 67454
1. WITHOUTPROJECT
A. COSTS
Operating Costs      15188 16774 16655 15170 14278 13961 13961 13961 13961 13961 13961 13961 13961 13961 13961
B. BENEFITS             16920 19599 20065 18653 17701 17195 17769 17619 17428 17196 16899 16607 16274 15950 15630
IIL INCREMENTAL
A. COSTS                30590 28461 28973 30954 31828 38600 38813 39027 39241 39455 39455 39455 39455 39455 39455
B. BENEFITS             24411 24487 28554 33560 38087 42779 44126 46164 48207 50258 505s5  50847 51180 51504 51824
IV NETBENEFITS           -6179 -3974   419  2606  6259  4179  5313  7137  8966 1080311I1001 11392 11725112049 12369
V.  E R R (%/e)             34
Vl. NP V qfNETBENEFITS @12%                            23,866
VIi.  SENSITIVITYANALYSIS                            ERR
(i) Benefits Decrease
by 5%                                                21
by 10%                                              10
(ii) Production Cost Increase
by 5%                                                23
by 10%                                               13
(iii) Investment Cost Increase
by 100%                                              19
by 200%                                              11
(iv) Delay in Project Benefits
byI Year                                              13
by 2 Years                                             6
- 72 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
TAJIKISTAN: RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Years Ending
June 30
Year 1  | Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6           Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             2.5        4.2        3.8         3.7        3.7        1.8        0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.2         0.4        0.7        1.1         1.3        0.6       0.0
Total Project Costs            2.7        4.6         4.5        4.8        5.0        2.4        0.0
Total Financing                2.7        4.6         4.5        4.8        5.0         2.4       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                    2.2         3.8        3.7        3.9        4.3        2.1        0.0
Government                  0.2         0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3        0.1        0.0
Central                  0.2        0.3        0.3         0.3        0.3       0.1         0.0
Provincial               0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Co-financiers               0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.3         0.5        0.5        0.6        0.4        0.2        0.0
Others                      0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing       2.7        4.6         4.5        4.8        5.0        2.4        0.0
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3     Year 4     Year 5      Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           2.5         4.2        3.8         3.7        3.7        1.8        0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.2         0.4        0.7         1.1        1.3        0.6        0.0
Total ProjectCosts            2.7        4.6         4.5        4.8         5.0       2.4         0.0
Total Financing               2.7        4.6         4.5        4.8         5.0       2.4         0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   2.2         3.8        3.7         3.9        4.3        2.1        0.0
Government                  0.2        0.3        0.3         0.3        0.3        0.1        0.0
Central                 0.2        0.3         0.3        0.3        0.3        0.1         0.0
Provincial              0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Co-financiers              0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.3         0.5        0.5         0.6        0.4        0.2        0.0
Others                      0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      2.7         4.6        4.5        4.8         5.0       2.4         0.0
Main assumptions:
- 73 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
TAJIKISTAN: RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement of goods would be done in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement
under the IBRD Loans and IDS Credits (issued in January 1995, revised January and August
1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting Services, technical assistance and training
would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines - Selection and Employment of consultants
by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents, Request for Proposals and Forms of Consultants' Contract will be
used. Goods and technical assistance to be financed entirely by the Government will be procured in
accordance with the public procurement regulations. A general procurement notice will be
published on the Development Business of the UN in by May 30, 2000.
The Project Management Unit (PMU) established under decree no 216, dated 26 June 1998 to
manage the FPSP, has the main responsibility for i) the overall coordination of the project and ii)
carrying out all the work related to procurement, disbursement, accounts, audit, monitoring,
evaluation and reporting. The Director of the PMU directly reports to the Deputy Prime Minister.
A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established under operating cost in the Ministry of
Irrigation and Water Resources consisting of project coordinator, accountant, secretary, and a
driver. It will be responsible for: i) to assist the PMU in preparation of technical documents, ii)
Supervision of construction works, and quality control with the assistance of intemational expert in
construction quality control, iii) supervision of water allocation procedures, iv) assist in the
establishment of field level water user organizations. The PMU has been active in the procurement
of goods, works and services for the activities under the PPF for the FPSP. PMU cost will be
financed under incremental operating cost.
Procurement methods (Table A)
T'he PMU has limited experience in Bank-financed procurement and also the environment in which
the PMU operates being high risk, because of lack the practices conducive to competitive,
transparent and economic procurement (See Attachment 1), it is recommended that for the
proposed project the following thresholds for each contract be used:
*     Goods exceeding $ 100,000 and works exceeding $ 200,000 shall be procured using ICB.
*     Goods costing less than $ 100,000 may be procured using IS.
*     Works costing less than $ 200,000 shall be procured using NCB.
*     .Minor Works costing less than $ 50,000 shall be procured using three quotations.
The consulting services costing $ 50,000 or more shall use the QCBS method.
- 74 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
ExpenditkreCatogory                                                         NXYtta Cs
1. Works                            3.03            1.24           0.11           0.00           4.38
(2.42)         (0.85)         (0.11)         (0.00)         (3.38)
2. Goods                            11.59           0.00           0.43           0.00          12.02
(11.59)        (0.00)         (0.43)         (0.00)         (12.02)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00           3.30           0.00           3.30
(0.00)         (0.00)         (3.30)         (0.00)         (3.30)
4. Operating costs                   0.00           0.00           4.30           0.00           4.30
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.30)         (0.00)         (1.30)
Total                            14.62           1.24           8.14           0.00          24.00
_   (14.01)         (0.85)         (5.14)         (0.00)        (20.00)
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to managing the project.
- 75 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms            0.71      0.00       0.00      0.32       1.03      0.00       0.00      2.06
(0.71)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.32)    (1.03)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.06)
B. Individuals      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       1.27      0.00       1.27
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (1.27)     (0.00)     (1.27)
Total   0.71      0.00      0.00       0.32       1.03      1.27       0.00      3.33
(0.71)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.32)    (1.03)    (1.27)      (0.00)     (3.33)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 76 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All ICB contracts will be subject to prior review by the Bank. With respect to Services, prior Bank
review will be required of all terms of reference, irrespective of the contract value. For each
contract with consulting firm estimated to cost US$100,000 or more, after the technical proposal
has been evaluated, the technical evaluation report will be submitted to the Bank for its review
prior to the opening of the priced proposals. For contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or more
the Bank will be notified of the results of the technical evaluation prior to the opening of the
financial proposals. For contracts with firms estimated to cost less than US$100,000, the Bank will
review the terms of reference. For contracts with individual consultants costing US$25,000 or
more the qualifications, experience, terns of reference and terms of employment shall be furnished
to the Bank for its review and approval prior to contract signature. All other contracts would be
subject to ex-post review by the Bank one (1) in five (5). The threshold for the minor works is
recommended as $50,000 because these are more scattered works geographically and there are
more small contractors in the regions. In other WB projects underway there is no substantial
evidence if ICB as an attractive procurement method.
All ICB packages for goods and first two IS packages.
ICB and first two NCB, and three MW packages for works.
Consulting contracts with finn US$100,000 (equivalent).
Consulting Contracts with individuals US$25,000 or more.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Ca*4tVaklu
___________ I Procurement
1. Works                         >200,                    ICB                     3.030;
<200,                    NCB             all contracts > 0.1 Million
<50             MW (three Quotations)      First two contracts
2. Goods                         >100;                    ICB                     11.840,
<100                      IS                       0.340
3. Services                      >100,                   QCBS,                     0.710,
>100,                    LCS,                      0.320,
>100,                    CQ                   All contracts,
>100              Individual Contracts    Prior review> $ 25,000.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: 17.41 US $ millions
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every (during the first year of project
implementation a procurement) four months (includes special procurement supervision for
post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 77 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
A_pRitit i US0 } nil    i}. Flnan-.ng fi0enaF
Works                                      2.66                       80 Percent
Goods                                      10.35             100 % of foreign expenditures,
100 % of Local expenditures ( Exfactory
costs) and 80% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
Consultants and training                   3.01                        100 %
Recurrent costs                            1.01             90% through December 31, 2001
85 % through December 31, 2003,
75% thereafter.
Unallocated                                2.98
Total Project Costs                       20.01       _
Total                                      20.01
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Project funds will be initially disbursed under the Association's established procedures, including
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Disbursements made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) will be as follows for each expenditure category: (a) goods under contracts costing less than US$
100,000 each; (b) works under contracts costing less than US$ 200,000 each; (c) services under contracts
less than US$ 100,000 each for consulting finns, and less than US$ 25,000 each for individual consultants;
(d) training; and (e) recurrent costs, under such terns and conditions as the IDA shall specify. Supporting
documentation for SOEs will be retained by the Borrower, be made available to the Association during
project supervision, and be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
Disbursements for expenditures above these thresholds will be made against presentation of full
documentation relating to those expenditures-During negotiations, it was agreed that project funds would
be initially disbursed under the Association's established procedures, including Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs), and a move to PMR-based disbursements would be made at the mutual agreement
of the Government and the Association once the PMU is familiar with the project's monitoring aspects
and is considered able to produce the PMRs in a sufficiently timely and reliable manner. It was further
agreed that a change to PMR-based disbursements would be considered by December 31, 2001 in
accordance with an agreed time-bound action plan.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government will establish a Special Account
(SA) in a commercial bank to be operated by the PMU under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following: (i) Association would, upon
request, make an authorized allocation of US$ 0.5 million; and (ii) initially, the allocation would be
limited to US$ 0.25 million, until disbursements have reached SDR 3.0 million, at which time the full
authorized allocation could be claimed. Applications for the replenishment of the SA would be submitted
at least every three months and will be supported by the necessary documentation including the SA bank
- 78 -



statement and a reconciliation of this bank statement to the project's accounting records. The SA would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association. The PMU will maintain a separate
project bank account (in local currency) to receive and manage Government counterpart contributions.
Financial Management
Financial Management Assessment: The PMU of the Farm Privatization Support Project would have the
overall responsibility for the financial management of this project. The Association conducted a financial
management assessment of the PMU and concluded it satisfied the minimum requirements of the
Association.  The PMU has currently two full time staff, one responsible for accounts and the other
responsible for finance, who serve the needs of the Farm Privatization Support Project (FPSP). An
intemational financial management adviser has been recruited and is presently working with the PMU to
design, implement and provide on-the-job training to the staff on various aspects of project accounts and
financial management. The existing accounting staff of the PMU would maintain the financial management
arrangements of the project until such time as one additional accountant and one finance specialist have
been recruited specifically for the RIRP, which is due to happen by October 1, 2000. Additional financial
management staff will be recruited as needed during project implementation. Separate Special and Project
bank accounts will be maintained for each of the two projects under management by the PMU. Further
details of the project's financial management arrangements may be found in the PIP.
Financial Manazement Risks: The financial management risks for Tajikistan have not been the subject of a
detailed review by IDA. However, primarily because of other implementation considerations, any
weaknesses that may exist in the financial accountability and management capacity within Tajikistan have
been mitigated for this project by using the PMU of the FPSP, and by using intemational auditors for the
audit of the project. Specific weaknesses of the PMU in respect of its financial management capacity and
accountability are being addressed by the intemationally recruited financial management consultant.
Weaknesses in the Tajikistan banking sector will be mitigated by the use of a bank deemed eligible by the
IDA to hold the project's Special Account. However, these weaknesses neither compromise the fiduciary
responsibilities of the Borrower nor of the Association.
Project Management Reports: Detailed guidelines and sample formats of the Project Management Reports
(PMRs) have been described in the PIP. PMU would implement a time-bound action plan to strengthen the
financial management system in order to enable it to prepare quarterly PMRs. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that the first full set of PMRs would be produced in respect of the period ending
December 31, 2001 and quarterly thereafter; however, PMRs indicating sources and uses offunds, uses
of funds by project activity, project cash withdrawals (disbursement) and Special Account statement
would be produced in respect of the period ending December 31, 2000 and quarterly thereafter.
Audit Arranzements: An audit of the proiect will be performed annually. During negotiations, agreement
was reached that: (i) the appointed independent auditor must be a member of a professional accounting
body that is a member of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and the audit must be
conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing as issued by the IFAC; (ii) the terms
of reference already developed for the audit of the Farm Privatization Support Project (FPSP) would
serve as the basis for the audit of this project; and (iii) the auditor engagedfor FPSP would be usedfor
the audit of this project, and subject to satisfactory performance, over the life of the project. The project
would finance the cost of the audit. The results of the audit will be available within six months at the end of
every fiscal year.
- 79 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
TAJIKISTAN: RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
_________________________________             C    P~ &ined1
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       20                           18
First Bank mission (identification)             07/15/98                      10/15/98
Appraisal mission departure                      02/05/2000                   02/06/2000
Negotiations                                     04/05/2000                   04/20/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/30/2000
Prepared by:
The Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources and Tajik Scientific Reserach Institute For Irrigation,
Dushanbe with the assistance from Irrigation and Drainage Engineers from FAO Investment Center, Rome;
Ministry of Ecology & Natural Resource Management; Firuz Saidov, Strategic Research Center under the
President of the Republic of Tajikistan, Rakhmat Khakoulov, Foundation for Market Support.
Preparation assistance:
Japanese PHRD Grant: US $ 250,000 and FAO/ CP : US$ 47,500
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Michael Nightingale               Task Team Leader (until September 1999)
Thirumangalam Sampath             Task Team Leader
Janakiram Subramaniam             Economist and Institutional Specialist
Joseph R. Goldberg                Sector Leader (Quality Assurance)
Antonius Lennaerts                Irrigation Engineer
Hermine De Soto                   Anthropologist & Social Scientist
Taies Nezam                       Social Scientist
Nirmala Saraswat                  Environmental Specialist
Naushad Khan                      Procurement Specialist
Gurdev Singh                      Procurement Specialist
Ranjan Ganguli                    Financial Management Specialist
Hannah Koilpillai                 Disbursement Officer
Ahmed Jehani                      Senior Counsel
Junko Funahashi                   Legal Counsel
Irna Iacovlenko                   Translator/Interpreter
Valencia M. Copeland              Team Assistant
- 80 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
TAJIKISTAN: RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Implementation arrangements
Detailed project costs
Procurement Plans and arrangements
Disbursement arrangements
Accounts And Audit Arrangements
Implementation Schedule
Monitoring and Evaluation Details
Terms of Reference
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.    Tajikistan: Rural infrastructure Rehabilitation Project - PCD
2.    Aide Memoires, Back-to Office Reports and Internal Memos are in Project Files
3.    Procurement Assessment Report, Procurement Specialist, February 2000
4.    Financial Management Assessment, Financial Management Specialist, April 2000
C. Other
* Project Identification Report, FAO Investment Center, Rome, December 18, 1998
* Project Preparation Report, FAO Investment Center, Rome, May 1999
* Drinking Water Supply Report, FAO Investment Center, June 1999
i Detailed Engineering Assessment of Electricity Supply, ACRES Intemational, Toronto
Canada, June 1999
* Environmental Management Plan (EMP), March 2000
* Environmental Data Sheet, February 2000
* Draft Water Code of Tajikistan, Government of Tajikistan, March 2000
*  Cost recovery of 0 & M by water user organizations in Tajikistan, Sam Houston Jackson,
March 2000
* Laws of republic of Tajikistan -an UNDP publications (Septemberl997)
* Technical Report on Water Users' Assciations by Josef Mitschoff (February -March 2000)
* A review of World Bank experience in Irrigation, OED, November 3, 1994
* Irrigation 0 & M and system performance in Southeast Asia: An OED Impact Study, World
Bank. June 27, 1999
*Including electronic files
- 81 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
TAJIKISTAN: RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions            disbursements'
Project ID     FY   Borrower                        Purpose                                         IBRD      IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
P043231        1996 RepublicofTajikistan        IBITAI                                                0.00        5.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00
P044202        1997 Republic of Tajikistan      PILOT POVERTY ALLEV.                                  0.00       12.00       0.00        2.68       1.79        0.00
P053386        1998 Republic of Tajikistan      P-C RECONSTRUCTION                                    0.00       10.00       0.00        0.72       0.09       0.00
P057953        1999 Republic of Tajikistan      EDUCATION                                             0.00        5.00       0.00        4.66       0.50       0.00
P059055        1999 Republic of Tajikistan      EMG FLOOD ASST                                        0.00        5.00       o.oo        2.18       0.15        0.00
P049718        1999 Republic of Tajikistan      FARM PRIVATIZ. SUPPT - TJ                             0.00       20.00       0.00       19.24       2.79        0.00
P047438        1999 Republic of Tajikistan      SAC I                                                 0.00       56.70       0.00       13.76       7.07        0.00
P059755        1999 Republic of Tajikistan      lBrTAll                                               0.00        6.70       0.00        6.58       0.24        0.00
P049894        2000 Republic of Tajikistan      PRIM HEALTH CARE                                      0.00        5.40       0.00        5.22       0.00        0.00
P068786        2000 Republic of Tajikistan      EMG FLOOD ASST - SUPPLEM.                             0.00        2.00       0.00        2.00       0.00        0.00
Total:        0.00       115.40         0.00       82.03      33.81       0.00
TAJIKISTAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                      Disbursed
IFC                                            IFC
FY Approval                 Company                                    Loan    Equity         Quasi       Partic       Loan    Equity          Quasi    Partic
1997/98                     Zeravshan Gold                              2.00        7.64        1.20        0.00        2.00        7.64        1.20        0.00
Total Portfolio:                   2.00        7.64         1.20        0.00       2.00        7.64         1.20       0.00
Approvals Pending Comnmitment
FY Approval                Company                                         Loan        Equity          Quasi         Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                       0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
-82 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
TAJIKISTAN: RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Europe &                                                 9/22/99
POVERTY and SOCtAL                                            Central     Low-
Tajikistan     Asia  income        Development diamond'
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                         6.1      473      3,S1S                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     350      2,190       520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ bilihons)                        2.1     1039      1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population f%)                                          1.5       0.1       1.7
Labor force (J                                          2.4       0.6      1jg      GNP                               Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avallabte, 1992-98)                               capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national povorty line)
Urban population (56 of total population)               33         68        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        63         69        63
Infant mortality (por 1,000 liv births)                 30         23        69     I
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               ,          ,         ,,              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  69          ,.       74
Itliteracy (% of popufation age 15.)                     1          4        32                  Tajikistan
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)    95        100       10S                     i
Male                                                  97       101        113                  Low-income group
Female                                                94        99        103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1907      1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                              ..      3,7       1.1       1,3
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                    ..    29.           .       7.0                     Trade
Exports of goods and servicesJGDP                                                                   Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                      ..    13.1
Gross national savingsiGDP                      ..
Current account balancetGDP                    ..        ..      -5.5      -10.8     Domestic                    Investmen
Interest payments/GOP                           ..       ..       03        0.6         igs                             t
Total debt/GDP                                  ..              107.3      91.2       avng
Total debt service/exports                     ..        ..       5.0      13,0
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..       .,      35.9
Present value of debtexports                   ..        ..      92.7
Indebtedness
1977487  1988-98     1997      1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)                      MTajikistan
GOP                                    ..    11.9       1.7       5.3         *               Tjksa
GNP per capita                         .    -12.9       1.6       5.2               I         ----Low-icomeoroup
Exports of goods and services         ..       ..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment I%)
(56 of GDP)                                                                          0 
Agriculture                                     ..    26.3       27.1       8.8      o0'    '    '               
Industry                                       ..    39.1        19.7      45.7                   94 97 9b
Manufacturing                                 ..       ..         .20
Services                                       ..        ..         .30
Private consumption                            ..    64.0          ..        ..   -40
General government consumption                  ..    22.8                                    -GDI              GDP
Imports of goods and services                   ..
1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     ..
Industry                                        ..       ..        ..        ..     40
Manufacturing                                 ..       ..                         20               /
Services                                       ..        ..        ..         ,      o
Pr'ivate con                                                        ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~93  95    5    97   55
Private consumption                            ..        ..-2
General government consumption                  ..       ..                        -40
Gross domestic investment                      ..
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..        ..        ..   I         -    xports       wImports
Gross national product                          ..   -11.3        3.3       6.9
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 83 -



Tajikistan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic pricesInatn %
(% change)                                                                              1,000
Consumer prices                                    ..       ..      160.0       2.7      aoo
Implicit GDP deflator                             ..       2.9     101.4        0.9      400
Government finance                                                                       200
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                        o
Current revenue                                   ..        ..       12.6      11.8               93   94   95    96   97   98
Current budget balance                            ..        ..       -2.1      -0.9              GGDP deflator        :  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..        ..       -4.0      -3.5
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                  1977     1987       1997      1998       Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                ..       ..       746       637      900
Aluminum                                         ..       ..       252        239
Cotton fiber                                     ..       ..       167        139     600
Manufactures                                    ..
Total imports (cif)                                                  785       766           0
Food                                             .         ..300
Fuel and energy                                 ..        ..       281        271
Capital goods                                    ..       ..         ..        ..       0
92   93   94   95   96   97   98
Export price index (1995=100)                     ..
Import price index (1995=100)                     ..        ..         ..        ..                 Exports     * I.ports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                 1977      1987       1997      1998       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                     ..        ..       746       637       o-          r
Imports of goods and services                     ..        ..       785       766       -2  92
Resource balance                                                     -39       -130
Net income                                         ..       ..       -36        -41
Net current transfers                             ..  ..                                 -.  n            wq
Current account balance                           ..        ..       -60       -140      -s
Financing items (net)                             ..        ..        76       176      -ID
Changes in net reserves                           ..        ..       -16        -36     -12
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                      ..        30        65
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)                  ..  1.80E-2       328.2     475.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                           Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              ..        ..      1,180     1,185
IBRD                                                                 0         0                   G:74   8: 50 c 308
IDA                                             ..        ..        50         0
Totat debt service                                                    3 7                    F: 159
IBRD                                             .        .          0         0
IDA                                             ..         .,        0         0                                         279
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                  .        ..        68
Official creditors                              .,        ..        14
Private creditors                               ..        ..         0
Foreign direct investment                        ..       ..        20
Portfolio equity                                .,        ..         0         ,.                  E: 581
World Bank program
Commitments                                               .,        22         0      A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                             ..        22         0      5 - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                                                 0         0      C- MF                          G- Short-term
Net flows                                        .        ..        22         0
Interest payments                               ..                   0         0
Net transfers                                   ..        ..        22         0
Development Economics                                                                                                       9/22/99
-84 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Add_l
Ann No.: I I
Ler of D lpment Poliy
President
Republic otTajirtan
Dushanbe
May12, 1999
Dearlvk LA:
Sukt h DeveDm nW t Policy for A!iuuI SCtor fir Rpubli;otajilTinan
Recovery of dth apicltuml sor is cena for the econmic demlopmen and to
provde mcro-eoi stabiity in our contry. Si;ce the pe accord, die Goverment has
managed to insy its comunmt to ecoenoic rfm              si ad   ar-ecomc stabilizaton.
One of' the key achievmts   r fte past two year has been the grwth mC;DP -  arly 2
percent in 1997 and an timd 5 percent in 1998: the f   increase smnc indedc. Other
indicator haen ao sAo" siinr sips of rvive sucsh  drop in fiscal deficit fiom 5.4 patent
of GDP in 1996 to 3.2 pecn in 1998, and toget with a digt manry policy, bringing th
infation       to about 3 patent in 1993. The rapid decline in aglulbl production kvels mad
n incme dqun the lasW few yen appears to ha  reahd a bonn and is alwo sowig
signs of reversal, especially throuh mrcascd productio in the newly creased DOcit  (private)
fmm We enet tee polci  to be otiud whLich woud provie a avorable unvi*osut
for develping a coetitive private scor ariltall secr - which snl Is in ealy stages of
development.
in order t raize die ti poteriti of de natural rources adtipatve advmatag  in
di ailsural set, we would i  to wok wit the Wod Bak id otwe   sted des to
sit us in addessing the fowing major ar
(a) arm Privatinnion - Govement's policy to develop private fanily inns ad creat
laud use rigl marka: We hAve made Noiceable pmges in the piv ston of the finmer
state and coicive   a since 197. Priva  use of lan  is occring dr ugbcut Om corny
with varing dgrees of nce ad more d ndent orn the init        of the ctidniasnis
an  others conernd the on offeu procsse. In is regrd, we have  sd Presidential
Je"s (Numbes 499.522 and 1021 and tbese ae being izapntemead in vaiu  aem sThis
bas esued i the towig  od tpa of pint land use nigln (a) cati  of nw priva
Den Wms bae o   nuclear fimilies  usban  wife csler) orene  ul ilies, oft n  a
aond-        bereak*up of iBpd  Farms"; (b) reainig he existing luigeS swute of te old
Svkbo    olkbez frm  ad (a) reorganiztioc of the fiomer sotae ad   olectv far    into
mco       aes su ao  Stok Compaes, Leas  totqe. Deha Assciatoms or Collectivee
Famt We recognz dit if ts process is not mnged cu=ly, the stion would reslt in
te lack of fir and  oaspae  poases and   uties in land disutin, wch wud have
very adveme conseques.    a   rms, bad on natual fmily des and inte             and
-85 -



feius of oeship of thir new land holdings - and we consider this as a vety positive
devtlopment Our present system, unfortunately has led to high costs of obtaining land use nrghts
and our prwedures are complex and time consuming. In this regad, & Government ahs recently
issued a presidential Law (dated April 2, 1999) for the establishnent of a simple lnd registry
system, We would like to sek the support of the World Bank to develop . (a) mechnisms to
ensure fair and equitable distibution of land un rights and the cafton of fair and campedtive
land us rights mket (14 incrase peopls awaeness of all aspects of the land privatiation and
fatm restucing process; and (c) simplify the procedures, design and implement mechanisms
which would reduce fees for obtaining land certificates.
(). Agricuiturl Support Srvices - Govertment policy to inrease competition in fte
provitsion of essentia agricultral support serices
The support services for the privatized fam units to increase crop productivity, obtain
fair market price  retain incomes and  icr e opportnites for re-investment need
improvemen  Due to lack of budgetary resources, the Govermet is unable to contiue
providing the requird farm inputs and support seivices to the reorganized farms. Further, ft
unable political and economic situation has led to som  resictions in the movement of goods
and services. The absece of a Ainctiorung rural credit mehaism, and collateral based lending
of baing institutions with the required capability to lend to h rual suctor, and of supporting
infucure have added to The serity of the problem. We recognize ftat in orde to inmrovc
the Delan frm producivity and incomes in the shon to medium term, we have commited to
accelerating ft refrms in the agricultural sector, develop altenative marketing, financing Md
credit mechanisms for input and output supplies, introducing new  ps  of tested agricultreal
technologies fom  other similar agro-ecologital zones In the worl remove artificially created
trade barrias, and provide fte much needed fm inputs and incentives to sustin privaxized firn
utaS. We are gatefbl to the Wod Bank and other donos who have suppoted us in our effxorts to
improve provsion of essential support sereies and would it to continue to work as pars in
t     imortant arcsa
(c}. Liberafliation of agrleulturaI prices, trade and privatizaton of agro-ent"erises-
Govem>es continued commitment to provide a libealized price and trd  environment,
promote competiton and privatize agro-enterprises
We have ully liberalized the prices of fruits. vegetabs, grain and livestock products and inputs
and Governm t quotas have been abolished. We raize ftat th cotton sector cntinues to be
taffcted by low aw seed cotton producer prices, partly as a result of high levels of tatiot and
high transaction costs involved in the marketing, tsport and export of lint coton by fi g
and marketing intemediaries. These factors combined with the low irrigated cotton yields -
which awe   the range of 2 to 3 tAm as compard to te potential ofover 4 /a - bave resulted in
reduced foreign exchange eamings to the cnomy and reduced farm incomes. We are in the
process of refoming th price setting mchanismn, wbich includes informing the seed cotm
producers the prices before the planting season; implemting a systm of written agments
assuing the price to be rceived at ft time of delivery between the farmer and the prospective
'buyem We would like to seek  e support of the World Bank and oter intested donors in our
tffrs  o promote competition in the processing and narketing of cotton - a process which we
have initied under ft lnstitution Building and Techmical Assistance Credit and the Sructral
Adjustment Cedit fuinced by IDA. We remin corminttd to sucesl completion of the
prtivatiaion of cotton  c*neres and to increase the poducer prices of cotton. in this regard4 the
Governtent has issued An Information Memorandwn for the sale of cotton ginnenies in the
Republic of Tajikista. In this 22 state owned  ttmn guneries are offered for sale. So fir, Six
ginneries have been sold and the remainder wold be sold to private invstors by the end of 1999.
gjuUerics Mve peen sulam Ine r1 Tninter WoOUIC DC 5013 to nvat inVestors bV the end ot I SW.
- 86 -



(4). Irription Systems - Government's policy to increase water use effkieny, cost
recovery mechanisms and treation of water user's associations
Agriculturc in Tajildstan is dependent on iigation, which in somc rgios, is hghly
energ intensive due to the high-lift pwnpiaS schem. The process, so far has been dependent
on the low cost availability of electric pon. I most cases, the canal water level is lower than
the agicultual land, which makes it necessary for the water to be lifted by lrge pumping
stations into mnain canals. Given that clectricity, pumping, and opeation an  maintenance of
imgstion and drainage systems have historically been provided free to the farms, we realize that
water use is excessive in Tajikistan agriculture, and particulary in punping schemes The Tain
system facilities in most fims have deteriorated to the extent that water supplies ae reduced by
about 40 percent. WAe are in the process of refoning tie irnigation sector, passed he Water Code,
prepanng the procedures for the formaton of water users' associations (WUAs) and we are
taking initiatives to gradually increase the water charges to recover Operation and Maintenanx
(O.*M) osts,based onthe water users' ability ad willingps to pay. We would like to seek the
suport of the World Bank and oth  interesftd dono  to -f (a) evaluate the economic feasibility of
high lift litgation systems, which involves pumping water, in sotne cases, to elevations more
than 151 mets ( involving beyond 6 cascades), - especially in areas where the farers grow
oy one crop of cotton and some winter wheat and if market prices wera to be charged Ifr
electzriity; (b) Rehabilitation of pumping staions, irrigation and drainage works - which is
alrady being initiated by the World Bank; (c) Institutional mechaisms for setting, collection and
use of water charges and transfer of responsibility of operation and maiistenance to the "water
usersW - which we consider essential for sustainable incrase in crop productivity.
(e) Creation of sustainable mral savings and credit aechanIsms: Government's policy
to develop member owned rural savings nd credit associations and enforement of prudential
guidelines and regulaory mnechanisms The absence of appropriae ual financial mechanisms has
been a major constrint in the development of the rural sector. In this regard, we are pleased to
infonn you that the National Bank of Tajikstan has passed a esolution recently (anuaty 1999)
permitfing fte establshment of ruraI savings and credit association, Agroinvestment bank has
been privatized and Tajiksberbank has been restructured. The assistance of the Word Bank in all
these efforts is gready appreciatd We would like to request continuing support of the World
Bank and other interested donors to bring world experience to assist in the design, establishment
and implementation of sustainable ruial financial mechanisms.
Government's commitment to  develop  a  competitive market orien
agicultural sector:  Through tlhs letn, we confim  te  continuing commnitnent of the
Governiment of Tajkistan to continue the agarian reforms in the areas of land privadizatiom.
ncreasing  competiton in th provision of essential agcultual support services, provide a
liberalized price and trade cnvironment, privatize agro-enterprises, introduce cost recovery
mechanims in for water resources developmnt, and develop mnmber owed rual savings and
credit associations and adopt prudential guidelines and regulatory mechanisms. We have
censtituted the National Commission on rcorganization of Agricultural Enterises. (established
by a Presidential Decrec #522 along with the aceompanying regulations issed on 25 June 1998
was revised, A committee is constituted to overse the implementation of this commission with
the filollng members: Deputy Prime Ministe Republic of Tajikistan Mr. MaJuov I. M.;
State Counselor to the President Mr. Babaev; Minister of Agriculture W. Kabirov Sh.F.; Minister
of Finance Mr. Muzaffarov A. M.; Minister of Economics Mr. Ismonov D.; Ministcr of Justice
Preently, rg tog of eleric power is highly subsidized. The aiculure stctor pays only 04 T-R@dbleifh or 0S
- 87 -



Mr. smailov SIt M.; Caim    of Nation  Bank Republic of Tajildin Mr. Alimarov MM.;
Chainnan of Land REbtm Comnittee MW. KMkUUoeV S. Ki, Chairman of State Privatiztioin
Committee Mr. DavWov MD; and Direcor of Faim Privatization Prrojec M. Osronaev TO.
This comniee hs been conswied to fbrmulat, monitor and implaenm these refims. We
are plead to inform you Oat we ae adressing s11 these areas in the Fam Privatuation Suor
ojeet whch has been succefully negotiatd erY ast monuth We would like to sess again
our continued comnitnat to delop a competiti  maret orented agriculuiral sectr and.
togher with the World Bi and other donors prepare and excute xru  developmt progas
for inproving the livelihoods of wore than 70 percent of Tajildstln's six.million people.
Signed
Imomali faltanDov
The Presidmt of Republic of Tajikisn
TO.
Mu Johannes Linn
VicePrteiden
he Worl Bank
- 88 -



hcu#wn                      oilwmIuie
r.                                             12 as 1999 roga
o UOATE P8A3BMTZ XcLubKoxo3SfcThEOro CEKTOPA
PEC!WBIRYKTAX13dHCTaA
Ynazais  ronom ih,,
Boccaoanemwe   cOcXozvfcrs oro  ceropa   nwomerg
zcmo'eno  oTpawmw atououxm crpaau, wrzers flpoprremoft 3aMule
EtHeTHro SMI pasIrum.
rlIoAHcane Espuoro cornMena c03ong Heo6xOmle ycOO        I
yCKOpeRHH  3xObtIolecDX  pe4xpm  ji aocnn  MaKpOsKo        toceoA
cra5woau   crpaniOUM  8s rnnUMx aocTnuenk nocneau  nyx ner
XnacsM poBBIL B  997 roa BBrl ysermcz Ha 2,1%/, a s 1998 roAy - Ha
5,3%. Tanse aMeoT     jipyrx  ioawt, cSMerTdiTwn me o
uocrmmyra yenex:  1998 roA3y AeFa= 6one  cocraom 3,8%. Seanx
6roaxemas a aeaezo -peanrn  uoirr  no3sQnna cnrn n4mamo  a
1998 roA no 2,7 %.
LEw Tp esoao4umwcmey
zoenobany koaxwancy Hama
Peneon Eqnnu auLnmspaawwo4 A3na
SanasuiwnenoSdu
Bawuamo9
-89 -



(6)   CezbcKoxonacmtewbi CevT,c66bi  noddepxnm    -   noAwnuxa
I7pagum4em&a F ycwenuu KOnKypen zpu  u e o6ecneqenuw  noa&epca
CexOXOy*uCnjseIHbLt CMpyAmyp.
npasrremcTBo  nUoHMaeT    HeC6XOmoC           cosepmeHcThoasaA
MCXH3Ma upeaoctwiewm ycayr rno noaaepce  pmnTnaaT;poRaa a x03aaCTS
Ajgi yuwneHmU npOv3awOAHTenbOCTM, yYBesmnesa ziOXOZOB Xo3suCTB n
o0MOAcEOTeil mnecpoafm. H3-3 ae4nMRTa 610Z*eTsa flpanTreromo He B
COCTOHmm  owam  HseO6XOMO nOMODY  poptmpoBaEm   X&3ATam, a
rtCyml me M OeXa M3a KpexUoBaHHR, B&iaan Kpemnoa noz 3anor, a TaxKe
6OBCXgX yepCKaeHmH c HeOLUMLIM O6&MO0M Cpeazm xA  KperoaaM a
oenLCIoro cewropa a nozuepsatoieft awkpamTpyypw, - ycaowoT
npo6seay. TIpasATw co MOU3HerT. 'o run nosuMeni nPOaaOaRTeasnOcM
aexxaacx3X X03oXaka 8 Xpaocp6WO'i R AwrCPOTfeR ocnoBe, HeN6XOXMMO
yoxopewe a yrny6zeEsCe 3KOHOMICeCKX pe4opM B cemcroxoxanIkAeHmfoM
ceirope; pammn  wasrepuaTnia p&ao{rumx a   umacosBx MeXaIIlOS rio
npenoeraaieMUo spezuros, o6ecneWeuxo ce1ICKKoX03tMeTRhmME pecypcaMM
a  ne c6brry rorosoti npoayHH; aaepeHme HOBbIX ceT$tK XoSAcTemnc
'TXHoWo     f  trpaiR, HRXOaDWUXS  Iax H maa ~WTaUaa  B Tof$ wce
arpoionormexor  3sHe; npeoorxene    emomxxcc  ToproarOx   6apbepoa;
o6ecneceuae  xonRgcr   Beew   aaeoxoam a  eemc1oxncrmemnm
pecypt*MH  TeM caMLm fooUpsA yctotiwoe paSSHe upzBaarapoeawuxx
X0351th. MU 6narnapmx Btb retM AROwPaM4, aOTOpLe roT0b noanepa0am Hac
B MOM imam, B 'acrocrH, Bce,Mpaoemy biify.
(slJu6qeparusarpa yen Ha ceqbcKoxo3AT eeweHmy npodyywo mopeoerno,
a nmtciC# npea*nu3s* ctabcWoxoSaCmeeCmIx npednpwaui - ITpaseurso
npo ae'r HpOBOMArs nIosIrxy :O C03aaWo   noanMepaKe 6aronpaniAoHf
cpeau  =x  zepaa=m    ueH Ha oabcKoxonkrBemuylo  aposynuo a
CoQn   oHXnYpeHocUnowo6Horo phuna, a Taxoe ycxopex  npatranaw
ceJcoxonSceIs npepRmzpa .
Bce  UxeLI Ua  ceacKoxoOcrBeHHyio  Ipoxym,  a  taoe  Ha
ctnCXOXOsifCTBStiie      PCCYPCN       0nAHOCrbJa     si6epamnonaas;
fparnrreprse    e iwoTn o1tehIeCO. OazaKo apomBoIcTEGo xJioIKa, Ha Ham
s3Mr, sce eme naxorc as Ha3KOM yposae a3-3a aH3oro xaeMta ceMDI
XTona, BmuCOwIx MaIMoros a Tpaxcnop-nX pacxoaoa, Cca3aaxmc co c6&ToM  a
Tm fXcfOpIYo  XIIOUOEoJaO  Kotopwg $aaucpyex H peaayewc
uocpexama Bce nu OaKrop, lEapuy   HH3IOM DpO a3BOQTom xnorxa
(1 5-2,O T,a), no cpaaHeumo c noTeHaitaXumw  arpomsoaCe8om CBif!e 4T\ra,
3SaBITt,cJTO yYMeaCoz    nocryrueae fSaTU     B 3KOH0MHKY c'Pan,  H
coxpamia  aox*aM    XOQXHVTB.  AIpaSH =aTtILCfO   npeapaxmaer   pu
- 90 -



4
HCeoGXOmmix Mep 21 EucrpcAwcro wccmoanen  camoro samoro cerpa
noaffoin     MLI nepc2 MtMogu      Mm nox*caf  zoroBopoa meway
npol3a0iA1ffl4  XLOiM H nOtcMalLHw     nOKyTCJIlO, T.. nOrODOp
MeCC UpOHo3NO2iM      H 3O3MONHhThwH notylTreCIM  aoleH rapaamposaT
caoespemeaHi oGmaTy, no Mepc n0oaaa xnomcma Mm naaeemc fma uoaepxry
BcenpHoro SaHxa i tpyrax Aoaopos no co3nmo xomypearocnoco6Hot
tcpsp  a oGnacTwt nepcpa6on  xzforma
B ueix e yipOtieHi MeXaaIMoQ  peaJanm   Xomcoo#R UponynM    a
co3aam paflfl  ycnoaof UIpH ce peaaa=u    Eaa Kccnopr n RHyipui pccny6nn
6tn upaHo paa nocrauourcmct
floTaaosweHe flpasu.cma Peiny66.nc TaaniowTaa oT 2 ceTs*
1997 roNa Ks 400 (40  pax no yipomemuo mexa3a peamwatnai  xon ozot
npoaynuov;   floctosnete  Ilpamrecca Pcniy6nm     Ta
nO  aammmneume  Coaepmeutsconaumi  1opma   pefU 4    xnomow#
npoxyian; foaTanowaenze r1pareimcna Pecny6na T3cxKcMaa or
4  espaws 1997 ro.a t Ks 59 <46 opramum   Pecny6manxcKo4 xtroaonR
,f)  Hppuea4uonnax  cucmewa  -  flonxma  Up >anemcma  no
B#erraiioy H tIlcooQ6pa3Omy acnowonamio Bo02, BOcCTBHOmCEJio
MexaHHMMa copa N owruM  3a HCUOfl3ODUC BOno, a TamCe couagMe
Acconana Bomnomin3oBaTeJet.
Ceancxoe xoalmlo  B Tanxccrane 3aBascrr or app               , j
He;CCropTX patkoHax nio'pc6aeTcx MHOro 3neprnm  R34a Heo6xomuocTm   U
nozTeMe Boiz uacocama. B 6osmmce uCyQae YPoBeu  BOMA a  canax
e"i ie(m ypoBeHi 3Cui, a CE13T  G 3TM    xI  nogMa Bo1  3 OCHtOBRM
xaHama  aeo6xomox  KpyEle  HaCoctIe crtIuL Hcroprecic             noo,aqa
3Aenp0oHeprEm, HCIb3oBVIUe H aeOco%s pa6roa aceR CMcremU a pemouTn ec
6b,mn  no'a  6ecrmaTmaa Onaxo aToraourcg o0esO3ul, 'ro cencxoe
XO3IC thO npeBCUWUtr HOp9M   acitomoBaun BOfl, oco6ecio 3To nacaeTca
3IeCm , opomae1Mx  aaccHf     cTasHamH.  OcnoaHoe  o6opyaomae
nppnraaHOHHoA CHcremIa 0o miormx XO3XBx yxyatiocrs 3o Toro ypoBEa,
'no  noaMaa  aon   ocyecranzserca  c  6ouns t nem4mrrom, mecran
Bo,oo5ecneqemtocm  cocransmer 50  %  a  MeHee. B   aaraomee BpMX
flparrmcro aaqato pe4bopMpoBanat appuirausooro cerropa, MBeteEo
nJattwe soao L3oaaEHmec, np*T Bonmzft KoeAc. Haer npotxecc no=oTBo
no co3namno AccowIauaa  bouonsosma-efi, serc pa6omu c 4epMepn
Ia crownw aspex. anea a nepoaaprm cy6cnupylmt rocypcros. Jxn
mcscoxodWwz"cenope yceoa  CMM   c m
a)  aau opowcnw 2,5 pym.
-91-



5
no yBCIo  p43Mepa oWaITM  3a H0110T30lSe BOJ Awnl noucpn
pacxozos no  ciXmyarana I pCMdoiry xppitaxm ofl cern. flpaTem
saJzecZ, wro BeemRpEa Sa na apyre ao#opp  nOiepZKTr cipamy:
(a)  a  upo8anemm    tteiHuoo   )KOHOMreclRoro  accfeaoaaFmu
uenecoo6paaom    auonoosamx cHeCTmLI aucoKxort noan'   so=, 'no
sxwoaer uonRa'Y aOa Ha mC0, npesumaiouyo 150 merPos (rze imeTex
5-7 XaCMAaOa) - B oco6eaocrH B M*CTaX, rae AeXXane nipam Ts TOromo
ow ypoEiK aoXa O UR a30 os03yo Men*y - CeyCTe an =  Taokt MCCT
ycraaamra onary 33 nconWOane 3JIeCpOi3HCpfl no ypcy puma;
(5)  BOCCTUHOmeBC    HaCOCTD cTluiwi, a upoaseaeta  nppxrauoHmx
a apeHamix paorT, xotpe yxe Hawaw     O WUUaTn e Bcewnpaoro Eama;
(i)B) CO3W0m1 HlcTmnylxoHanaTHoro mcaIUMa no oapenenexo Haopm
ICnWOA3ONaM* SoAK, yCaTosneHRo paaW@pa onnaTw 3a HCrnoaosaale DO=u a
c6opa raw n acnonao0aHae BOgA AM noTxpar  pacxoiioa no 3cnnyaTam
aH ptwOnT;
r) B cO3mI THOTH"LX yqaco  no HOosiM 3$etflB04 cnoco6)a
opomeHx (xaneaoe, nxmpoao=eaeme H t.a.) nromwoxoe s 1,5-2,0 pasa
yBemvnm  ypouaAaocm  CeJCKOX2firTCHeHLX KyA$tyP CO 3aiuTeniaof
3KOHOMIoe. Boe 3w mepii sBWaOTcs IES5%00  , ra  ai tOMOryT eymeomeno
ynennam YPoaK^Ocm CtcKOXO3ZfCTBdiMX xyswyp.
0)    Carue n ymoiutwoo  mtexanu3Ma Apeumowauu  ceAtbclo
mecmMocmu - Ilonrrma r1pasarrescra Haranpa a Ha coaHae Accotwann
no spemaTOBaHmO a  CpepewemM B CeJiScKOro  MeCTHCm  H pa3pa60oloft
peryflpylomero MexaHluna.
OCHOironw     cnonocTmo  B pa3BrrmEf ceniot MeemOCn  xsnen
otCyFCTBte  npaewRe.imoro  mexarma  iflaHCmBpof. B  3Tok  Cc=H
HazwommuaJmmz  Ban    TajzzmcTaaa r!pmWo pemewe (a mnpe 1999 roa),
nonowomee  yrpvca*       C cOJicLe  Acuc aau   no  Wpomrroaam o 
c6epewemte.      lpnwannpowa    Arpomwci6aax,   ocymecmner
peapyypsaw    Tanmc6ep6aa. Mu 6aaroaapm  Bcexsptomy  aEsay 3a
cozerTmfle B yqpe*OZeAR  TSKW( Accoiwai#. npaBemcTo Pecny5nn
Taaznacn  notaraer, vro Bcemrpnat Sa H g p ea noHops npo.onar
coetlcmae ctpa   iupi6B npte   M t m3uwynapomoro QoTTra upa cU3,aaU
TaKoro poAa MexaHBMma KpeJRTrosaR   cemcxoll MeTHocrOT.
EtAw.o f7paeumecbcmea  aewmcA psumue KOHKfleHmnocnco50no20
crncz6rCoxaocmeenoao   CemKopa,  opUenmupoauMnHOo   no   pweo'at6W*
omtOusent4.
-92 -



6
3nN  nHcmo.oM  flpuaarmac    nonmep*arT CBon  pemeut   no
ycxop,emi   UpODCoezIW  p4opM B arpapHoM  ceCKopeP  s MTnocra, n o6nacs
npfaTfa3&L     ceanctoxo3xflCeUHm    npeanparna  H xoasl, coanaxm
xowcyperocnXoC6uoit   cpe=          ANn     iiptoct&nefmu       ycAyr
CWTbCKOXO3IeCHOMY cenOPy, C03AAEDO yciowii an jsniazaww neH a
Toprosin, Bee    mexaiuMma no onpezewnmo aeo6xoaoi  3rpax Ba
pafWW   x mHnomI osaWC somoAX  pecypeon, CwAaHaz    Accozmaratl no
xpe*etaSwo H c6epemm, a me pa3pafoT  Heof6Xoma     pyxoBoacm
I MeXaHH3Ma peCyJTHpOBI   4xaacosoR roMomom. HamH 6Ewa cosna
Koimccu nio peopraWUXI  CeCKOX03ftCTSMIX   upeaprnifl (YXs
ripesmAecra Pcuy6m TawntcTaH 3a Xs 522), B HmOHe 1998 roga cocTs
Kouncou nepecMupeB i inon yHsepies. B ee cocT  xxoan: flpeacXewn
- flpebsep-Mnhaap ?ecny6mn   Tanzvmcaaax WH. MA3toa;, Samecream -
3amecccrna npemep-oMapa - )DiK.M. MaucypoB; 'uemi   Komaccai:
rocroBCnTH iao 3KOHOMKc -HaQajHnsC ynpaewa  Koxomn rIL. Ba6as;
Miorrp  cem.caro  xonttcna  l.0.  Ka6wpoa; MIXnap    Wacos
A.M. My3an4apon; Mmwrp 3KOHOMX  I RHCIHI  3TCOUOWM$CCZ  cwme
,J. Hcmonou;, UEpeaeAare   roexoMMywenTsa Pecny6sn  TaaxcaicraR -
M.C.  AamaTos;  Mascip  IOcrmm    Pecny6mr    TaaxacaHcm
ILM.N  HcwoaB; flpeacearn  HazmoaansHoro Samm T                     -
M.M. AnzMapionos; flpeAccaaTren  Kowlrrar no 3eMemm   Pecypcam N
3emseycrpoflcmy Pecny&m  Tawacta   - CX. Xatpyanoes; aHpenrop
UcaTpa no UoAep2e npnanrt  xoarien - T. OcroaaeB.
3rm Koiaecms 6wra coaaa c uenao ocy    anewu peiopm B crpaae.
Bee ni paccmpemse tanpasmeax 6yyr ocymecTamca tepes
flpoerr no noa=epax  npnraopoaanzx X03sRcT, upezcTraarenm aTro
npoerra np=sMaaM y'iacme B neperoBopax a anpeze. HaM xonnoci, 6M ete pa3
OCTSoSRThC5 Ha HameM pemeHRi YCKO9HTTh UpoBeAieUHSe pe4opM, aeoxOaOAx
J     pasuiTm   cjmcoxosgicmenoro  cerropa  opnenmpawoaaoro  Ha
p3iomoH aloamxy B coTpynmmecBe co Bcenp               EaRoM  a c pynmi
AOIIOpamaOMForoaKm florpammy pasira  I yfyIeRU  ycnosml mxnn
wecrnw bonaoro a:acenIeuu Taaxcraa, 6onee 70% ioroporo np4wae'
B cezmcxofl MO    -
3MoMagn PaXMHOBa
rlpe3xuetr Pcny6mw Taxszra
- 93 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Environmental Analysis
A. Environmental assessment
1.    Objectives: Environmental assessment of the proposed project was carried out by the Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources Protection (ME&NRP) to: (i) assess the likely environmental impact,
and (ii) recomrnend a set of mitigation measures and monitoring actions which could be integrated into the
design and implemented in this project. This was carried out by a team of local specialists consisting of
Massrs. A.O. Latifi, First Deputy Minister ME&NRP , head of the group; M.N. Nazriev, First Deputy
Minister of Irrigation and Water Resources; A.K. Kholov, Deputy Minister of Agriculture; Umarov, First
Deputy Chairman of the State Land Committee; A.Sh. Dzhuraev, Deputy Head of Control and Inspection
Department of the ME&NRP; A.K. Kamolidinov, Head of the Department of Science, Technology and
Water Resources of the Ministry of Water Resources; I.A. Abdusalomov, Academician, Academy of
Sciences, chairman of the independent environmental council; M.D. Davliatov, Chairman of the Union of
Journalists.
2.     There was unanimous agreement that the proposed project activities would strengthen sustainable
development of the irrigation sector and rural drinking water services involving technologies, policies and
actions directed at the integration of environmental protection. It would increase agricultural production,
prevent the risk of decreased productivity of irrigated land, protect natural "assets", and prevent the
degradation of soil fertility and improve the quality of drinking water.
3 .     Environmental activities in the project : The project would support the following activities:
(i)  demonstration of the procedures of environmentally safe technologies, guidelines and
handbooks on safe handling and using of pesticides, agrochemicals, fertilizers in accordance
with the FAO recommendations and other recommendations issued abroad, which would give
opportunity to the MIWR and MOA to provide advice to the farmers associations through
specially trained staff at raion level;
(ii)  development and implementation of methods for safe use of irrigation waters and drainage;
(iii) institutional capacity building related to the environment to implement recommended measures
through strengthening of ME & NRM, TUA and TLWRMI.
(iv)  Training: Training for specialists at head-quarters and field offices of MIWR, MOA, members
of WUAs, farmers would be provided in the following areas:
(a) a one week training to be provide on an annual basis to upgrade existing knowledge and to
inform about new concepts in the area of environmentally sustainable technologies in the
drinking water management, irrigation and drainage management, agricultural management
and technologies on soil conservation;
(b) short-term courses, seminars, training on monitoring and control of environment offered by
national institutes;
(c) a set of one-day seminars on various aspects of regulating the use of nature, control, water
management, services, problem solving etc.;
(d) field days for farmers to demonstrate modem irrigation and drainage technologies on
on-farm management, which would allow to increase the environmental consciousness of
farmers, for example regarding clean water, and the use of the best technologies and best
management practice.
- 94 -



(v)  Increasing environmental awareness:
Conducting periodic seminars and workshops at the national and regional levels to:
(a) increase the awareness of people about environmental issues, economic and social aspects
related to irrigation and agriculture in the project areas, on regional, oblast, national levels;
(b)review of general and technical principles and environmental procedures of the WB;
( c) review of the existing legislation, norms and procedures of the ROT necessary to identify
future areas to be assisted and cooperated with;
(d) organize discussions of environment for the interested sectors of economy and groups.
B. Environmental mitigation plan
4.     Tajikistan inherited a broad system  of environmental monitoring from  the FSU, including
programs, analytical tools and standards. Numerous institutions were created for collection of data and
field studies, but these are not coordinated in an organized manner. Upon independence, the law on Nature
Protection was adopted in 1993, which provides a broad legal framework for the screening and review of
any investment projects by the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources Management. A specialized
state inspection department for the Expert Environmental Assessment of all types of projects, including
investment in agriculture and irrigation projects has been set up. Presently, the environmental norms and
standards to be used for construction projects are in the process of being revised.
5.     All the proposed rehabilitation works on the RIRP are part of an existing scheme and would
involve rehabilitation only, which would not exceed the original scheme, alter or expand the volume of
water abstraction limits as a signatory to the internationally agreed water share of October 7, 1967, which
is currently valid. The proposed project shall not change the existing nature of the water abstraction, or
alter its scope and extent as to make it a new or different scheme. The quantity of the water share would be
limited by the head works design capacity that was originally conceived and constructed and would not be
altered. The works would not adversely impact in any way water use or water quality in the riparian
countries. It would also not be adversely affected by other riparian possible future water use, as
improvement to the water management and drainage system will only improve the environmental
conditions. Most of the drainage water from the project area hitherto were being discharged with much
more pollutants and agrochemical into the Aral sea basin. After the completion of the RIRP works, the
drainage water would still be discharged into the systems, but with lesser quantities of pollutants and would
be regulated and monitored. In view of the foregoing facts and in line with paragraph 7 (a) of OP 7.50, this
project does not constitute a case for the notification requirement
6.     Mitigation Measures:
The mitigating measures which address the main environmental concerns in this project are as
follows:
(i) Dumping of excavated sediments and other materials from irrigation and drainage canals,
structures.: Mitigating measures would constitute an integral part of the design and implementation
in the contracts binding the contractors to carry out the environmental obligations during construction
of the sub-project. Standard bidding documents would have environmental precautionary clauses
which would incorporate the following aspects:
(a) Preservation of natural landscape, to the extent possible, by conducting operations in a
manners that will prevent unnecessary destruction or scarring of natural surroundings. Except
where required for permanent works, quarries, borrow pits, staging and processing areas,
dumps, and camps, all trees, saplings, and shrubbery should be protected from unnecessary
-95 -



damage by project related activities.
(b) Prevention of accidental spillage of contaminants, debris, or other pollutants, especially
into streams or underground water resources. Such pollutants include untreated sewage and
sanitary waste, tailings, petroleum products, chemical, biocides, mineral salts, and thermal
pollution.
( c) Proper disposal of waste materials and rubbish. If disposal by burial or fire, it should not
cause negative impact to either the air, soil nor ground water supplies;
(d) Minimize air and water pollution emissions. Dust from the handling or transporting of
aggregates, cement, etc., should be minimized by sprinkding or other methods
(e) The contractor's facilities, such as warehouse, labor camps, and storage areas, should be so
located as to preserve the natural environment (such as trees and other vegetation) to the
maximum extent possible. After project construction, camps and building should either serve
as permanent residences and form future communities, if such use can be foreseen and
approved, or be torn down and the area restored to its quasi-original condition in order to avoid
deterioration into shanty towns.
(f) Landscaping of borrow pits according to the ecological design to provide some substitute
area for lost natural landscapes and habitats."
(ii) Agrochemical pollution, and surface water contamination: would be addressed by close
coordination with the Farm Privatization Support Project, currently under implementation in the same
project area on three elements, viz., (i) training, (ii) demonstration and (iii) information and advisory
services. The key quality standards which would be monitored for drinking and irrigation water have been
presented in Table 12.1.
Table 12.1: Key Water Quality Standardsl
A: Drinking Water
Indicators       Quantity/Amount
1       Dry residue      No more than 1000 mg/l
1.      pH               6.5- 8.5
2.      Odor at 20N      2 points ( on 1 -10 Scale from good to bad)
3.      Color            clear At 20N
4.      Turbidness       1.5 grade level
5.      Hardness         No more than 7 mg-eqv/1
6.      Bacillus         No more than 3/1
7.      Dichlor ethylene  No more than 0.0006 mg/l
8.      Chloride         No more than 350 mg/l
9.      Sulfates         Less than 500 mg/l
10.     Fluorides        0.7-1.5 mg/l
11.     Nitrates         Less than 45 mg/l (Total with nitrates)
12.     Nitrite          1.0 mg/I
13.     Mercury          Less than 0.005 mg/l
14.     Lead, Pb         Not exceeding 0.03 g/l
-96 -



B. Irrigation Water
Water Quality level              Quality Score     Total Salt contents g/l  Including toxic
g/1%
1    Very good                         5                  1                        0.110
2     Good                             6-10               2                        0.420
3     Satisfactory                     11-15              5                        1.835
4     Poor                             16-20              8                        4.050
5     Unsatisfactory                   20                 8                        4.050
Note: These are the quality standards adopted by the ME and NRM Source:
(iii) Soil erosion associated with the maintenance of existing practices of agricultural production
improper and indiscriminate use of on-farm irrigation water such as resorting to flood irrigation by the
farm owner: MOA supported by training and demonstration program under the FPSP would provide
improved soil and land management practices to the farming community to prevent any soil erosion
associated with the maintenance of existing practices of agricultural production. Demonstrations under the
FPSP would provide advice and training to the farmers not only to farming community in the project area
but also to the entire fanming community in the areas located upstream of the irrigation scheme. Erosion
occurs in the upper catclment areas, which this project will not be addressing.
C. Environmental Montoring Plan
7.      A  summarized environmental monitoring plan describing the parameters to be monitored, and
institutions responsible during implementation and operation of the project activities have been presented in
Table 12.2.
12.2 Environmental Monitoring Plan
A. Drinking Water Supply
Phase What parameter  Where              How is the parameter to be When             Why is the    Responsibility
is to be        is the parameter  monitored/type of       is the parameter to   pararneter to
monitored?      to be monitored?  monitoring equipment?    be                 be monitored?
monitored-frequency
_____                                                            of measurement ?
InstallOperate
Constr- Dust            At the           Visual no significant    Periodically, during   For safety,    PMU/
uction                  construction site  incidence of Dust is  construction.       maintenance   PIU
anticipated.                                of harmony as To include in the Bid
Noise            At the                                                       well as       documents PMU/ PIU
construction site  Inspection of Working of the As required  protection to   To include in the
From the Pump    work site and local people                  people and    works Bid documents
Debri, Solid     house and        feed back               As required         environment  as contractor's
Wastes           distribution system Visual site verification                 -- Ditto --    obligations
At the water    review and measuring of
pump, tank and   quantity at site
Degradation of    distribution site                        As required and      - Ditto -
Vegetation                        Visual site verification  restoration before
Planting season
- 97 -



Opera- Tests for Total    Main Source of   Periodic analysis of water  A month before and  For safety,    Raivod--khoz/
tion    Salts phosphates,  Water Supply    samples on site and at the   every month during   maintenance   VWOs
Nitrates, Nitrites   and distribution   Regional Laboratory and    cropping season.  of
Pesticide residue   points        submission of reports                        environmental
levels, chlorine,                                                              harmony and a
coliform, E-coli                                                               commitment to
P/A, turbidity tests                                                           protection to
people and
environment
Quality standards
and Capacity                      Periodic analysis of Soil                    -ditto-       PIU/ raivod-\khoz
Building         Regional         samples in the Regional
Laboratories and  Laboratory.
Awareness level   Project Staff                                                              PMU/
for environmental                                                               To enhance   PIU/ Training Center
issues                            Periodic Training Programs Thrice during the first public  Raivodkhoz/
Farmers of the    and dissemination of    year of the project and awareness on  VWO.
Project area    information through       every               environmental
Mass-media.              Six months during    issues
subsequent years of
the Project
implementation
At least 3 during the
first year -Six
monthly during
subsequent year
straining season.                ME&NRM/PIU/
Twice during                     Training Center
subsequent years
ME&NRM/PrU/
Training Center
B. Irrigation and Drainage
Responsibility
Phase What parameter Where                 How is the parameter to  When               Why is the    Instal-lationOperati
is to be       is the parameter to   be monitored/type of    is the parameter to   parameter to  on
monitored?      be monitored?       monitoring equipment?  be                  be monitored?
monitored-frequency
_____                                                             of measurement ?
Constr- Dust           At the construction    Visual no significant  Periodically, during   For safety,    PMU/PRU
uction                 site                incidence of Dust is    construction.       maintenance   To include in the Bid
anticipated.                               of harmony as docum-ents PMU/
As required        well as       PIU
Noise           At the construction   Inspection of Working of                 protection to   To include in the Bid
site               the work site and local                     people and    documents as
people feed back                           environment  contractor's
Silt and Solid                                             As required                       obligations
Wastes          From canals & drains. Visual site verification at              -- Ditto --
site
Damage to                                                  As required and
Vegetation                          Visual site verification at before planting season   - Ditto -
At the construction   site
site
- 98 -



Opera- Silt accumi lation Canals and drainage  Periodic seasonal joint    A month before and  For safety,    PITY Raivodkhoz
tion                  System             inspection with WUAs    every month during   maintenance
cropping season.   of
environmental
Total Salts    In main drain water  Periodic analysis of drain  Once every three  harmony and a
phosphates,    Outlets             water samples in the   months during and    commitment to
Nitrates, Nitrites                 Regional Laboratory    after cropping season  protection to
Pesticide residue                  during spring, sununer                    people and
levels                             and winter.                               environment
Farm land                                                 Once every month   -ditto-      PIU/ Raivodkboz
Water-table    Observation wells   Periodic (monthly)     during and two
recording of water levels  months after cropping
of wells in the project    season                      PMU/ PTU/Regional
area.                                                  LabsRaivodkhoz/
Chemical                                                 A month before and   - ditto-    WUAs
composition of   Farm lands of the    Periodic analysis of Soil  after cropping season
soils          Project area        samples in the Regional
Laboratory.
At least three during
Villager's                                               the first year - first a To enhance
Awareness level Project Staff and  Periodic Training     month before, second public
for environmental Farmers of the   Programs and          during and final after awareness on
issues         Project area        dissemination of       Irrigation season.    environmental
information through   Twice during        issues
Mass-media.           subsequent years.                Raivodkhoz/
Raivodkhoz/ Regional
=____________________ ______________________________________________________________________  Labs
99 -



- OOL -



MAP SECTION



I



IBRD 30745
VKAAK)~~~~~~~~~TAN    -  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~        ~~~1. ~~TAJIKISTAN
/  A                                 ~~~~~RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
*/  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l~PROJECT IRRIGATION WORKS
4  -  s  TrrTerhkere   r           j" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.T.hEudret
ASHI                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT RAIONS                                   ROADS
To I,sa   ~ ~ elHUANI;I                       LC~                                  OFF-FARM PUMPING STATION LOCATIONS              ------RURAL DISTRICTS
UZBEKISTAN             AFAROBOD                  -Khoda 4~                           K~     ONUJC)OM                0      SELECTED CITIES                                  ----AUTONOMOUS OBLAST BOUNDARIES
~~,e  .tj' %    ~~~      0      AUTONOMOUS OBLAST CENTERS'                         - = OBLAST BOUNDARIES-
T.                                                                                               OBLAST1  rSa, 'oe, -~CENTERS                    I---- -      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
~~~    ~ ~ ~   3      -.                   * ~~~~~~~~~~ NATIONAL CAPITAL                     Ararifh n batlvlemrerta ,iin.rleemesaeudrdrc
5HrAHkSTON                                                                                                                                             Ar ebl1ru is ra-rd only wlre ft nm differ-re ha- aist deeirare ere
KYRGYZ REP.          ~         2
"C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HN
-39'~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
TIJle$lrNZAF y ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Tee e  C  Dusho ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~kl
C,*.                     \eeroAAHSA
N  I                                                                   VANC                                                TRMNITN1                                YGY  E
merc  enycLediyT. Deeree                                            II--C-
Tfe uerO Brt he ferdeeeele              0G0ORNO PKSAN--4                                                                                                                                        eheb
deearearesaedeya0e,r!erraeesKue                                                                      *                                                                                     aBTDAKHSHAN
rrrharrurrderrr,aee. mule pcr'nh Tre                                      -                                                                                       -      tSp~~~~~~~A.0
SHr     A etCruyel cRprer ansetyl-                                                                                                                                 SAI  E                                                  HN
siabslaeyrrrrrer er scersecer       0                                                                                     72',FIRN                                            I 
reareeprerceefecehbeua&r.es                                                   *                                                                         'Nf    AFGHANISTAN    I  -~~~~~~~~5110;IIA
Shugna i::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FBUAY20



