Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3387 TJ
Development Credit Agreement
(Rural Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 6, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3387 TJ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 2000, between the REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings 
therein set and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan, adopted by 
the Borrower, describing the Project’s environmental impacts and proposed 
mitigation measures.
(b)
“Irrigation Service Fee” means the fee which covers the 
operation and maintenance costs for the delivery of water from the source 
to the fields;
(c)
“MIWR” means the Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources 
of the Borrower;
(d)
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan for carrying out 
of the Project prepared and adopted by the Borrower, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association. 
(e)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established in 
the MIWR;
(f)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established by the 
Borrower under Decree number 216, dated June 26, 1998 for overall 
coordination and management of the Project;
(g)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement;
(h)
“Project Management Report” means the report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(i)
“Project Oblasts” means the Oblasts of Raions under Central 
Administration, Khatlon and Leninabad subject to such modifications as 
the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time;
(j)
“Project Raions” means the raions of Shaharinan, Leninsky, 
Hissar, Ghozimalik, Kolkhozabad, Yavan, Macha and Zafarabad, subject to 
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree 
upon from time to time; 
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02(b) of  this Agreement; and
(l)
“TAU” means the Tajik University of Agricultural Sciences of 
the Borrower;
Page  3
(m)
“TLWRMI” means Tajik Land and Water Resources Management 
Institute of the Borrower;
(n)
“VWO” means the Village Water Organization, to be created 
and reporting to the agencies of MIWR in Project Raions; and
(o)
“WUA” means the Water User’s Association to be created 
pursuant to Article 22 of the proposed Water Code of the Borrower;
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2006 or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
Page  4
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 
2010 and ending February 1, 2040. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on February 1, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out: (i) Part A of the Project through the 
PIU; (ii) Part B of the Project through the VWO;  (iii) Part C.1 of the 
Project through the WUA; (iv) Part C.2 of the Project through the TAU; 
and (v) Parts C.3 and D of the Project through the PMU, with due 
Page  5
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental, engineering and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the PMU to establish and 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, 
and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the PMU to:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion 
on such statements, records and 
accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Page  6
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 2000, or such 
later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report; and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
Page  7
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall maintain arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Association for: 
(a) 
the timely establishment of WUAs in each of the Project 
Raions where the irrigation and drainage rehabilitation works are being 
undertaken;
(b)
maintenance by each WUA of the records in accordance with 
appropriate accounting practices of their operations and financial 
condition; and
(c)
submit every six months beginning July 1, 2001, until the 
Project Closing Date, a status report on the collection rate of the 
Irrigation Service Fee structure in the Project Raions.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, by March 1 of each year, review 
and adjust annually the Irrigation Service Fee, in each of the Project 
Raions, based on a system of progressive cost recovery of operation and 
maintenance of irrigation and drainage works, satisfactory to the 
Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely 
that counterpart fund of $50,000 shall have been deposited in the Project 
Account.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
3 , Akademic Rajobovkho Street
Dushanbe, 734025
Republic of Tajikistan
Facsimile:
Page  8
992-372-213329
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
By /s/ Sadriddin Akramov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shigeo Katsu
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
   1,980,000
80%
(2)
Goods
   7,710,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local 
expenditures for 
Page  9
other 
items procured 
locally
(3)
Consultants’ Services and
    2,240,000
100%
Training
(4)
Incremental Operating Costs
      750,000
90% 
through 
December 31, 2001,
85% through 
December 31, 2003,
75% thereafter
(5)
Unallocated
    2,220,000
TOTAL
   14,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental 
operating expenses incurred on account of Project implementation for the 
PMU, PIU, WUAs and their offices in the Project Raions, including 
utilities, supplies, salaries of additional staff, transportation, 
communication and other operating costs.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of:
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) for works, 
unless: (i) the Borrower submits to the Association the work program and 
budget for the first six months of the Project, satisfactory to the 
Association; and (ii) the draft Water Code, which has taken into account 
the comments from the Association, is submitted to the Parliament for the 
establishment and functioning of WUAs.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(i) goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; 
(ii) works under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; 
(iii) consulting services for firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (iv) consultants services for individuals under 
contracts costing less than $25,000 equivalent each; and (v) incremental 
operating costs and training, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  10
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower to: (i) 
increase the overall water use efficiency in the main and field canals 
servicing selected demonstration farms; (ii) reduce the costs of lift 
irrigation and improve operating efficiency through the rehabilitation of 
selected pumping stations and other critical irrigation infrastructure; 
(iii) establish WUAs and introduce progressive cost recovery measures to 
ensure sustainability of Project investments; (iv) improve the quality of 
drinking water and promote community participation;  and (v) develop 
institutional capacity for improved land and water resources management. 
Part A
:
Rehabilitation of main irrigation and drainage works in 
Project Raions
1.
Repairs and improvement of the head-works, downstream protection 
works relating to main irrigation water supply systems to the Project 
Raions and upgrade emergency escape structures;
2.
Selective de-silting of the canals and drains, structural repairs 
and replacement of damaged canal linings and drains and provision of new 
canal linings wherever necessary;
3.
Repair and replacement of cross regulator gates, selective 
rehabilitation of siphons and aqueduct structures, outlets to the on-farm 
canals and turnout boxes;
4.
Repairs to pumps, motors and transformers, and outlet and delivery 
bay works; 
5.
Installation of water measurement devices in the main canals and 
off-take points; and 
6.
Improvement to access roads, including gravel surfacing.
Part B:
Community-based village water supply 
1.
Construction of tube wells with submersible pumps; 
2.
Rehabilitation of selected pump units in existing water supply pump 
stations, and installation of main water delivery pipelines; and 
3.
Promote community participation in the management and execution of 
village water supply systems.
Part C:
Institutional capacity building
1.
Provision of technical assistance, training, equipment and supplies 
to the Project Oblast and Raions’ water distribution and management 
organizations and WUAs to improve operational efficiency and services to 
the farmers, and to introduce systematic record keeping, improve 
communication systems, monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, water supply 
and demand analysis, setting of Irrigation Service Fees and mechanisms 
for their collection and uses; 
2.
(a) Strengthening of education and training programs for faculty 
and students in the TAU at undergraduate and graduate levels in, among 
others, water management, economics and finance, irrigation and drainage 
technology, legislation, water user organizations; (b) establishment of 
the TLWRMI to: (i) provide practical training for farmers and students, 
and (ii) undertake applied field research on a variety of land and water 
resources management issues though provision of technical assistance, 
training, equipment and supplies; and (c) rehabilitation of laboratory 
and research facilities; and
3.
Carrying out a restructuring study of the MIWR.
Page  11
Part D:
Project management and implementation 
Strengthen the institutional capacity of the PMU and the PIU 
through the provision of technical assistance, training, incremental 
operating costs, equipment and rehabilitation of facilities. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2005. 
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised 
in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for laboratory equipment 
supplies, irrigation water measuring equipment shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $450,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to 
cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance 
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of 
the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,240,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Page  12
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to all contracts for Part B of this Section, the first 
two contracts for Parts C.1 and 2 of this Section and the first three 
contracts for Part C.3 of this Section, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to 
Page  13
“Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for consultants and training estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provision of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
Page  14
the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about July 31, 2003 a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2003, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the 
PMU and PIU, with resources, staff and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association. 
3.
The Borrower shall carry out the PIP in a timely manner, 
satisfactory to the Association. 
4.
The Borrower shall carry out the EMP with due diligence, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds and other resources required 
therefor.
5.
The Borrower shall, by December 1, 2000, submit to the Association, 
the proposed schedule of the Irrigation Service Fee in each of the 
Project Raions and the timetable for its implementation.
6.
The Borrower shall, prior to inviting bids for the first civil 
works contract for the rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage works in 
each Project Raion, prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, environmental monitoring and evaluation system for such 
works, and furnish these to the Association for its approval.
7.
The Borrower shall submit detailed annual work plan and budget for 
all activities to be undertaken in the Project, by November 30 of each 
Page  15
preceding year and beginning with the calendar year 2001, satisfactory to 
the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Category” means Categories (1), (2), (3) 
and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
Page  16
the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
Page  17
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
