Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/2  1g: Q k$
Report No. 6472a-MOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
May 6, 1987
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanct of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of March 1987)
Currency Unit           -    Moroccan Dirham (DH) - 100 centimes
US$1.00                 -    DH8.40
DH1.00                  -    US$0.119
DH1,000,000             -    US$119,048
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter (mm)              -   0.04 inches
1 meter (m)                    -   3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)               -   0.62 miles
I square meter (m2)            -   10.8 square feet
1 hectare (ha)                 -   2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2)       -   0.386 square miles
I liter (1)                    -   0.264 US gallons
1 cubic meter (m3)             -   264 US gallons
1 cubic meter per
second (m3/sec)             -   35.3 cubic feet per second
liters per capita
per day (lcd)               -   0.264 US gallons per capita per day
liters per second
(1/sec.)                    -   0.035 cubic feet per second
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AH        -   Administration de l'Hyd:aulique
CIRF      -   Inter-Regies' Training Center
DRSC      -   Direction des Regies et Services Conc6des
FEC       -   Fonds d'Equipement Communal
ONEP      -   Office National de l'Eau Potable
WHO       -   World Health Organization
SMD       -   Societe Marocaine de Distribution
REI       -   Regie des Exploitations Industrielles
RAD       -   Regie Autonorne de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricit6 de
Casablan ca
RADEEF    -   Regie Autonome de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de Fes
RADEEM    -   Regie Autonome de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de Meknes
RADEEMA   -   Regie Autonome de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de
Marrakech
RAID      -   Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et
d'Electricite de la Province de Tanger
RED       -   Regie Autonome Jntercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et
d'Electri.cite de Rabat-Sale
RAMSA     -   Regie Autonome Multiservices d'Agadir
RADEEC    --  Regie Autonome de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de Chaouia
RADEEN    -   R6gie fntercommiunale d'Eau ct d'Electricite de Nador
SIRTI     -   Societe Inter--Regie de Traitement Informatique
BOD       --  Biochemical Oxygen Demand Measured During Five Days at 200C
DWF       -   Dry Weather Flow
FLSCAL YEAR
January 1  -  December 31



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                  FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY. ..       .......           .. .....        i
I.  THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR   ...           .... .
Country Backgroundc        k     g    r     o    u     nd.... .. . ... .  1
Water Resources ...          .     .     .     ........... .2
Sector Organization ........                      . .. ....    2
Water Supply ..............                 .. ......... , , .....    3
Sewerage ...............     . . . , *.. ......0..   . . . . .       4
Government's Objectives for the Sewerage Sector                      4
Bank's Involvement in the Sector.                                    5
Bank's Experience with Past L ending ..                              6
Sectoral Strategy ........                                           6
II.  THE PROJECT AREA ......................................              7
Location - Special Features .......................... .             7
Existing Water Sunply and Sewerage Systems . .............    7
Population Served and Levels of Services          . . .              9
Population Projections ..               ................................   10
Water Demand and Water Production Projections            . .        10
Sewage and Pollution Loads .        . ............................   10
III.  THE PROJECT ..................................   1 1
Genesis .................................. .                        11
Project Scope and Objectives         .    .     ................   12
Technological Alternatives . . .........................            13
Project Description .       .     .........................        14
Status of Project Preparation                   ....  16
Cost Estimate ........................     .     .. ......    16
Project Investment Financing Plan and              ....    18
Financing Arrangements
Project Implementation                   .....   19
The Regies - Sewerage Studies .......................... .          20
Procurement                        .....  21
Disbursement ......                          ... ....   23
Land Acquisition                      .....  26
Monitoring System                      .....  26
This report was prepared by Messrs Michel  T.L. Pommier, Geoffrey Matthews, and
Alexander Velderman (EMPWS).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (coMtiued)
Page No.
IV. THE BORROWER AND THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES ..............   26
Present Organization ............    ............ .         27
RAD - Organization and Management .......................  27
The Regies - Organization and Management ................  28
Personnel and Training ......................... ..... *...   29
Accounting   Systems.      . .................. ...........  ..... ..  . 30
Billing and Collection       ..................................  30
Audit and Insurance ......................................  31
V.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS   ..    ........... ....................  32
Past Results and Present Situation ......................  32
Financing Policies and Objectives ........................  33
Financing Plan of RAD's Sewerage Investment Program .....  34
Future Financial Performance of RAD .....................  35
VI.  JUSTIFICATION        ........... ................  36
Project Benefits .     . ....................               36
Environmental Impact...                .      ............  37
Least Cost Solution ....               ...................  37
Beneficiaries ....................      .    ..................  38
Poverty Impact and Affordability           .    .    .      38
Adequacy of Revenues ....................................  39
Risks and Safeguards . ...................................  39
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............         39
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Statistical Data on Water Supply and Sewerage in the Project Area
Annex 2 - Population .n Project Area
Annex 3 - Projected Average Water Demand and Total Sewage Flow
Annex 4  - Works Implementation Schedule
Annex 5 - Summary of Project Cost
Annex 6 - Annual Project Investment
Annex 7 - Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 8  - Monitoring Criteria
Annex 9 - RAD's Sewerage Organizational Structure
Annex 10 - RAD's Financial Statements
Annex 11 - Financial Assumptions
Annex 12 - Selected Documents in Project Files
MAPS
I Location of Project Areas   IBRD No. 19884R
II Casablanca Project Area      IBRD No. 19885



- i -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Kingdom of Morocco.
Loan Amount:   US$60 million equivalent.
Terms:          Twenty years, including six years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate. US$49.5 million and US$10.5 million
would be onlent to RAD and eight Regies, respectively, under
the same terms and conditions. RAD and the Regies would assume
the foreign exchange risk and the variable interest risk.
Beneficiaries: The Regie of Agadir (RAMSA), Casablanca (RAD), Fes (RADEEF),
Marrakech (RADEEMA), Meknes (RADEEM), Nador (RADEEN), Rabat
(RED), Settat (RADEEC), Tangier (RAID).
Project
Description:   The project is the first major operation in the sewerage sector
in Morocco. The project will introduce institutional
improvements, cost recovery and long term policy reforms that
will strengthen the overall development of the sector. The
project will: (a) improve health and enhance the environment in
Greater Casablanca; (b) rehabilitate the existing sewer
networks; (c) keep abreast of the domestic and industrial
demands for sewerage services; (d) identify the least cost
alternative to treat and dispose of sewage in the Greater
Casablanca area and eight major urban areas; (e) provide for
effective operation and maintenance of existing facilities and
improve the quality of design and construction; and (f) promote
nationwide the creation and development of appropriate
institutional, financial and technical structures to manage
sewerage services.
The proposed project includes: (i) rehabilitation of existing
sewerage systems; (ii) extensions to the main sewers; (iii)
construction of sewers for unserviced areas; (iv) provision of
operation and maintenance equipment; (v) provision for
technical assistance and training; (vi) studies to assess
alternatives for the treatment and disposal of sewage in the
Greater Casablanca area; and (vii) preparation of sewerage
master plans, feasibility studies, detailed design and bidding
documents for eight major cities, i.e. Agadir, Fes, Marrakech,
Meknes, Nador, Rabat, Settat and Tangier.
The project will directly benefit about 6.2 million people by
the year 1995. The risks associated with the project are those
arising from the establishment of a new sewerage authority.
Provisions for training and technical assistance and adoption
of financial policies aimed at making sewerage authorities
financially viable will assist in minimizing project risks.



- ii -
Estimated Project Cost:
Component                                          Local       Foreign       Total
…------ US$ Million -
Replacement of Sewers & Pumping Stations (RAD)   4.27             1.31        5.58
Rehabilitatica of Sewers (RAD)                       6.76         2.62       9.38
Construction of Sewer Networks (RAD)                33.58         9.01      42.59
Supply of Equipment (RAD)                            3.17         3.10       6.27
RAD's Twinning Contract Including Training           3.84         3.23        7.07
Works Supervision & Sewerage Study (Phase II)    1.02             1.56        2.58
Regies' Sewerage Studies                             4.30         6.14      10.44
Base Cost (January 1987)                            56.94       26.97       83.91
Physical Contingencies                               9.53        4.26       13.79
Price Contingencies                                 17.04         2.17      19.21
Total Financing Required                      8                       1.LL
Financing Plan:
Sources:                                          Local        Foreign        Total
US$ Million --------
IBRD                                               26.60         33.40         60.00
Equipment Communal Fund (FEC)                        2.00           -            2.00
Net Internal Cash Generation                        54.91           -           54.91
Total                                         83.51         33.40
Estimated Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year 
1988 2/   1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995   1996
--------------------------- US$ Million ----------------------------…
Annual     6.23       6.36    9.25    9.83    8.68    7.50    5.77    4.63   1.75
Cumulative 6.23      12.59   21.84   31.67   40.35   47.85   53.62   58.25  60.00
Economic Rate of Return: not applicable.
p:  No. IBRD 19884R
No. IBRD 19885
1/ Includes taxes and duties of US$21.7 million.
Z/ Includes an initial deposit of US$2.5 million to a Special Account.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
CounWtr Background
1.01     Morocco is situated in the northwestern corner of Africa.  The
Mediterranean Sea forms its boundary to the north, the Atlantic Ocean to the
west, and the narrow fertile strip of Algeria to the northeast. Elsewhere the
country is bordered by the Sahara. The country's four climatic zones reflect
this setting: the coastal areas, the interior plains, the mountains, and the
desert. The interior plains and the coastal zonte enjoy a Mediterranean
climate with the interior having greater seasonal and diurnal temperature
variations. Summers are hot and dry, while spring and fall rains are
generally light and irregular with the main precipitation concentrated in the
few winter months. Herce either natural or artificial water storage is
required to compensate for the seasonal and irregular rainfalls.
1.02     According to the 1982 Census, 8.7 million persons, or almost 43Z of
the total population of 20.4 million, were urbanized, with urban growth rates
averaging 4.5% over the preceding decade. Natural growth accounted for about
60Z of the increase, in-migration from rural areas for the remainder. In
spite of the preeminence of the Greater Casablanca area (2,530,000
inhabitants) and the capital, Rabat (990,000 inhabitants), Morocco has a
well-balanced network of small and medium-sized cities. About two-thirds of
GDP is generated in urban areas, and urban incomes are at least 30% higher
than (and have been increasing twice as fast as) those in rural areas. The
urban population is expected to reach 55-60% of the projected national total
of 31 million by the end of the century.
1.03     Urban growth has increased the severity of urban deficiencies.  The
old urban cores have become overcrowded and insufficiently serviced. Housing,
especially at the urban periphery, has developed faster than the Government's
capacity to control and manage it. This development is of two types:
substandard slum areas (7% of the urban population) and informal housing
settlements&' (13% of the urban population). Both types harbor low-income
groups, although the slum dwellers have slightly lower incomes than those in
informal settlements. In spite of a slowdown in urban population growth
during the last decade, additional urban growth and rural-to-urban migration
is inevitable. Urban growth is expected to average 3.4% over the period
1987-2000.
Settlements for which land was sold without authorization and housing
units were built without construction permit.



-2-
Water Resources
1.04     Water is scarce in Morocco.  The annual rainfall averages 30 billion
m3, out of which 22.5 billion m3 are drained by the rivers and
7.5 billion m3 infiltrate and recharge acquifers.  About 82 of the exploited
resources or 400 million m3 is used for domestic and industrial purposes and
922 for agriculture. The overall national water balance is relatively well
known and with the completion, by the end of 1987, of the water resources
master plans for the major river basins, financed under the Second and Third
Water Supply Projects (Loan 1724-MOR and 2006-MOR), about 902 of the potential
water resources will have been surveyed.
1.05     Most of the potable water supplied to settlements up to medium-sized
cities is groundwater. However, as existing sources become exhausted or
deteriorate in quality, surface water sources are exploited, requiring
conveyance over greater distances, as well as the provision of storage
reservoirs, treatment and large transmission pipelines. The physical,
chemical and bacteriological quality of drinking water supplied in most of
Morocco's urban areas is acceptable. However, this is not the case in most of
the rural areas where groundwater is often contaminated through unsanitary
domestic waste disposal. This issue is being addressed in the Third Water
Supply Project (para 1.08).
Sector Organiation
1.06     The sector comprises water supply and sewerage services.  Study and
development of water resources for all users is the responsibility of the
"Administration de l'Hydraulique" (AH) within the Ministry of Equipment. This
Administration is also responsible for the operation, maintenance and control
of all major dams. Allocation of water resources amongst various consumers
is, at present, determined by a special commission within the Prime Minister's
office.
1.07     Production of potable water and conveyance to the larger
agglomerations is the responsibility of the "Office National de l'Eau Potable"
(ONEP), a public enterprise under the tutelage of the Ministry of Equipment
and by the "Socikt6 Marocaine de Distribution" (SMD), a private enterprise in
the Greater Casablanca area. Municipally-owned enterprises, the "Regies", are
in charge of water distribution in the sixteen largest urban agglomerations.
Whilst some Regies still exploit their own groundwater resources, the
quantities produced are small and are increasingly being supplemented by
ONEP's water. In the small and medium-sized agglomerations where to date
water is not yet supplied by intercommunal or regional Regies, ONEP or
occasionally municipal services operate the water production as well as the
distribution facilities. This is considered an interim arrangement pending
the growth of these water supply systems to a size warranting the creation of
independent Regies, or their incorporation in an existing one.
1.08     The construction and, to some extent, the maintenance of water
systems in rural areas has traditionally been the responsibility of the
Ministry of Agriculture with the rural communities ensuring day to day
operations. Defining and implementing adequate arrangements to ensure proper
operation and maintenance of rural water supply systems is an issue addressed
on a pilot basis by the on-going regional water supply component of the Third



Water Supply Project (Loan 2006-MOR) currently under implementation.
Follow-up action in rural a:eas would be considered after completion of this
component and review of its impact on the quality of services.
1.09     Sewerage in urban areas is the responsibility of the technical
services of the municipalities. Since the technical departments of the
municipalities have a multitude of other responsibilities such as roads,
drainage, garbage collection and maintenance of buildings, sewerage is often
assigned a low priority and lack of equipment and personnel with appropriate
technical specialization is common. Aware of these weaknesses and those
relating more particularly to the sewerage sector (para 1.12), the Local
Collectivities Directorate of the Ministry of Interior - under whose tutelage
the municipalities operate - issued a national sewerage charter in 1980 which,
although unratified, has effectively been used by the municipalities under
existing institutional arrangements. With the proposed transfer of
responsibilities to the Regies, a statement of policy reflecting this and
other proposed changes was recently issued by the Minister of Interior (para
3.05). In order to bring about some standardization in the design and
construction of sewerage facilities, a specialized "Sewerage Unit" was set up
in the Ministry of Interior in 1981. This Unit operates efficiently. It
reviews and clears all sewerage studies and supervises project
implementation. In rural areas, construction and maintenance of sewer systems
are entrusted to the regional technical services of the Ministry of
Agriculture.
Water SupplY
1.10     Relatively high per capita investment costs in rural areas and
budgetary constraints have so far directed most of the investments to the
densely populated urban areas. resently, most of the urban population has
access to public water with about 63X served by house connections and 20S by
public standpipes. The rematining population, or about 171, is served by
private wells or water vendors. Operation and maintenance of the standpipes
is adequate, as well as the quality of water, although potential risks of
contamination from sewage exist due to leaking water pipes and the
discontinuity of services. In the rural areas, only about 282 of the total
population has access to a stafe water supply. Countrywide improvement in
service levels is being achieved through the responsible agencies, namely ONEP
and the Regies in urban arras, and the Ministry of Agriculture and the
Ministry of Interior in rural areas. The Government policy is to maintain
service levels and cater for growth in urban areas and gradually increase the
service level in the rural areas (para 1.11). This policy is consistent with
the Moroccan stabilization program and institutional reforms envisaged for the
sector.
1.11     The number of households connected to water distribution systems in
the urban areas has increased on average by 9.3X per year from 1980 to 1985,
while the total urban population increased by about 4.51 per year. During the
same period, the service level through house connections increased from 48S to
63X. The introduction in 1980 of credit facilities for low income customers
to finance the cost of individual house connections has contributed more than
20% of the improvement in the service level (para 1.15). A recent assessment
of the investments needed to meet future water supply demand s:owed that this
would require, depending on the desired service level between 0.6% and 0.31 of



GNP, or between 7S and 32 of gross fixed investments. A high service level
foresees that by the year 20G0, 75S of the urban population and 25S of the
rural population would be connected to a water distribution system and that
the remaining 25S of the urban population and 75% of the rural population
would be served by standpipes. A low service level would only accommodate the
increases in population at existing service levels. For the next Five-Year
Plan (1988-92), investments of about US$430 million are required to meet the
lower alternative objective.
Sewerage
1.12     The development of sewerage services has not been comnensurate with
that of water supply. Although sewage collection systems exist in most
medium-sized and large cities, they have not been extended to cope with the
rapid grcwth of the population and industry and in most cases are insufficient
and poorly maintained. A WHO study carried out in 1980 estimates that about
30X of the total urban population is connected to the municipal sewer systems
and 701 is serv3d by septic tanks or more often by seepage pits. This level
of services, however, varies substantially with the size of the
municipalities.  For the eight larger cities, i.e. Agadir, Casablanca, Fes,
Marrakech, Meknes, Nador, Rabat, Settat and Tangier, an average of 642 of the
population is connected to the municipal sewer system (para 2.08).
Communities of the interior discharge untreated sewage into rivers which are
usually not perennial, while coastal communities discharge effluents at the
shore line. This practice entails serious pollution of the environment and
creates a health hazard. In the urban areas, sewerage so far has been the
responsibility of the municipalities which, because of financial constraints,
have been unable to ensure proper functioning let alone the required
expansion. The systems are generally in a serious state of disrepair and
maintenance is often limited to repairs after breakdowns.  Lack of personnel
with adequate technical skill is common and compounds maintenance
deficiencies. At present, there is no municipal sewage treatment plant and
pollution control is exercised by the Ministry of Health. The Government has
been examining modalities to improve the management of the sewerage subsector
in cooperation with the Bank since 1977 (para 1.18) and the proposed project
constitutes a follow-up of this cooperation.
Government's Obiectives for the Sewerage Sector
1.13     The Government's first objective for the sewerage sector is the
improvement of health and enhancement of environmental conditions through the
abatement of pollution created by the discharge of urban and industrial sewage
into rivers and coastal waters. This objective will be achieved in two
phases. During the first phase, the rehabilitation and extension of existing
sewer systems will be carried out in the largest cities of Morocco. To that
effect, the Greater Casablanca Project is considered by the Government as a
pilot project to be replicated during the next Development Plan (1988-1992) in
the other eight largest cities which are given high priority, i.e. Agadir,
Fes, Marrakech, Meknes, Nador, Rabat, Settat ar.d Tangier.  The second phase
will consist of the construction of sewage treatment and disposal facilities
serving the above-mentioned urban centers during the next Five-Year Plan
(1993-1997).



- 5 -
1.14     Tthe second sectoral objective of the Government, to develop and
organize the sewerage sector, will be achieved by the creation of specialized
sewerage departments in the water supply companies (R6gies) to operate,
maintain, and develop sewerage systems and introduce, for the first time in
Morocco, a total cost recovery policy. These departments will be financially
autonomous and technically independent from the water supply and electricity
departments of the Regies.
Bank's Involvement ia the Sector
1.15     The Bank has been active in the development of the sector since 1.968
with three loans for water supply projects and one for a sewerage study. In
conjunction with the ;First Water Supply Project (Loan 850-MOR), ONEP was
established in 1972 and the construction of water product.ion facilities along
the Mid-Atlantic Coast which it financed was completed in 1980. The Second
Water Supply Project (Loan 1724-MOR), under implementation, is contributinj to
the financing of the expansion of water production facilities for the
mid-Atlantic Coast and Greater Agadir. In addition, this project is providing
the means for low income customers to finance the cost of individual house
connections through the establishment of a revolving fund,. The Third Water
Supply Project (Loan 2006-MOR), which became effectivc in March 1982, directs
Bank financial assistance to the construction of regic2nal water supply
systems, water supply systems in medium-sized towns in the country's interior
and a substantial expansion of credit facilities for house connections.
Finally, the National Water Supply Rehabilitation Project, recently approved,
will introduce major sector policy reforms to address the rehabilitation and
restructuring needs of ONEP, the sixteen water supply Regies and the Hydraulih
Administration.  These sector adjustment measures will be closely coordinated
with the proposed Public Enterprises Rationalization Loan (PERL) which will
contribute to the restructuring of the Moroccan public enterprises sector.
1.16     The first direct Bank loan to the sewerage sector was an Engineering
Loan (S-7-MOR) of US$1.5 million approved in 1977, which assisted in the
financing of a sewerage study for the Greater Casablanca area. This study was
successfully completed in 1983 and constitutes the basis for the proposed
Greater Casablanca Sewerage Project. Prior to this, the Bay of Agadir Tourism
Project for which Loan 1202-MOR had been approved in February 1976, had
included US$1.7 million for the construction of sewers and for carrying out a
sewerage study in the Agadir area. Subsequently, Loans 1528-MOR, 1944-MOR,
2245-MOR and 2272-MOR provided relatively small amounts for the construction
of sewers in slum upgrading and land development components of urban
development projects.
1.17     Seven Bank financed projects in the agricultural sector relating to
irrigation and/or rural development contain water supply components providing
potable water at public standpipes in villages within the relevant project
areas. Two urban development projects contain the provision of
infrastructure, including water distribution and sewers in the project area.
The Pilot Project for the Communal Infrastructure Fund (FEC) (Loan 2272-MOR)
is geared to building up this institution which is financing infrastructure
investments including water and sewerage in local communities.



-6-
Bank's Experience with Past Le
1.18     The Bank has in the past oriented its lerding to improve the access
to a safe water supply of the low-income population in urban and
seini-urbanized areas through individual house connections and has begun, on a
pilot basis, financing water supply systems that also benefit the rural
population. The first Bank-financed project (Loan 850-MOR of US$48.0 million,
dated July 1972) was to ensure a safe and reliable water supply to the coastal
area extending from Casablanca to Kenitra. This project achieved its
objectives anid was instrumental in developing ONEP into a competent water
production authority (Project Performance Audit Report No. 3721 dated December
16, 1981). The main project components (dam, pumping, transmission and water
treatment facilities) were completed by mid 1976 according to schedule, while
construction of staff housing and training center took four more years than
anticipated to complete due to a breach of contract by the civil work
contractor. Apart from the creation of ONEP as a national authority
responsible for the planning, execution and operation of works, the project
provided valuable experience for the local manufacturers, and construction
industry and for local engineering consultants in the field of design and
supervision of construction. Particularly noteworthy was the adoption by the
Government of a tariff structure based on the long run incremental cost of
providing water services. This has fostered the development of the sector as
a whole. The second loan (S-7-MOR of August 1977) provided financing for a
feasibility study, including preliminary designs for the sewerage facilities
of the Greater Casablanca area. A substantial delay in the start up of this
Project occurred due to the lengthy coordination problems between the various
administrations involved (Completion Report No. 5131 of June 1984). However,
when this problem was resolved, consultants mobilized rapidly and project
implementation progressed smoothly.  These studies assisted the Government to
address the major aspects of the sewerage sector in general and to define its
policy objectives (paras 1.13 & 1.14). The Second and Third Water Supply
Projects (1724-MOR and 2006-MOR) are under implementation. They include
further expansion of ONEP's bulk water production and transmission facilities
in both urban and rural areas and introduce a credit facilities mechanism to
finance house connections and related charges of the low income customers of
the Regies and ONEP. Implementation of these components is now progressing
satisfactorily after initial delays due to cumbersome administrative
procedures. The proposed project reflects the Bank's experience with past
lending for water supply and sewerage in Morocco.
Sectoral Strateg
1.19     The Bank's overall sector lending strategy is to assist the
Government through policy reforms and sector adjustment measures, such as
strengthening of cost recovery principles, pursuit of sound financing
mechanisms including financial resource mobilization, and to foster the
development of a strong institutional framework in order to effectively
contribute to the country's overall development process. This strategy aims
also at institutionalizing a rational decision-making process for new
investments in water production facilities. Whereas in the past investments
were geared to the development of water production to cope with the rapid
growth of urban population, future Bank involvement should concentrate first
on the improvement of the use of scarce resources, particularly by reducing
water losses in the production and distribution networks, and promoting the



- 7 -
reuse of treated sewage effluents for irrigation. The National Water Supply
Rehabilitation Project, recently approved, will ensure that new investments in
water production facilities are the result of coordinated and rational
planning between ONEP and the Regies. Greater efforts will also be deployed
to find in the medium term a more equitable tradeoff between investmerts in
urban areas and rural igg'omerations thereby ensuring that existing service
levels are at least maintainea. However, in view of the country's )udgetary
constraints, the Government has decided tc approve only those investments that
maximize the efficiency of existing facilities without Government financial
contribution.
1.20     In the sewerage subsector, the Bank's major long-term objective is to
assist the Government create competent and financially viable institutions.
These will implement sound policies and efficiently manage the sector,
safeguard the environment from pollution and health hazards by adopting
appropriate financial policies and tariff structures and applying appropriate
technologies for sewage collection, treatment and disposal, and plan and
implement adequate expansion programs.
1.21     This sectoral strategy will be implemented through the National Water
Supply Rehabilitation Project and the proposed Greater Casablanca Sewerage
Project, and further supported at the macroeconomic level by the recently
approved Public Enterprise Rationalization Loan (PERL).
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location Special Features
2.01     The project area (maps IBRD No. 19884 and IBRD No. 19885) covers the
urban area of Greater Casablanca comprising the municipalities of Casabla-ica,
Mohammedia, Ain Chock, Ain Sebaa, Ain Diab, Ben Yakhlef, Ain Harrouda, Mers
Sultan and Ben m'Sick, and the urban areas of eight major cities of Morocco:
Agadir, Fes, Marrakech, Meknes, Nador, Rabat, Settat and Tangier. The 1985
urban population living in the project area was estimated at 5.8 million
inhabitants or about 60X of the total urban population of Morocco. The
population served by municipal sewer systems is estimated at 3.7 million or
about 64S of the total urban population in the project area. The Greater
Casablanca region alone represents about 112 of the total Moroccan population
and about 26S of the urban population.
Existing Water Supply and Sewerage Systems
2.02     Bulk water in Greater Casablanca is supplied by ONEP and SMD (para
1.07). Distribution of water in Greater Casablau.ca is the reponsibility of
the "Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricit6 de
Casablanca" (RAD), an autonomous inter-municipal company. It is estimated
that about 64 percent of the population of Greater Casablanca is presently
served through metered house connections. The remainder, including those
living in alum areas, have access to drinking water through metered public
taps and private vendors. Unaccounted-for water averages 34 percent and is
expected to be reduced to about 20 percent in 1995 with the implementation of
the National Water Supply Rehabilitation Project (para 1.15),



- 8 -
2.03     Most of the cities of Casablanca and Mohammedia are sewered with
combined-' gravity sewer networks (map IBRD No. 19885). Although these
systems have adequate flow capacity, many old sewers are clogged by deposits
and garbage entering the system through street inlets. These deposits have
been accumulating for many years and are not flushed away by seasonal rains.
Therefore, low-lying areas suffer from frequent flooding during the rainy
season. The poor quality of design and construction of recently installed
sewers, and the deterioration of older sewers due to the lack of appropriate
maintenance have resulted in leakages or high ground water infiltration. This
in turn undermines roads and building foundations. On the western side of
Mohammedia, in the eastern industrial zone and in the municipality of Ain
.Peb&a, the sewer networks have deteriorated to the point of collapse. The
pumping stations which should drain the sewers are inoperable because of
either lack of maintenance or insufficient capacity to cope with ground water
infiltrati3n flows. Replacement of about 60 km of sewers serving these areas
form a priority component of the proposed project. In addition, it is
estimated that about two thirds of the 1,500 km length of the sewer network of
Greater Casablanca require cleaning and rehabilitation. A priority
rehabilitation program of about 200 km will be executed under the proposed
project. These measures will reduce ground water infiltration, and form a
significant first step towards improving the sewerage and storm water drainage
systems.
2.04     In the Greater Casablanca peripheral areas, housing developments are
not connected to municipal sewers. Primary and secondary sewers have not been
extended to serve these peripheral areas due to the lack of adequate municipal
financing. Tertiary networks installed by public or private developers are
connected to septic tanks and seepage pits. Provision for the main sewers
extension to these areas as well as their connection to the municipal system
is included in the proposed project. Most of the urban slums which are
located in the same areas are not sewered. Since they lack favorable
topographical and geological conditions for the construction of sewer
networks, slum dwellers discharge their wastewater in open channels. The
Government is actively relocating slum dwellers in low-cost housing
developments within the limits of the Greater Casablanca urban master plan.
Under the proposed project, provision has also been made for connecting these
low-cost housing developments to the municipal sewer networks (paras 6.08 and
6.09).
2.05     In the Greater Casablanca area, all domestic and industrial
wastewater is discharged without treatment into the Atlantic Ocean at the
coast line, causing bacteriological, chemical and aesthetic pollution of
coastal waters and beaches. Because of the health hazard caused by
contamination of the beaches, bathing has been forbidden by municipal orders.
Furthermore, the Ministry of Health has forbidden fishing in most of the surf
zone. This coastal pollution is not expected to decrease before the mid-90's
when the proposed sewage treatment and disposal works (Phase II) as well as
the rehabilitation of the sewer networks have been completed. Cleaning and
rehabilitating the sewer networks is a prerequisite for the construction of
sewage treatment facilities which would not function adequately otherwise.
;' A combined system conveys sanitary and storm water flows.



2.06     The other eight major cities included in the project area have
extensive water supply systems consisting of water production and treatment
works, and reservoirs and distribution networks. These have been extended
periodically to keep up with the demand of expanding domestic and industrial
usage. Supply is made by Water Supply Regies through metered house
connections and public standpipes.
2.07     Although combined sewer systems exist in Agadir, Fes, Marrakech,
Meknes, Nador, Rabat, Settat and Tangier, they have not been extended to cope
with the rapid urban expansion.  The sewer systems are generally poorly
maintained by the municipalities and most of them have insufficient capacity
to convey sewage and storm water runoff during rainy periods.  In residential
areas not served by the municipal sewer systems, buildings are connected to
septic tanks and leaching pits. There are no waste water treatment facilities
and untreated sewage is discharged at the shoreline or in rivers which are
often not perennial. This practice causes bacteriological and chemical
pollution of the environment and creates serious health hazards to the
population. Detailed data on water supply and sewerage facilities in the
project area are presented in Annex 1.
Poptltion Served and Levels of Services
2.08     The table below summarizes the data on population in the project area
served in 1985 through public water supply and sewer systems and the present
levels of service.
Poudlation Served and Levels of Services
Population in Thousand
…------------- Served By ----------------
Public
Municipal   Service Coverage
__  IWater Suppv           Sewers        in 2 of Total
Urban Area           Total    House          Public       House       Po ulation
Connection  Standpipes  Connection    W.S.         Sew.
Greater Agadir-        275        140         123           140         96        51
Greater Casablanca 2,530        1,62'         375         1,520         79        60
Fes                    590        294         101           340         67        58
Marrakech              510        320         118           295         86        58
Greater Meknes 2       380        179          90           230         71        60
Nador                   67         41          26            42        100        63
Rabat                  990        704         204           810         92        82
Settat                 106         61          45            66        100        62
Tangier                370        230          83           275         85        64
Total      L3A        1.524       LI31
Sources: Ministry of Interior, Regies and Municipalities.
Most of the inhabitants of the old city centers (Medina) who are
connected to the sewer systems are not connected to the municipal water
supply networks. Instead, water is supplied from private sources (reseau
traditionnel).
2/   Population includes peripheral rural centers not presently served by the
Regie.



- 10 -
Overall, 822 of the population in the project area is served by public water
supply and 642 is connected to municipal sewers.
Population Projections
2.09     Based on the 1982 census and projected population growth patterns
specific to each urban area estimated to average about 3.41 per annum, the
total population in the project area is expected to reach 7.9 million by the
year 1995. Detailed projections per urban area are presented in Annex 2,
Water Demand and Water Production Projections
2.10     In 1985, the average daily water demand per capita in the project
area, including domestic, industrial and administration consumption, was
210 lcd, or about 700,000 m3/day.  Taking into account a price elasticity of
minus 0.3 and a projected GDP growth of about 31 per year, which is considered
realistic, this water demand is expected to incre-ase to 225 lcd, or about
1,300,000 m3/day in 1995. The projected water production for the urban
areas of the project are summarized in Annex 3. The projected water
production, including unaccounted-for water, is based upon the population
served and the overall unit consumption per capita. In view of the ongoing
house connection program implemented by the Regies under the Third Water
Supply Project, the projected population served by house connection would
reach 5.9 million by the end of 1995. It is also estimated that average water
losses, which were about 33% of the water production, would be gradually
reduced to 201 in 1995 through the execution of leak detection programs and
repair and rehabilitation works to be carried out by the Regies. As a result,
the projected water production in the project area is expected to increase
from 1,070,000 m3/day in 1985 to 1,670,000 m3/day in 1995, or a 56%
increaste over a ten-year period. This progression represents an average
increase of about 4.5% per year and will satisfy the expected increase .n
water demand.
Sewge and Pollution Loaes
2-11     The projected dry weather sewage flows (DWF) and pollution loads
expressed in 5 day biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) are based on the results of
measurements carried out by consultants on the sewer networks of Greater
Casablanca and other agglomerations in Morocco. For domestic, industrial and
administration customers, the average per capita sewage discharge is estimated
at 168 lcd and would increase to about 180 lcd by 1995. The present average
domestic pollution load for Greater Casablanca and the five other cities is
about 40g BOD per capita per day and is expected to increase to about 45g in
1995. Present pollution loads generated by industries and administrations
expressed in per capita equivalent are 36g BOD for Greater Casablanca and
6g BOD for the other cities. These would increase to about 40g and 7g BOD per
capita per day in 1995, i.e. 901 and 151 of domestic pollution load
respectively.
2.12     An estimated 3.7 million residents living in the project area are
connected to municipal sewers. However, peripheral areas mostly inhatited by
the poorer segments of the population presently lack services. Most of the



- 11 -
residents of the oldest part of the cities (Medina) are connected to the
municipal sewer system although they are supplied with water from public
standpipes. Taking into account the ongoing urban rehabilitation of
unserviced housing areas and the policy ot the Government to provide water
supply connections to new housing developments only after municipal sewerage
infrastructure is provided, it is expected that by 1995 a total population of
6.2 million will be served by public sewer systems. In the Greater Casablanca
area alone, a total population of 2.5 million, of which 645,000 inhabitants
have an income close to the urban poverty threshold (para 6.09), will be
connected to the sewer networks. The following table summarizes the dry
weather flows and discharged pollution load projections for the population and
industries served by sewer connections:
Mean Dry Weather Flows (DWF) and Polluition Loads (BOD)
i 985  _ _                      1995     ___
DWF          BOD                 DWF           BOD
Urban Area                m3/day        kg/day              m3/day        kg/day
Greater Agadir             24,500         6,500             47,500        11,000
Greater Casablanca        225,000       112,500            355,000       193,500
Fes                       60,000         16,000            150,000        30,500
Marrakech                  52,000        13,500            106,500        26,000
Greater Meknes             44,000        10,500            102,500        20,000
Nador                       5,500         2,000             10,500         3,500
Rabat                      93,500        37,500            172,500        58,500
Settat                      5,500         3,000             13,500         6,500
Tangier                    35,000        12,500           _62,000         21,000
Tota'5
Source: Consultants and Bank estimates.
Between 1985 and 1995, the discharge of waste water and the pollution loads
are expected to increase by about 87% and 73% respectively.
m. THE PROJECT
Genesis
3.01     The rapid urbanization and industrial growth of the late seventies
made the Government increasingly aware of the need to assign higher priority
to developing the sewerage sector in order to increase the level of services,
reduce public health hazards, and protect the environment. In 1977, the
Government began examining ways to improve the sewerage sub-sector in
cooperation with the Bank through Engineering Loan S-7-MOR which assisted in
the financing of': (i) a sewerage master plan and feasibility studies of the



- 12 -
sewer system for the Greater Casablanca area; (ii) the preparation of a
priority project constituting the first implementation stage of the sewerage
master plan; and (iii) the acquisition of oceanographic equipment. After the
Borrower experienced some coordination problems in the early stage of project
execution (para 1.18), engineering consultants were appointed in May 1980.
Project implet,entation progressed smoothly according to contract schedule and
was completed two years and eight months after contract signing. The
consultants' contract was amended in September 1982 to include topographical
and geotechnical studies required for the first-stage follow-on project which
included replacement and rehabilitation and construction of sewer networks and
sewage treatment and disposal facilities. These studies were successfully
completed in December 1983 and reviewed and approved by the Government and the
Bank.
3.02     As a result of the 1982 population census, the Government approved a
revised Urban Master Plan for Greater Casablanca in December 1983. The
Ministry of Interior requested immediately thereafter the Water Supply Regie
of Greater Casablanca (RAD) to commission engineering consultants to update
the sewerage studies. The Government also revised its financial policy
relating to the sewerage sector by adopting the concept of total
self-financing for sewerage services. The institutional, financial and tariff
studies were revised accordingly. The afore-mentioned studies were completed
in April 1986 and were reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank. They form
the basis of the proposed project.
Project Scope_andObJfctives
3.03     The overall scope of the Greater Casablanca Seweixie Master Plan has
been discussed and agreed with the Government. In view of the magnitude of
the investments required for the imp-ementation of the first phase of this
Master Plan and the necessity of reassessing the technical solution .'or sewage
treatment and disposal facilities (paras 3.07 and 3.08), the Government and
RAD decided to reduce the scope of the first implementation stage to the
rehabilitation and extension of the sewer networks. Preparation of Sewerage
Master Plans and feasibility studies for Agadir, Fes, Marrakech, Meknes,
Nador, Rabat, Settat and Tangier have also been included in the proposed
project, at the Government's request.
3.04     The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(i)    prevent further deterioration of the existing sewer systems
in the Greater Casablanca area through an extensive
rehabilitation program;
(ii)    keep abreast of the increasing domestic and industrial
demand for sewerage and storm drainage;
(iii)    identify the least cost alternative for the treatment,
disposal and possible reuse of waste water and reduce the
impact of waste water discharge on the envirotment;
(iv)    provide for efiective operation and maintenance of sewerage
facilities and standardization in the quality of design and
implementation of the sewers extension works; and



- 13 -
(v)    promote the creation and development of appropriate
institutional, financial and technical structures to manage
sewerage services in urban centers.
3.05     The proposed project is essential to create and develop appropriate
institutional, financial and technical structures in order to rehabilitate and
expand the sewerage sector in Morocco's major urban agglomerations. It will
also set an example for the operation and maintenance of sewerage services in
other cities. Recently, the Government confirmed to the Bank its sectoral
strategy which is to progressively transfer the municipal sewerage operations
to the Water Supply Regies throughout the country (para 1.14). In a
comprehensive sector policy statement dated December 17, 1986, the Minister of
Interior also confirmed that:
(i)    a standard sewerage management contract, similar to that of
Greater Casablanca, will be adopted between the municipalities
and the Regies;
(ii)    the same cost recovery principles as those approved for RAD
(para 5.06) will apply to the other Regies;
(iii)    a profit tax dould be levied on sewerage services; and
(iv)    the municipalities of Agadir, Fes, Marrakech, Meknes, Nador,
Rabat, Settat and Tangier will be requested to transfer their
municipal sewerage services to the Regies.
Technological Alternatives
3.06     The Sewerage Master Plan for Greater Casablanca recommends the
rehabilitation and extension of the sewer networks. Considering that about
1,000 km of sewers are in a state of disrepair and are badly maintained,
cleaning and rehabilitation is the optimal solution since the total
replacement of these sewers would be prohibitively expensive. For unserviced
housing developments, separate or partially separate sewer networks are
proposed. The construction of these new networks, which will separate sewage
flows from urban run-off, will make optimum use of the existing natural
drainage systems and avoid overloading existing combined sewer systems.
3.07     To abate coastal pollution the sewerage Master Plan envisaFed the
immediate construction of a 26 km long coastal interceptor connecting the town
of Mohammedia in the east to a coastal promontory (El Hank) near the center of
Casablanca. Sewage would have been conveyed to a primary treatment plant and
discharged to the sea through a 4.7 km long outfall. This was identified in
1982 as the optimal technical and economical solution for the protection of
the environment. The construction by 1993 of a second primary treatment plant
with a 5 km long sea outfall was proposed at Ain Sebaa, midway between
Mohammedia and Casablanca, to discharge incremental sewage flows expected
until year 2000. Several alternatives to this solution based on extensive
oceanographical, hydrographical and biological surveys, were studied by the
consultants. These alternatives comprised secondary or tertiary sewage
treatment before discharge into the Atlantic Ocean and tertiary treatment for
either irrigation or industrial water reuse. These alternatives were not
pursued as they were not shown to be entirely technically and/or economically
feasible.



- 14 -
3.08     Since 1982, changes in the urban growth pattern near the El Hank
promontory have resulted in a high density residential development adjacent to
the selected site of the primary treatment plant. In adeition, the town of
Mohammedia, located 26 km away from the El Hank promontory is being
redeveloped and extensive new popular housing schemes have been implemented.
The recommended coastal interceptor is not dimensioned for this unforeseen
development. Furthermore, the estimated cost of the proposed bea outfalls has
increased by about 901 or US$130.0 million in 1987 prices. Therefore, the
proposal, comprising the coastal interceptor, primary treatment plants and sea
outfalls, may no longer be the most appropriate and least cost solution. RAD
and the Government propose to reassess the feasibility of the sewage treatment
and disposal component through a study to be carried out as part of the first
implementation phase of the Sewerage Master Plan. TVie contract for this study
will also include preparation of final design and bid documents. The study
will address the following issues:
(a)    relocation of treatment works away from residential areas and
inclusion of the site(s) in the new Urban Development Plan;
(b)    a revised alignment for the coastal interceptor to reduce
excavation and tunnelling;
(c)    the economy of reducing the outfall(s) lengths by adopting
secondary and tertiary treatment, which in turn will reduce
environmental impact and health hazards;
(d)    potential reuse of treated waste water for irrigation or
industrial usage;
(e)    flexibility to respond to varying urban developmert beyond the
year 2000; and
(f)    feasibility of independent treatment works tor the town of
Mohammedia including industrial waste water treatment and
disposal.
The study will not repeat the oceanographical, hydrographical and biological
surveys as the findings of the 1983 consultants' reports are conclusive on
these parameters. During negotiations, terms of reference of the sewage
treatment and disposal studies for the Greater Casablanca region weLe
discussed with RAD and found acceptable by the Bank. Agreement was reached
with RAD that it will engage, by November 1, 1987, qualified consultants to
carry out such £tudies on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and
that the consultants' recommendations will be made available for review by the
Bank by May 1, 1990. It was also agreed that RAD will implement the
recommendations of its consultants by Ju,.y 1, 1991 at the latest.
Proiect Description
3.09     The proposed project includes only the highest priority works
recommnended in the Greater Casablanca Sewerage Master Plan and leaves the
construction of the coastal interceptor and the sea outfalls, or their lower
cost alternative (para 3.08), to a second phase after additional studies of
treatment and disposal methods will have been carried out. This phasing will



- 15 -
give the new sewerage department of RAD the time to establish itself firmly
before undertaking these important and extensive works. The project thus
concentrates on assisting the Regie of Casablanca (RAD) to begin operations by
providing it with technical assistance and the required maintenance equipment,
enabling it to rehabilitate the existing combined sewers and pumping stations,
and expand the main sewers and tertiary systems to serve residential areas as
well as low income housing developments. Preparation of Sewerage Master
Plans, feasibility studies, preparation of detailed design and bidding
documents, and institutional and financial studies for eight main Moroccan
cities are also included in the proposed project. The main project components
are:
A. Replacement of Sewers and Pumping Sta.ions
(i)    Replacement of about 60 km of primary, secondary and
tertiary sewers and three pumping stations located in
Mohammedia, Ain Sebaa and the Eastern Industrial Zone of
Casablanca.
B. Rehabilitation of Sewers
(i)    Rehabilitation and repair of about 1 km of two major
collectors in the Casablanca city center;
(ii)    inspection, cleaning, and mapping of about 1000 km of
sewerage networks in Greater Casablanca;
(iii)    rehabilitation of about 200 km of secondary and tertiary
sewers.
C. Construction of Sewer Networks
(i)    Supply and construction of about 410 km of new sewers and
overflow structures to serve areas to be developed as well
as areas not presently sewered.
D. Supply of Equipment
(i)    Supply of operation and maintenance equipment, training
equipment and vehicles and machinery for RAD's sewerage
department.
E. Services
(i)    Provision of technical assistance and training through a
twinning contract between RAD and a specialized sewerage
company to assist RAD in developing its sewerage management
capabilities;
(ii)    provision of consultants' services to RAD for works
supervision;
(iii)    sewerage feasibility studies, including detailed design and
bidding documents, to reassess treatment and disposal of
sewage in the Greater Casablanca area; and



- 16 -
(iv)    preparation of sewerage master plans and feasibility
studies, including detailed design, bidding documents,
institutional, training and financial studies for the
cities of Agadir, Fes, Marrakech, Meknes, Nador, Rabat,
Settat and Tangier.
Status of Project Preparation
3.10     Final engineering design and contract drawings for the replacement
and rehabilitation of primary and secondary sewers and for the extension of
trunk sewers to be carried out during the first five years of project
implementation have been prepared. Bidding documents for these project
components have also been prepared but need minor revisions. These works have
been grouped into separate lots for which an implementation schedule is given
in Annex 4. It is expected that the implementation of replacement and
rehabilitation works and the supply of pipes and equipment would start by
September/October 1987. The aggregate value of these works amounts to
US$45.3 million or about 39% of the total project cost. RAD, with the
assistance of experts from its twinning company (para 4.12), will prepare
bidding documents for the cleaning, repair and rehabilitation of the sewer
networks and for the construction of secondary and tertiary sewers in
unserviced areas along with the housing development of those areas.
Cost Estimate
3.11     Total cost estimates amount to DH982.0 million (US$116.9 million),
with a foreign exchange component of DH280.6 million (US$33.4 million) or
about 29% of the total cost. Identifiable taxes and duties are about
DH182.3 million (US$21.7 million) or about 191 of the total cost. The total
project cost, net of taxes, amounts to DH799.7 million (US$95.2 million). The
estimated cost which is detailed in Annex 5 is summarized as follows:



- 17 -
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total  Foreign
DH million                  ---- US$ million ----  as S of
Base January 1987                                                                    total
A. Replacement of Sewers &
Pumping Stations (RAD)  35.89   11.04    46.93          4.27    1.31    5.58        23
B. Rehabilit. of Sewers
(RAD)                     56.80   21.99    78.79        6.76    2.62    9.38        28
C. Construction Sewer
Networks (RAD)          282.04   75.73   357.77    33.58    9.01   42.59           21
D. Supply of Equip. (RAD)  26.62   26.01    52.63          3.17    3.10    6.27        49
E. Services
1. RAD's Twinning
Contract Incl.
Training                  32.23   27.12    59.35        3.84    3.23    7.07        46
2. RAD's Consultancy
Services for Works
Superv. & Sewerage
Study                      8.58   13.10    21.68        1.02    1.56    2.58       60
3. R°gies' Sewerage
Studies                   36.14   51.59    87.73        4.30    6.14   10.44        59
TOTAL BASE COST             478.30  226.58   704.88    56.94   26.97   83.91           32
Physical Contingencies       80.10   35.77   115.87        9.53    4.26   13.79        31
Price Contingencies         143.04   18.22   161.26    17.04    2.17   19.21           11
TOTAL PROJECT COST          701.44  2216
3.12     The base costs are expressed in January 1987 prices and have been
calculated on the basis of cost estimates prepared by the consultants, RAD and
Municipalities. The cost estimates for electrical and mechanical equipment
were updated on the basis of recent international and local bid awards for
similar works in Morocco. Civil works and pipelaying estimates are in line
with current construction prices in Morocco. Physical contingencies of 20S
for the rehabilitation and replacement works and an average of 151 for the
other project components have been added to the base costs. Price
contingencies for local and foreign cost estimates are based on price
increases of 71 for 1987, 6% for 1988 and 1989 and 5Z annually thereafter for
local costs and on price increases of 32 for 1987, 11 per year from 1988 to
1990 and 3.5% annually thereafter for foreign cost elements. Annex 6 shows
the estimated annual project investments. Completion of the rehabilitation
works is expected by December 1993 and extensions of main sewers and tertiary
systems by December 1995 (Annex 7).



- 18 -
3.13     The project provides for an estimated 420 man-months of technical,
training and management assistance to RAD to be provided by its twinning
company and for an estimated 1,726 man-months of consulting services. These
consulting services will be provided to RAD to carry out additional sewerage
studies and works supervision, i.e. 187 man-months of local consultants and
160 man-months of foreign consultants; and to the Regies of eight provincial
capitals to prepare sewerage Master Plans, feasibility studies and
institutional training and financial studies, i.e. 835 man-months of local
consultants and 544 man-months of foreign consultants.
Project Investment Financing Plan and Finacing Armrnements
3.14     The Government policy for the sewerage sector is to transfer the
municipal sewerage systems to the existing Regies after a sewerage master
plan, feasibility studies, institutional and financial studies have been
completed and approved by the concerned municipal councils. These studies are
financed by current municipal revenues supplemented, if need be, by borrowings
from the Communal Infrastructure Fund (FEC). The R6gie of Casablanca is the
only Regie to which municipal sewerage services have been transferred so far
(para 4.04). Of the other eight main cities identified by the Government
(para 3.03), two have already obtained the financial assistance of FEC to
finance their Sewerage Master Plan studies (para 3.18).
3.15     The following sets out the financing plan of the proposed project
investments during the implementation period 1987-1996:
PROJ1CT N\VESTMENT FINANCING PLAN
- Total -------
Funds Re_quired                           MDH                 US$              X
million ------
Greater Casablanca Project (RAD)        876.91              104.40            89
Sewerage Studies (Regies)                105.10              12.51            11
Total Requirements                        2116.
Sources of Funds
Net Internal Cash Generation (RAD)    461.21                 54.91            47
Proposed Bank Loan                      504.00               60.00            51
Advance from FEC to the Regies            16.80               2.00              2
Total Sources of Funds                  I"                    f2
3.16     The proposed Bank loan of US$60 million would finance about 511 of
the total project cost, or about 631 of the total costs, net of taxes and
duties, in accordance with the existing cost-sharing formula for Morocco. The
r,et internal cash generated by RAD will finance about 471 of the total capital
recauirements. Financing of local funds in addition to the internally
generated funds of RAD will be provided by FEC and will represent about 2X of
the total financing.



- 19 -
3.17     The proposed Bank loan of US$60 million will be made to the Kingdom
of Morocco, for a term of 20 years including 6 years of grace at the current
IBRD variable interest rate. The Government will onlend the Bank loan under
the same conditions to the RAD and the eight other Regies. RAD will be the
major beneficiary of the proposed loan with US$49.5 million representing about
83S of the total loan amount. The remaining US$10.5 million will assist in
the financing of the Regies' sewerage studies and will be onlent to the
various Regies as follows: Agadir (RAMSA) US$1.20 million; Fes (RADEEF)
US$1.70 million; Marrakech (RADEEMA) US$1.00 million; Meknes (RADEEM)
US$t.00 million; Nador (RADEEN) US$0.60 million; Rabat (RED) US$3.10 million;
Settat (RADEEC) US$0.60 million; and Tangier (RAID) US$1.30 million. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to enter into Subsidiary Loan Agreements
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, with RAD and the Regies of
Agadir, Fes, Marrakech, Meknes, Nador, Rabat, Settat and Tangier. The signing
of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with RAD will be a condition of effectiveness.
Signing of individual Subsidiary Loan Agreements with each of the eight Regies
will be a condition for disbursing the relevant portion of the Bank loan. RAD
and the other Regies will assume the variable interest risk and the foreign
exchange risk on their individual shares of the Bank loan.
3.18     To finance their sewerage master plans, the municipalities of Meknes
and Marrakech have already obtained from FEC a loan of DH3.4 million
(US$0.4 million) and of DH2.95 million (US$0.3 million) respectively. FEC is
also planning to lend about DH10.6 million (US$1.3 million) to assist in the
financing of the sewerage studies of the other six municipalities. Since the
Regies of Agadir, Fes, Marrakech, Meknes, Nador, Rabat, Settat and Tangier
have more adequate technical staff resources to supervise those studies than
the municipal services, the Governors and Mayors of these cities have agreed
to transfer the responsibility of the sewerage studies to their respective
Regies. The Government confirmed during negotiations that FEC will provide
adequate fundings to assist in the financing of the sewerage master plan
studies of the eight municipalities. Assurances were also received during
negotiations that the municipalities concerned will transfer, until sewerage
operations are taken over by the Regies, appropriate budget allocations to
those Regies for servicing the debt contracted to finance their respective
sewerage studies. Signing of an agreement on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank between each of the eight municipalities and their
respective Regie to carry out on their behalf their sewerage studies will be a
condition for disbursing the relevant portion of the Bank loan. The signing
of a financing agreement between FEC and a Regie on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank will also be a condition for disbursing the related
portion of the Bank loan.
Project Implementation
3.19     A concession contract transferring responsibility for sewerage
services from the Casablanca urban community and the Mohammedia municipality
to the Regie of Casablanca (RAD) has been approved and ratified by the
concerned authorities (para 4.04). RAD, which subsequently created a
technical sewerage department in January 1985 (para 4.11), has been given the
responsibility for implementing the project components in the Greater
Casablanca area. RAD has already assigned a qualified engineer as Director of
its sewerage department. RAD's technical staff of the newly created sewerage
department will require assistance, particularly at the outset, to become



- 20 -
proficient in operating and maintaining existing sewerage facilities and in
supervising and executing rehabilitation and expansion of the sewer networks
(para 4.11 et 4.12). The twinning arrangement entered with a French water
supply and sewerage company ensures that RAD will have access to adequate
techniical and managerial assistance during the first four and one half years
of the proiect implementation (para 4.12). Consultants to assist RAD in the
supervision of the rehabilitation works (para 3.13) were recruited in April
1987, in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
3.20     Preparation of sewerage master plans and feasibility studies in
Agadir, Fes, Marrakech, Meknes, Nador, Rabat, Settat and Tangier will be
carried out under the responsibility of the respective R6gies of the
municipalities concerned (para. 3.22). Consultants for these studies will be
recruited by November 1987 (para. 3.25).
3.21     A project implementation schedule covering all project activities has
been discussed with the relevant authorities and is given in Annex 7. The
physical implementation of the project is scheduled to start by
September/October 1987 with the replacement of primary sewers and pumping
stations. All project's components are expected to be completed by December
1995.
The Rgies - _Swe ra& StLes
3.22     The Greater Casablanca Sewerage studies (para 1.18) have led the
Government to entrust the Regies with the responsibility for carrying out, on
behalf of the municipalities they serve, technical, institutional and
financial studies before taking over municipal sewerage services. The
technical and administrative capabilities of the Regies and the level of
pollution of the environment are key factors in identifying the urban areas
where the transfer of responsibility from municipal services to the Regies is
urgently required for the operation and maintenance of existing sewer
systems. The Regies of Agadir (RAMSA), Fes (RADEEF), Marrakech (RADEEMA),
Meknes (RADEM), Nador (RADE2N', Rabat (RED), Settat (RADEEC) and Tangier
(RAID) have been selected by the Government to carry out sewerage master plan
and feasibility studies as the cities they serve are facing important sewers
maintenance and pollution issues. These eight R6gies are responsible for
water distribution in the above-mentioned cities and their adjacent
municipalities and have the required technical and administrative capability
to supervise the studies.
3.23     The sewerage master plan and feasibility studies will be based on
existing technical studies and Sewerage Master Plans which were carried out in
the late seventies and early eighties. They will establish appropriate design
criteria for sewage collection, treatment and disposal facilities; monitoring
environmental pollution and industrial effluents; reuse of treated wastewater
and use of sewage sludge. They will also develop recommendations on domestic
and industrial wastewater management practices and include organizational and
financial studies to assist the R6gies in establishing financially viable and
technically capable sewerage departments. Finally, they will provide the
basis of future development projects to rehabilitate and extend the municipal
sewer networks and to abate pollution through the construction of sewage
treatment and disposal facilities.



- 21 -
3.24     The sewerage master plans and feasibility studies will be carried out
in two phases as follows:
(i) preparation of a feasibility study of the sewer systems in each
urban area including analyses of water consumption and
wastewater quality, population projections, wastewater flows and
pollution loadings, surveys to determine the ecological effects
of marine disposal of wastewater, technico-economic analysis of
wastewater treatment and reuse of wastewater for agriculture or
industry, analysis of sewage sludge utilization for composting
or soil conditioning. The feasibility study will result in the
preparation of an updated sewerage master plan including cost
estimates of proposed works and recommendations for a phased
implementation; and
(ii) detailed engineering studies and preparation of bidding
documents for a first implementation stage of the sewerage
masterplan, including detailed designs and detailed cost
estimates; financial projections for the operation of the
sewerage facilities covering a ten-year period and proposals for
the organization and training of the R6gies' sewerage department
-and for sewerage fees and tariffs along the line with the
Government financial policy for the sector (para 1.14). These
studies, in luding preparation of bid documents for the
follow-up implementation phase, are expected to be completed in
two and one half years.
3.25     During negotiations, draft terms of reference for the proposed
studies were discussed and found acceptable by the Bank. Agreement was also
reached that the Government will cause the Regies to: (i) engage, by
November 1, 1987, qualified consultants to carry out the sewerage studies on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank, for its
review and comments, the consultant's recommendations by June 30, 1990; and
(iii) initiate implementation of such recommendations no later than January 1,
1991.
3.26     The Ministry of Interior, Lhrough its Sewerage Unit (para 1.09), will
follow the implementation of these studies carried out by the Regies. The
review of the studies by the Sewerage Unit will ensure that the proposed
sewerage designs offer the best technical and economic solutions and that the
proposed institutional and financial arrangements are in line with the
Government's policies for the sector (paras 1.13 and 3.05). During project
execution, consultants will submit progress reports to the Sewerage Unit and
the Bank every two months. Draft final reports will be reviewed by Lhe
Government and the Bank and comments incorporated into the final reports.
Procurement
3.27     The procurement arrangements for the project components are shown
below:



- 22 -
Procurement Method for ProLect Componentz
(US$ Millon)
No. of              Procurement Method 1/            Total
Project Components                Contracts      ICB       LCB      Other       FA      Cost
A. Replacement of Sewers
and Pumping Stations
1. Replacement of Main                        7.40                                   7.40
Sewers & Pumping Stations        2        (4.44)                                 (4.44)
B. Rehabilitation of Sewers
1. Main Sewers                      1         1.40                          0.24    1.64
(0.83)                        (0.15)  (0.98)
2. Inspection & Cleaning            4         4.79                                   4.79
(2.87)                                 (2.87)
3. Secondary & Tertiary            15                    4.73               2.36    7.09
(2.84)             (1.42)  (4.26)
C. Construction of Sewer Networks
1. Supply of Pipes                 10        21.00                                  21.00
(10.20)                                (10.20)
2. Civil Works & Pipe Laying       40                  41.85                        41.85
(14.76)                     (14.76)
D. Supply of Equipment                           8.45                                   8.45
1. Supply of equipment              6        (4.07)                                 (4.07)
E. Services
1. RAD's Twinning Contract                                         8.88              8.88
1                             (5.77)           (5.77)
2. RAD Sewerage Studies &           3                              3.30              3.30
Supervision of Works                                           (2.15)            (2.15)
3. Regies' Sewerage Studies         8                             12.51             12.51
______               (10.50)      _   (10.50)
Total                   90        43.04      46.58      24.69    2.60  116.91
(22.41)   (17.60)   (18.42)  (1.57) (60.00)
'/   Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the proposed Bank Loan;
"OTHER" covers procurement of services in accordance with IBRD guidelines and
components financed by FEC; and "FA" means proposed rehabilitation works to be
carried out under force account by RAD.



- 23 -.
3.28     About twenty percent of the rehabilitation of the sewers up to an
aggregate amount of US$2.6 million will be carried out by RAD under force
account. RAD has the necessary equipment and trained workers available.
Since its establishment, RAD has proved its ability to carry out similar works
in water distribution projects and acquired the necessary skill. As
flexibility in scheduling this part of tiae rehabilitation works, which are
small in size and scattered in location, is required in order to avoid
disturbances in the day-to-day operations, their execution under force account
is justified.  For the remaining rehabilitation of the secondary and tertiary
sewers up to an aggregate amount of US$4.73 million, procurement under Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) will be the optimum when considering their size and
dispersal both in terms of time and location. Individual contracts for these
works will not exceed US$500,000 and are expected to attract only
international contractors with local representations. Civil works and
pipelaying will also be contracted through LCB since recent experience with
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) shows that only those firms
represented in Morocco have submitted bids for similar type of works
contracts. No prequalification will be required for Civil Works contracts.
Contracts for the cleaning and inspection of the networks, the replacement of
sewers and pumping stations, the rehabilitation of trunk sewers and the supply
of pipes and O&M equipment will be procured through ICB. Local manufacturing
industries for pipes and equipment are well developed in Morocco. For such
goods, local suppliers are expected to win about 70X of all supply contracts
awarded through ICB. The supply of pipes and O&M equipment contracts will be
grouped as far as practicable in order to encourage international
competition. For this type of contract, minimum individual groupings of
US$2,000,000 and US$500,000 will be retained respectively. In addition, the
project as a whole will be advertised internationally so that interested
foreign firms would have the time and opportunity to participate in the
bidding process. For bid evaluation purposes, a 151 margin of preference on
the CIF price of imported goods or an amount equal to the customs duties,
whichever is lower, will be applied in the case of equipment manufactured in
Morocco. All procurement documentation for ICB will be subject to the Bank
review prior to their submission to bidders. With respect to LCB documents
for works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$1.0 million or more, the same
Bank prior review will apply. RAD will furnish to the Bank copies of all
contracts, together with the analysis of the respective bids and the
recommendation for award.
3.29     All consulting services included in the proposed project will be
provided in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers.
3.30     Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures currently applied will
allow RAD to carry out the proc-trement activities required for .he project
economically and efficiently. LCB procedures were discussed during
negotiations and agreement was reached that RAD will apply procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursement
3.31     The proposed Bank loan of US$60 million would be disbursed against
the cost of the project components as follows:



- 24 -
Loan Disbursement Aainst Projeot Expenditues
Amount        of Expenditures
Category           Description                  US$ Million      To be Financed
1       Replacement, Rehabilitation,             11.41        602 of total
Inspection & Cleaning of                             expenditures
Sewerage Networks.
2.      Civil Works and Pipelaying.              13.42        35X of total
expenditures.
3.      Supply of Pipes and Equipment.           12.97        100% of foreign
expenditures and
35% of local
expenditures.
4.      RAD's Consultants Services.                7.20       652 of total
expenditures.
5.      R6gies' Sewerage Studies.                 9.56        1001 of total
expenditures.
6.      Unallocated                               5.44
TOTAL                                AQQ
3.32     Disbursements are expected to be completed six months after project
completion, hence the Closing Date of the proposed loan will be June 30,
1996. The estimated schedule of disbursements is as follows:
Disbursement Schedule
Bank           Loan Disbursement            Loan Disbursement
Fiscal Years          Per Quarter                 Cumulative
and Quarters       ----------------(US$ Million)--------------- 
1988
1                          2.95''                      2.95                5
2                          0.96                        3.91                7
3                          1.16                        5.07                8
4                          1.16                        6.23               10
"' Includes initial deposit of US$2.5 million into a Special Account.



- 25 -
Bank            Loan Disbursement              Loan Disbursement
Fiscal Years           Per Quarter                   Cumulative
and Quarters        ----…        ---(US$ Million)…--------------- 
1989
1                    1.44                          7.67               13
2                    1.44                          9.11               15
3                    1.74                         10.85               18
4                    1.74                         12.59               21
1990
1                    2.31                         14.90               25
2                    2.31                         17.21               29
3                    2.31                         19.52               33
4                    2.32                         21.84               36
1991
1                    2.32                         24.16               40
2                    2.31                         26.47               44
3                    2.60                         29.07               48
4                    2.60                         31.67               53
1992
1                    2.31                         33.98               57
2                    2.31                         36.29               60
3                    2.03                         38.32               64
4                    2.03                         40.35               67
1993
1                    2.02                         42.37               71
2                    2.02                         44.39               74
3                    1.73                         46.12               77
4                    1.73                         47.85               80
1994
1                    1.45                        49.30                82
2                    1.'.4                        50.74               85
3                    1.44                         52.18               87
4                    1.44                         53.62               89
1995
1                    1.16                         54.78               91
2                    1.16                         55.94               93
3                    1.16                         57.10               95
4                    1.15                         58.25               97
1996
1                    0.58                        58.83                98
2                    0.58                         59.41               99
3                    0.29                         59.70               99
4                    0.30                         60.00              100



- 26 -
3.33     Disbursement profiles show that disbursements for specific investment
projects in Morocco have extended over a nine year period. It is expected
that the proposed Bank Loan will be fully disbursed according to this
profile.  In order to ensure that Morocco will have ready access to foreign
exchange, it was agreed during negotiations that a Special Account will be
established in the Bank of Morocco to which the World Bank wili make an
initial revolving deposit of US$2.5 million. The Special Account will be
replenished against withdrawal applications of at least US$100,000 equivalent
at monthly intervals or, as appropriate, when the undisbursed balance of the
Account is equal to 50 percent or less of the amount of the initial deposit.
All disbursements under the project would be made against standard
documentation except for contracts below US$50,000 and works under force
account to be claimed under Statements of Expenditures (SOE) which will be
made available for examination by Bank supervision missions. It was also
agreed that the Government will recruit independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank to audit the Special Account and the SOEs.
Land Acquisition
3.34     The RAD has the right of way for its sewer systems and no land
acquisition is required for sewer laying, replacement and rehabilitation.
Monitoring S^ystem
3.35     During project execution, appropriate indicators will be used to
monitor the financial and technical performance of the RAD. Annex 8 provides
the list of indicators which were discussed during negotiations.
Under the project: (i) RAD and each of the eight Regies will report every two
months to the Bank and to the Sewerage Unit of the Ministry of Interior on the
progress of implementation of their respective sewerage studies; and (ii) RAD
will report quarterly on the evolution of the relevant indicators. Finally,
agreement was reached during negotiations that within six months following the
closing date of the loan, RAD and the Sewerage Unit of the Ministry of
Interior (para 1.09) will prepare and submit to the Bank a completion report
reviewing the planned objectives and the achievements of the proposed project,
including the costs and benefits derived and the performance and contribution
of all parties associated with project execution and systems operations.
IV. THE BORROWER AND THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
4.01     The proposed loan of US$60.0 million will be made to the Kingdom of
Morocco which will onlend a part of the Loan to RAD and tho Regies of Agadir,
Fes, Marrakech, Meknes, Nador, Rabat, Settat, and Tangie: (para 3.17).
4.02     RAD will have prime responsibility for the implementation of the
physical components of the project in the Greater Casablanca area. Each of
the Regies will be responsible for the implementation of its respective
sewerage study, which will be reviewed by the Sewerage Unit of the Ministry of
Interior.



- 27 -
Present OrhPnization
4.03     The responsibility for the construction and operation of the sewerage
networks in the Greater Casablanca area has traditionally been undertaken by
the Technical Departments of the Casablanca Urban Community and Mohammedia
Municipality. These Departments were also responsible for construction and
maintenance of roads, buildings, parks, street cleaning and garbage
collection. Although specialized sewerage sections were established within
the Technical Departments, staff were also allocated to other functions as and
when required. No attempt was made to apportion labor and overhead costs of
the various services provided. Therefore, it is not possible to obtain
reliable costs for the operation of existing sewer systems. The limited
operating costs incurred for sewerage services were financed by the
collectivities' general revenues and funds for system expansion and capital
expenditures were provided by the municipal investment budgets and partly
charged to housing developers and sewerage customers.
4.04     In 1983, the Government adopted as a matter of policy the transfer of
responsibility for sewerage operations to the Water Supply and Electricity
Regie of Greater Casablanca (RAD). This was in line with the recommendations
of the institutional and financial studies partly financed by the Bank Loan
S-7-MOR (para 1.16). A concession contract that transfers the responsibility
of sewerage services from the Casablanca Urban Community and the Mohammedia
municipality to RAD was prepared by RAD and the Government and reviewed by the
Bank. In October 1984, this concession contract was approved by the
respective local councils of Casablanca and Mohammedia. By decree dated
January 21, 1985, the Minister of Interior ratified this decision entrusting
RAD with the responsibility for operating and extending the sewerage systems
of the Greater Casablanca area. This decision was also confirmed by the
Higher Court (Chambre Constitutionelle) in May 1986. Municipal sewerage staff
were progressively transferred to RAD in 1985. However, since sewerage
by-laws for RAD defining the level of sewerage fees and tariffs only received
the final approval of the Government in April 1987, RAD's services have been
limited, so far, to the operation and maintenance of the networks. The costs
incurred from such services have been supported by the municipalities' current
budgets.
RAD - Oranization and Management
4.05     RAD was established in 1961 (Dahir No. 1-61-218 from October 21,
1961) by taking over the responsibility for water supply and electricity
distribution in the Municipality of Casablanca from the "Societ6 Marocaine de
Distribution" (SMD), a foreign water supply company and from the former "R6gie
des Exploitations Industrielles" (REI). RAD's area of franchise was expanded
in 1969 to the neighbouring municipalities to serve what is known as the Urban
Community of Casablanca - the Greater Casablanca area. RAD is owned by the
municipalities of the Greater Casablanca area and operates under the tutelage
of the Ministry of Interior. It has the s0atus of a financially autonomous
public enterprise managed in accordance with principles applicable to a
commercial undertaking.  RAD is one of the beneficiaries of Bank Loans
1724-MOR and 2006-MOR, made to the Government. Today, RAD has a well
experienced technical staff, a result partly of foreign training and partly of
the operation of its own training center (para 4.11). Further strengthening



- 28 -
is still needed, however, in RAD's accounting system and management
information system. This is addressed through the implementation of the
National Water Supply Rehabilitation Project (para 1.15).
4.06     RAD buys its bulk water from ONEP and from SMD.  RAD's water sales
have increased from 29 million m3 in 1962 to 108 million m3 in 1985 and
are expected to reach 169 million .l1 by 1996. The number of water customers
increased from 104,335 in 1962 to 284,435 in 1985 or about 2.7 times. RAD's
water technical departments are adequately staffed and structured. As
recommended by RAD's consultants who carried out organizational studies, the
overall organization structure of RAD was revised in 1984 to reflect the
growth of RAD's operations, including the creation of a new sewerage
department, by decentralizing operational responsibility and accountability to
district centers. The organizaLion structure of RAD's sewerage department is
satisfactory. It was instituted in February 1985 (Annex 9).
4.07     A Board of 12 members supervises RAD's activities.  Four delegates
from ministries and eight representatives from local municipal councils are
represented on the Board. A technical committee composed of five Board
members maintains a follow-up on Board decisions.  The overall control
exercised by the Board and the Ministry of Interior covers major decisions
such as approval of investments, operating budgets, borrowings, tariff levels,
code of employment and procurement. RAD's Chairman of the Board is the
Governor of Casablanca, appointed by the King, and its General Manager who is
appointed by the Prime Minister, is responsible for the day-to-day
operations. Since RAD was the first water supply Regie established in Morocco
and is by far the largest water supply company with about 472 of the total
volume of water distributed in the country, the Ministry of Interior has
assigned RAD with the repcnsibility for carrying out a comprehensive
Management Information System (MIS) study on behalf of all the Regies in the
framework of the National Water Supply Rehabilitation Project. RAD, which
houses the Inter-Regie computer center (SIRTI), will engage consultants to
carry out this study which will also coser RAD's sewerage department.
Completion of the MIS study and implementation of its recommendations are
foreseen by mid-1989.
The Regies -                       emgenitation and Manget
4.08     The legislative provisions governing the management and operation of
the water supply and electricity Regies, with the exception of RAD (para
4.05), are set out in legislative Decree No. 2-64-394 of 1964. The Regies
have the status of autonomous municipal utilities and are managed in
accordance with commercial rules under the tutelage of the Ministry of
Interior. The Regies of Agadir, Fes, Marrakech, Meknes, Nador, Rabat, Settat
and Tangier were created during the period 1964-1971 and have developed into
experienced technical institutions, partly as a result of the transfer of
well-trained technical staff from the former "Regie des Exploitations
Industrielles" (REI) and from SMD. They also have benefited from the
Inter-Regie training center, created in 1975, to build up their technical
capability. These eight Regies are the beneficiaries of one previous Bank
loan (Loan 2006-MOR) which is assisting in the financing of revolving funds
for the construction of house-connections for low-income customers. This
program is being satisfactorily implemented.



- 29 -
4.09     A board of 10 members supervises the operations of each of these
Regies. The provincial Governor is the Chairman of the Board of Directors
which also includes representatives of the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of
Finance and six elected members from the local municipal council. The Regies'
General Directors are qualified engineers with wide professional experience in
the public utility sector. They are appointed by the Prime Minister and are
responsible for the day-to-day operations. Existing organization structures
vary with the size of the Regies and will be reviewed in the framework of the
National Water Supply Rehabilitation Project (para 1.15).
Personnel and Training
4.10     RAD and the other eight Regies' salary structure, though somewhat
lower than that of comparable positions in the private sector, is adequate
when considering the whole compensation package designed to attract qualified
personnel interested in the career prospects of these fast-growing
organizations. RAD's water supply staff has increased from 203 in 1962 to 556
at the end of 1985, of these, 18 were senior positions. With an average of
six staff employed per thousand water house connections in 1985, RAD and the
Regies' water departments are not overstaffed when compared to other
mediterranean countries which average 7 to 9 staff per thousand connections.
4.11     Since RAD took over sewerage operations in January 1985 (para 4.04),
403 staff have been assigned to its sewerage department. The Casablanca Urban
Community transferred 363 staff including 5 professionals from its technical
services; the regional branch of the Ministry of Public Works transferred 19
professionals and RAD assigned 21 professionals trained recently in its own
training facilities. Of these, four were senior positions. At the present
development stage of its sewerage department, RAD has an adequate number of
skilled operators and workers. RAD faces, however, a shortage of specialized
engineers and senior management personnel. Since RAD was entrusted in 1975 by
the Ministry of Interior with the responsibility for managing an Inter-Regie
Training Center (CIRF) to train staff for the operation and maintenance of the
water and electricity distribution networks, it introduced in September 1984,
with the assistance of a specialized foreign training organization, courses on
sewers maintenance and operation. CIRF has been operating since July 1977 and
offers two-year training courses from which 435 staff have graduated so far,
including 21 for sewerage. RAD carried out in July 1985 a preliminary
assessment of the Regies' training needs and concluded that the existing CIRF
training capacity of 116 students a year :hould be increased to 344 to allow
the recycling of administrative and accounting staff as well as specialized
technicians. It is estimated that about 60 sewerage staff should graduate
every year from 1988 to 1996 to adequately cover RAD's training needs in
sewerage operators. The extension of existing CIRF training facilities is
estimated at DH15.5 million and adequate funding to finance CIRF's
construction is allocated in RAD's 1987 investment budget. Under the twinning
arrangement entered between RAD and a French utility (para 4.12), the latter
will assess the training needs of RAD, analyse the skill and knowledge
required to perform all tasks identified as requiring training, and design and
assist in the implementation of new appropriate sewerage training programs.
An estimated 15 man-months is envisaged for the proposed study and technical
assistance. Terms of reference for this study have been discussed with RAD
and found acceptable by the Bank. During negotiations, agreement was reached
with the Government that RAD will furnish to the Bank, for its review and



- 30 -
comments, the training program proposed by its consultants and that it will
initiate implementation of the training study's recommendations by July 1,
1988.
4.12     In 1979, RAD entered into a "twinning" contract with a French water
supply and sewerage company.  Under this contract, RAD has the possibility to
call on sanitary engineers or specialized technicians for a period of two to
four years or to send its own engineers to France.  To compensate for its
present shortage of engineers trained in sewers maintenance and sewage
treatment technologies, RAD requested the French utility to extend the
twinning arrangements to its new sewerage department in July 1986. Detailed
terms of reference were prepared by RAD and found acceptable by the Bank. A
new technical and management assistance contract was signed in March 1987.
This allows RAD to benefit from the technical and management assistance of
four senior sanitary engineers and three skilled technicians, all specialized
in sewerage operations. This personnel is directly responsible to RAD's
General Manager for the day-to-day operations of the sewerage department and
training RAD's Sewerage staff during a period of four and one half years. The
proposed loan will assist in the financing of those experts as well as for
RAD's short-term staff training assignments with the French utility.
Accounting Systems
4.13     The accounts of the Water Supply and Electricity Departments of RAD
are entirely separate, with appropriate cost centers and overhead
allocations. Accounts are kept on an accrual basis. While the accounting
system itself is logical and coherent, it does not provide readily answers to
classical financial analysis. In particular, there is no specific account fcr
work in progress and with the exception of assets which have a less than five
year life span, depreciation is replaced by a renewal reserve which bears no
relation to the value of assets in operation. Bookkeeping transactions are
computerized and the closing of accounts at year end is performed on a timely
basis. RAD's and the Regies' accounting systems need to be upgraded to
international standards in order to provide adequate management information
and Government control.
4.14     Aware of the above deficiencies which affect all Public Enterprises
(PE), the Government prepared a new National Accounting Plan with the
assistance of independent experts financed under the PERL project with PPF
funding. A first draft Accounting Plan was completed in February 1987 and is
circulated among Ministries and PEs for comments. It is envisaged under the
National Water Supply Rehabilitation Project to test by January 1, 1988 with
the Regie of Rabat-Sale (RED), on behalf of the other Regies, the new National
Accounting System. Such a system will be implemented by all the Regies,
including RAD, by January 1, 1990. A cost accounting study, which includes
sewerage operations, will also be executed by RED and implemented by the
Regies in January 1989. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government that RAD will maintain accounting practices acceptable to the Bank
for its sewerage operations.
Billing and Collection
4.15     Billing for water supply services is carried out on behalf of RAD by
the Inter-Regie computer company (SIRTI). The period which elapses between



- 31 -
SIRTI's receipt of the meter readings from RAD and its return of the bills to
RAD's administrative department is about 15 days. Bills are sent out monthly
to industrial customers, quarterly to domestic customers and half-yearly to
Public Administrations.
4.16     Collection from domestic and industrial customers is generally
adequate mainly because of the possibility of cutting off water services
and/or collection through the judicial system. However, collection from
Government agencies and municipalities has very rapidly deteriorated in the
1980's. As a result, RAD's finances are affected by sizeable arrears for
water sold, leading RAD to withhold payables to other Government agencies. At
the end of 1985, the overall balance for the Regie of Casablanca was
positive. To prevent future build-up of accounts receivable, the Prime
Minister's Office recently issued two instructions on payment procedures.
However, these instructions have not been fully enforced so far, mainly
because of the Treasury's inability to transfer to Public Enterprises and
Government agencies the resources committed under existing legislation or
agreed programs, i.e. current budgets and operating subsidies. The issue of
public sector's arrears for utility consumption is addressed under the PERL
project. A comprehensive scheme to clear past arrears and to prevent their
recurrence was discussed and agreed between the Bank and the Government in the
framework of the PERL project. Such a scheme, which includes all water supply
companies, also applies to RAD.
4.17     Since no sewerage tariffs were levied in the past by the
municipalities of the Greater Casablanca area, no arrears have accrued in the
sewerage subsector. Furthermore, the local Departments and Agencies of the
Government do not have a special budgetary line item for sewerage services to
be provided in 1987. To avoid the build-up of future arrears for sewerage
services provided by RAD to Government agencies, the Government confirmed
during negotiations that:
(i)    its public agencies will earmark sufficient budgetary
allocations in their 1988 budgets to pay, not later than
April 30, 1988, the balance of all sewerage bills due and
payable to RAD as of December 31, 1987;
(ii)    starting with FY1988, each of its public agencies will pay RAD's
sewerage bills within 90 days; and
(iii)    sufficient budgetary allocations will be provided each fiscal
year in the relevant budget of its public agencies.
Audit and Insurance
4.18     RAD's accounts are ve ified by various Government auditors but only
for compliance with official regulations. Controls of expenditures and
authorization of payments are exercised by a financial controller and an
accounting agent from the Ministry of Finance. Independent external audits
are not required by the Regie's by-law. During negotiations, it was agreed
that from 1987 onwards, RAD's accounts will be audited by independent
qualified auditors acceptable to the Bank and that the financial statements
and audit reports will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end
of each fiscal year.



- 32 -
4.19     RAD carries insurance adequately covering the risks of a public
utility organization. The policies are with Moroccan insurance companies and
relate to workman's compensation and third party liability of their operations.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Results and Present Situation
5.01     Until early 1985, the sewer networks in the Greater Casablanca area
were corstructed, operated and maintained by the Technical Departments of the
municipalities (para 4.03). These systems were regarded as one of the range
of services provided by the municipalities and no separate accounts or asset
inventories were maintained. Capital investments as well as day-to-day
operating and maintenance expenditures were financed from the general revenues
of the municipalities. In late 1984, the assets to be transferred to RAD were
inventoried and valued. RAD took over the operation and maintenance of
sewerage services in January 1985 (para 4.04). However, since RAD was only
recently authorized to collect sewerage fees and tariffs to finance its
operating costs, these costs were, until March 1987, supported by the
municipalities or Government grants. With the exception of specialized sewer
cleaning vehicles and additional sewerage studies, no investment has been made
since 1983 and operation and maintenance have been limited to urgent repairs.
5.02     The total direct revenues of the Greater Casablanca municipalities in
1983 amounted to DH135.06 million (US$15 million). These revenues accrued
from two sources: a municipal tax (taxe d'6dilit6) based on the administrative
rental value of properties (99X), and a frontage fee (taxe de Premier
Etablissement) levied on the owners of property when a sewer is provided
(1%). The latter tax constitutes the only income specifically related to
sewerage operations. From DH2.91 million in 1980, this charge generated only
DHI.22 million in 1983.  The expenditures breakdown for sewerage over the last
three years 1984-1986 was as follows:
Greater Casablanca Sewerage Expenditures
Municipal Services                      RAD
1984                 1985                198F'
- DH Million ----
Maintenance
Personnel                           1.38                  5.67               6.49
Equipment & Materials                _                    1.18               2.65
Sub-Total                      1.38                 6.85                9.14
Capital Expenditures
Vehicles                             --                   0.44               1.77
Studies                              --                   1.16               0.04
Sub-Total                       --                  1.60                1.81
Total                                _                     _                10.95
Source: Municipal technical services and RAD.
Includes expenditures expected to be incurred during first quarter of
FY1987.



- 33 -
In compensation for providing sewerage services during 1985, RAD received a
Government grant of DH11.20 million and DH4.58 million in the form of advances
from the municipalities. The remaining expenditures incurred by RAD up to
March 1987 have been totally financed by a DH5.0 million contribution received
from the municipalities.
Financing Policies and Objectives
5.03     One of the objectives of the Bank's involvement in the sewerage
sector is to support the Government's total cost recovery policy, which
consists in the adoption of a stepped tariff structure, and other direct
sources of income, to provide adequate revenue for the operation and
development of the sewerage systems. This financial policy has been discussed
since 1982 with the Government and the local authorities of Greater
Casablanca. In April 1986, RAD's consultants completed a detailed tariff
study which was reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank. During its
extraordinary session of July 14, 1986, the Intercommunal Council of the
Greater Casablanca Urban Conmunity adopted the sewerage tariffs and fees
recommended by RAD's consultants. The same sewerage tariffs and fees were
subsequently adopted by the Municipal Council of Mohammedia.  The Government
confirmed that the proposed sewerage tariffs received appropriate ratification
and that RAD received authorization for their implementation. This will allow
RAD to achieve in 1987 a self-financing ratio of at least 40% of its
investment costs not prefinanced by customers and developers' contributions.
5.04     RAD's new sewerage tariff structure is adequate.  A fixed fee is
charged for the maintenance of the sewer connections. The new sewerage
tariffs, charged to domestic, administration and industrial customers, are
based on a surcharge on the potable water consumption. The domestic tariff
provides a quarterly maximum water consumption of 30 m3 at a concessionary
rate. This quantity is considered sufticient to meet the basic water supply
needs of an average-sized family. The same highest tariff bracket applies to
domestic and administration use in excess of 60 m3 per quarter and a special
surcharge is levied on industries. The sewerage tariffs currently in force
are shown in the table below:
RAD's Sewerage Tariffs Level and Structure (1987)
Domestic            Admirnistration            Industries
Consumption      Fixed   Surcharge       Fixed   Surcharge       Fixed   Surcharge
in m3        Fee/Year   Per m3      Fee/Year   Per m3        Fee/Year   Per m3
---------------- -              - DH…--------------
First 30 m3  )              0.26  )                       )
30 to 60 m3  )    37        0.65  )       74       1.30  )        148        1.56
Any Excess   )              1.30  )                       )
5.05     RAD's non-operating revenues cons:.st of (i) customer contributions
levied through an installation tax (Participation au Premier Etablissement -
PPE) proportional to the surface area of premises to be connected to the sewer



- 34 -
network, (ii) a 202 surcharge on house connections' construction cost, and
(iii) a 102 surcharge for work supervision on the cost of the tertiary
networks built and financed by pubiic and private developers.  The definition
and methodology for calculating such sewerage fees are included in RAD's
sewerage By-Lawc (cabier des charEes) approved by the Ministry of Interior and
by the Greater Casablanca Urban Community in July 1986, and ratified by the
Ministers of Finance and Equipment in April 1987.
5.06     No Government contributions will be provided to RAD to finance the
development of its sewer networks. To ensure adequate funding for the RAD's
sewerage rehabilitation program and for the construction of additional sewer
networks not financed by customers and developers' contributions, agreement
was received during negotiations t:hat the Government will cause RAD to adjust
its sewerage tariffs and fees annually so that from 1987 onwards it will,
after finanicing its operating and maintenance expenditures, debt service, and
working capital requirement, finance from net cash generation at least 402 of
its annual. capital expenditures not prefinanced by customners and deveiopers'
contributi.ns.
5.07     Since RD's; sewerage services supplement its water supply services,
which are currently exempted de facto from profit taxes, and since municipal
sewerage services are also exempted from taxation, RAD and the Mit istry of
Interior haive argued that such an exemption ishould be extended to RAD's
sewerage department and more generally to all of the R6gies which %ould take
over municipal sewerage services. However, the Ministry of Finance, consu'lted
by the Ministry of Interior, refused to authorize nuch an exemption.  A profit
tax will, thus be impoeed on the Regies for sewerage services and this charge
will be passed on tco the cust 'ners..
Finweinglan of RADs' Sewerage lnvestment 'anr.
5.08     RAD Sources and Applications of Funds Statemlent f3r the project
implementation period (1987-1996) (Annex 10) is su:,urized as follows:



- 35 -
FINANCING PLAN OF RAD'S SEWERAGE   VESTMENT PROGRAM
(1987-1996)
DH             US$          %
.... million 
Fwu,ds Required
- Proposed rehabilitation expenditures           876.91         104.40        24
- Other capital expenditures                   2,810.85         334.62        76
TOTAL REQUIREMENTS                     367.76
Sources of Funds
Internal cash generation                     1,411.53         168.04        38
less - Increase in Working Capital              68.56           8.16        (2)
Debt Service                                   446.55          53.16       (12)
Net internal cash generation                   896.42         106.72        24
- Proposed Bank loan                             415.80          49.50        11
- Other loans (Phase II)                         504.00          60.00        14
Total borrowings                         919.80          109.50        25
- Customers' contributions                       570.84          67.96        16
- Developers' contributions  '                 1,300.70         154.84        35
TOTAL SOURCES                          3,687.76         439.02
5.09     During the project implementation period, RAD's net internal cash
generation would provide about 24% of its overall investments, customers'
contributions 161 and developers' contributions 351. This translates into a
self-financing ratio for RAD of about 49X of the portion of investments not
financed by its customers and housing developers and is in line with its
financial policy (para 5.06). The proposed IBR.D loan for the first phase of
implementation of the Greater Casablanca Sewerage Master Plan will finance
about 11% of RAD's total investments or DH415.80 million (US$49.5 million).
Other loans, as yet unidentified, are assumed to become available after 1991,
for financing the sewage treatment and disposal facilities to be constructed
during the second phase of implementation of the Greater Casablanca Sewerage
Master Plan. Government already expressed its interest in obtaining IBRD
financial assistance for implementing those works.
Future Financial Performance of RAD
5.10     Forecast financial statements appear in Annex 10.  Financial
assumptions are presented in Annex 11. The investment plan (1987-1996)
includes .nvestments other than the proposed project for DH2,811 million of
'-'  Portion of the tertiary network built and financed by public and private
developers (Annex 11).



- 36 -
which DH1,300 million, or about 46X, will be financed by housing developers to
expand the tertiary networks and DH1,511 million would be financed by as yet
unidentified borrowings to construct future coastal interceptors and sewage
treatment and disposal facilities in the Greater Casablanca area.
5.11     Projections of RAD's sewerage revenues have been made according to
the financial poli-v discussed in paras 5.04 and 5.06. From 1987 to the end
of the project implementation period, i.e. December 1996, RAD's total sewerage
revenues are expected to grow in current terms about 3.8 times from DH103
million to DH391 million. Between 1987 and 1996, RAD is expected to increase
its sewerage tariffs at an average of about 2.22 per year in real terms.
Average revenues from tariffs would increase from DHO.85 per m3 in 1987 to
DH2.22 per m3 in 1996, i.e. about DHI.03 per m3 in 1987 prices.  During
the same period, operating expenses before depreciation will grow from DH31
million to DH185 million, or about 6 times, leaving a gross margin sufficient
to finance all the projected debt service and an average of 242 of investment
costs. Customers and developers' contributions will represent about 51Z of
RAD's investment. The working ratio will remain below 472. Total fixed
assets in operation, including the tertiary networks built and financed by
housing developers, will increase from DH314 million to DH3,719 million, i.e.
about 11.8 times. The debt equity ratio will average about 16:84 and the debt
service coverage ratio will always remain higher than 1.9. The financial rate
of return on RAD's sewerage net fixed assets in operation will, average 52.
VI. JUSTIFICATION
Pvroject Benlefits
6.01     The proposed rehabilitation and expansion of the sewer systems in
Greater Casablanca will bring immediate relief to approximately 0.9 million of
the total population of about 2.5 million living in the agglomeration.
Besides improving health conditions, the project will also contribute to
safeguard urban infrastructure, foster urban development, improve urban
environment and enhance institutional performance of the sector.
6.02     The elimination of sewage ponding and flooding of residential areas
in Greater Casablanca justifies the project. Without this project, the
existing health hazard of water borne diseases will increase due to industrial
and population growth and steady degradation and collapse of sewe; networks.
The latter also steadily undermines and provokes deterioration of adjacent
structures. The project will make an important contribution to the
implementation of projected housing developments in compliance with the urban
master plan. The housing projects being held up by the absence of main sewers
to which they can connect will be implemented. This will create employment,
stimulate the economy and improve the standard of living of many families who
are awaiting the opportunity to be allocated serviced building plots and are
now living in slums which cannot he rehabilitated. A cleaner urban
environment will improve tourist potential and hotel development in the city.
Parallel to the physical improvement of sewerage services provided by RAD, the
project will also promote institutional, financial and administrative
restructuring of the sewerage sector. Expcsure of RAD's staff as well as that
of the Ministry of Interior and of the eight Regies of Agadir, Fes, Marrakech,



- 37 -
Meknes, Nador, Rabat, Settat and Tangier to medium and long term sewerage
master planning techniques and appropriate preventive maintenance practices,
will foster managerial efficiency of the sewerage sector. The taking over of
municipal sewerage services by RAD, the introduction of cost recovery
policies, the replication of this first sewerage project throughout Morocco
after detailed Master Plan studies are carried out and the proposed technical
and management assistance components will restrain the dependence of the
sector development on public financing and improve the overall sector
management.
Environmental Impact
6.03     No permanent adverse impact is expected from the proposed project.
The urban environment will improve by eliminating sewage ponding and flooding
by mixed sewage and storm water in residential areas. The value which the
population attach to this improvement should not be underestimated.
6.04     The coastal environment, which is at present heavily polluted, will
however not be affected in a positive sense and may locally temporarily
deteriorate as a result of cleaning activities in the sewer networks.
Improvement of the coastal environment can only be expected after construction
of costly sewage interceptors, treatment and disposal works which will
eliminate sewage discharge from about twelve main sewers and overflows along
the coast. At present, these sewers discharge a mixture of sewage, industrial
wastewater, infiltration water from the underground aquifer, garbage and other
solids which would seriously hamper the operation of such works if they were
constructed before the rehabilitation of the sewer networks. Additional
studies to be carried out under the project will assess the impact of cleaning
and rehabilitation on design flows and pollution loads and thus provide
reliable design criteria for a least cest technical solution for pollution
abatement. It is expected that on the basis of these criteria and subsequent
detailed engineering studies, construction of the works will start in 1992.
Until then, the incremental volume of sewage to be discharged into the sea
will remain marginal by comparison with existing discharges.
Least Cost Solution
6.05     The project components for which alternative solutions were
considered are related to the replacement or rehabilitation of sewer networks
and the technical least-cost solution for the expansion of these networks. In
most cases, the cleaning and rehabilitation of sewers is the obvious
least-cost solution. However, in Mohanmnedia, the eastern industrial zone, the
municipality of Ain Sebaa and the center of Casablanca, existing sewers and
related pumping stations are either undersized and/or in such a state of
disrepair that the least-cost solution consists of replacing these sewers and
their related facilities. Where possible, to prevent costly excavations in
rock formations, new sewers of adequate capacity will replace old sewers in
existing trenches.
6.06     Depending on the population density and the topographical and
geological configuration of future residential areas, the least cost solution
to the collection of sewage and storm water consists of individual septic
tanks and storm water drainage by open surface drains in low density areas



- 38 -
(less than 50 hab/ha.) and separate sewer systems in higher density areas.
These technical solutions will give the least-cost solution to waste disposal
and treatment needs of the projected residential areas and also make optimal
use of existing natural drainage systems to channel storm water flows.
Beneficiaries
6.07     The proposed sewerage project will immediately benefit the present
population of Greater Casablanca and, in the longer run, lay the foundation
for a better environment for the population living in the eight main Moroccan
urban areas after Casablanca. The cleaning, replacement and rehabilitation of
about two thirds of the sewer systems in Greater Casablanca will have major
health, environmental and economic impacts, although not quantifiable, on an
estimated 3.3 million inhabitants living in the project area by the year
1995. The elimination of stagnant waste water bodies and flooding in the city
center and residential areas will provide a better urban environment for an
estimated 0.9 million inhabitants. Finally, the sewer expansion program will
give an estimated 375,000 inhabitants access to sewerage services.
Poverty Impact and Affordabilitv
6.08     The proposed rehabilitation and extension of the combined sewerage
system will also benefit the poorer districts of the municipalities of the
Greater Casablanca area, mainly the non-formal housing developments where
households are not yet connected, and where the main sewer lines are old and
undersized primarily in high density areas in the older parts of the cities.
Stagnant water bodies are found most of the time in these high density areas
where sewers have insufficient capacity to meet the needs of the present
population and to absorb storm water runoff.
6.09     The urban poverty threshold income is estimated at DH1,190 per month
for a family of six persons in 1985 prices. It is estimated that in the high
density areas alone, there are about 1.62 million inhabitants of which about
440,000 have incomes below or close to the poverty threshold. In the
non-formal housing developments, which will be connected to the municipal
sewer systems after the pr3posed extension of trunk sewers has been
implemented, an additional 34,000 families or about 205,000 persons below or
close to the poverty threshold will also benefit from the project. It is thus
estimated that about 26% of the total population in the Greater Casablanca
project area has an income under the current urban poverty threshold, and that
about l9Z of the project cost and related benefits will be devoted to the
rehabilitation and extension of sewerage services provided to these users.
6.10     The water consumption of the low-incowe group averages about 10 m3
per month per household of 6 persons. Assuming that the income of the poorest
segment of the population is equal to the urban poverty threshold, the total
monthly payment for sewerage services in 1995, when the physical components
will have been implemented, would be about DH22.5 or about l.9S of the monthly
income of the urban low-income group. The combined monthly payment for water
and sewerage would amount to about DH43.5 or 3.7X of the urban pc'verLy
threshold. This is considered to be affordable. Future sewerage and water
tariffs adjustments should not change this forecast, since no increases in
real terms are expected for low-income consumers.



- 39 -
Adevuacy of Revenues
6.11     The long-run incremental cost of providing sewerage services in the
Greater Casablanca area is estimated at DOO.93/m3, at an opportunity cost of
capital of ten percent. It is also estimated that in 1995, once the
rehabilitation and extension of sewers are completed, the revenues generated
from sewerage operations will reach DH1.20/m3 in real terms. The fact that
these revenues per cubic meter are higher than the long run average
incremental cost of providing sewerage services indicates that their level
will be appropriate.
Ri  ad Sa    t
6.12     The introduction of sewerage tariffs is not expected to have a
substantial impact on water consumption as the major part of these additional
charges will affect the more affluent water users consuming more than 30 m3
per quarter. Design and construction of the project are straightforward and
should pose no difficulties. RAD and the Government have proven to be highly
cositted to the proposed project during the preparation process, and the
risks of not achieving the technical and financial restructuring which fall
within their responsibility are low. For the eight Regies' sewerage studies
component, the municipalities concerned have already accepted in principle to
transfer their sewerage services to the R6gies after completion of the studies
and the Regies will start ie_diately the preparation of consultants
shortlists in accordance with acceptable criteria. Furthermore, the technical
and management assistance provided under the project to RAD to develop its
sewerage department and the Bank's monitoring of RAD's key performance
indicators and providing necessary guidance during supervision, will help to
minimize project risks.
VII. AGREEMENIS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     During negotiations, agreement and understanding were reached on
various issues referred to in Chapters III through V of this report.
7.02     The proposed loan will be declared effective after conclusion of a
subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and RAD on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para 3.17).
7.03     Agreement having been reached on the issues set forth in this report,
the proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$60.0 million to the
Kingdem of Morocco for a term of 20 years, including 6 years of grace.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
STATISTICAL OATA ON WATER SUPPLY AND S£WERAGE IN PRDJECT AREA (1985)
PROVINCIAL CENTER                   UNIT      G. AGADIR  G. CASABLANCA    FES         MARRAKECH  G. MEKNES   NADOR    RABAT-SALE   SETTAT   TANGIER
REGIE                                          (RAMSA)         (RAD)       (RADEEF)  (RADEEMA)  (RADEEM)   (RADEEN)         (RED)    (RADEEC)   (RAID)
A. WATEIL_Fpr
1. Population                   1,000         275           2,530          590        510         380        67           990        106       370
2. Population served by
House Connections                          5 S1            64          50         63           47       61             71         57        62
3. Population Served by
Standpipes                                 45              15           17        23           24        39            21         43        23
4. Total Population Served         X           96               79          67         86          71       100            92        100        85
S. Water Production            Mm3/yr          17              154          47         33          27         5            56          5        25
6. Water Distribution           4n3/yr         11              102          26         24          18         3            46          3        16
7. Water Unaccounted for          S            35               34          45         27          33        42            18         36        35
8. Length of Network              km          477           2,550          550        590         320        SO         1,730        148       450
B.  SEHRAGL
1. Population Served by
House Connections                          51                          58         58           60       63             82         62        74
2. Population Served by
Private and Other
Facilities                                 40              32          28         34           32       24             12         30        17
3. Total Population Served                     91              92           86         92          92        87            94         92        91
4. Sewage Discharge            Mh3/yr 1/        9               82          22         19          16         2            34          2        13
5. Pollution Discharge          t BOD/yr   2,400           41,000       5,800      4.900        3,800       730        13.700      1.100    4.600
6. Length of Network              km          300            1.700         350        400         200        30         1.100         94       280
7. Receiving Environment                      Sea             Sea       Wadis      Wadis       Wadis        Sea           Sea      Wadis       Sea
8. Reuse of Untreated
Wastewater for
Agriculture                                No              No         Yes        Yes         Yes        No             No         No        No
1/ Excluding infiltration water.
I.



KI.jGDOM OF MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
POPULATION AND POPULATION SERVED BY HOUSE CONNECTIONS IN PROJECT AREA
(IN THOUSANDS)
GREATER       GREATER                             GREATER
YEAR     DESCRIPTION              AGADIR 1/   CASABLANCA    FES    MARRAKECH    MEKNES 1/    NADOR    RABAT            SETTAT      TANGIER
1985   Total v-opulation             275          2,530        590        510          380           67       990         106         370
Population Served
by Water Supply             140          1.625        294        320          179           41       704          61         230
Population Served
by Sewerage                 140          1,520        340        295          230           42       810          66         275
1990   Total Population              335          2,980        680        580          430           79    1,200          135         430
Population Served
by Water Supply             195          2,010        420        390          265           54       850          89         300
Population Served
by Sewerage                 182          2,087        480        385          315           54    1,030           88         340
1995   Total Population              399          3,306        790        660          480           94    1,470          164         S10
Population Served
by Water Supply             300          2,510        590        495          360           70    1,100          123         380
Population Served
by Sewerage                 280          2,464        665        490          410           70    1,320          122         430
1' Population includes peripheral rural centers not presently served by the Regie.
I,



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
Projected Averae Water Demand In Project Area
2
05
04
03
0.2             Fei
ck01 
0 05
0.03
0 02            SeW            _            _
0                                 I    I   I  I            L 
1Q85  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  4991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
World Bank-30826 1



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
Works Implementation Schedule
1967          1968            1989           1990           1991           192            1993           1994           1995
I23 `1  2           , 3   4     i 2   3  4 7      3    4 _  2      3   4' _  2    3 4  4    _   2  3  4   _   2  3      1   2      3  4
A  REPIACFMENT OF SEWERS AND PUhMPING STNS
Mohommdga, Ain Seboa U East
Lot I Sewers (60 kin]                                  -_
Lodt2  PurnpnogSty2ons 13                                  __                                                                                                r _
8  REHAr3111TATION Of SEvVERS                                  R        f                                             
Lot 3 Sewers Derlure Poevmireau              _. P                  - |                      1 _ _
CI CONSTRUCTION OF SFWEfPS                                                                      I 
Lot 4 -Sewer G (a kml (Mohimn_-eda)                                                                                                   j                  |
iotf5-SewrysUi41F U14i- U1718(6kml                            r                                                                             I        I                                     V
Lol .- Sewe  U84 i4 krn)                                                                                                                                                                                                    La
Loto S(iw R         U72B E,292         R FUE72 (9  kmi                                                                                                   I
!    0e 10 See,rsE[U_H1 P>GHo71 (FUGHa32itDs ELJGHo11                                                           1        I                        
Qi 11 a91 C(i,;GHbat2 SUGHo21t 12 kml
.0o1-wl;o1Qfi!It                                                                I  12 iL           1 r       i -             TIIIII!I                                                     I i
IS  Mou   26  k                                                           I P               *1-                                                                                            I
l osr  tJ7 ( k'i A l | --ro - * l4 fr  4                        I                          I .4                                                          -     if|0|ill     
|   ,ur,C , e,,p2     54   x                                                 I                                          -          - ' -                         1  k               -  
48                                           __              I.. F                             L.-_f1_ 
A'S.d- I'9 ki,.                                                        ...                                                                                 ..,
S Pevrs;on ot Btd t)oruentt                                         q     Strar1 ol Wesks
-9    P Prepaotraon 0f Bra Docajn-erts Onrd Branr 1R~ ewer                   _     WmorkSs Execution
__       Biddinrg P'or edures.                                                                                      Wortdl Barik--32826 2



- 44 -
ANNEX 5
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST
LOCAL  FOREIGN   TOTAL        LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL  FOREIGN
~---~------------------       ---------------------  COST OF
DESCRIPTION                              DH Million                  US $ Million         TOTAL
A. Replacement of Sewers
and Pumping Stations
1. Replacement of Main
Sewers & Pumping Stations    35.89   11.04   46.93            4.27    1.31    5.58        23
B. Rehabilitation of Sewers
1. Main Sewers                     8.16    2.11   10.27         0.97    0.25    1.22        20
2. Inspection & Cleaning          17.59   12.32   29.91         2.09    1.47    3.56        4].
3. Secondary & Tertiary           31.05    7.56   38.61         3.70    0.90    4.60        20
C. Construction Sewer Networks
1. Supply of Pipes                84.76   38.24  123.00        10.09    4.55   14.64        31
2. Civil Works & Pipe Laying  197.28   37.49  234.77           23.49    4.46   27.95        16
D. Supply of Eiuipment
1. Supply of Equipment            26.62   26.01   52.63         3.17    3.10    6.27        40
E. Services
1. Twinning Contract Incl.
Training                       32.23   27.12   59.35         3.84    3.23    7.07        46
2. Supervision of Works (RAD)   6.18    8.61   14.79            0.73    1.03      1.76      59
3. RAD Sewerage Studies            2.40    4.49    6.89         0.29    0.53    0.82        65
4. Sewerage Studies
(Regies)                       36.14   51.59   87.73         4.30    6.14   10.44        59
TOTAL BASE COST (Jan. '87)    478                                 b    "      A.L9          32
Physical Contigencies             80.10   35.77  115.87         9.53    4.26   13.79        31
Sub-Total                        558.40  262.35  820.75        66.47   31.23   97.70        32
Pri e Contingencies              143.04   18.22  161.26        17.04    2.17   19.21        11
TOTt <X  PROJECT COST                                   j                                   29



KcINSOOM Of ROOOCCI
SKEATER CASABLMANA SENERABE PROJECT
Annual Project InVuSteeAtS - CaisblEan
ION Nil2 ion)
--- 1981---- ---1999 ---           ---1999---       ---"   -- ---- 0 -    91)-- --- 1992---           ---1993 ---      ---1994 ---99--5i---   ---Total --    grand
Local  for.il9,   Local Foreige   Locai Foreigna  Local Fortigp   Local Forsig   Loca, Foreign   Local Foreign   Local FOreaqn   Loca  Foreign   Loca  For.ip    Total
A. REPLACEMENT OF SEVERS 
Pimetk STATIONS
1. Reconstruction of Haim Sees~
& PvahaagStatious                            4.60    2.20   20.52    6.69    5.29    1.72    5.48        1.43    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    O.K&   35.89   11.04    44.93
sobtotal                                   4.60    1.20   20.5?    6.69    5.29    1.72    5.49    1.43    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.99    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   35.8    21I.04    44.93
Cantiqelsc s:
fty%ICAI CMtLOPREIIS0.92    0.24    4.10    1.34    1.04    0.34    1.20    0.29    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.11    2.21                             9.39
FlysaCa ContLs"3eeis                          0.19    0.02    2.51    0.29    1.07    0.09    1.53    0.20    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.30    0.50              5.30
TotalCE     t956 i                          2.11    0.26    4.62    1.42    2.13    0.44    2.62    0.38    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   12.61    2.70    25.28
TOTAL Cuef T seCOST                         5.712       46   27.14    9.31    7.42    2.16    9.10    1.81    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   46.37   13.74    62.11
2. Rai* Sews                                    0.00    0.00    3.40    0.93    4.56    2.16    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.14    2.21    20.27
Sutotal                                    0.00    0.00    3.60    0.93    4.54    2.16    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.24    2.11    10.27
Contot  peies:
PAysicEal CostingeaciSe                      0.00    0.00    0.72    0.19    0,91    0.24    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.43    0.42               2.05
Price Cm,tOKegacas                           0.00    0.00    0.44    0.04    0.92    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.34    0.10               2.44
Total Cantiegecte                          0.00    0.00    1.14    0.23    1.63    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.99    0.5                3.S2
TOTAL CTRA1 COsT                             0.00    0.00    4.76    .141   6.39    1.48    5.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   12.15    2.44    13.19
2. Zesgeti.. & Cleauang                         3.52    1.23    3.52    2.47    3.52    2.4.6    3.52    2.46    3.52   2.47    0.00    2.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.59   22.32    29.91
Subtotal                                   3.52    2.23    3.52    2.47    3.52    2.46    3.52    2.46    3.51   2.47    0.00    1.21           O 0.00 00       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.59   12.32    29.11
Contiegeaci s:
Plys,,Cal Coetiagmacies                      0.70    0.25    0.70    0.49    0.70    0,49    0.10    0.49    0.70   0.49    0.00    0.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.52    2.44               5.9
rieCamt:mgmcie,                           0.25    0.02    0.43    0.10    0.71    0.13    0.99    0.17    2.24   0.24    0.00    0.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.51    0.64               4.34
Total Casitiepecie                         0.35    0.21    1.14    0.60    2.41    0.63    1.69    0.66    1.94   0.73    0.00    0.42    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.03    3.30    20.33
TOTAL CONTRACT COST                          4.37    1.50    4.44    3.07    4.93    3.09    5.21    3.12    5.45   3.20    0.00    2.45    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   24.62   15.42    46.24
S. seconiary i Tertiary                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.621   2.113    5.63    2.38    5.63   1.32    5.42    2.38    5.55    1.38    3.04    0.72    0.97    0.19   31.05    7.54    3.6.1
Subtotal                                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.61    1.23    5.63    2.36    5.63   2.38    5.62    1.58    5.55    1.33    3.04    0.72    0.97    0.29   31.05    7.54    3.6.1
Contii,gecish:
Physical Cuetingesciei                       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.92    0.23    1.23    0-.10   1.13   0.28    1.12    0.26    1.21    0.26    0.61    0.24    0.19    0.04    6.21    1.51               7.72
Price Contampecles                           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.93    0.04    1.51    0.09    I.99   0.13    2.42    0.20    2.B4    0.26    1.82    0.11    0.67    0.05   12.23    0.97    23.19
Total Contineancies                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.95    0.29    2.70    0.37    3.11   0.41    3.54    0.47    3.95    0.54    2.42    0.31    0.84    0.09   13.44    2.46    20.92
T'1AL CONTRACT COST                          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.46    1.42    Z.33    1.75    8.74   1.79    9.26    1.15    9.50    1.92    5.44    1.03    1.83    0.26   49.49   20.04    59.53
C. CONSTIIITION OF SEVEN NETIORS
I.     Ifl of Pipes                             7.05    2.01    8.72    3.52   22.99    5.42   13.55    5.97   12.54   5.46   12.91    4.11    9.42    4.39    5.49    3.18    2.91    1.79   34.74   38.24   123.00
Sutotal                                      7.05    2.02    8.72    3.52   12. 99    5.62   13.55    5.97   122.54   5.66   12.91    4.12    9.62    4.39    5.49    3.26    2.91    2.79   84.74   31.24   123.00
Cant  "   I a ena s:
PhysCal Casjtieucies                         1.27    0.34    1.57    0.63    2.34    1.01    2.44    1.09    2.26   1.02    2.32    1.20    1.55    0.79    0.9"    0.51    0.52    0.32   15.24    4.11    22.14
Price Cm.tae,mnciug                          0.29    0.04    l.0j    0.15    2.58    0.30    3.72    0.40    4.35   0.53    5.4b    0.65    4.33    0.82    3.23    0.74    2.97    0.51   24.97    4.32    32.29
Total CmetzepK nce                         2.54    0.40    2.42    0.73    4.92    2.32    6.16    1.47    4.61   2.55    7.79?   2.95    5.86    2.60    4.21    1.31    2.49    0.63   42.23   12.20   53.41
TOTAL CONTRC  COST                           8.41    2.41   11.33    4.30   17.91    6.92   19.71    7. 44   29.15   7.21   20.70    8.04   14.49    5.99    9.70    4.49    5.40    2.42  1224.9    4944   274.43
2. Civil lurks It Pipe Layiaq
2.1  Main Sawe  Eateesieous                   0.00    0.00   13.23    2.12   26.84    3.69    7.45    1.21   14.87   3.23   14.85    3.17   26.96    4.01   11.54    2.99    0.00    0.00   95.76   21.00   114.34
Subotatl                               0.00    0.00   23.23    2.72   14.84    3.69    7.45    1.27   14.67   3.23   24.95    3.17   24.98    4.02   11.54    2.99    0.00    0.00   95.74   21.96   114.34
CantiI encIes:
Physical Contingencies                       0.00    0.00    2.12    0.44    2.69    0.59    1.19    0.20    2.38   0.52    2.38    0.51    2.72    0.64    2.85    0.48    0.00    0.00   25.32    3.37    1.6.4
Price Contingenies                           0.00    0.00    2.37    0.12    3.29    0.20    2.02    0.00    5.07   0.30    6.18    0.43    6.40    0.73    4.67    0.48    0.00    0.00   33.16    2.53    35.71
Total Cunti geis0.00    0.00    3.49    0.55    5.98    0.79    3.20    0.29    7.45   0.32    8.55    0.94   21.12    1.37    9.52    1.14    0.00    0.00   46.50    5.90    54.40
TOTAL CONTRtACT COST                         0.00    0.00   24.92    3.27   22.82    4.48   20.65    1.56   22.32   4.05   23.40    4.11   29.20    5.38   20.05    4.15    0.00    0.00  144.24   24.96   171.24
2.2  Secondary I Tertiary                     0.00    0.00    3.57    0.49    6.77    0.54   15.00    2.29   17.50   3.21   29.47    3.38   22.26    4.15   12.67    1.53    6.29    0.32  202.52   14.41   227.93
Subtotal                               0.00    0.00    3.57    0.49    6.77    0.54   15.00    2.29   27.50   3.21   19.47    3.38   21.26    4.15   11.67    1.53    6.28    0.82  102.52   24.41   117.93                     I
Contingencis 
PhsialCotingencies                           0.00    0.00    0.57    0.00    1.00    0.09    2,40    0.37    2.00   0.52    3.12    0.54    3.40    0.46    1.67    0.25    1.01    0.13   26.24    2.63    28.87
Prilce, Contin1enczes                        0.00    0.00    0.42    0.02    2.32    0.03    4.04    0.15    5.97   0.30    0.20    0.46   10.52    0.75    b.74    0.35    4.1'   uj.23   41.29    2.29    43.56
Total Contingiencies                       0.00    0.00    0,99    0.10    2.40    0.11    6.44    0.52    9.77   0.81   11.21    1.00   13.92    1.42    0.62    0.40    5.191   0.36   57.53    4.91    42.44
TOTAL CONTRACT COST                          0.00    0.00    4.56    0.59    9.17    0.65   21.44    2.81   26.27   4.02   30.68    4.39   35.18    5.57   20.28    2.13   11.46    1.11  159.05   21.32   180.31



*KIN600  OF 9161cC0
SKATER C4A0L4KA SERA6E PIOECT
A4nUMIi ProDKt 1"WOotsoqti,  Lafailafca
--907---  19             K -- ---    --6--1---        9I-- --- 1          9     - 19 2-- -        19        3-       94-19----I-    E
Loca   Ferez,.t  LKcal Forpi to   Local F"ore#Ign   Local- Forerig.i   Lac-al- F"ore,;   Loc-Al1 FcrepigIn   L-a----~Lcl  oop Lca   oeg~LclFvt                             oa
I. SIP9LIV IFElPMP&I
I. Subl y a, guspbot                            3.62    3.52    4.53    4.44    3.57    3.54    3.19    3.14    3.41   3.37    3. 13    3.02    2.. Q          .60    2.90    2. ?4    0.067    0.15   26.62   26.01    52.61
mnat'i                         ~~~~~~3.o2    3.52    4.51    4.44    3.57    3.54    3.1j9    3.1i4    3.41  3,.37    3.i2    J. 02   21.62    2.o0    I.9"    1.74    0.67    0.15   26.62   21.01    52.13
Physical Contingencius                       0.541    0. 56    o.72    0.71    0.57    0.57    0.52    0.50    0. 55   0.54    0.50    0.48    0.4:    0.42    0. 30  . 2#    0.11            MO2   4.24    4.11       6.42
Priaco Cnt a ,'m  I o.                        o.I5    0.06    0.53    0.18    0.70    0.29    0.66    0.20    3.1.  (-.32    1.30    0.41    1. 30    0.47    1.10    0.40    0.45    0.16    7.54    2.42             9.9"
E. 513I2US
I1. TKcMIRcal AS*11altaac                       6.52    6. o6    ?. 56    5.97    ..93    5.99    6.93    5.07    I. 50   -.97   -).00    0.00    0.('0    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   31.56   25.54    57.04
Subtotal                                   6.51    b. o.    7.54    5.9'    6.93    5.99    a.93    5.9'    1.58   1,.9'    " to.       0. vo    l. 00    0.00    0..00    0.00    0.00    0.00   31.50   25.54    57.04
ftysical ComtingOEcIoS                        1.26    2.00    1.1l    0.90    1.04    0.90    1.04    0.90,   0.24  0".15    ).0oi'   v.00    0.00    0.00    0.0#0    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.73    3.13            0.56
Price Ematiam.cios                           0.34    0.22    0.69    0.24    1.34    0.31    1.65    0.38    0.5    0.09    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.91    1.14               6.10
Total Eontzegbecz                          1.621   2.11    2.0O',   1.24    2.38    i.2 2i     . 9    I.26s   0. "    O.,'    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0. 0    0.00    9.66    4.97    14.65
TOTAL CSRT3T MST                              01      7.f7    9.56    7.t0    9.31    '.20    9.62    7.24    2.34   1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   41.16   30.51    71.69
2 . Souew  CasetrKctis Suw.visozo                C. 21    0.23    0.20    0.46    0.20    0.47    J.2L-   0.47    0.20   (-.47    0.21    0.4'    0.23I   0.47    0.21    0.47    0.00    0.47    1.54    3.916    5.52
Subtotal                                   0.1I    0.23    0.2.0    0.46    0.220    0.47    0.20    0.47    0.220   v.47    0.'!    0.47    J.21    0.47    0.22    0.47    0.00    0.47    1.54    3.911    5.52
Physical Castiegeuios                        0.02    0.03'   0.03    0.06    0.03    0.07    0.03    0.07    0.0 (i .07    0.03    0.07    0.03    01. 07    0.03    0.07    e.00    0.07    0.22    0.51              0.77
Price Cmntimgu.ios                           0.00    0.00    0.02    0.0?    0.04    0.02    0.05    0. 033   0.07   0.04    0.09    0.06    0.10    0.01    0.1?    0.21    0.00    0.13    0.49    0.50              0.99
Total Cu.timgocios                         0.02'   0.04    0.05    0.01    0.07    0.09    0.00    0.10    0.20   (,.II    0.112    0.13    0.13    0.15    0.15    0.17    0.00    0.19    0.72    I.46             1.71
TOTAL CIuIUOCT COST                          0.13    0.27    0.25    0.54    0.27    0.56    0.20    0.57    0.]C0  0.58    0.33,   C.60    0.34    0.62    0.36    0.64    0.00    0.16    2.25    5.04               7.N1
J. Plhzabzlztat,oe, Sugovisiom                   0.47    0.46    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.93    0.94    0.92    0.92   0.93    0.47   f0.47   r0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.14    4.63               9.27
Subtotal                                   0.47    0.4a    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.93    0.94    0.9         0.92   0.93    0.47    0.4'   v'.00    0.00    0.0  0  .00    0.00    0.00    4.64    4.63            9.27
Physical Cootingouies                        (-.07    0.0s6    0.13    0.13    0.13    0.23    0.13    *3.i3    0.13   0.33    0.0'    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.65    C..5             i.30
PricE CuOttRRCiag Mc                          0.02    0.02    0.23    0.04    0.16    0.05    0.215    0.06    0.'31   '. 09    0.19    '.06i    0.00    v.00    0. (0    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.05    0.30          1.35
Total CamtisgoEuas                         0.09    0.07    0.24    0.27    0.32    0.16    0.36    0.19    0.4"   0.22    0.26    0.2!    0.00    0. 00    Q. CIO   0.00    0.00-   0.00    1.70    0.95             2.65
TOTAL CONTRACT COST                          0. 54    '.53    1.16    2.0,9    1.23    1.11    -.32    2.12    1.316   1.15    (KI        0.6     0. 10    0..00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.34    5.56    IJ1.2
4 . Phase 23 Stuoze                              0. 35    0.74    D.99    2.55    0.71    1.46   01.35    0.?4    0.0 0      o ('.0    0.0   ('. 00    ('..00   0       . 00    0.00    0.90    0.00    2.40    4.49      0.69R
Subtotal                                   0.35    0.74    0.99    13.5       M.7     2.46    u.75    0.74    v.0 0, .00   v).00   0J.00   0). ,    0.O 0- .00    0.00    (,.00    0.00    2.40    4.49              60.9
Coestiegoeis:
Physical Coetingeuczes                        .05    0.I12   0.15   xl 13    0.33    0. 221   C., 5    0.1!    C.00   v.0(t    V. I-,    0. 00    f.  0.00 ('00   ;0. 0    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.36    t.67         1.03
Price Contingencies                          0.02    M.I    0.12    0.06m   0.14    0.04    0.04    0. 05    O.0V)  it. i0    a.,",         44 v     f1'.)          ;:I . 0.)    0.0 0l .00    0.00    0.36    0.20    0.5b
total Continglencies                       0.107    0.12,   0.27    0.30!   0.24    0. >) E  0.3       -. 36   0).v UP    J'0    i 0.00 o.0     v00    0.00       .00    0.00    0.0       0.00    0.72    0.67      1.59
TOTAL. CONTRACT COST                          0.2     09        .6      .5     09        ,7      ..      09        I.v'0         0.0        .0    t0.0     0. IV    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.12    5.36       3.46
5. Trainn e                                      0.24    0.34    0.23    0.219    0.12    0.25    (KU  -   0.25    ('12   '. 25    0.05    V.-   f(. 00       G-C    ,.v 0.00  .0   0.00  .V    0.00    0.73    2.56       2.31
Sub,total                                  0.24    0.54    0.13    0.29    0.12    ('.25    0.12,    0.25       13  -,. 25    '.0       3.0     I.(    0         ('.00    vi.00    0.0     0.00    0.73    1.56      2.71
Cmntisgeecies:
Physical Contingencies                       0.03    0.06    0.02    0.04    0.02    0.04    0. 02    0.04    0.02   ('.(14   0.00    (00    C.0co0        l 0E.0    0.00    O.Ou    0.00    0.00    0.20    0.22      0.33
Price Contingencies                          0.01    0.03    0.02    0.02    0.02,   0.03    0.03    0. 02    C.4   0.2          0'       0. h    C.0      0.0so00           . 00.0           .0O    v.3I2    0.07     0.19
Total Contingonces                         0.04    0.09    0.03    0.05    0.04    J.05    v0J5        MS0    vI.06   o.f;.o             .0      .0      v.0      .'    0.0       *.00      00     02        .0      0.52
TOIu. CONTRACT COST                          0.28    0.63    0.26    0.34    0.1a    1.3.3    0.17    0.3)   0).1s   0.31         0.00   0.Ov UV      '     .0     v0       0.00    0.0O0    0.00    0.95    l.11      2.33
Total Uhseca Costing2ces4.7    6.5"   22.96   30.44   13.603    4.97   62.74   4b.44                                 0 -1.22 .94   59.56   1.99.2 3    2655.            64 7..O 38    I1. '    1.9v  3    0.6V    4.6 15. 7429.0 W 05.2
Total PPyBase   Contin28.47 9    26.56l  IL%4   30.44   117.03   24.97                               .3 1   .. 74044       21.94    956.6    19.29   5.2    17.95   33.64   10.63   1.63         .92  442.31  17499 1.38 15:
Total Price CoetingOucies                       1J27    0. 29    8.21     -126   13.23    :.54   16.99    1.72   20. 72   2.0f   232~4    2.65  :7.50   -,.I   19.6o   21.45    7.25    1.09  138.36   16.05   154.51
Total Cost Current Prices                       34.55   19.56   67,53   36.94   93.86   35.41   9('06   32.44   9!.2,?  21.'?'  89.97   25.1b   i:..45   22.96   5'.15   14.66   :9.91    5..6  051.!9  220.72   B76.01



- 47 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
KlNS W NM0
ATUER CAIL*A WIM     PUECT
kmual ProjKt INVustoet  -    A rp Stuies
----1907---       ----19K---        ---1909---    ---Total---    Srand
Local  Foreig      Local Forwip      LKoI Foweip      LK&I Foreigp    Total
"a11                                  1.56    2.24       1.3    2.24       0.79    1.12      3.94    5.41       9.57
Physical Contil.gocies              0.19    0.27       0.19    0.27      0.10    0.14      0.4     0.67       1.15
Price Ceti mpcies                   0.04    0.04       0.16    0.0       0.15    0.04      0.39    0.18       0.56
Total                                 1.6    2.5         1.94    2.60      1.04    1.31      4.63    4.47      11.29
FE                                    1.25    1.77       1.U3    2.59      2.U     3.4       5.52    7.84      13.36
Physical Cmntingencies              0.15    0.21       0.22    0.31      0.29    0.42      0."    0.94        1.40
Price Cetilgecies                   0.05    0.03       0.21    0.10      0.44    0.10      0.72    0.31       1.03
Total                                 1.44    2.01       2.24    3.01      3.20    4.07      490    9.09       IS."
NAAACE                                0.65    1.21       1.71    2.42      1.71    2.42      4.27    6.06      10.33
Phyical Catiwncies                  0.10    0.15       0.21    0.29      0.21    0.29      0.51    0.73       1.24
Prico Coetimlgmcin                  0.03    0.02       0.20    0.10      0.32    0.12      0.55    0.24       0.79
Total                                 0."      1.36      2.11    2.11      2.24    2.64      5.33    7.03      12.34
NEKNES                                0.95    1.34       1.51    2.15      1.94    2.77      4.42    4.26      10.70
Phlical Cmntim ncis                 0.11    0.14       0.16    0.24      0.24    0.33      0.53    0.75       1.29
Pri c  COCtiagecies                 0.04    0.02       0.17    0.09      0.37    0.14      0.°      0.25      0.°3
Total                                 1.10    1.55       1.17    2.49      2.54    3.24      5.53    7.26      12.01
mmE                                   0.36    0.57       0.74    1.13      0.74    1.13      1.69    2.63       4.72
.-nnical tOlWtilwltlO               0.05    0.07       0,09    0.14      0.0    0.14       0.23    0.34       0.57
Pr co CECtiolCimci                  0.02    0.01       0.09    0.05      0.14    0.04      0.24    0.11      0.34
Total                                 0.44    0.44       0.93    1.31      O.9     1.33      2.34    3.29      5.U4
WUAT                                  0.49    0.9"       4.14    5.U6      5.17    7.33      9.99   14.17     24.14
Physical Contingencin               O.0    0.12       0.SO    0.70      0.42    0.0       1.20    1.70       2.90
Price Contiaecies                   0.03    0.02       0.47    0.23      0.97    0.37      1.47    0.42      2.09
Total                                 0.60    1.11       5.11    4.s0      4.74    0.56     12.46   16.49     29.15
ETAT                                  0.38    0.57       0.75    1.13      0.75    1.13      1.66    2.83      4.71
Phsical Contingencie                0.05    0.07       0.0     0.14      0.0    0.14       0.23    0.34      0.57
Price Contingencies                 0.02    0.01      0.09    0.05       0.14    0.04      0.24    0.11      0.34
Total                                 0.44    0.44       0.93    1.31      O.9     1.33      2.35    3.21      5.43
TANER                                 0.50    0.73       1.93    2.73      1.73    2.52      4.21    5.97      10.18
Phryical Contim9ncin                0.04    0.09       0.23    0.33      0.21    0.30      0.51    0.72       1.22
Prieo Cootiol*|in                   0.02    0.01       0.22    0.11      0.34    0.153     0.56    0.25      0.62
Total                                 0.56    0.63       2.36    3.14      2.33    2.95      5.29    4.93     12.23
Total kme Cost                        4.58    9.42      14.20   20.27     15.34   21.90     34.14   51.59     87.73
Total Phyical Contiagecie             0.79    1.13       1.70    2.43      1.4    2.43       4.34    6.19    50.52
Total Prieo Coatiag scle              0.24    0.14       1.42    0.60      2.69    1.12      4.77    2.07      4.65
Total Cost Current Prics             7.63   10.71      17.53   23.50     20.10   25.45     45.25   59.85    105.10



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
187                                    * 1968                     1914                                     499
_ _ _I_ _  I]213  4  1  2  3  4  1                                         1             1   
A_PWtACEMENT OF SEWERS AND) PIt.APING STATIONSI                        jm.i 4                                  i~I
I  Reconstruction of Moin Sewers & Pumrping Stations | R |                     - t    - I I*
REHAIIL!ATKN OFN SEWERS                              -      -        T                                                                                 {
2Inspection & Cieanrng                            .                    --- L         ---                            ---                  
3 Secondary & Tertiary                                                       -                                im-------m
C CONSTRUCTION Oi SEWER NETWORKS                    |
I Supply of Pipes--                                                       -------.---------                                                                    --
2Civil Works or'd Pipe Laving                                   - 4           -- ~                                     -                      
22 Main Sewer Exiensions                         |           P |
2 3 Secondary and Tertiary Sewer Extensions     | 
D SUPPLY OF O&M EQUIPMENT    SPiL..fZ|tII  I  I-                                                        -    -              a !  I  I  I  I  I  I          .     .
E SERViCES 
I TechnicdW Assistance al Supervision of Works                                                        W
I I Technical Assistarce                       - -  -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -                                                                       k-22-
I2 Sewer Construction Su-pervision                -E                                                                                                      
1 3 Pehabtlitation Superveson                                                                            - -                        -       
2 Phalse llStuPdies CasablancoaSewagelTreatrment   fB                  :     :::----------                                                                               -
4.raiwrcige Feasibility Studies                           K        ~        - 1 -          LiI 
R - Revision of Bid Documents              P -Preparation of Bid Documfents aind Bank Review
B8- Bidding Procedures                    V - Start of Works. Suipply. Services
Wofld Bank-32826:3



- 49 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
Monitoring Criteria
1.       The following indicators will be monitored, on a quarterly basis,
during and after the execution of the project to measure the achievement of
the technical, financial and administrative goals set for this project. RAD
will include the following data in its quarterly Progress Reports to IBRD. In
each case, figures will be shown for the quarter, the cumulative total for the
year, and for the corresponding period of the preceeding year.
Physical Criteria
2.       (a)  Water Production
(i) total water produced (10Ym3);
(ii)  total water bought in bulk from producers (106l'3);
(iii) total water sold, by category of customers
(l06m3); and
(iv) total unaccounted-for water (quantity in m3 and U).
(b) Water Connections and Connections to the Sewer System
(i) number of new house connections for water and for
sewerage; and
(ii)  cumuilative total of house connections for water and
for sewerage.
(c) Sewer Replacement
(i)  length of sewers replaced (m); and
(ii)  location of works.
(d)  Sewer Rehabilitation
(i)  length of sewers cleaned and surveyed (m); and
(ii)  length of sewers rehabilitated (m).



- 50 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
(e)  Sewer Construction  gr Location
(i)  length of main sewers constructed (m);
(ii)  length of secondary and tertiary sewers constructed
(m); and
(iii) cumulative total length of main sewers, secondary
sewers and tertiary sewers and drains (m).
StaffinX and draining
3.       Number of employees by category:
(a) at headquarters;
(b) in operational districts;
(c) total permanent staff;
(d) total temporary staff; and
(e) number of permanent staff per thousand sewer connections.
4.       Training by category:
(a) man-weeks of staff training during quarter (total);
(b) man-weeks of staff training in CIRF; and
(c) man-weeks of staff training abroad.
Finncial Indicators
4.       The following indicators will be monitored quarterly or annually,
as appropriate:
(a) working ratio;
(b) net internal cash generation as percent of capital
expenditures of the year, excluding investments financed by
customers' contribution;
(c)  financial rate of return;.'
(d) debt equity ratio;
(e) debt service coverage;
1/ Net operating income, after depreciation and taxes on profits but before
interest, divided by average net fixed assets in operation over a
three-year period.



- 51 -
ANNEX 8
(f)  average sewerage charge in DR per U3 sold;                   Page3of 3
(g) operating expenses in DR per *3 sold;
(h) account receivable - sewerage - per category of customer -
lO6DH;
(i) account receivable - sewerage - per category of customer in
month equivalent of annual billing;
(j) total account payable ior sewerage;
(k) account payable - sewerage - due to Administration and
Government agencies;
(1) annual investment expenditures as compared to annual
budgeted investment.
5.       The following indicators relating to population and service level
will be monitored on a yearly basis:
(a) estimated total population living in RAD's area of
franchise; and
(b) total population served by house connections to the sewer
system.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
RAD's Sewerage Organizational Stiucture
F--II  L…rd o- D----ors                                               --- - - -
| Conrvr    |                                 I       
Gone ra nci oanct                                           Sanarog
Pknt &      4  tEp1ot n
raNve                                                     Dnenl~~~~~~roween
ond
_xecubon Finence    _   Grd   | [qU@prnon 8    Op n ond |
_   1-drnn3sira-1              A           Is                       WorkstMontrc
7EE1                                 P t4l e_Rfl                                [r1[
1[ Acc("rs | f  I                                                           .            .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
_  Proc   r   l r ~~~~~-- 1 _   rict  g     _| ~~~MoinXnn 
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wo Bortnk-30814 MSix 



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SENERAGE PROJECT
RAD - INCOME STATEMENTS-SEWERAGE
DH MILLION
FISCAL YEAR
ENDIN6 DECEMBER 31                    Iq87         1998         1999         1990         1991         1992         1993         1994         1995         1996
Total Population (0001             2,675.00    2,767.00    2,968.00    2,979.00    3,026.00    3,002.00    3,146.00    3,220.0    3,306.00    3,405.00
Population Sewed (0001              1,758.00    1,960.00    1,969.00    2,087.00    2,151.00    2,220.00    2,295.00    2,375.00    2,464.00    2,522.00
RAD Seweraqe Staf#                    425.00       488.00       532.00       613.00       675.00       738.00       800.00       864.00       928.00       992.00
Water Consumption (MCMN               114.23       119.32       124.64       130.19       135.99       142.05       148.39       155.01       161.96       169.11
Domestic                            72.31        75.70        79.24        82.95        86.B3        90.89        95.15        99.60       104.30       109.10
Administration                      19.13        18.83        19.56        20.31        21.09        21.91        22.76        23.64        24.55        25.50
Industrial                         23.79        24.79        25.84         26.93        28.07        29.25        30.49        31.77        33.11        34.51
OPERATING REVENUES
Sowerae Charges                        97.12       104.90       113.28       122.34       132.15       186.01       244.15       286.73       322.91       374.94
Connection Fees                         0.63         3.9b         6.94         8.37        13.95        19.64         4.25         5.33         8.66         8.65
Third Party Services                    5.10        20.17        17.03        18.24         7.26         7.78        12.39        24.11        10.49         7.50
Total Revenues                  102.85       129.03       1,7.25        148.95       153.36       213.43       260.7S       316.17       342.06       390.99
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries and Wages                      8.06        10.06        i1.93        14.81        17.o4        20.66        24.20        28.2.        32.72        37.76
Materials and Fuel                      8.55         9.19        12.04        15.29        18.98        23.i7        25.90        29.11        32.71        36.69
Electricity                             0.33         0.37         0.44         0.52         0.89         0.95         1.09         1.24         1.45        63.59
Adainistrative Expenses                 5.05         5.89         6.5v         8.55        10.09        11.84        13.80        16.04        18.55        21.37
Taxes                                   8.99        12.86        14.u,        15.75        16.40        16.45        19.08        23.11        23.90        26.03
Sub-Total                        31.00        38.37         45.33       54.92         64.00        73.27        84.07.-      97.72       109.2'       185.44
DeprecLation                           16.35        22.57        35.97        48.44        59.i4        6b.30        72.99        81.75       102.60       133.33
Total Operating Expenses         47.35        6('.94       81.30        103.41       123.14       139.57       157.06       179.47      211.83        318.77
Net Operating income                   55.50        68.09        55.95        45.54        30.22        73.86       103.73       136.70       130.23        72.22
Interest                                2.41         6.33         9.25        13.54        18.37        29.39        40.20        52.46        64.95        67.60
Net Income                             53.09        bi.7b        46.70        ;2.00        11.85        44.47        63.53        84.24        65.29         4.62
Workinq Ratio 1                           30           30           33           37           42           34           32           31           32           47
financial Rate of Return                  15           14            b            6            2             4           5             5            5            2
4lI|
OF X
o o 
0.,



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
BREATER CASABLANCA 5EWERA6E PROJECT
RAD - FUNDS FLOW STATENENTS-SEVERA6E
DH MILLION
FISCAL YEAR
ENDING DECEMBER 31                    1987          19B8         1989         1990         1991          1992         1993         1994         1995         1996
INTERNAL FUNDS 6ENERATION
Not Internal Sources
Before Depreciation                  71.05        90.66         91.92        94.03        89.36       140.16        176.72       219.45       232.93       205.55
OPERATIN6 REQWUIREMENTS
Increase (Decrease) in
Norkinq Capital                      27.25         17.21i       13.94)       i2.27i        6.00        (23.781        0.12         8.38        12.83        51.18
Debt Service
Interest                              2.41         6.33         9.25         13.54        18.37        29.39        40.20         52.46        64.95        67.60
Aowrtization                           --            --           --           --           --         14.85        29.70         29.70        29.70        38.10
Total Debt Service                 2.41         6.33         9.25         13.54        18.37        44.24        69.90        82.16         94.65       105.70
Total Oper. Requiresents          29.66        (0.08)        5.31         11.27        24.37        20.46        70.02        90.54        107.48       156.88
Net Funds Available
from Operations                      42.19        91.54        86.61         82.76        64.99       119.70       106.70        127.91       125.35        40.67
CONSTRUCTION REQUIRENENTS
Proposed Project                       54.11        124.47       127.27       122.52       118.94        115.09       114.91        74.02        25.59           --
Other Investments                      84.02       231.57        230.38       287.31       212.71       216.97        301.82       544.51       459.17       242.39
Total Constr. Requireent         138.13       356.04       357.65       409.93        331.65       332.06       416.73       619.53       484.76        242.38
Balance to Finance                     95.94       264.50        271.04       327.07       266.66       212.36        310.03       490.62       359.41       193.71
SOiMCES OF FINANCE
ProposWd IRD Loan                      23.52         28.05        44.07        64.10        67.66        60.16         52.01        40.00        32.06         4.15
Other Loans  Unidentified                 --           --           --           --           --         51.50        109.06      15.94        155.50        23.00
Customers  Contributions               21.42         34.75        56.67        80.57       126.40        22.89         26.06        43.58        66.95        91.56
Developers  Contributions              51.00       201.70        170.30       182.40        72.60        77.90        123.90       241.10       104.90        75.00
Balauce Financed                       95.94       264.50        271.04       327.07       266.66       212.36       310.03        490.62       359.41       193.71
ebt Service Coverage (Times)            29.9          14.3          9.9          6.9          4.9           3.2          2.5          2.7          2.5           1.9
S0l-Financinq Ratio on
Investwnts not Prefinanced              64           67 66                      56           49           52            40           40           40           64
so
0 



K 1    K OF ONOCCO
SREATER CASAKLkCA SEMERMAE PROJECT
RRI - BALANCE SHEETS-SEVERMAE
DH HILLID
FISCAL YEAR
EJI"h  ECENIER 31                   19R7         9880       1?39        1990         1991        1992        19          1994         195         16
FIED ASSETS
suts in Operation                  313.70       630.25      971.40    1,361.18    1,677.02    2,011.46    2,400.92    2,905.15    3,38W.15    3,719.23
DeprKetciam                          16.35       38.92       74.99      123.33       192.52      248.82      321.91      403.5C       506.16      639.49
Ret Fixed ksets                    297.35       591.33      996.51    1,237.80    1,494.50    1,762.66    2,097.11    2,51.59    2,879.99    3,079.74
ork in Progrns                       37.68       77.17       93.67      113.72       129.53      127.13      146.42      108.72       272.48      101.78
Total 1St Fixed Assets        335.03       66.50       990.19    1,351.52    1,624.03    1,098.79    2,233.53    2,770.31    3,152.47    3.261.52
COIMRT ASSTS
Cash ad Equivalent                   5.52         6.42        6.22        9.77        15.41       12.95       14.23        16.57       19.70       26.53
kcounts Receivable                  31.01        33.49       36.17       39.06        42.19       45.56       59.91        73.32       82.51       90.45
Invetorins                           4.28         4.60        6.02        7.65        9.49        11.59       12.95       14.56        16.36       12.35
Total Current kssets           40.11        44.51       48.41       56.48        67.09       70.10       97.09      104.45       119.57      135.33 
Total Aswts                   375.84       713.01    1,038.59    1.408.00    1.691.12    1,959.89    2,320.62    2,874.76    3,271.04    3,3%.95
EAUITY AI3 LIADILITIES
Cia tel                            213.25       213.25      213.25      213.25       213.25      213.25      213.25      213.25       213.25      213.25
Retined Earnings                    53.09       114.95      161.55       193.55      205.40      259.97      313.40      397.64       442.92      467.54
Custowrs  Contributions              21.42       56.17      112.54       193.41      319.81      342.69      369.75      412.33       479.20      570.84
evelopers' Contributions            51.00       252.70      423.00      605.40       678.00      755.90      879.70    1,120.90    1,225.70    1,300.70
Total Equity                  339.76      636.97       910.64    1,205.61    1,416.46    1,571.61    1,775.10    2,144.02    2,381.15    2,552.33
LON6-TERN DEBT
PropoWe  INED Loan                  23.52        51.S7       95.64       159.74      227.40      272.73      295.04      305.34       307.70      282.15
Other Loan                             --          --          --          --           --        51.50      159.56      325.50       472.60      47L.80
Total Long-Term Debt           23.52        51.57       95.64      159.74       227.40      324.23      454.60      630.84       790.30      760.95
CURRENT LIADILITIES
Accounts Payable                     2.14         2.30        3.01        3.92         4.75        5.79        6.48         7.28        8.18        9.17
Suppliers                            11.42       22.17       29.30       38.93        27.66       38.56       54.74       62.92        63.31       27.90                03
Current Nhturaties                     --          --          --          --         14.85       29.70       29.70       29.70        38.10       46.50
Total Current Liabilities      13.56        24.47       32.31       42.65       47.26        74.05       90.92       99.90       109.59       83.57                0 o
Total Equity & Liabilitit     375.04       713.01    1,038.59    1,408.00    1,691.12    1,969.89    2,320.62    2,874.76    3,271.04    3,396.85
Debt:Equity Ratio                     7:93        7:93       10:90        12:88       15:85       18:82       22:78        24:76       26:74       24:76



- 56 -
ANNEX 1 1
Page 1 of 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
RAD'S FINANCIAL ASSUMPTIONS
REVENUES
Sewerage Charges
Sewerage charges have been calculated on the basis of projected water
consumption of RAD's customers, taking into account population growth and the
expected rate of connections of its customers. Reflecting RAD's financial
objectives (discussed in body of SAR), average revenues from the sewerage
charge in DH per m3 of water would gradually increase, as follows:
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
0.85    0.88    0.91    0.94    0.97    1.31    1.64    1.85    1.99    2.22
Connection and Related Charges
Connections are the property of customers. The costs of making the
connection is billed to consumers. The average cost per connection which is
estimated in 1987 prices at DH3,770 includes materials and labor, plus 20% for
overhead, plus a VAT of 14X. Projections from this base assume annual price
increases of 62.
Third Party Services
This covers RAD's labor and overhead costs for supervision of
tertiary networks built and paid by developers.
EXPENSES
All expenses subject to price increases of 71 in 1987, 61 in 1988 and
1989 and 51 from 1990 onwards except otherwise specified. Operating expenses
are net of capitalized expenditures.
Personnel
Salaries and wages adjusted on basis of projected staffing levels and
staff upgrading.
Energy
Based on operating requi.ements, mainly pumping stations and
treatment plants when commissioned in 1996.



- 57 -
ANNEX 11
rage 2 of 3
Materials
Quantities based on projected number of new connections, lengths of
main extension and works made on force account and, in the case of
maintenance, an amount equivalent to about 0.7% of gross fixed assets in
operation.
Administrative and Other
In line with general activity of RAD.
Taxes
Based on a Value Added Tax of 7% on sewerage charges, 141 on
connection works and 19% on third party services.
Depreciation
Calculated on a straight-line basis during the estimated useful asset
life. The following depreciation rateL were used:
- sewer networks and civil works: 2.51
- electromechanical equipment:        6.6X
- vehicles and office furniture: 20%
CASHFLOW STATEMENTS AND BALANCE SHEETS
Capital
The value of the existing sewer systems is provided for at its
estimated 1986 current cost. This is based on the consultants' estimate of
the replacement cost of the systems in 1986 prices less estimated cumulative
depreciation. The net value of the Greater Casablanca system at DH213,25
million is reasonable and has been treated as initial capital transferred to
RAD free of charge. The project assets were not re-evaluated.
Capital Contributions from Customers and Housing Developers
Contributions paid by house owners, industries, touristic facilities
and other public administration towards financing of secondary network on the
basis of property iuperficy.  A fixed fee is assessed on the square root of
the plot and payment of actual cost is charged beyond the first 60 meters.
Projected amounts have been adjusted for annual inflation. Contributions from
housing developers represent the current value of the tertiary networks built
and financed by housing developers and transferred to RAD free of charge.
Cash
Cash on hand has been forecast at levels sufficient for normal
operations.



- 58 -
ANNE 11
Page 3 of 3
Receivables
i   These have been factored at the equivalent of 3 months of sales for
domestic customers and 2 months of sales for industries. Arrears of
Administrations for future sewerage bills are estimated at 3 months of sales.
Bad debts have been estimated at 1.52 of revenues from sewrage charges, and
have been deducted from each year's gross revenues*
Inventories
Inventories have been projected at about six months equivalent of
materials and fuel requirements.
Payables
Future payables are estimated at equivalent of (i) two months of
capital expenditures not financed by developers; (ii) three months equivalent
of materials and supplies; and (iii) retention money.
Lon&-Term Debt
The projected Long-Term Debt includes:
(a)    the proposed Bank loan of US$49.5 million, for 20 years,
including six years of grace, at the current IBRD variable
interest rate; and
(b)    as yet unidentified borrowings for RAD's expansion after 1991.
These have been assumed to be repayable in 20 years after an
initial grace period of five years and to bear interest at 8.51
per annum.



- 59 -
ANNEX 12
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
A. GENERAL
Ai    RAD  Mise en Place du Service Assainissement - December 1985
Aa    RAD  Resultats des Travaux en Difficultes Commissions Chargees de
l'Assainisaement - 1985
As    RAD  Estimation et Evaluation du materiel recupere et de l'etat ',es
r6seaux d'assainissement de Casablanca Mohamedia (2 tomes)
B. REPORTS BY CONSULTANTS
Bi    Schema Directeur de Casablanca, Michel Pinseau, November 1983
Ba    Etudes d'Actualisation Relatives au Projet d'Assainissement du
Grand Casablanca, April 1986 (SAEM)
Mission  I   1. Note de Synthese Etudes Techniques
2. Rapport Technique, Annexes, Plans
Mission II 1. Note de Synthese Etudes Financieres et Tarifaires
2. Etudes Financieres et Tarifaires, Annexes
B,    Assainissement de l'Agglomeration de Fes (SAEM), 1986
C. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION PREPARED BY BANK STAFF
Ci    Terms of Reference for Sewerage Master Plan Studies for the Cities of
Fes, Marrakech, Meknes, Rabat and Tangier
Ca    Detailed Statistical and Financial Data
C,    Long-Term Average Incremental Cost



1 2-                                                                      89
MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA
LOCATION OF PROJECT AREAS
PROJECT AREAS
SEWERAGE MASTER PLAN STUDIES
r3E  REGIES
J    HEADQUARTERS OF REGIES
*    PROVINCE CENTERS SERVED BY REGIES
MOUNTAINS
ISOHYET                                                                                            r
Te mc
RIVERS AND WADIS                                                                                 Skhirot
F S   PROVINCE CAPITALS*
0
RABAT NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                     !i5 N
-  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES*                                                     AzeImoMA
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY                                               EL JADIDAc Ir
* -.  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY (APPROXIMATE)                                                  (
S  T ! A T 3
N>o ,e of oro,-'..ae r he icroC 0%                          Ou'c,dde       e{w Xv 
-32'                                                                               csA"
KA A
ronwloor r                            iAQeA
ESSAOLJIRA           !1
i 3  't)t   ,)c)         :i!gi              AC'A_!R 3
K.WMFrERS                                           *4,
!,0rs,    ,  \ ><              o 5 A T A
12'                                                                            8



IBRD 1988
4.
EJ   r    *~TETOUAN
A5,10h *            E
AL HOCEIMA                   NADOR
o-ok04 CHAOUFN ,_                               
Laroche            .                          0
-                        R -AD E EOt
,. . A                                        O      ~ U J CA
.                  |RAOEFTAI             
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ~EE  T A ZA  
KENITRA   __
TR AK       RAE_
Temar a    RED                                EE 
Skhir oa
,^L  h  0N    !MA NE '
.,.;   .   )kANE                                                                   \
!./R :E     A.                                                                        __ .               GU4\
M A~~~~~~~~~                                                                  LEI
0                                        I
.E A,,   ............ . . .....                                                                  A    L.          
0                              )_
'T~~~'
-~~ r- -
.0.0
MAY 1
t 15 R  2  K    \   °  ;9 L   .  2   /   O ! K < .'.   1    .; 



EL HANK
I       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Itdusri 
/     I                                     ~~~~~~~~CASABLANCA
AkNARY IS
------   ALGERIA
MAURITAN.                                                  .



i
IBRD 198
MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
CASABLANCA PROJECT AREA
St.rrn water dischcarge
CMHAMMEDIA
-       ~~~SE gAAj.               _      
m_ /S s=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
is   ..
I.,'yMi--98~



