Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.    MOR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
December 10, 1997
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
DH equivalent of US$1
At appraisal                         8.4882
At closing date                      9.3040
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ANNUAL AVERAGES
1987                         8.3263
1988                         8.2029
1989                         8.5041
1990                         8.2740
1991                         8.7497
1992                         8.5479
1993                         9.3437
1994                         9.2339
1995                         8.5753
1996                         8.8018
1997 (June)                  9.3040
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
APD           Avant projet deitaillM (Detailed Engineering Study)
CFD           Caisse ftanqaise de developpement (formerly the CCCE)
DAO           Dossier d'appel d'offres (Bidding Documents)
DCE           Dossier de consultation des entreprises (Request for Proposals - RFP)
DRSC          Direction des regies et des services conc'des (Department in charge of the regies)
EIB           European Investment Bank
FEC           Fonds d'Equipement Communal (Municipal Development Fund)
RAD           Regie of Casablanca
RADEEF        Regie of Fes
RADEEM        Regie of Meknes
RADEEMA    Regies of Marrakech
RAID          Regie of Tangier
RAK           Regie of Kenitra
RAMSA         Regie of Agadir
RED           Regie of Rabat
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SDAU          Schema directeur d 'ameinagement urbain (Urban Development Master Plan)
Vice President: Kemal Dervis
Director SMU:  Jean-Claude Villiard
Director CMU:  Christian Delvoie
Project Officers: Fathi Ben Slimane, Senior Financial Analyst (MNSID)
Sergio Calegari, Principal Sanitary Engineer (MNSID)
Ahmed El-Hamri, Economist-(MNSID)
Larbi Khrouf, Engineer Consultant



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART I: Review of Objectives and Assessment of Outcome                       Page
A.    Review of Objectives and Assessment of Outcome                           I
B.    Achievement of Objectives                                                2
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project                                      5
D.   Project Sustainability                                                    5
E.    Bank Performance                                                         6
F.    Borrower Performance                                                     6
G.    Overall Project Assessment                                               7
H.    Future Operations                                                        8
I.    Key Lessons Learned                                                      8
PART II: Statistical Tables
Table 1.    Summary of Assessments                                             11
Table 2.    Related Bank Loans/Credits                                         13
Table 3.    Project Timetable                                                  14
Table 4.    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual         15
Table 5A.   Performance Indicators                                             16
Table 5B.    Financial Statements                                              17
Table 6.    Studies Included in the Project                                    20
Table 7.    Project Costs and Financing                                        22
Table 8.    Status of Legal Covenants                                          23
Table 9.    Bank Resources: Staff Input                                        25
Table 10.    Bank Resources: Missions                                          26
Annex:      Report Prepared by the Borrower                                    27
Maps:       No 19884R and 19885
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2826-MOR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Greater Casablanca Sewerage
Project carried out by the Regie autonome intercommunale de distribution d'eau et d'electricite
de Casablanca (RAD), for which Loan 2826-MOR to the Kingdom of Morocco, onlent to RAD,
in the amount of US$60 million, was approved on June 24, 1987 by the Bank's Board of
Directors. The loan was signed on July 27, 1987, became effective on October 14, 1988, and
closed on June 30, 1997 after an extension of one year. The last disbursement was made on
November 13, 1997. The total amount disbursed was US$46,855,301.71, or 78 percent of the
loan. The undisbursed balance of US$13,144,698.29 was canceled on that date.
The total disbursement would have been about US$49 million, or 82 percent if withdrawal
requests corresponding to invoices for supplies, services and works carried out before June 30,
1997 in the amount of US$ 2.5 million, introduced by RAD to the Ministry of Finance, were sent
to the Bank. The Ministry of Finance withheld them in order to reduce the debt amount vis-a-vis
the Bank. These invoices will be settled by the Communaute Urbaine de Casablanca in the
framework of the contract made with the Lyonnaise des Eaux de Casablanca.
The ICR was prepared by Fathi Ben Slimane (Senior Financial Analyst, MNSID), Sergio
Calegari (Principal Sanitary Engineer, MNSID) Mohamed Larbi Khrouf (Consultant Engineer),
and Ahmed El-Hamri (Economist, MNSID). An ICR review meeting was held on November 3,
1997 and comments provided during the meeting have been incorporated into the final report.
Preparation of the ICR began with a Bank mission from June 18 to July 6, 1997.
The Borrower has prepared its own assessment report. A copy of its summary is included as an
annex to this ICR.



KINGDOM OR MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2826-MOR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives set by the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
i.    The main objectives of the Greater Casablanca Sewerage Project were to: a) prevent
further deterioration of the existing sewer systems in the Casablanca area; b) keep abreast of the
growing domestic and industrial demand for sewerage and storm drainage; c) identify the least-
cost alternatives for the treatment, disposal and possible reuse of wastewater and reduce the
impact of wastewater discharge on the environment; d) provide for effective operation and
maintenance of sewerage facilities and standardization in the quality of design and
implementation of the sewer extension works; and e) promote the creation and development of
appropriate institutional, financial and technical structures to manage sewerage services in urban
centers. To achieve these objectives, the project identified a priority program of investment
works and master plan studies, as well as actions of an institutional and financial nature, the
transfer of sewerage responsibilities to the regies, settlement of arrears, budgetary allocations to
local governments and municipalities to pay for their water consumption, and sewer charges. The
main risk identified in the SAR related to the transfer of sewerage responsibilities from
municipalities to the regies and the creation of a sewerage department in the Regie of Casablanca
(RAD). The SAR considered that this risk could be minimized through the technical assistance
program, and through financial measures to improve the viability of RAD.
Assessment of development objectives
ii.   The objectives were partially met (para. 3 of Part One). The shortcomings of the existing
network, the weakness of the institutions, and the lack of human and financial resources to
maintain, operate and expand the existing systems were the major causes of RAD's poor
performance. The project was the first large-scale operation in Morocco's sewerage sector, and
was designed as a pilot project to test an appropriate approach to solve the sector's institutional
and financial problems. Three other regies were also assigned responsibility for sewerage in their
areas of activity during project implementation.



- ii -
Achievement of project objectives
iii.   The physical objectives as defined were substantially achieved. The urgent sewerage
works identified in 1994-1995 have been completed in Casablanca and an appropriate system
was implemented to clean and reduce pollution in the Mellah river in Mohammedia. However,
the scope of initially selected components appears to have been overly ambitious regarding the
pressing needs of the Greater Casablanca metropolitan area as well as the absorptive capacity of
RAD. This was addressed during implementation by shifting the focus to appropriate
rehabilitation works on the existing networks and provision of sewer connections to the
population instead of expanding the network to new areas.
Institutional objectives
iv.   With respect to institutional and financial aspects, the project objectives were
satisfactorily achieved (para. 7).  The institutional objective of transferring sewerage
responsibility from the municipalities to RAD was met. The training of technical staff, in
particular on procurement and transfer of technical know-how to prepare projects, provided
through seminars and limited programs, had littele impact during the early stage of project
implementation. However, this situation was addressed later in the process through improved
customer management, introduction of a computerized information system, and supervision of
works. In addition, RAD succeeded in setting up its sewerage department, as well as an internal
audit and management department.
v.    The dialogue between the Bank and the authorities regarding private involvement in
development of the sector was successful. The Moroccan authorities themselves took the
initiative and signed a management agreement with a private water and sewerage operator,
Lyonnaise des Eaux de Casablanca, to manage sewerage, water supply and electricity
distribution in the Greater Casablanca area for a period of thirty years, starting August 1, 1997.
This initiative will help promote private sector involvement and give the Moroccan authorities an
incentive to privatize other regies' activities. The Bank has recommended proceeding through
international bidding and consultations, and on the basis of well-prepared technical, financial and
legal documentation, to subcontract sector activities to private operators.
Financial objectives
vi.   Financial performance was satisfactory (para. 6, table 5). Although there were only two
increases in sewer charges (the first in 1987 when sewerage activities were transferred to RAD,
and the second in 1993), the operating revenues generated from 1987 to 1996 covered RAD's
working expenses, and RAD's net internal cash covered about 60 percent of its investments,
compared to the 40 percent target. The situation began to deteriorate slightly in 1994 and
thereafter due to a lack of sewer tariff adjustment in 1996 and large investments in 1995 and
1996, to build the sea outfall at El-Hank. RAD's performance in recovering arrears was below
expectations: the average collection period in 1996 was about 14 months of its annual turnover,
compared to the 3 month target. The Government is currently paying regularly, although with



- iii -
some months delay its water and electricity bills. Several attempts were made to resolve the
arrears situation in general and of the Collectivites locales in particular, but with very limited
success due to insufficient budget allocations to local governement. This problem, common to
all sectors and all regies, is the Borrower's major shortcoming in fulfilling its contractual
obligations.
vii.  RAD submitted regular audit reports. However, the auditors added disclaimers to their
opinions on RAD's financial statements and accounting procedures because of discrepancies in
its accounts, poor financial management and lack of internal audits. To overcome this managerial
shortcoming, RAD, following the Bank's advice, hired in 1995 an independent consulting firm
and auditors to adjust the discrepancies, implement the new accounting procedures, and organize
the internal audit. These actions started in 1995 and continued until the newly created private
enterprise took over RAD's activities on August 1, 1997.
Achievement of physical objectives
viii. Project components were unevenly carried out, depending on the priority identified
during implementation (paras. 8-14). The civil works component was not implemented as
defined during appraisal, because of the lack of technical documentation available at the time of
appraisal. Instead, RAD and the Bank identified another, more appropriate solution to clean and
divert pollution from the Mellah river. In addition, the option of regrouping several lots and
simultaneously launching all the bids generated savings on the total amount defined at appraisal.
Supply of equipment, technical assistance and consulting services reached a satisfactory level of
achievement. At closing date, total disbursement reached 78 percent. The replacement,
rehabilitation, and construction of sewers and pumping stations reached 60 percent completion.
Supply of equipment reached 56 percent of the allocated amount. Expenses related to sewerage
master plans for the nine cities were 84 percent of the SAR estimates.
ix.   About 200 km of sewerage network and one pumping station were rehabilitated.
Operating equipment was provided to RAD under the project; however, no training equipment
was purchased. The Technical Assistance component was completed in the same number of
man-months as originally planned. RAD used consultants to carry out sewerage system
feasibility studies for future urban settlements. The Wastewater Treatment and Reuse Study for
Greater Casablanca was not completed, and the contract was canceled because of the poor
performance of the consultant. RAD, in consultation with the Bank, realized that the study was
premature and that wastewater reuse. in Morocco would be difficult to implement due to the high
investment costs and the difficulty of recovering investment and operating costs, estimated at
about US$400 million and DH5/m`, respectively. The sewerage master plan studies for the eight
other cities were completed to the satisfaction of the re'gies, despite some desagreement between
the consultant and the regies of Fes, Rabat and Agadir due to the consultant unsatisfactory
performance.



-iv -
Major factors affecting the project
x.    The progress reports highlighted several important issues that delayed implementation of
the project (paras. 15-16). The use of land, the focus on future urban development, and the
centralized and cumbersome procurement procedures were the major causes of delay, which was
exacerbated by the a priori control of the overseeing authorities. Technical assistance, which was
an important component of the project, only partially achieved the know-how transfer, consisting
mainly of improving RAD's ability to prepare, plan and organize its operations.
Implementation delays
xi.   Project implementation was first delayed by 14.5 months due to the delay in loan
effectiveness. Other delays were caused by the lengthy procurement process, the weak technical
and financial capacities of some contractors, the low performance of some consultants, the land
use issues, RAD's disagreement on some basic assumptions that had been discussed during
earlier missions, and the lack of commitment of some municipalities.
Project sustainability
xii.  The project had significant impact and provided several lessons for the sewerage sub-
sector in Morocco (para. 17). It helped define an appropriate approach for addressing the
institutional and financial issues in Morocco's sewerage sector. Studies carried out under the
project allowed the Moroccan authorities, the Bank, and the Caisse FranVaise de DIveloppement
(CFD) to undertake a sewerage project with the regie of Fes that included a wastewater treatment
component and wastewater reuse component (the Second Sewerage and Water Reuse Project,
Loan 4010-MOR). It helped the authorities to undertake another project with the European
Investment Bank (EIB) for the regie of Marrakech. The process of transferring sewerage
services from the municipalities to the respective regies is already underway, following RAD's
experience. Despite the difficulties encountered in implementing the project, the Moroccan
authorities appreciate its positive impact on developing the subsector, and the rehabilitation
works and planning mechanisms that have been put in place.
Bank performance
xiii. The Bank's performance improved as the project progressed. The Bank focused mainly
on improving the existing system and connection to the network, and removing pollution in the
Mohammedia area and the Mellah river. On the institutional and financial side, late in project
implementation the focus was on implementing internal audit and appropriate accounting and
financial management procedures. Discussions on sector development resulted in speeding up
the transfer of sewerage responsibilities to the regies of Agadir, Fes, Meknes and Marrakech. The
Bank allocated an average of 18.5 staffweeks per year for project supervision. The supervision
missions concentrated on physical components as well as on institutional, financial and
administrative aspects.



Borrower performance
xiv.  After almost eight years of implementation, the implementation rate for the project must
be regarded as satisfactory. RAD experienced difficulties in managing the project, which caused
substantial delays in implementing some of its components. It should also be noted that while
implementing the project, the Moroccan authorities, with the French cooperation, built the El
Hank outfall, which they considered crucial for the Casablanca sewerage system and for the
environmental protection of the Casablanca Bay. The El-Hank outfall, although costing US$100
million, is by far the least cost solution compared with the alternative, which consisted of
treating, pumping and transporting the treated wastewater at a cost of US$400 million.
Overall project assessment
xv.   The project was the first large-scale sewerage investment undertaken in Morocco. It was,
then, expected that during implementation some assumptions and options would be reconsidered
due to the insufficient information in the very beginning included in the sewerage master plan.
However, it is clear that the completed components will facilitate new urban development. The
project enabled RAD to improve its capacity to operate a modem system, and to build up a large
resource base and database out of the completed studies. In addition, the project has had other
benefits: (a) RAD personnel became familiar with implementation of large sewerage works,
(b) eight of the country's major cities now have a sewerage planning and management tools in
place that have allowed them to transfer sewerage services to the regies, (c) two new projects
have been launched, and (d) the process of privatizing the regies has started. The project
increased the number of house connections to the sewerage network by about 15,000, serving
300,000 additional people, partly through the project itself and partly through developers.
Future operations
xvi.  Future sewerage operations in Casablanca will be carried out by the newly created private
company (Lyonnaise des Eaux de Casablanca), which is committed to an investment program of
DH 30 billion over the next 30 years. The database and the studies prepared under the project
will facilitate the identification and implementation of new projects. The sewerage master plan
study for the eight cities has helped to identify two new projects (IBRD 4010-MOR in Fes, and
an EIB project in Marrakech).
Key lessons learned
*  The institutional development of the sewerage sector in Morocco has been the major
objective of the project.
*  The local and regional authorities should have been involved since the beginning in making
the major decisions, to ensure their commitment and agreement on administrative and land
use approvals necessary to carry out the project.
*  More realistic assumptions could have been made during the appraisal stage if the sewerage
master plan had been available.



- vi-
* Studies should anticipate potential implementation problems.
* In selecting contractors and suppliers, attention must be paid to their technical, human and
financial capacity to carry out the project.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2826-MOR)
PART ONE: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. REVIEW OF OBJECTIVES AND
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
Objectives at Appraisal
1.    The principal objectives of the Greater Casablanca Sewerage Project were to: (a) prevent
firther deterioration of the existing sewer systems in the Casablanca area through an extensive
rehabilitation program; (b) keep abreast of the growing domestic and industrial demand for
sewerage and storm drainage; (c) identify the least-cost alternatives for the treatment, disposal
and possible reuse of wastewater and reduce the impact of wastewater discharge on the
environment; (d) provide for effective operation and maintenance of sewerage facilities and
standardization in the quality of design and implementation of the sewer extension works; and (e)
promote the creation and development of appropriate institutional, financial and technical
structures to manage sewerage services in urban centers.
2.    To achieve these objectives, the project identified a program of physical investments as
well as institutional and financial measures at a total estimated cost of US$116.91 million, of
which US$33.4 million was in foreign exchange (table 7 of the SAR). The project was financed
by a Bank loan in the amount of US$60 million (Loan 2826-MOR). The physical components
related to Greater Casablanca, and included: (a) replacement of 60 km of primary, secondary and
tertiary sewers and three pumping stations located in Mohammedia, Ain Sebaa and the Eastern
Industrial Zone; (b) rehabilitation and repair of 1 km of two major collectors and 200 km of
secondary and tertiary sewers, as well as inspection, cleaning and mapping of 1,000 km of the
system; (c) construction of 410 km of new sewers in new development areas and existing
unserviced areas; (d) provision of operating equipment and training for RAD's sewerage
department; (e) technical assistance and training for RAD through a specialized sewerage
company, consultants' services for studies and works supervision, and a study to assess
wastewater treatment and disposal needs in Casablanca; and (f) preparation of sewerage master
plans and feasibility studies, as well as of final design for the first phase sewerage works of
Agadir, Fes, Marrakech, Meknes, Nador, Rabat, Settat and Tangiers. Bidding documents for the
priority sewerage works for Casablanca was also carried out.
Assessment of objectives and risks
3.    These objectives were defined based on the shortcomings of the existing network,
weaknesses of the institutions, and the lack of human and financial resources to maintain, operate



-2 -
and expand the existing systems. The physical objectives, redefined on a realistic basis in 1994
were achieved. The high costs of the unrealistic investments proposed by the consultant to treat
and purify water used in Casablanca (400,000 m3 a day, for total cost of US$400 million), the
construction of the outfall in Mohammedia (US$70 million), the construction of a 10 km gallery
and a pumping station under the ocean, and the sewerage charge needed to recover investment
and operating costs (DH5 m3) led the Moroccan authorities to cancel the contract and to postpone
the proposed schemes and the treatment plant until a later stage. Instead the project focused on
two other alternatives that included improvement of the design of the outfall system of El Hank,
financed by the French, and construction of an appropriate system to divert sewage from the
Mellah river in Mohammedia and direct it to the ocean after preliminary treatment. The project
also focused on equipping future urban development areas, and on overcoming the backlog in
providing about 15,000 sewer connections to inhabitants. Moreover, the rehabilitation of sewers
and pumping stations was completed. Equipment purchased for the cleaning operation and the
training provided by the technical assistance enabled RAD to carry out the cleaning and
inspection of some segments of the network by its own staff.
4.    With respect to the institutional and financial aspects of the project, these were
satisfactorily achieved. On the organizational front, technical assistance later in the process
provided basic know-how to RAD staff in the design, operation and maintenance of the
Casablanca sewerage system. This situation improved in the final years of project
implementation through better targeting of technical assistance for customer management,
introduction of a computerized information system and construction site supervision and
management. RAD did succeed in setting up its sewerage department, as well as an internal
audit and management department, in 1993 and 1995, respectively.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Assessment of development objectives
5.    Sectoral policy objectives. This was the first major undertaking in the sewerage sector,
and was designed as a pilot project to address sewerage problems in Morocco of both an
institutional and financial nature. As the result of the project, three other regies have been
assigned responsibility for sewerage operations.
6.    Financial objectives. Financial perforTnance under the sewerage project was more
satisfactory (table 5). Although there were only two increases in sewer charges, one at the time
responsibility was transferred to RAD and another in 1993, revenues flowing to RAD from 1987
to 1996 were enough to cover all operating costs, and to generate net earnings equal to 60 percent
of capital spending, versus the 40 percent called for in the agreements. The situation began to
deteriorate in 1994, but was still judged acceptable, when RAD was made responsible for
financing and carrying the debt service of the sea outfall at El Hank. Normally the Government
should have contributed to the El-Hank outfall investment, as environmental protection of the
Casablanca Bay was a joint RAD/Government issue. Furthermore, RAD's performance in terms
of recovering arrears was below expectations: the average collection period represented about



3 -
14 months of turnover, against the 3 months stipulated in the agreement. This weak performance
was due essentially to difficulties in recovering arrears from local govermmens and
municipalities, which in turn were caused by insufficient budget allocation to them. This
problem, which was common to all sectors and all regies, constituted the Borrower's principal
shortcoming in terms of fulfilling its contractual commitments. Several attempts were made to
resolve the problems of arrears, but with only sporadic success. RAD met its commitments with
respect to audits. The accounts, however, could not be certified, in light of the inadequacies and
anomalies found by the auditors. To rectify this situation, the Bank advised RAD to hire an
outside accounting expert to help rectify the accounts and to set up a new accounting plan. These
steps were initiated in 1995 and will be continued by the newly created enterprise.
7.   Institutional development objectives. These objectives were substantially achieved.
The project succeeded to some extent in strengthening the capacities of the Sewerage Department
within RAD, by involving it in the studies and in executing sewerage works. The department was
also supplied with modern equipment for operating the system. Some steps were taken to
provide training, in cooperation with the company supplying technical assistance services
(9 percent of its working time was spent on training activities). The dialogue between the Bank
and the authorities regarding encouragement of the private sector as an alternative for developing
the sewerage system proved to be useful. The Moroccan authorities themselves took the initiative
of launching the process, which resulted in the granting of a management contract by the
Casablanca Urban Community for all RAD activities (sewerage, water supply and electricity) to
a private company, Lyonnaise des Eaux de Casablanca, for a period of thirty years, on August 1,
1997. This is a promising approach, in the sense that it could serve as a point of departure for
other regies seeking to involve the private sector in their operations. The Bank, however, has
recommended that this be done on the basis of International Competitive Bidding and Requests
for Proposals, using carefully prepared technical, financial and legal documentation.
8.    Physical objectives. Due to the nonavailability and insufficiency of the sewerage master
plan, the physical components selected during appraisal were redefined later during
implementation, in 1994. Originally 340 km of new sewers in future urban growth areas were
proposed. The project replaced 60 km of existing primary sewers and rehabilitated 200 km of
secondary and tertiary sewers, which contributed to the development of several Casablanca
quarters. In addition, the project allocated US$3.56 million (net of physical and price
contingencies) to clean 1,000 km of sewers, which was done with the cleaning trucks purchased
through the loan proceeds.
9.    Physical objectives were partially achieved (table 7). The completion rate varied from
one component to the next. Generally speaking, implementation of the works components was
weaker than expected. The components relating to equipment supply, technical assistance and
consulting services were to a large degree completed. The project helped in the construction of
an appropriate pollution control system for Mohammedia and its river, Mellah. In addition,
5.5 km of primary sewers and a pumping station were rehabilitated, as were 105 km of secondary
and tertiary network sewers (including 1 km of the trunk collector). Furthermore, RAD
personnel performed the cleaning work using the operating equipment purchased under the
project. Topographical mapping was carried out for 90 km. Some 16.5 km of new main sewers



-4 -
were laid , and 15.5 km of new secondary and tertiary sewers were completed. RAD completed
about 59 km of sewers in zones not initially included in the project. In sum, 200 km of collectors
of various sizes were laid and one pumping station in Mohammedia rehabilitated. The project
enabled RAD to acquire operating equipment (15 cleaning trucks of differing capacities), light
transport vehicles (25 vans and pickup trucks), and heavy transport equipment (6 dump trucks,
8 trucks and 2 tanker trucks) for the Sewerage Department.
10.   The Technical Assistance component achieved virtually the same man-month levels as
planned (424 man-months versus 420 in the SAR). Of the technical assistance resources,
91 percent was used for technical studies and works supervision, while training accounted for
9 percent. RAD made use of consultant services to prepare prefeasibility studies for sewerage
systems in future urban growth zones. These studies were parceled out in 6 lots to three different
consulting groups. The wastewater treatment and reuse study for Greater Casablanca was not
completed, and the contract was canceled. RAD, in consultation with the Bank, realized that the
study was premature and that wastewater reuse in Morocco would be difficult to implement due
to the high investment costs, as well as to the difficulties of recovering investnent and operating
costs, estimated to reach about US$400 million for DH5/m3, respectively. The sewerage master
plan studies for the eight cities other than Casablanca were virtually all completed to the
satisfaction of the respective regies, although difficulties arose with the consultants doing the
work for Fes Rabat and Agadir; in the case of Fes, these problems led to cancellation of the first
contract and the selection of another consultant to complete the study. The studies were pursued
to the point of preparing implementation plans for priority sections for eight regies.
11.   Much of the work carried out was based on studies carried out by RAD personnel. As of
the closing date of the loan, three of the eight lots of sewerage works for specific sectors of
Casablanca had been completed; the others were completed in December 1997.
12.   Lags accumulated in implementing some of the project components. Some 14.5 months
elapsed between signing of the loan and its effectiveness. Additional delays were due to a priori
control of the contract (administrative procedures, affected approval and implementation). The
delays varied from 19 to 6 months for studies and 16 to 12 months for civil works. For the 8 lots
of sewerage and pollution control works, contracts were launched simultaneously, awarded
2 months after bid opening, and signed 3 months after bid evaluation. The related works started
in October 1996. For the studies, six contracts were completed on time, but others took up to 2
to 4 years due to review of consultant conclusions by the Bank and RAD.
13.   There were several reasons for these delays: (a) deadlines set for the consultants were
often too short, given the scope of the study and/or of the work required; (b) the density of the
sewer system within the study zones were identified on a preliminary basis; (c) some of the firms
contracted were technically and financially weak; (d) technical problems appeared only during
project implementation (soil conditions, subsoil rights); (e) there were administrative problems
relating to land use authorizations and construction permits, (the Casablanca Urban Community
was slow to provide basic data, and urban development plans were subject to change); f) there
were problems with land use and the nature of the works themselves, which involved installing
sewers in areas where access roads had to be built or slums had to be removed from the primary



-5 -
sewer route; and g) there was a lack of commitment to the project on the part of some of the
municipalities (Ain Dhiab, Oulfa, and Sidi El Khadir).
14.   The cost of the project was originally estimated at US$116.91 million; of this amount,
US$91.1 million, or 78 percent of the total cost, had been spent by the closing date. RAD
purchased operating equipment that allowed for better operation of the systems. The final cost of
the studies was US$10.45 million, against the US$12.51 shown in the SAR.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors generally subject to Government control
15.   Administrative procedures (a priori control) for awarding contracts held up progress on
several components. The financial situation of RAD, due largely to payment arrears on the part
of local and central governments, meant that RAD was late in making payments to suppliers,
contractors and consultants. The Government's efforts to address the arrears issue did not
succeed in resolving the problem completely. It took 14.5 months for the loan to become
effective.
Factors generally subject to the control of the implementing agency
16.   Technical assistance, an important component of the project (representing 15 percent of
the RAD project cost and 26 percent of disbursements under the loan), partially achieved its
objectives in terms of training and management assistance. The purpose of the training was to
equip RAD in preparing, planning and organizing operations under the project; however, its long
duration and the number of man-months devoted to it was not in proportion to the transfer of
know-how. Some difficulties arose because of insufficient preparation. Some land use and
administrative issues were addressed only after contracts had been awarded.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
17.   The work carried out under this project represents virtually the first major action of its
kind in Morocco's sewerage subsector. While a few objectives were not achieved, the project
nonetheless has been a useful experience for Morocco. The national authorities and the Bank
have also undertaken another sewerage project in the cities of Fes (Loan 4010-MOR) and
Marrakech (EIB loan), incorporating wastewater treatment components as well as treatment of
industrial waste. The experiment of transferring responsibility for sewerage services from the
municipalities to the respective regies is already underway, following the example set by RAD.
Currently, a management contract for water, sewerage and electricity services in Casablanca has
been awarded to the company Lyonnaise des Eaux de Casablanca. Other major Moroccan cities
are expected to take a similar approach.



-6 -
18.   Environmental impact.  This project has had a major and beneficial impact on
environmental policy, since the regies have undertaken technical and economic studies to
determine the ecological effects of installing wastewater treatment facilities. These studies have
resulted in the introduction of environmental protection measures. The measures adopted for
Mohammedia and Mellah river will improve the water sewerage system as well the environment
in the region. About 500 ha of land located along the Oued Mellah, which were a "non
aedificandi zone", are being transformed into a residential area.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
19.   Bank performance was satisfactory. However, the conceptual approach adopted during
the project identification phase did not identify the optimal solution for the sewerage network in
the Casablanca area due to absence of a master plan. The situation led the Bank and RAD to
redesign investment priorities for civil works, and eight lots were defined between 1993 and
1994. The related works are expected to be completed in December 1997. In view of the
shortcomings of the regies in managing bidding and contracting procedures and techniques, the
Bank could have held training seminars from the beginning of the project (1987) to help the
Borrower manage this key aspect more effectively (such seminars were in fact introduced later
on). In addition, the Bank could have included a training component (completely separate from
the technical assistance component) to prepare RAD personnel to manage the project and equip
them with the techniques for implementing a water distribution and sewerage project. A total of
236 staffweeks was devoted to the project, of which 137 were for supervision, characterized by
efficiency of effort and frequent visits (table 10). As part of its supervision, the Bank was also
careful to organize some important training seminars and to ensure adherence to financial and
accounting conditions. This aspect of the supervision produced an improvement in project
implementation and management.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
20.   An assessment of RAD's performance shows that the project completion rate, after nearly
9 years of implementation, reached 78 percent. RAD's and Government's commitment to the
project improved during project implementation. Rad's management capacities were deficient
when implementation began, but improved gradually as the project progressed. In addition, the
limited commitment of other interested parties (ministries, municipalities, administration and
industries) tended to delay project implementation.
21.   Over the period 1988-1995, RAD experienced a number of difficulties in establishing and
managing the structures needed to ensure proper implementation of the project.  These
difficulties had several consequences: (a) RAD's organizational structure never underwent the
changes needed to reflect the largely successful deconcentration and decentralization of technical
and administrative management at the municipal level; (b) some serious institutional and
organizational problems (such as the autonomy of RAD, the relationship between the regie and
the supervisory authorities and financial controls) held back development of the regie and



-7-
hampered its short-and medium-term operations; (c) RAD had great difficulty developing a
computerized information system for administering its billing system and its customer accounts,
which are essential to effective business and accounts management (the handling of arrears
proved to be a particularly difficult problem); (d) RAD's lack of experience in contracting
procedures led to significant delays in the implementation of some of the project's components.
22.  In retrospect, the project has helped RAD to improve its financial management, due
mainly to the continuous dialogue with the Bank's task team and the introduction of an internal
audit system which has given the regie the capacity to manage its accounts effectively. RAD has
also acquired a computerized information management system for its business transactions,
which has enabled it to improve administration of customer accounts and arrears with a view to
reestablishing its financial and economic viability.
G. OVERALL PROJECT ASSESSMENT
23.   Since this was the first large-scale sewerage project to be undertaken in Morocco, the
search for a suitable method and approach was naturally an integral feature of the experience.
Although the completion rate for the Casablanca project was relatively low, the work
accomplished will allow new urban development areas to be opened up. About 15,000 sewerage
house connections were established under the project itself, and through developers and private
concessionaires. The project has enabled RAD to acquire new, up-to-date operating equipment
for the system. RAD has built up substantial capital in the form of a database of feasibility
studies for some 6,835 ha, involving 420 km of sewers. However, the usefulness of these studies
will depend on the progress of urbanization programs. The project has also succeeded in
familiarizing RAD personnel with the demands of large and complex sewerage works. It has
provided eight of the country's largest cities with a solid tool for planning and managing
sewerage projects. The sewerage master plans have already been of help to some municipalities
in transferring sewer services to the regies.
24.   An interceptor was built under this project to intercept the sewage flow and to divert it
toward the ocean after preliminary treatment through an appropriate rocky discharge coastal
zone. This solution eliminated existing pollution and transformed about 500 ha of "non
aedificandi" zone into a residential area.
25.   Most importantly, the project, and the other sewerage works that have been undertaken,
have allowed Casablanca to increase the rate of residential sewer connections, which rose from
60 percent in 1985 to 62.6 percent in 1996. By contrast, the rate of potable water connections
has gone from 64 percent in 1985 to 78 percent in 1995.
26.   On the institutional front, the project has certainly promoted the concept of granting
management contract for sewerage services in Casablanca to private operators. The company
that provided the technical assistance to RAD under the project is in fact the guiding force of the
group that has taken over the management contract. The municipalities of Agadir, Fes, Meknes,



-8 -
and Marrakech have already transferred their sewerage services to their respective regies, and
Tangier, Marrakech and Meknes are preparing to do so in the near future.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
27.   Future sewerage operations in Casablanca will be in the hands of the newly created
private company, which is committed to an investment program with the Moroccan authorities of
about US$30 billion over 30 years. The studies prepared under the present project will certainly
serve as a useful basis for other projects. The studies for sewerage master plans for the eight
cities have already led to a new IBRD project, 4010-MOR, Second Sewerage and Waste Water
Treatment and Reuse Project for the City of Fes, and to the identification of the proposed
National Water Supply and Sewerage Project. Marrakech and Agadir have issued invitations to
bid for sewerage works resulting from these studies.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Development objectives
28.   The issues relating to development objectives, including the institutional and
organizational structures needed to promote the sewerage sector, should be identified at the
project preparation stage, along with the appropriate actions and measures for achieving them.
The project focused essentially on the physical components for Casablanca and on sewerage
master plans for 9 cities. For example, there was no progran for transferring sewerage services
from the municipalities involved in the project to the eight corresponding regies. There was no
organizational component for the RAD sewerage department.
29.   The SAR should have provided criteria for evaluating the technical assistance component,
which was a major part of the project in terms of the funds devoted to it.
30.  Implementation. The rehabilitation program, which was an important part of the
project, would have been more effective if it had been based on the results of a TV cameras
inspection campaign and a topographical mapping exercise.
31.   Project ownership. The ownership of the project and its objectives is very important to
the success of any project. In the case of this project, the local and regional authorities (i.e.,
interested parties or stakeholders) should have been involved since the beginning in making the
major project decisions, to ensure their commitment and avoid obstacles when it came to
securing administrative approvals. Land use problems should have been settled as soon as the
sites were identified, to avoid delays in project implementation.
32.   Financial capacity. During the project appraisal stage steps should have been taken to
assess the financial capacity of RAD and to verify that its cash flow was sufficient to finance the
local counterpart contribution not covered by the loan. Such an assessment requires cautious



assumptions about self-financing capacity and the contributions of customers and housing
developers.
33.   Organization of technical assistance. Technical assistance should not have been the
direct responsibility of the Director General of RAD, as the SAR recommended (see SAR
para. 4.12), but rather should have been assigned to a specially designated official responsible for
its implementation. As it turned out, the Director General did not have the time to make
effective use of the experts nor to evaluate and follow up on their work.
34.   Adapting objectives to capacities. No specific goal was set in terms of the number of
residential connections, which is surely a major target for any sewerage project. However, about
15,000 sewerage house connections were created by the project, partly through the project itself
and partly through developers. The implementation study zones under future loans should
coincide with the zones where works are to be financed, or else the studies will be obsolete when
it comes to implementation. Time limits on contractors and consultants must be realistic and
commensurate with the scale and difficulty of the services and works required. Steps should be
taken to ensure that the studies are of high quality and that they anticipate implementation
difficulties. Pre or post-qualification procedures should follow the project's example, so that
only contractors with sufficient technical, human and financial capacities are deemed eligible to
carryout the project.



-10-
PART II
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1.       Summary of Assessments
Table 2.       Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3.       Project Timetable
Table 4.       Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5A.      Performance Indicators
Table 5B.      Financial Statements
Table 6.       Studies Included in the Project
Table 7.       Project Costs and Financing
Table 8.       Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9.       Bank Resources: Staff Input
Table 10.      Bank Resources: Missions



Implementation Completion Report
Kingdom of Morocco
Greater Casablanca Sewerage Project
(Loan 2826-MOR)
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives          Substantial      Partial       Negligible    Not applicable"
Macro Policies                           EJ             E                 nJ
Sector Policies                          E                  E                            El
Financial Objectives                     E                 ]             E               E
Institutional Development                E                               E               El3
Physical Objectives                       n             E                E               E
Poverty Reduction                        [                               El             E
Gender Issues                            E               El
Other Social Objectives                  E               E               E                 ]
Environmental Objectives                 E               E              [Z               E
Public Sector Management                                j               IB              I  l
Private Sector Development                 ]l                                            EJ 
Other (specify)                         n               n               nl
B. Project Sustainability                                Likely      Unlikely            Uncertain
-              LiU   Li
C. Bank Performance                   Highly satisfactory           Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification                                 L                              ]              L
Preparation Assistance                         I1                          2]               E
Appraisal                                      I                           E                [
Supervision                                    l                           iB                
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                        i                       E                 0
Implementation                                                             E                 0
Covenant Compliance                                                        2                 Q 
Operation (if applicable)                                                    :               0



- 12-
Table 1: Continued
E. Assessment of Outcome        Highly          Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    Deficient
Satisfactory
E               E                                EJI



- 13 -
Implementation Completion Report
Kingdom of Morocco
Greater Casablanca Sewerage Project
(Loan 2826-MOR)
Table 2: Rela.ted Bank Loans/Credits
Loans/Credits &  Thk                          Purpose                            Year of        Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
Loan 850-MOR        Construction of first tranche of production facilities in Central  1972  Completed in 1980
First Water Supply    Atlantic Coast (between Kenitra and Casablanca). It includes        PPAR NO 3721 du 16
Projet              extension of existing treatment plant; construction of dam; pumping   dec 1981
station; mains; institutional strengthening. Loan amount was US$
48 millions
Loan 1724-MOR       Construction of additional facilities to increase production capacity  1979  Completed 1987
Second Water Supply  in the Atlantic Coast. Construction of production facilities in Grand  PPAR N 8725 du 8
Projet              Agadir. Revolving funds for social connections. Further action for    juin 1990
institutional strengthening of ONEP ( management, finance etc...).
Loan amount was US$ 49 millions
Loan 2006-MOR       Construction of regional water supply systems, as well as in the  1981  Completed in 1989
Third Water Supply    mid-size town.. Strengthening of the Revolving funds for social     PCR N **** du
Project             connections for ONEP and 3 Regies. Strengthening ONEP's              juin 1993
structure. Loan amount was US$ 87 millions
Loan 2825-MOR       Introduce policy reforms to strengthen the sector; rehabilitation and  1987  Completed in juin
National Water      improvement of the efficiency of the existing production and          1996
Rehabilitation Project distribution systems; strengthen the financial policy of the sector to
increase cost recovery; Loan amount was US$ 60 millions
Loan 3664 & 3665-   Rehabilitation, extension et reinforcement of water distribution  1993  Under
MOR                 system of ONEP and six Regies (RAD-Casablanca, RADEEF-Fes,           implementation
Fifth Water Supply    RADEM-Meknes, RADEEMA-Marrakech, RAK-Kenitra et RED-
Project             Rabat Sale). Strengthening of managerial capability as well as the
efficiency of these institutions.
Loan amount is US$ 128 millions & US$ 32 millions
Loan S-7-MOR        Sewerage study for the Great Casablanca Etude d'assainissement du  1977  PCR 14 of June
First Sewerage      Grand Casablanca                                                      1984
Project
Loan 401 0-MOR      Rehabilitation and extension of sewerage networks in Fes.   1996      Under
Second Sewerage     Construction of treatment plant in Fes. Provision for equipment for   implementation
Project             monitoring pollution. Technical Assistance, to improve and
strengthen RADEEF's institutional, financial and technical structure
for new sewerage activities
Loan amount is US$ 40 millions. CFD cofinancing amount is US$
23,6 millions.
Loan 2272-MOR       To improve among others FEC's capacity to finance sewerage and
Pilot Project       water supply systems; training of FEC' staff to improve their
Municipal           lending capacity management.
development Funds
"FEC"
Loan 3616/17-MOR   Technical Assistance to improve MunicipaFicapacityto invest in
First Project for   water and sanitation sectors
Municipal Finance



-14-
Implementation Completion Report
Kingdom of Morocco
Greater Casablanca Sewerage Project
(Loan 2826-MOR)
Table 3 Project Timetable
Date Planned                 Date Actual
First Bank mission
Identification                                    n.a                      June, 1982
preparation time:
Preparation                                     4 years                      1982-86
Appraisal                                        N/A                       June 1986
Negotiations                                     N/A                    April 20-23, 1987
Board Presentation                               N/A                      June 2, 1987
Signing                                          N/A                      July 27, 1987
Effectiveness                               October 1, 1987              October 14, 1988
Loan Closing                                 June 30, 1996                June 30, 1997
Project Completion                           June 30, 1996                June 30, 1997



Implementation Completion Report
Kingdom of Morocco
Greater Casablanca Sewerage Project
(Loan 2826-MOR)
Table 4: Loan Disbursements-Cumulative Actual (in US S millions)
Fiscal Year                   1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993       1994      1995      1996      1997       1998
Appraisal Estimate-annual     6.23      6.36      9.25      9.83       8.68      7.50      5.77      4.63      1.75       0.00      0.00
Appraisal Estimate-cumulative    6.23   12.59     21.84     31.67     40.35     47.85     53.62      58.25     60.00     60.00     60.00
Actual annual                 0.00      0.63      0.68      8.04      4.76       6.01      8.00      9.20      4.03       2.89      2.57
Actual cumulative             0.00      0.63      1.31      9.34      14.10     20.12     28.11      37.32     41.35     44.24     46.81
Actual as % of Estimate       0.00      0.05      0.06      0.30       0.35      0.42      0.52      0.64      0.69       0.74      0.78
Date of Final Disbursement    31-Oct-97
Graph 1: Loan 2826-Dlsbursements
60.00 
50.00                                                                                                                                                         V
40.00
,30.00 
20.00                                                                 t    sat.hbrepn
10.00
0.00
1988       1989       1990        1991       1992       1993       1994        1995       1996       1997        1998
Fiscal Year



Table 5 A: Performance Indicators
1987      1988      1989       1990      1991       1992      1993       1994      1995       1996
Production 000m3                     165.42    171.87    173.03      174.38    185.71    193.80    182.98     178.93     174.35    175.76
Consommations                        110.55     111.17    119.61     114.68    130.63    130.34    124.65     121.83     121.70    120.58
Rendement                            66.83%    64.68%    69.13%    65.76%    70.34%    67.25%    68.12%    68.09%    68.50%    69.80%
Tarifs moyens vente (DH/m3)                                          3.07       3.22      3.51       4.51      4.74       5.38      5.69
Tarifd'achateau(DH/m3)                1.40       1.55      1.58      1.76       1.80      1.92       5.42      2.70       3.08      3.17
Redevances Assainissement DH/m3)      0.37      0.81       0.86      0.89      0.84       5.66      2.72       0.94       1.42      1.50
Ratio d'exploitation I (avant amortiss.) %  45.00   4.61      47.89      69.19     67.26      69.30     60.69      53.70     44.62      53.04
Ratio d'exploitation 2 (apres amortiss.)%  71.81    36.54      50.09     72.98      76.78     82.05      84.7      93.47      73.45     90.04
Ratio de liquidite                        1.43      7.52       8.83      8.49       9.49      5.06       2.72      0.94       1.42       1.80
Dettes a Long Terms/Capitaux Permanents %  N/A       N/A       1.98%     5.48%     10.28%    11.98%    34.12%    48.85%    48.28%    34.81%
Autofinancement
*avec contribution des abonnes                       <                            60.60%          ~                   --           ->
*sans contribution des abonnes                              -      --__       -  16.49%    -                                          --
Service de la Dette                    j                                             1.9           ___                ______
Population desservie par Branchements prives  2,530,000                2,940,000                                                      3,140,000
Population totale desservie par assainissement  1,612,000               1,881,000                                                     2,260,000
Taux de raccordement                      64%                             64%                                                            72%
Longueur du Reseau d'Assainissement (en Krn)  3,100                      3,200                                                          3,500
Milieu Recepteur                        Mer, Oueds                     Mer, Oueds                                                     Mer, Oueds
Reutlisation des eaux usees non-traitees
pour rAgriculture                          non                            non                                                            non



Table S B-1: Financial Statements
Compte de Gestion: Assainissement (en millions de DM)
1987     1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996
----------
Total Produits                       60.37    101.00    156.98    191.51    245.73    221.25    146.56    151.65    243.84    252.74
Variation des Stocks                                -1.27    -3.42     -0.90     -4.00    -36.80     10.92    -14.59      4.24     25.32
Achats de Matieres et Fournitures         2.07      2.49     16.11     19.32     27.70     57.82     24.69     40.81      7.65     76.59
Services consommes                       15.70     20.85     43.70     94.70    111.06    105.58     26.12     22.60     61.01     10.49
Autres fiais d'exploitation
Total charges Prod.                   17.77    22.07     56.39    113.12    134.76    126.60     61.72     48.82     72.90    112.40
Valeure Ajoutee                      42.60     78.93    100.59     78.39    110.97     94.65     84.84    102.83    170.95    140.34
FraisdePersonnel                          12.66    12.87     18.79     19.37     25.11     26.71     27.23     32.61     37.22     63.03
Impots et Taxes                           0.03      0.02      0.00      0.00      5.41      0.02      0.00      0.01      0.01      0.40
Frais financiers
ResultatBrutd'Expl.                  29.91     66.04     81.80     59.02     80.45     67.92     57.61     70.21    133.71     76.91
Dotations aux Amortissements              1.32      1.95      3.45      7.28     11.11     28.21     23.62     48.74     58.71     81.93
Dotations aux Provisions                 11.57                                                       11.58     11.57     11.58     11.58
Resultat Net Exploit.                17.02     64.09     78.35     51.74     69.34     39.71     22.41      9.90     63.42    -16.60
Charges Financieres                                                     6.92      5.92      9.86     20.51     54.98     49.59     58.22
P&P sur Ex. Ant. ou Exc.                 -10.40     -3.30     -0.24     3.60      0.36      0.94     27.59    -10.73     18.05    -55.13
Resultat net Exercice                27.42     67.39     78.59     41.22     63.06     28.91    -25.69    -34.35     -4.22    -19.70
Imp6ts sur resultats                                                             0.61      0.07      0.34      0.53       1.16
Resultat net apres Imp8ts            27.42     67.39     78.59     41.22     63.06     28.30    -25.76    -34.69     -4.76    -20.86



Table 5 B-2: Financial Statements
Comptes de Bilan: Assainissement (en millions de DEI)
1987     1988      1989      1990      1991     1992      1993      1994      1995      1996
 . ..                                         -         ......     -- -- -- -- -   ....  - - - - - -   ......   - - - - - - -   ....  --------------
Immobilisations                        247.43    256.81    302.66    380.14    493.02    581.18   1105.98   1584.96   1454.29   1972.24
Valeurs d'Exploitation                    0.00      1.27     4.68      5.58      9.58     46.39    35.47     50.06     45.82     20.50
Valeurs Realisables (Compte Clients)     78.38    103.09    177.06    223.98    317.52    314.60    161.73    105.22    233.80    223.54
Autres Valeurs Realisables                                                                          0.51    247.19    240.49    211.61
Total Valeurs realisables            78.38    104.36    181.74    229.56    327.10    360.99    197.71   157.47   279.88    244.30
Total Valeurs Real.& Dispo.          78.38    104.36    181.47    229.56    327.10    360.99    197.71    402.47    520.10    455.65
Total Actifs                        325.81    361.17    484.13    609.70    820.12    942.17   1303.69   1987.49   1974.39   2427.89
Capital Social                          233.80    233.56    233.32    233.08    233.08    244.65    256.22    256.22    256.22    256.22
co
Participations des Abonnes                9.62     18.93    47.90    103.31    194.10    215.81    274.48    296.06    335.15    941.34
Reports aNouveau                         27.52    94.81    173.40    214.62    277.68    305.97    280.22    245.53    240.77    219.91
Totaux Fonds Propres                270.94    347.30    454.62    551.01    704.86    766.43    810.92    797.81    832.14   1417.47
Dettes a Long Termes                               0.00      9.20     31.65     80.80    104.36    420.01    762.03    776.75    757.01
Dettes a court terme                    54.97     13.87     20.58     27.04    34.47     71.38     72.76    427.33    365.48    253.39
Total DCT.                           54.97    13.87     20.58     27.04    34.47     71.38     72.76    427.33    365.48    253.39
Total Passifs                       325.91    361.17    484.40    609.70    820.70    942.17   1303.69   1987.43   1974.43   2427.88



Table S B-3: Cash Flow-Assainissement- (en millions de DH)
1987     1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995       1996      88/96
Resultats nets apres impots               27.42     67.39     78.59    41.22     63.06     28.30    -25.76    -34.69      -4.76    -20.86    192.50
Plus Dotations aux Amortissements          1.32      1.95      3.45      7.28     11.11    28.21     23.62     48.74      58.71     81.93    265.00
Plus charges Financieres                   0.00      0.00      0.00      6.92      5.92     9.86     20.51      54.98     50.91     99.99    249.09
Generation interne de fonds            28.74     69.34     82.04     55.42     80.09     66.37     18.37     69.03    104.86    161.06    706.58
Variation des besoins en F.R.             78.38     25.98     77.38     47.82    97.54     33.89   -163.28   -395.08    184.52      76.51    -14.72
Service de la Dette                        0.00      0.00     0.00       6.92     5.92      9.86     23.72      76.21    130.17    122.92    375.72
Participation des Abonnes                  9.62      9.31     28.97     55.41    90.79     21.71     58.67     21.58      21.58    606.19    931.72
Generation nette de fonds             -40.02     52.67     33.63     56.09     67.42     44.33    216.60    409.48   -170.73    567.82   1277.31
Emprunts                                  54.97    -41.10      6.71      6.46      7.43    36.91    315.66    363.24      93.98     31.39    820.68
Subventions                              232.48     -0.87     -1.74     -4.07     -3.83     -5.53     16.16              134.93    -28.20    106.85
Autres ressources (reintegrations)         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    115.05      0.00    115.05
Total Fonds disponibles               247.43     10.70     38.60     58.48     71.02     75.71    548.42    772.72    173.23    571.01   2319.89
Nouveaux Investissements                 247.43     24.71     73.97     46.92     93.54    104.80    548.42    527.72    178.01    599.88   2197.97
Autres Emplois                             0.00    -14.01    -35.37     11.56    -22.52    -29.09                                            -89.43
Variation de tresorerie                 0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    245.00     -4.78    -28.88    211.35
245.00    240.22    211.35



-20 -
Implementation Completion Report
Kingdom of Morocco
Greater Casablanca Sewerage Project
(Loan 2826-MOR)
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
RAD: Technical assistance
Study and Purpose                    Status                            Impact
TA and training for RAD        TA was provided to RAD by an    Helped RAD to manage project. Training
personnel by a sewerage        operating company from 1987-    component was weak (only 9 percent of
specialist company to help RAD    1994, for 425 man-months, same   total time). Informal training effect
develop its sewerage           as called for in SAR (420)     resulted from direct contact between
management capacity                                           experts and RAD personnel.
Study for Greater Casablanca   3 of 5 tasks were achieved. Task   Promoted thinking on waste water
Antipollution System Master Plan  relating to Master Plan itself was   discharge elimination but did not resolve
not achieved, and that relating to   problem. Not only was study not fnished
supporting measures was not   (basic assumptions were rejected) but
undertaken. Project manager, on   urban data were changed (mosque district
advice of TA company, rejected   and Mohammedia). RAD has assigned
basic assumptions already      study to another consultant to determine
accepted by previous mission.  discharge elimination options. Rest of
Contract canceled after 4 12 years  study must be updated.
Study of priority section of   Study not completed. Contract    No positive impact.
Greater Casablanca Antipollution  canceled after 3 years, due to
System                         changes in mosque district and
Mohammedia.
Environmental impact study of    Not done
Greater Casablanca Antipollution
System
Topographical mapping for sewer  Done                         Improved knowledge of network in areas
rehabilitation in low-lying areas                             studied, but not followed by any major
of Mohammedia - Ain Sebaa -                                   rehabilitation program. No provision for
Bemoussa                                                      updating maps.
APS + DCE sector study for Hay  Underway. Two first tasks     Part of study was used for work in Sidi
Hassani Northwest-Route d'El    completed. Third (last) task more  El Khadir, Dar Bouazza East and Oulfa
Jadida-Dar Bouazza-East. Lot    than 90 percent complete.     sectors. Rest of study is in projects bank.
Nl.
APS + DCE sector study for Sidi  Completed.                   Minor portion of study was used for
Moumen East - Mellil North. Lot                               works at Sidi Barnoussi. Rest of study is
No 2.                                                         in projects bank.
APS + DCE sector study for Ain   Completed.                   Part of study used for Ain Harrouda
Harrouda. Lot NO 3.                                           transfer project. Rest of study is in
projects bank.
APS + DCE sector study for     Underway. Pending preparation   Projects bank.
Mohammedia - Ben Yakhlef. Lot  of fnal bidding documents.
NO 4
APS + DEC sector study for Dar   Study suspended at provisional    No positive impact
Bouazza Coastal sector. Lot N 5. APS stage
APS + DCE study of Bouskra-    Study suspended at provisional    No positive impact.
Oueled Salah sector. Lot NO 6.    APS stage.                 I



- 21 -
Table 6: Continued
Regies
RED - Sewerage master plan    Completed                     Sewerage works planning and management
study for Rabat                                             document in hand. Some rehabilitation
work has been based on study.
RAMSA - Sewerage master plan   Completed                    Sewerage service transferred from
study for Agadir                                            municipality to Regie in Jan. 1992.
Sewerage works about to begin. Sewerage
works planning and management document
in hand.
RAID - Sewerage master plan   Completed                     Sewerage works planning and management
study for Tangier                                           document in hand. Sewerage service will
soon be transferred to the Regie.
RADEEC - Sewerage master plan  Completed                    Study underway to prepare detailed design,
study for Settat                                            financed outside loan 2826-MOR.
RADEEN - Sewerage master plan  Completed                    Sewerage works planning and management
study for Greater Nador                                     document in hand
RADEEMA - Sewerage master    Completed                      Study underway to prepare bidding
plan study for Marrakech                                    documents for a sewerage project. Loan
negotiated with EIB. Sewerage works
planning and management document in
hand. Sewerage service will soon be
transferred to the Regie.
RADEM - Sewerage master plan   Completed                    Sewerage works planning and management
study for Meknes                                            document in hand. Sewerage service will
soon be transferred to the Rfgie.
RADEEF - Sewerage master plan  Completed: Institutional study  Work for one sewer section is at
study for Greater Fes.        and cost recovery component not  implementation study stage, for fmancing
accepted.                     under IBRD Second Project and CFD.
Sewerage works planning and management
document in hand. Sewerage service was
transferred to the Regie in Jan. 1996.
RAMSA: Consultant services to   Completed                   Study provided a further opinion on the
evaluate waste water treatment                              question.
proposals for Agadir
RAD: Consultant services to   Completed                     Study provided a further opinion on the
evaluate waste water treatment                              question
proposals for Casablanca
Task A: Research and critical analysis of existing data
Task B: Identification of variants.
Task C: Comparison of variants.
Task D: Master Plan
Task E: Preliminary design study of priority section.
Task F: Institutional and cost recovery study.



Table 7: Project Costs and Financing
(in US $ millions)
Appraisal estimate                      Actual               Completion    Bank
Local    Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign     Total      Rates      Loan
Greater Casablanca                 78.12     26.28     104.40     57.54     23.11     80.65     77.25%      37.21
I - Replacement of Sewers &
Pumping Stations (RAD)             67.14      16.64     83.78     52.03      3.70     55.73     66.52%      28.05
II - Supply of Equipment (RAD)      4.57      3.88      8.45      4.21       5.23      9.44     111.72%     -0.99
III-Technical Assistance            6.41      5.76      12.17      1.30     14.18     15.48     127.20%     -3.31
R6fies SeweraEe Studies             5.39      7.12      12.51     0.75       9.70     10.45       0.84      9.70
RED                            1.51      1.95      3.46      0.06       1.83      1.89     54.62%      1.83
RAMSA                          0.58      0.77      1.35      0.03       1.17      1.20     88.89%       1i .17
RAID                __|_ 0.63            0.83      1.46      0.04       1.90      1.94     132.88%      1.90
RADEEC                         0.28      0.39      0.67      0.06      0.57       0.63     94.03%      0.57
RADEEN                         0.28      0.39      0.67      0.14      0.60       0.74     110.45%     0.60
RADEEMA                        0.63      0.84      1.47      0.04      0.98       1.02     69.39%      0.98
RADEEM                         0.66      0.87      1.53      0.08      1.10       1.18     77.12%       1.10
RADEEF                         0.82      1.08      1.90      0.30       1.55      1.85     97.37%      1.55
Total                              83.51      33.40    116.91     58.29    32.810     91.10     77.92%      46.90



-23 -
Implementation Completion Report
Kingdom of Morocco
Greater Casablanca Sewerage Project
(Loan 2826-MOR)
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan         Covenant type      Present    Fulfillment      Description               Comments
Reference                       Status      Date
Loan         Financial          NC          N/A             Special Account to be at  GOM responsible for S.A
Agreement                                                   Central
II b                                                        Bank.
L.A          Audit/Accounts     CD          N/A             Submission of audit reports  Ministry of Interior, Regies
IV (b.ii)                                                   not later than six months  responsible for
after the end of each fiscal   audit reports
year.
L.A.          Implementation    C           03/88           Agreement between GOM    GOM & Regies were
Sc l(b) (i)    Operational                  09/88           and                       responsible for such an
1989           every Regie involved in the  agreement. However subject to
1994            project.                  delays.
L.A.          Financial         NC          N/A             Loan agreements to be
Sc I (b) (ii)                                               signed
between Regies and FEC
L.A.          Implementation    CD          04/89           Recruiting of Consultants    Delays in studies and selection
Section 3.03   Operational                  06/89,09/89     for                       of consultants
11/89,01/90     project and feasibility
01/91,02/94     studies
04/95.
L.A          Implementation     CD          06/3011990.     Studies included in section   Regies were responsible
Section 3.03   Operational                  05/93           B of L.A are to be        for studies.
& P.A                                       07/95           completed and sent to the    Delays occurred.
section 2.03                                                Bank including all
recommendations
L.A          Implementation     C           01/91           The Borrower shall        Implementation of
Section 3.03   Operational                                 implement all              management and accounting
recommendations (of       study recommendations
studies)as mentioned in
L.A Sc 3.03 & PA Sc 2.03



- 24 -
Table 8: Continued
L.A           Financial          C           covenant fulfilled  The Borrower must make sure that    Regies provided
Section 4.02   account/audit                 yearly            municipalities include, in their    counterpart funds
accounts and budgets, the debt     and bear the debt
service of the loan                service of the loan.
L.A           Financial          CD          Complied with in  Payables dues to RAD by             delays in compliance,
Section 4.03                                 1988 and 1993     institutions and Public enterprises  new procedures
must be settled by 04/30/88       implemented. C.L
arrears are
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   b u il d i ngn u p
L.A           Financial          CD, CP.                        Public Enterprises must pay RAD's   Complied with
Section 4.03                                                   sewerage services within 90 days
P.A           Management and    CD           Quarterly         RAD shall provide the Bank as well   Complied with
Section 2.04   operations                                      as the GOM, a progress report on
project operations (quarterly).
P.A IV (b)    Financial review   CD          Yearly             Submission of audit reports not later  RAD and GOM
(ii)          account/audit                                    than six months after the end of each  responsibility.
fiscal year.                       Compliance was
delayed. Ad hoc
audit unit created.
Audit reports up to
date. Reserve opinion
P.A           Financial          C           Yearly            Internal cash generation ratio should   Complied with
Section 4.02   performance                                     equal or greater than 40 percent,
Covenant types that apply:
I.      Accounts/audits
2.      Financial performance
3.      Flow and utilization of project funds
4.      Counterpart funding
5.      Management aspects of the project or the executing agency
9.      Monitoring, review and reporting
10.     Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11.     Sectoral or cross sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12.     sectoral or cross sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13.     Other.
Status:
C       = Complied with
CD      = Compliance after delay
CP      = Complied with partially
NC      = Not complied with



-25 -
Implementation Completion Report
Kingdom of Morocco
Greater Casablanca Sewerage Project
(Loan 2826-MOR)
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Input
Stage of Project Cycle  Estimated    Actual weeks    Estimated      Actual
weeks                       US $          US $
Through Appraisal         N/A            40            N/A        37,600.00
Appraisal-Board           N/A            33.4          N/A        79,900.00
Board Effectiveness       N/A            7.1           N/A        29,800.00
Supervision               N/A           137.5          N/A        469,000.00
Completion                 6.0           6.0         7,900.00      6,900.00
Total                |   236.4           224        674,800.00    623,200.00



- 26 -
Implementation Completion Report
Kingdom of Morocco
Greater Casablanca Sewerage Project
(Loan 2826-MOR)
Table 10: Bank Resources -- Missions
Stage of Project    Fiscal     No. of   Staff-Weeks in     Specialized Staff Skills Represented
Cycle               Year       Persons  Field
Through Appraisal    1985-87    15       53.9              Financial Analyst, Economist, Sanitary
Engineer, Procurement Specialist,
____ _   _Financial Specialist, Consultants,
Appraisal through   1987        9.       48.9              Procurement Specialist, Financial
Board Approval                                             Specialist Economist, Financial Analyst,
Consultants.
Supervision         1987       2         0.9               Consultants, Project TM
Procurement Specialist
1987-88    6        24.1              Financial Analyst, Consultants,
Procurement Specialist, Economist,
Sanitary Engineer.
1989       3        18.5              Financial Analyst (TM), Procurement
Specialist, Sanitary Engineer,
1990       3        11.2              Procurement Specialist, Financial
Specialist, Sanitary Engineer.
1991       2        16.6              Task Manager (Financial Analyst).
Procurement Specialist
1992       6        15.6              Financial Analyst (TM), Sanitary
Engineer, Procurement Specialist
Consultants
1993       3        10.0              Financial Analyst (TM), Sanitary
Engineer, Consultant
1994       3        8.9               Financial Analyst (TM), Sanitary
Engineer,
Procurement Specialist
1995       2        9.7               Financial Analyst (TM), Sanitary
Engineer,
1996       3        7.3               Financial Analyst (TM), Sanitary
Engineer,
Procurement Specialist
1997       2        14.7              Financial Analyst (TM), Sanitary
Engineer,
Completion/         1998        5        2.7               Financial Analyst (TM), Sanitary
Closing                                                    Engineer,
Consultants



- 27 -
ANNEX: Borrower's Contribution to the Report



INTRODUCTION
Face a l'urbanisation et le d6veloppement industriel rapides que
connaissent certaines agglom6rations, les autorites gouverinementales, en
association avec les collectivites locales, ont mene une reflexion tenidant A
definir une -politique globale et coherente en matiere d'assainissement
liquide au Maroc, l'objectif etant de doter ce secteur de moyens techniques
et de ressources fmancieres necessaires a son developpement et a sa bonne
gestion. Ces tendances ont e- confirmees dans la declaration de politique
generale adressee par le Gouvemement Marocain a la Banque Mondiale en
1987 dans le cadre des negociations relatives au financement dii projet
d'assainissement liquide: Pret 2826 MOR.
10/ DESCRIPTION DU- PROJET
Ce projet comprend deux parties:
Partie A: RAD
Renouvellenient des egouts et des stations de pompage:
Renouvellement d'environ 60 Km d'egout primaire, secondaire et
tertiaire et de 3 stations de pompage a Mohammedia, Ain Sebai et dans la
zone industrielle Est de Casablanca.
Rehabilitation des reseaux d'6aout:
Rfhabiliation et r6paratidn dSemviron  1 Km  des deuix grands
collecteurs dans le centre de la uille de Casablanca.
Inspection, nettovage et recollement d'environ 1.000 Km de reseaux
d'egout et d!ouvrages annexes dans le Grand Casablanca.



Construction de reseaux d'egout:
Construction d!environ 410 Km de nouveaux egouits et de deversoirs
d'orage.
Acquisition de materiel et d'&quipement:
Acquisition de materiel et d'equipement d'exploitation et d'entretien,
de matenel didactique et de vehicules et engin requis par le service
d'assainissement de la RAD.
Assistance Technique:
Execution dun programme d!assistance technique et de formation
professionnelle pour aider a developper les comp6tences de la RAD dans le
domaine de la gestion de 1'assainissement.
Realisation d6tudes de faisabilite d'assainissement.
Partie B : R6gies
Preparation  d'etudes  de  faisabilite  et de  plans  directeurs
d'assainissement, de projets d'execution, de documents d'appels d'offres et
d'etudes fmancieres, institutionnelles et de formations professionnelles pour
les agglomerations de Fes, Marrakech, Meknes, Rabat, Tanger, Agadir,
Settat et Nador.
20/ OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
Ce projet a pour objectifs:
Eviter une deterioration des reseaux d'egouts existants dans la
region du graiid Casablanca.



Repondre progressivement a l'augmentation de la demande des
particuliers et des industriels pour la collecte des eaux usees et pluviales.
Identifier la solution optimale du point de vue technique,
economique et financier, l'interception, 1'epuration, le rejet et la reutilisation
eventuelle des eaux en vue de r6duire l1'effet induit de pollution sur
l'environnement.
Prevoir une exploitation et un entretien efficace des installations
d'assainissement ainsi que la normalisation de la conception et de
l'execution des travaux y afferents.
Promouvoir la creation et le developpement de structures
institutionnelles, financieres et techniques appropriees pour gerer les
services dassainissement dans les centres urbains.
30/ ENTREE EN VIGUEUR ET DEMARRAGE DU PROJET
SIGNATURE DU PRET
La signature de l'accord de pret entre le Gouvernement
Marocain et la Banque Mondiale a eu lieu le 27 Juillet 1987.
CONTRATS SUBSIDIAIRES
Les contrats subsidiaires, entre le Gouvernement et chacune des
regies beneficiaire dii pret, ont ete signes au courant du mois de Septembre
1988.
ENTREE EN VIGUEUR
L'accord de pret est entre en vigueur le 14 Octobre 1988.



DEMARRAGE DU PROJET
Le projet a demare i partir du mois de Juin 1989 avec le
commencement des etudes des schemas directeurs d'assainissement des
villes d'Agadir et Settat. Les dates de demarrage ainsi que les delais
d'ex6cution pour chacune des regies sont comne suit:
REGIE      DEMARRAGE   DELAIS  DUREE
RADEEM        14/0411995    1 15 mois  17 mois
RADEEC       26/06/1989       12 mois  47 mois|
RAMSA        26/06/1989 9     12 mois  26 mois
RAII_        29/09/1989 -   18 mois  30 mois
RADEEMA   01/11/1989          18 mois  26 mois
RED           15/01/1990      22 mois  56 mois|
RADEEN       01/02/1990       14 mois  41 mois
RADEEF        14/01/1991      20 mois  30 mois
D61ais= delais contractuel
Dur6e= dur6e reelle d!ex6cution
Cependant, le calendrier d'execution des projets a varie d'une r6gie a
une autre en fonction de son organisation interne d'une part et de son
environnement externe d'autre part.
Concernant la RADEEF, le groupement BALFOUR - MAUNSELL -
MAGHREB PROJET n'a pas termine l'6tude du schema directeur
d'assainissement. En etfet, elle a et reprise par SEM-ISKANE en date du ler
septembre 1994 pour un delai contractuel de huit mois.
S'agissant de la RED. 1P6tude du plan directeur qui a e  confiee au
groupement LAVALIN INTERNATIONAL - MAROC DEVELOPPEMENT -
EQUITER a coinn plusieurs arr6ts a cause dii non respect du cahier des charges.



Pour la RADEEM, le retard enregistre dans le demarrage des etudes
est dfi essentiellement au retard de la municipalite pour confler les etudes a la
RADEEM.
40/ COUT DU PROJET
REGIE           MONTANT DU PROJET             TOTAL EN
DIRHAMS        DEVISES          DIRHAMS
RAID                5.480.086,00 40.225.178,4BEF     16.246.473,00
RED                 6.643.914,78 1.315.990,25 $C     15.786.054,00
RADEEF              6.061.569,99    448.400,57 LS    13.905.657,14
382.673,16 FF               i:
RAMSA               6.920.789,36  986.078,29 FH      11.318.940,04
6.631,90 $US                i
RADEEM              7.651.842,34   899.453,10 FS    14.107.499-041
RADEEMA             3.986.980,02! 3.082.178,59 FF     8.842.212,12
RADEEN              3.759.004,00' 246.794,23 FS       5.091.695,00
RADEEC              2.282.833,96   429.831,21 FS     4.989.826,99
Ces coats sont hors taxes et droits de douane.
BEF: Franc Beige
$C: Dollar Canadien
S:  Livre Sterling
FF:  Franc Fran9ais
FH: Florin Hollandais
FS:  Franc Suisse
$US: Dollars US
50/ SITUATION DES DECAISSEMENTS
Les decaissements cumules au 31 Juillet 1997 ont atteint un montant
de 9.598.209,44 $US. soit 86,47% du montant alloue. La situation par regie est
comme suit:



REGIE    I MONTANT   DECAISSEMENT   RELIQUAT -    o1
K  ALLOUE                                        72
RAID _          2.600.000.00     1.876.438.29j    765.562,11   72
RED             2.530.000,00     1.838.917,61    691.08239    73
RADEEF          1.550.000,00     1.547.849.28      2.150.721  100
RAMSA            1.140.000,00    1.121.670,53     18.329,47   98
RADEEM           1.110.000,00    1.104.342,93      5.657,07   99
RADEEMA          1.000.000,00      982.293,37     17.706,63    98
RADEEN            600.000,00       599.023,78        97622j  100
RADEEC       1   570.000 00        569.674.0O5       325.95   100
'TOTAL        111.100.000,00      9.598.209,441  1.501.790,561  861
II est a signaler que le montant non affeWte s'elve a 170.000,00 $'US.
601 SOURCES DE FINANCEMENT
Les etudes des schemas directeurs ont ete financ6es principalement
par le biais du pr8t 2826 MOR. Cependant, pour certaines regies, 1'enveloppe qui
leur a ete allouee a et6 insuffisante par rapport au coit ce qui a ramene les regies a
faire appel a leur financement propre. A noter egalement que la RADEEM a
epuise sur le pret 3664 MOR relatifau SPEP pour compl6ter 1'etude du sch6ma
directeur d'assainissement
EN DH
REGIE       | COUT DU PROJET HI    PART BERD      AUTOFINANCEMENT
RAID               16.246.473,00     16.246.473.001              0,00!
RED                15.786.054,00     15.786.054,00               0,00
RADEEF             13.905.657,14      7.844.087,15       6.061.569,991
RAMSA              11.318.940,04      9.350.735,05s      1.968.204,99
RADEEM             14.107.499,04      9.516.646,411      4.590.852,63
RADEEMA             8.842.212.122     8.842.212,121              0,001
RADEEN               5.091.695.00:    5.091,695,001              0,00
RADIEEC    I        4.989.826.99I    4.989.826.99                0,00



70/ TRANSFERT DE LA GESTION D'ASSAINISSEMENT A LA REGIE
A 1'exception de la RAD de Casablanca, de la RAMSA d'Agadir et de
la RADEEF de FES qui assurent actuellement la gestion du reseau
d'assainissement, les autres regies nont pas encore pris en charge ce service dans
les villes concernees.
Neanmoins, pour la RADEEMA de Marrakech, la RAID de Tanger et
la  RADEEM  de Mekies, les cahiers des charges ont ete approuves par les
communes concernes et sonit actuellement en cours d'approbation par le Ministere
de l'Interieur.
Pour la RED de Rabat-SaI6, 15 communes ont delib6re pour le
transfert de l'assainissement A la regie et pour les 4 autres communes la decision a
ei reportee.
S'agissant de la RADEEC de Settat, la commune a donne son accord
de principe pour le transfert de la gestion d'assainissement a la regie A condition de
proceder  a l'actualisation des etudes institutionnelles, organisationelles et
tarifaires.
80/ IMPACT SUR L'ENVIRONNEMENT
Les etudes des schemas directeurs d'assainissement ont porte sur:
- la protection de la ville contre les inondations;
- l'amelioration des conditions sanitaires des citoyens;
- la protection de la nappe phreatique;
- la protection des sites touristiques;
- la depollution des oueds;
- la reutilisation des eaux 6purees.



90/ RELATIONS AVEC LA BANQUE MONDIALE
Les relations avec la BIRD ont permis, durant les diff6rentes phases
du projet (identification. evaluation et execution), d'&tablir   une certainie
collaboration entre les diff6rents intervenants dans le secteur. En outre, les regies
ont benefici6 de l'assistance de la BIRD dans les domaines techniques et financiers
par le renforcement des structures institutionnelles ce qui va leur permettre de
gerer leur programme de developpement dans de bonnes conditions d'economie et
d'efficacite et d'atteindre les objectifs fixes au niveau des performances techniques.
administratives et financieres.
Cependant, le cofit des charges financieres reste excessif en ce qui
concerne les commissions d'engagement et les taux d'interet. En effet les
commissions d'engagement sont calculees a partir du montant global du pr81 non
dicaiss6, alors que des previsions annuelles de decaissement sont etablies avant
les negociations et pourrait 8tre la base du calcul de ces commissions. I1 est de
m8me pour le couit des inter8ts financiers qui ne sont pas assortis de bonification
malgr6 le caractere social du projet.
En outre la proc6dure de decaissement est lourde puisqu'elle fait appel
A plusieurs intervenants (MinistWre des Fiances, Bank Almaghrib, Tresorerie
Generale ... etc) ce qui entraine des surcouts.



ANNEX: REPORT PREPARED BY THE BORROWER
RAPPORT D'.ACHEVEMENT
PRET 2826 MOR
NOTE DE SYNTHESE
I/ PRESENTATION DU PROJET:
Le pret 2826 MOR octroye par la BI.R,D a la R.A.D a pour objet de financer les rubriques
suivantes:
* Remplacement des egouts et stations de pompage:
* Rehabilitation des 6gouts;
* Construction de r6seaux d'egouts
* Fourmiture de materiel;
* Services de consultants.
Le couit total de ces projets etait evalue a: 116,91 MDH.
Ill EXECUTION DU PROJET
Le projet devait s'etaler de 1987 a 1995. Sa realisation a accuse beaucoup de retard au debut
pour des raisons principalement d'ordre administratif ( lancement des appels d'offes,
approbations des dossiers par la BIRD, delai de signature des march6s par le controleur
financier...).
Nous passons en revue, ci-apres, les differentes composantes du projet:
* Remplacement des egouts et des stations de yomoages:
L'avant projet sommaire relatif a la rehabilitation des zones basses d'Ain Sebaa, Sidi Bemoussi
et NMohammedia a 6te achevM.
Par contre, I'avant projet detaille et le dossier de consultation des entreprises necessaires au
cormmencement des travaux, sont tributaires des travaux topographiques, qui ont accuse un
retard considerable, ce qui a entrave le lancement des appels d'offres relatifs aux travaux de
rehabilitation .
* Rehabilitation d'62outs:
* La rehabilitation et la reparation qui d'environ un Kilometre de deux grands collecteurs dans
le centre vile de Casablanca n'a pas ete realise.



* Le marche relatif a l'inspection, le nettoyage et les lev6 de cartes d'environ 1000 Km de
reseau d'6gout dans le Grand Casablanca n'a pas ete adjuge.
* Le projet concemnant la rehabilitation d'environ 200 Km d'egouts secondaires et tertaires a
ete abandonn6 a cause de l'acquisition des hydrocureuses et du mat6riel d'exploitation
necessaire a cette operation.
* Amenagement de r6seaux d'eWouts:
Dans le cadre de cette rubnique, la Rad a entame des travaux impoitants relatifs a la fourniture
et construction de nouveaux collecteurs et des ouvrages annexes dans les secteurs suivants:
1. Travaux acheves:
- centre de Mediouna
- centre de Tit Melil
- centre de Sidi Mairouf
- piste Taddert a Ain Chock
- secteur de Sidi Moumen: Collecteur U14 Fet U141F
- secteur Alia Mohammedia : collecteur G
- secteur Ain Chock sud: Collecteur 201B
- Marche cadre: Prefecture Casa Anfa
- Marche cadre: Prefecture Am Chock Hay Hassani
- Marche cadre : Prefecture Ben M'sick Sidi Othmane
- Marche cadre: Prefecture Ain Sebai- Hay Mohanimadi
- Marche cadre: Pr6fecture Mohammedia
2. Travaux en phase finale:
- Secteur Ain Diab
- Secteur Sidi El khadir
- Secteur Oulfa
- Secteur Sidi El bemoussi Est
- Secteur Ain Harrouda
- Antipollution de la ville de Mohamnnedia .
Les projets de cette composante sont accomplis.
* Fournitures de materiel:
Dans cette composante du pret, la RAD a pu acqu6fir du materiel d'exploitation et des
vehicules pour renforcer les moyens techniques du departement assainissement:



1. Vehicules de transport et d'entretien:
- 8 camions Bennes
- 25 fourgons de transport
- 6 vehicules Pick up
- 15 hydrocureuses
- 5 cureuses
- 6 camions multibennes
- 2 camions citernes
2. Fournitures de tyaux de fonte:
- Tuyautx CAO de diametre 300mm a 1000mm
- Tuyaux Amiante ciment de diametre 150mm a 300mm
- Pieces en fonte
* Services:
- Prestation de services d'assistance technique et de formation:
La RAD a passe une convention avec la Lyonnaise des Eaux pour aider la Regie a d6velopper
sa capacit6 de gestion de l'assainissement et la rnise en place d'une structure administrative et
technique du departement assainissement.
Cette convention a dure sept ans.
- Realisation d'etude de faisabilite de I'assainissement:
La RAD a fait appel a un certain nombre de consultants pour la realisation des etudes
d'execution et de preparation des dossiers de consultation des entreprises:
- Etude du sh6ma directeur du syst6me anti pollution du grand casablanca
- Etude de la tranche prioritaire du systeme antipollution
- Etude d'assainissement du secteur Hay Hassani Nord et Dar Bouazza est (1 500ha)
- Etude d'assainissement du secteur Sidi Moumen est - Tit Mellil nord (600ha)
- Etude d'assainissement Ain Harrouda (1200ha)
- Etude d'assainissement Mohammedia est -Beni Yakhlef (800ha)
-Etude d'assainissement zones c6tieres Dar Bouazza (900ha)
- Etude d' assainissement du secteur Bouskoura Ouled Saleh (600ha)
IIL FLiNANCEIENT DU PROJET:
Le financement du projet R.A.D devait etre assure par le pret BIRD 2826 MOR a concurrence
de 45.000.000 S IJ.S. une allocation supplementaire de 3.730.000.00S a porte ce montant a
48.730.000,00).



Le contrat de pret global a ete signe le 27 Juillet 1987 et le contrat subsidiaire le 31 Mai 1988.
La cl6ture du pret arretee initialement au 30 Juin 1995 a ete reportee successivement au 30
Juin 1996 et 30 juin 1997.
* TAUX DE FINANCEMENT
les taux de financement vaiient entre 35% et 100% en fonction des composantes et de la
monnaie du projet.
Des modifications de ces taux ont ete accordees aux Regies:
* service de consultant: 100% H.T au lieu de 65%
* travaux prevus a la partie A (b) du projet: 60% au lieu de 35%. ce taux a ete porte
en 1997 a 70%.
* fournitures part locale: 80 % au lieu de 35% en 1997.
* MODALITES DE REMBOURSEMENT:
Dur6e: 14 ans
TauZx d'inter&: variable
Commissions d'engagement: 0,75 %
Delai de grace: 5 ans
* FINANCEMENT REALISE:
Le montant decaisse au 30 juin 1997 est de 34.765.177,19 S.
Ce montant peut evoluer jusqu'au 30 Octobre 1997 .



MAP SECTION



IBRD 19884R
12o                                                                   -                                 w                                 4'
lEil   r    oTETOUAN
MOROCCO                                                                                                    A, (.h   r   o
GREATER CASABLANCA                                                                          /                                                         AL HOCLIMA                  NADOR
LOCATION OF PROJECT AREAS                                                                                           L.-och a
PROJECT AREAS                                                                                                         E
SEWERAGE MASTER PLAN STUDIES                                                                                                                                                         OUJDA
ROE  REGIES
G   HEADQUARTERS OF REGIES
S   PROVINCE CENTERS SERVED BY REGIES                                                                 KEN11RA   RA         RADEM
MOUNTAINS                                                                                          S.      le 4.                                    l!
ISOHYET                                                                                                       KIEMI 7RET\
RIVERS AND WADIS                                                                                                                        *SI;
FEE  PROVINCE CAPITALS'                                                                                 r                                          UULE/ 
RABAT NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                        5         ] bFA IF)-                                     EMAIJE
-      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                 Aze--o-<    i         .        i
INTERNATfONAL BOUNDARY                                           EL JA=IDAE E
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY (APPROXIMATE)                                             SETTATO                                 EA\
>  /    <        j        ntl9 ISF LAI ;N \    \     g     z/ I I                                                   I N  JIA
eEl S --e
~~~~~~~ O~~~~~~~~~~~~SAFI                                                <.                           [AX             i      i\_                                                              _       _
IRAES    Yus0                                          t    k  S                       N.        .
*Scb zouL~~~~~~1 I [ES SRRNL\"LLu                                             oERR,,(-H1DAJ
Tamonar a } i vl~~~~~.~                     RADEETkl./    
ESSAOUIRA          ! X o           p               ,:!_ r    ,   /   - E                                                                       A L G E R I A
ESAORA         I0 \  G -                                       -'          /       '
<- _.-_ .H..... ..... -  R( IAZATELGE6
0            So          E 700 E      3T0              AGADIK                             i
IILDMETERS                                       *   M IIA
TIZI'VI       \                oTATA                                                                                                                            M   19'*
I  2 \  8  R 40 * > > * nCX ~~~~~~~~~~~ j - -T- ~~~~~ ; . .= T.F iN AOf MAY I 987~~~~~MA 19



IBRD 19885
MOROCCO
GREATER CASABLANCA SEWERAGE PROJECT
CASABLANCA PROJECT AREA
EL HANK.
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.                                                                                                                         P/OPOSED PROJECTA                                     GENERAL
hP&FA-  i.                                                               '                                                                         0 E.im p.ngim, -,i-r.plocezprr.-1                   Sto-  I        L-mnin oi (d s-sd ory
r                                                                                             _    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S-s=E. ond d-=im.g. es--n ~s  .... .. .eIFt  eeaed d-m-oeora
MiOROCCOoO _m    ._Mi swr.d droioge...n                                                                                                                                                                  F-, -mai 5ewer ond drons
__----- __     ALGERIA                                                                                                                                                                                          M.-i  roods
MAU RITANIA    MALI>-s                                                              .sXonfC/T.W  1,    ;    an5so ntsmnMn1SpnhSh  W  enSho
NOVEM8ER 19B6



