R ESTR I CTED
FILE        COPY xJReport No. P-609
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION
GUATEMALA
June 6, 1968



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AiD DEVELOPIVENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION, GUATEWMLA
1.        I submit the followsing report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$7.0 million to
the Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion (INDE).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The proposed project is the second power project for which finan-
cial assistance would be given to INDE, an autonomous Government corpora-
tion responsible for promoting electric power development in Guatemala.
The first loan, made in 1967, helped finance the Jur'un-Marinalg hydro-
electric project and included in it was an amount to finance consultant's
services for the feasibility studies for the proposed steam-electric power
station. This project was appraised in October 1967 and negotiations took
place in Washington on May 15 through May 21, 1968.  INDE was represented
by Mr. Manlio Giracca, President, Mr. Roland Castillo Contoux, General
Manager and Mr. Jorge Lemus, Loan Officer. Representing the Government of
Guatemala as Guarantor were Mr. Jose Luis Samayoa, Disbursements Officer
and Mr. Gert Rosenthal, specially designated by the Finance Minister to
assist in the negotiation.
3.        The proposed loan, the third made for Guatemala, would increase
the Bank's total lending to Guatemala to US$40.2 million (net of cancel-
ations). IDA has not made any credits to Guatemala. The followring is a
summary statement of Bank loans to Guatemala as of April 30, 1968:
US$ Million
Loan or
Credit    Year      Borrower              Purpose        Bank Undisbursed
Number
124     1955    Republic of Guatemala   Roads          18.2        -
487     1967    INDE                     Power         15.0      12.7
Total (less cancellations)                     33.2
of which has been rapaid to Bank and others   13.5
Total now outstanding                          19.7
Amount sold                  2.8
of which has been repaid   2.1                0.7
Total now held by Bank                         19.0
Total undisbursed                                        12.7



4.        IFC made one investment of US$200,000 in a flour mill in Guatemala,
of which it sold $134,000 and the balance was repaid to the Corporation.
5.        An education project has been appraised and we expect to present
a loan for it to the Executive Directors in the near future.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
6.        Borrower:           Instituto Nacional de Electrificaci6n (INDE).
Guarantor:          Republic of Guatemala.
Amount:             The equivalent in various currencies of
US$7.0 million.
Purpose:            To assist in financing a 33 MW steam-electric
power station at the Guacalate plant site and
in completing the studies for the Atitlan
Hydroelectric Scheme.
Amortization:       Principal repayments semi-annually from
January 1, 1972 to July 1, 1991.
Interest Rate:      6-1/4 percent per annum.
Commitment Charge:  3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        An appraisal report entitled "Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion
- Guacalate Power Project (TO-625a) is attached.
8.        Guatemala's power market is organized into Central, Eastern,
Western and Atlantic regions. Guatemala City is the load center of the
Central Region, which accounts for about 80 percent of total consumption
in the country. Although the development of all future electric power
generating plans has been entrusted by law to INDE, the Empresa Electrica
de Guatemala (EEG), a private company operating under a 50-year concession
granted in 1922, is the principal distributor of power generated by INDE
in the Central Region. The project which the proposed loan would help
finance would increase INDE's present generating capacity from about 50 MW
to about 83 4W.
9.        INDE, which would be responsible for the execution of the project,
is an autonomous Government agency created in 1959 for the purpose of
developing Guatemala's electric power resources. Its chief executive is
the General Manager, who carries out his responsibilities in accordance



with policies determined by a Board of Directors consisting of eight
professional men appointed by the Chief of Government through the Minister
of Communications and Public Works. With the assistance of consultants,
which it has agreed to retain, INDE's present organization should be able
to execute the project satisfactorily.
10.       The project proposed for Bank finance consists of (a) the con-
struction of a steam electric generating station with one unit of about
33 NW at the Guacalate generating steam plant site and all ancillary
installations; and (b) consultant's services for site investigations,
pre-investment studies and design of the first stage of the Atitl.an.
Hydroelectric Project.
11.       Total project cost is estimated at US$8.9 million, including
interest during construction. The foreign exchange component is estimated
at US$7.0 million which would be covered by the proposed Bank loan. The
balance representing the local currency cost would be covered by INDE's
retained earnings and by Government contributions.
12.       The project ranks high in priority in the country's economic
development plans. The load in the Central Region has grown at a rate of
about 13 percent annually in recent years. For the period 1968-71, this
rate of growth is expected to continue, and the project is an important
part of the program to meet these needs. Even assuming that the Jurun-
Marinala hydroelectric project and the proposed Guacalate power project
come into service in 1970, INDE's power reserve position will still be
unsatisfactory until the contemplated hydroelectric project at Lake Atitlan
is put into service.
13.       Contracts for all work other than consultants' services financed
by the proposed loan would be awarded on the basis of international can-
petitive bidding. Consultants' services would be cbtained in accordance
with conventional procedures as approved by the Bank. Disbursements would
be for the foreign currency costs of imported equipment and services only.
Expenditures prior to the date of the loan would not be eligible for
reimbursement.
14.       INDE's financial position is satisfactory.   It is expected to
earn a rate of return on its average net fixed assets in operation of at
least 10 percent from 1968 through 1972. With the help of Government
contributions to its equity and increasing revenues from its expanding
operations, INDE should be able to finance about 20 percent of its large
capital requirements during the next few years.



- 4 -
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
15.       The draft Loan Agreement between INDE and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement betueen the Republic of Guatemala and the Bank, which
contain the covenants normally utilized for power projects, as well as the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
16.       Guatemalats economy has been almost stagnant in the last several
years. An average annual growth rate of about 4.4 percent combined with a
population increase of 3.1 percent annually in the same period to keep per
capita income growth at an average of only 1.I percent per annum during
1960-67.  The last Bank report on Guatemala (WH-178b, May 6, 1968) clearly
identified the main problems of Guatemala's economy and the main issues
of investment, financial and balance of payments policies confronting the
authorities. Political instability prevented expansion of the country' s
exports in the earlier years of this decade, when external market conditions
for its principal crops were favorable. In 1967 weakening coffee and
cotton prices and production problems in cotton resulted in severe reduction
of total exports. Estimates for 1968 indicate exports still slightly
below the level reached in 1966.
17.       Government finances followed the same pattern as general economic
growth. Total revenues declined in the early years of this decade, increased
substantially in 1964 and 1965 and remained stagnant in the last two years.
Public savings net of amortization have been insufficient to support an
adequate public investment level. The constitutional government, which
took office in July 1966, faced with serious problems of public order and
distrust from the conservative classes and the army, has followed a
gradualistic approach in which the preservation of parliamentary rule is
a basic consideration, and its economic policies have been rather timid.
18.       The Government has nevertheless succeeded in raising somewhat
public investments, negotiating substantial amounts of long-term development
loans and arresting the rapid growth of non-developmental current expendi-
tures and short-term borrowing abroad. The Bank's mission that visited
the country last April was satisfied that the Government has maintained
the investment program and the financing plan for 1968 contained in the
budget prepared by the previous Minister of Finance, which had been approved
by Congress. The budget reduces current expenditures by 10 percent from
the previous level and increases revenues by about $10 million. Public
savings net of amortization, although still low, will be about $8 million,
compared to negative savings of nearly $4 million in 1967. The rest of



the local financing of the 1968 investment program will be provided
by internal borrowing approximately equal to the amount of internal
debt amortization. New short and medium term external borrowing
will be only $1 million, compared with $15 million in each of the
previous two years.
19.       The authorities are aware that these efforts are still in-
adequate to meet the country's problems and needs. As recent political
developments have considerably strengthened the Government's position,
it is freer now than at any time before to adopt more vigorous economic
measures. It seems likely that it will adopt some fiscal measures at
present being discussed at the regional level, particularly a surcharge
on imports, which would significantly increase fiscal revenues and make
possible the implementation of its public investment program, including
several important projects being considered by the Bank.
20.       Guatemala's external debt service ratio, which reached 8
percent in 1967, should decline slightly in 1967-70. The additional
long-term borrowing abroad now envisaged will not have any significant
effect on debt servicing until the 1970's and even then the increase
in the ratio will be small. The new measures to produce additional
revenues and to raise public savings will be needed, however, to
support the contemplated increase in public investment in 1969 and
1970 even if external financing is provided on favorable cost-sharing
basis.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGRERaENT
21.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would canply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATIONS
22.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion
in an amount equivalent to US$7,000,000 to be guaranteed
by Republic of Guatemala.
RESOLVED;
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Instituto Nacional de
Electrificaci6n to be guaranteed by Republic of Guatemala, in an amount
in various currencies equivalent to seven million United States dollars



- 6 -
(US$7,000,000), to mature on and prior to July 1, 1991, to bear interest
at the rate of six and one-fourth percent (6-1/4%) per annum, and to be
upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan
Agreement (Guacalate Power Project) between the Bank and Instituto
Nacional de Electrificacion, and the form of Guarantee Agreement
(Guacalate Power Project) between Republic of Guatemala and the Bank,
which have been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
June 6, 1968



