Documntof
The World Bank
FOR OFCLAL USE ONLY
RepR No. 12148
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEh
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1441-YAR)
JUNE 29, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12148
Type: PCR
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used b recipients only in the performance of
tkeir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Units Yeam.n Rial (MEl)
(Yemeni Rials per US Dollar)
Period                   Erd of Period            Period &eAgea*
1975-1982                 4.5625                   4.5625
1983                      4.6765                   4.5785
1984                      5.8600                   5.3533
1985                      6.4850                   6.4143
1986                      8.9900                   7.3980
1987                      8.9900                   8.9900
1988                      9.7600                   9.7717
1989                      9.7600                   9.7600
1990                     12.0100                  11.2600
Fiscal Year
Goverment of Republic of Yeme: January 1 - December 31
Messures and Equivalents
1 hectare Oia)- 10,000 m2 or 2.471 acres
List of Abbreviations
ECA/I1  -  Europe & Central Asia/Middle East & North Africa Regions
ERR   -     Economic Rate of Raturn
IDA   -     International Development Association
LRD   -     Land Registration Department
mmIA  -     Middle East and North Africa Region
NMH   -     Ministry of Municipalities and Rousing. After May 1991 BE
was renamed KMP
MmUP  -     Ministry of Housing and Urban Planing
WASA -      National Water and Sanitation Authority
PCR   -     Project Completion Report
ROT   -     Republic of Ymen
SAR   -     Staff Appraisal Report
SDR   -     Special Drawing Rights
SLA   -     Subsidiary Loan Agreement
S1IDP  -    Sana'a Urban Development Project (CR 1202-YAR)
UDF   -     Urban Development Fund
UDPU  -     Urban Development Project Unit
YAR   -     Yemen Arab Republic. After unification in 1991 tAR became a
part of ROY
YTOC  -     Yemen General Electricity Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USrE ONLY
THE WOFLD BANK
Washngton D.. 2043
U.S.A
Office of Director.Oeueral
Operations Evaluation
June 29, 1993
HE4ORANDIH TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Ymen
Second Urban Develoiment Prolect (Credit 1441-YAR)
Attached is the report entitled 'Project Completion Report on Yemen -
Second Urban Development Project (Credit 1441-YAR) n prepared ty the
Infrastructure Operations Division of the Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office, with Part It contributed by the Borrower.
The project was prepared to complement another urban development
project, namely Sana'a Urban Development Project (Credit 1202-YAR), also recently
completed. The project emphasized institutional capacity building and resource
mobilization through an effective cost recovery system. Project investments,
i.e. provision of serviced plots, focused on low-income segments of the
population of Bodeidah, the second largest city of Yemen and its main port and
industrial center.
The project achieved all its physical targets, but the allotment of
plot, to beneficiaries was delayed due to administrative compleities. The study
on the development policies and cost recovery procedures was uot satisfactorily
completed. The project w^s able to reinforce technical capabilities of the urban
development agency through TA-inputs and specialized training but more effort is
required to achieve the development of an urban management strategy ond enactment
of new legislation for municipal resource mobilization. A follow-on operation
was prepared under this project, and it is being implemonted with fundFi- support
from IDA.
The project's overall performance is rated as satisfactory,
institutional development as partial, and sustainability as uncertain.
The PCR is of good quality. The project may be audited.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pwftornor eo
their officifa duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed ithout World Bank a rherij.tion.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PgROzC22=ON RRPORT
R.MLIC gP T=
KM       LlA  °DEVMOPMNT
ICREDIT 1441-YAR)
dable of Contents
Paso no.
ZMLI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
1.Proefct Idntt..........,....................,.............  1i
Evaluation SumOary ....d.......ti............................... (i3)
4.   P
1. Project Id     entity  t.....     .................................. 1
2. Backgroundj R t........ 1
3. Prooect Objectives and Desrptionft ........ .o............*..  3
8.       Projt Design t........ ..................................  4
9,  Project Smplsaentatiin.............   *..........................  4
6. Project Rfsultsoo       .....................o ....................  8
2.  rconjec t v luation  and Rates of R.tur.o ........................  9
S. Impa ct of Project ..........................................  9
9. Project Sustalnsbilityon  ....a t.............................. 10
10. ItA    oefCovmnents..............................,       .... 10
11. Borrowelc ernothe Perfo. ance oftean0....................0 000  10
12.  Project iRnstionshipe   ormance  of t..................... 11
33. Consults tgor.   Learnt e.. ...0..0.00..0.0.........,,.........,.... 11
14. Project  Documentation andD                               at.............................. 11
2J. StatuP o f Co mal................... 011
3 * Lesson    Learned2en oo. .. .. . o. .  .o..o.....o....o......... . 11
PART- II
1.  Reflectilons on the Perfomae of t   ik....................................... 
2.  Rfleto ns on te Perfom           of the Brwr................................... 13
3.  LeAsoas    1n Act        .................................., 27
PART IIIl
Tables
1. Related Bank Cretitso ... 00*.00040.............................. 19
2.            Project Timtablno..........................oo..ooooo.o..o..o 20
3.   ioan Disbureants.............................................. 21
4. Projoct mcplaemntatio n ..... ..o.. ... . ... .... o......o.. .., .. 22
0. Status of Covefirieso.....................................o. 23
6. Appraisal and Actual                       ce .................. 25
7. Appraisal and Actual Project Flwaunclago...eooo........................... 26
So MissionDt .......b .** .   27
9. Recunoic Rate of Return ................ 28
10. Profile of                          Beeilr  ............29
Mapst IBRD 17364R, 17365R and 17366R.
This document has a restrited distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN'
SECOND URBAN DEVELOMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1441-YAR)
MREFACE
1.   This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Urban
Development Project in the Republic of Yemen, for which Credit 1441-YAR in the
amount of SDR 11.5 million (US$12.0 million equivalent) was approved on
February 21, 1984, and was declarQd effective on August 30, 1984. The credit
was closed on March 31, 1992, three years behind schedule, and has been fully
disbursed after cancellation of SDR 6,262,400 on April 6, 1991.
2.    The PCR was jointly prepareds the Infrastructure Operations Division of
MER& Regional Office prepared the Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and
III; the Borrower, the Government of the Republic of Yemen, and the
Implementing agency, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning (MMUP)
prepared Part II.
3.   Preparation of the PCR started during IDA's final supervision mission of
the project in February/March 1992 and is based, iter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower related to
project itplementation; and IDA's internal memoranda and reports.
JJ    xay 1990, the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) and the People Democratic
Republic of Yemen (PDRY) united into the Republic of Yemen (ROY). This report
will refer to the Government of ROY throughout for consistency except where
historical correctness necessitates the use of YAR.



- Li -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF XEMEN
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPNERT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1441-YAR)
EiVALUATION SUMJARY
Obiectives
1l    During pro-appraisal of the first urban development project, Sana'a
Urban Developrent Project (SUDP), in April 19819 the Government decided that
the upgrading and sites and services components originally proposed for
Hodeidah should be dropped because of insufficient preparation and financing
constraints. It was, however, agreed at that time that these components could
constitute the core of a second urban development project. The main objectives
were: to further strengthen Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning's (MMUP)
capacity to plan, design and execute integrated urban development projects at
the local level; and, to provide affordable infrastructure services to the
lower-income segments of the population in Hodeidah.
2.    The physical components of the project included: the preparation of a
general layout and proliminary design of the Ghuleil area in Hodeidah (250
hectares); the upgrading of a built-up area of about 65 ha.; and, the
provision of services to a vacant area of 40 ha. within Ghuleil. The
institutional development components included: the provision of technical
assistance to MEUP and, in particular, to the local office of MmUP in
Hodeidah; the preparation of a study on cost recovery; overseas training; and
the preparation of a future project. The anticipated totsl cost of the project
was US$ 17.89 million equivalent of which US$ 12.00 million equivalent was to
be IDA's contribution. However, the actual total cost of the project was US$
11.67 million equivalent of which US$ 6.12 million equivalent was IDA'.
contribution (para. 5.09).
Imnlementation Eswerience
3.   Project implementation took longer thsn e_zected because of poor
performance on the part of the selected contractor. As a result, the closing
of the credit was delayed by three years (para. 5.06). All physical components
of the project described in the SAR were implemented. A study for the
development of policies and procedures for cost recovery for urban services
was not completed satisfactorily (para. 6.04)9 and implementation of cost
recovery from the beneficiaries was delayed (para. 6.05).
4.    Implementation of the physical components of the project in its initial
stages was delayed mainly because of the contractor's poor management (para.
5.02).  Further delays were caused by the passage of new Government
regulations restricting the importation of materials and labor (paras.
5.06(a),(b)). The selection of beneficiaries and allotment of serviced plots



- 4ii -
was also delayed because of the cumbersome administrative and institutional
precesses invol7ed (paras. 5.06(c)-(f)).
5.    The credit realized substantial savings of about US$ 8 million
equivalent, based on 1991 exchange rates, due to an unexpectedly low bid rrice
for the physical works, the devaluation of th-e Yemeni Riyal against the US
Dollar, the depreciation of the US Dollar against the SDR and a decrease in
the anticipated quantities of work (para. 5,09).
6.    The Credit was fully disbursed by the end of the 4 month period beyond
the closing date (para. 5.10). Audits of project accounts were deemed
satisfactory (para. 5.11).
Results
7.    The project was successful in as far as completion of the physical
components was concerned (para. 6.02)9  Urban serve.ces were extended to a
total of 3959 residential plots and 17 plots reserved for commercial and
coumunity services through upgradtig and development of serviced sites in the
Ohuleil area of Hodeidah.
8.    The project was succeosful in reinforcing the technical capabilities of
the Urban Development Project Unit (UDPU) at MMHP through specialized training
and on-the-job experience (para. 6.03).
9.    The final report on the study for the developmeat of policies and
procedures for cost recovery for urban services was not completed
satisfactorily by the consultants. The recommendations arising from this study
were to be the basis for the formulation of a national policy for municipal
resource morilization by the Government. In order not to cause further delay,
MMUP has undertaken to prepare, in-house, its own proposals for legislation
aiming at the recovery of costs through collection of fees for the services
provided by the Ministry (para. 6.04). IDA agreed to review these proposals at
a later date when they are ready. Moreover, cost recovery from the
beneficiaries has not started despite frequent reminders by IDA (para. 6.05).
Sustainabilit,
10.   The key to the sustainability and replicability of the benefits int-nded
by the project hinges on the ability of the Government to offer the
beneficiaries secure land tenure and continued services financed by an
equitable resource mobilization system. Both these two conditions were
completed only partially: ((i) secure land tenure was achieved but (ii) the
weak financial base of the municipal authority and the delay in establishing a
municipal resource mobilization system has left them incapable of providing
adequate services) delaying the benefits to be achieved vis-a-vis
sustainability and replicability.
11.   Continuation of the institutional building and reform achieved at MMUW
thus far, is threatened by the diminishing ability of the Public Sector to
attract and retain suitably qualified staff because of the low salary scales
in the civil service (para. 9.03).



- iv -
Pindlnas and Lessons Learned
12.   Experience in ROY's urban sector development, indicates that, although
the implementation of physical works can be completed within a reasonable time
period (physical works were completed in full before the first due date for
closure of the Credit), the introduction of policy changes, institution
building and beneficiary selection require a much longer period.
Consequently, future projiscts should simplify and allow more time for these
aspects in addition to detailing, in advance, the processes and procedures
needed to implement the required policy changes and other institutional issues
(paras. 16.01(a)-(c)).



PROJECT CWLIW REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YENEN
SECOND UBAN 2EMLPn          PROJET COMPTION REM
{CREDIT 1441-YARI
PART Is PROJECT REVINW IRON IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity
Project Name                              Second Urban Development Project
Credit Number                             1441-YAR
Credit Amount                             SDR 11.5 million
Credit Cancellations                      SDR 6.26 million
Regional Vice Presidential Unit           MERNA
Country                                   Republic of Yemen
Sector                                    Urban
2.    !ackzround
Introduction
2.01        In 1978, the Government of the former Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
expressed Interest in receiving IDA assistance in developing the urban sector.
At that time the Government's urban policy and strategy were not vell-defined.
A sector study conducted 1'y IDA identified and outlined a long-term strategy
for urban development in YAR:Urban Sector Report (No. 2699-YAR)g and
recomended an immediate action plan focusing on the three largest urban
centers; Sana'a, Hodeidah and Tis. However, because of fi£nancil constraints,
project preparation was limited to Sana'a and Hodeidab. During pro-appraisal
of the first urban development project, San"'a Urban Development Project
(SUDP) (Credit 1202-YAR) in April 1981, the Government decided that the
upgrading and sites and services components originally proposed for Bodeidsh
should also be dropped because of insufficient preparation and financing
constraints* It was, however, agreed at that time that these components could
constitute the core of a second urban project. Hodeidsh -vas retained for three
main reasons: (i) it was the fastest growing city in YAR; (ii) it contained
the largest squatter settlements in the country; and (iiI) its urban
maagement structure was weakly developed compared with that of the capital,
Sana'a, and that of the traditional trading city of Tais. In December 1982, an
IDA miss.on visited YAR to resume discussions on the proposed project.
Preparation work started in January 1983, and the project was appraised in
June 1983e The Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning (MMUP) (formerly called
the Ministry of Municipalities and Housing (MHE)) prepared the project through
its Urban Development Projects Unit (UDPU), whiel bad been set up under the
first urban development project, with assistance from three expatristo
experts. Negotiations were held In December 1983, and the credit was approved



in February 1984. It became effective on August 30, 1984, after a brief aelay
in ratification.
Sectgr Development Obiectives
2.02        Rapid urban growth in YAR was a relatively recent phenomenon which
started in the early 1970. after YAR had politically consolidated the country
and succeeded in opening it to the outside world after the 1962 Revolution and
a long civil var. Several factors have accounted for the growing urbanization,
prominent among which are the cash incomes from workers' remittances and
raral-urban migration of single males. The iustitutional framework for dealing
with this urban growth and associated problems was limited, and non-existent
in the case of acquiring and developing land or implementing commurity
improvement projects.
2.03        A second urban sector study in February, 1984, (Urban Sector
Memorandum, Green Cmver report No. 5196-YAR, August, 1984) identified the
caise of housing shortage in Yemen, not as the lack of finance but the lack of
serviced land at affordable prices. Thus the urban development strategy was
modified to concentrate on upgrading and the provision of serviced sites,
leaving housing finance to the private sector. The short-term urban
development objectives weres (i) to increase the supply of serviced land which
could be conveyed with secure tenure; (ii) to direct more of this supply
toward lower income groups; and (iii) to explore and identify alternative
sources of funds to finance housing and infrastructure both at the central and
local levels.
Policy Context
2.04        Prior to 1979, the Government of YAR had not developed a
comprehensive urban development policy. Government intervention had been on an
ad hoc basis with various ministries and agencies being involved in the
preparation, promotion and implementation of urban related schemes. Several
large, high cost, subsidized, housing programs had been launched vith mixed
success, and were affordable to only medium and high income families. In 19799
the Government decided to establish a nw Ministry of Municipalities and
Housing (MMH) with vested authority over urban development, including housing.
Linkates Between the Project and Macro PoJliv Objectives
2.05        The concept of this project provided the government with an
alternative approach to subsidized housing programs which divert scarce
financial resources from the economy. The project was designed to make full
use of private initiative in the housing sector while channelling government
intervention toward removing key bottlenecks in the housing delivery system by
providing serviced plots and secure land tenure. The project was designed to
recover 84 percent of total project cost' from the beneficiaries directly
over a period of 20 years and one percent indirectly through the National
Water and Sanitation Authority's (UWASA) tariff structure vith the balance
underwritten by the Government, The project was designed to address the needs
of tte poorest segments of the population in Bodeidah, vith monthly incomes
below 7Rls 3,000 in 1983 prices, who had little access to serviced land and



also to promote more cost effective housing construction materials and
techniques through advisory services to the beneficiaries.
3.   Prolect Obgietives and Descri_gtion
Project Objectives
3.01        In view of the early progress made under the first urban
devslopment project, the Government intended to further strengthen NWUP's
capacity to direct and control urbaw growth and to expand its activities to
other cities in YAR. Nodeid.h was selected as the location for the second
urban development project because it was the second largest city in YAR and
its main port and industrial center, with a large squatter population living
in tin and cardboard shacks in the Ghuleil area.
3.02        The objectives of the project weres Mi) the strengthening of the
MNUP to provide affordable infrastructure to about 4000 low-incom- famlles in
Eodeidah through the introduction of suitable standards; (ii) the
strengthening of the Hodeidah office of MsUPs and (iii) the provision of
technical assistance, training and preparation of a future project.
Prolect Com2onents
3.03        The project, at appraisal, consisted of the following physical and
institutional development components:
(i) Phlsical component. The main feature of this component was
to further assist MMWP in focusing its intervention on the
cost effective development of land and on the provision of
infrastructure to low-income groups. It includeds
(a) Preparation of a general layout and Dreliminarv desian
of the whole area of Ghuleil (250 ha) with a view to
integrating it within the existing master plan of
Bodeidah.
(b)   tgr4ding of the existing built-up area (65 ha)2
benefiting some 13,OOO inhabitants and including re-
blocklng and plot subdivision as appropriate.
(c)  Development of about 1650 in-fill and serviced plots
on vacant land (40 ha) to accommodate future urban
growth for low-income groups and social facilities.
(d)  Provision of roads, water, sewerage, solid waste
collection, electricity and street-lighting.
(ii) Institutional Development comoonent. In order to further
stre%gthen MMPs capacity to prepare, execute and expand
integrated urban development schemes the following were
provided:



- 4 -
(a)   TeEhnical assistance. The project had a provision to
finanue two engineers and one accountant for 44 wan-
months each, and one architect/planner and one soco-
economist for 24 man-months each. This staff was
recruited and attached to the UDPU.
(b)   Preparation of a study on cost recovery of urban
services, which would form the basis for a municipal
resource mobilisation plan.
(c)   Training and prevarati2o  of a future pro4ect. Funds
were earmarked for overseas trainiug and fellowships
for UDPU's local staff (US$ 50,000) and US$ 500,000
for the preparation of a third urban development
project, Taiz Flood Disaster Prevention and Municipal
Development (Credit 2160-YES).
4.    P;o1ect Design and Ortanization
4.01        The Second Urban Development Project was part of a series of urban
development projects whose design followed the recommendations of the 1981
urban sector report (Report No. 2699-YAR) modified in accordance with the
recommendations of the subsequent urban sector memorandum (Report No. 5196-
YAR, green cover). The principal element of the urban development strategy was
the creation of a viable administrative system through a series of action
plan., focusing on institutional development in .he urban sector and the
provision of affordable serviced land to low income urban families.
4.02        The project focused on further building up and strengthening
MIWP's ability to plan and implement urban development projects for low-income
groups with minimum support from the Goverment's budget. MHUP and its
Municipal office in fodeidah were responsible for project execution through
the UDPU. Because of the limited experience and implementation capability of
the newly formed MEUP and the need to build up technical capacity within the
ministry, the project included a substantial amount of technical assistance,
amounting to about 20 percent of project cost, to strengthen the UDPU to
enable it to coordinate and implement the project.
4.03        The project as designed wis sustainable. However, extraneous
circumstances and events which occurred during implementation (such as
personal friction between members of UDPU and the local authorities, and the
encroachment of new squatters on the site) deflected the Government's
attention from focusing on policy issues agreed to during negotiations.
5.    Project Im2lementation
Loan Effectiveness and Proiect Start-up
5.01        The loan was signed on March 29, 1984, and became effective on
August 30, 1984, after a brief delay in ratification. Although the goverDment
showed enthusiasm in satisfying the conditions of effectiveness, there were a



- 5 -
few issues relating to the recruitment of foreign experts to staff the UDPU
that eelayed the declaration of effectiveness.
Construction
5.02        Contractors for the physical works were pro-qualified in
accordance with IDA procedures. However, at the time of bid evaluation9 the
lowest evaluated bidder, although pre-qualified, gave signs of financial
weakness. NMIP's proposal to award the contract to the next lowest evaluated
bidder was not considered aufficiently justified by IDA. The contractor was
very slow to mobilize and get started because of cash-flow problems which9 in
hindsight, could have been vetted through a tighter contractor pre-
qualification process. The contractor was late in ordering construction
materials and submitting detailed luplementation and procurement schedules. An
indirect result of this was that legislation passed by the Government to
restrict the importation of goods aud labor from abroad affected the contract.
With a lot of pressure from the Government and close supervision on the part
of IDA and NHUP staff, the contractor finally completed the physical works,
two and a half years behind the original schedule, although the quality of
work was quite satisfactory due to the vigilance of MHUP staff.
Studies
5.03        The study on cost recovery for urban services was originally
envisaged to identif- and determine the feasibility of establishing revenue
generating measures and/or a municipal property tax system (para. 3.03-ii(b)).
It was also expected to recommend appropriate measures to be taken into
consideration by the Government when designing and implementing such systems.
The selected firm submitted the most competitive proposal for the study.
However, the original team assigned to the study spent very little time on it
and replacement personnel were not as competent. After considerable delays,
MMUP decided to terminate the contract and complete the assignment through its
own resources.
5.04        During the early stages of the study, the members of the
Government's Steering Committee reviewing the consultants' reports
(representing the ministries of Finance, Planning, and Social Affairs) lacked
experience on the subject and were relatively junior employees of their
various ministries. They were unable to give proper direction to the
consultants, or approve their proposals. This weakness was later rectified at
the behest of IDA supervision missions. (By the time the consultants were put
on the right track, they had started incurring financial losses and did not
seem to be interested in completing the assignment.)
5.05        The recommendations submitted by the consultants in the final
report were approved by the Government. However, the consultants failed to
produce the second part of the final report, which was draft legislation
necessary to implement the agreed proposals. Upon IDA's suggestion, MEHP
undertook to prepare the relevant draft legislation in house. A first draft
has already been reviewed by IDA and recomnendations made to NWUP for
improvements. However, the process has slowed down as a result of the
restructuring of certain government agencies.



-6
Iel21ementation Delas
5.06        The physical works were substantially completed by the end of
1989. The project closed three years later than originally envisaged. The
delays incurred were mainly for the following reasonst
(a) The contractors were very slow in mobilizing and getting
started because of cash-flow problems. They were late in ordering
conatruction materials from abroad and were unable to move their
equipment from other construction sites outside the country in
spite of repeated warnings from MMUP.
(b) The contractors' initial delays in mobilizing were further
exacerbated by the passage of new legislation, by the Government
of ROY, which affected the importation of labor and materials.
Obtaining exemptions from this legislation was a very time
consuming process. However, In view of the huge losses incurred by
the contractors, the Council of Ministers decided to relieve them
of the penalties under the coutract, a position that was supported
by IDA missions.
(c) Large numbers of squatters moved in to claim a right to the
land in the project area. This led to major problems for both MMUP
and the contractors, delaying the progress of work for a while. It
was only through recourse to the Security Department that NHWP was
eventually able to regain control of the situation.
(d) The selection of beneficiaries was delayed as a result of: the
resignation of the expatriate socio-economist from UDPU, the
cumbersome selection procedures provided for in the credit
agreement, and the influx of large numbers of new squatters.
(e) Strained relationships developed between the site staff and
local authorities, on certain occasions causing disruptions to the
work by depriving the project of the much needed support of those
authorities.
(f) The unification of the South and North Yemens and the 1991
Gulf Crisis pre-occupied the government and caused further delay
in beneficiary selection and plot allotment.
(g) Disbursement profiles prepared for Yemen indicate a country
average of nine years, whereas the time allocated to this credit
was less than five, based on performance of physical work on the
Sanasa Urban Development Project. Although the individual events
could not have been foreseen, delays of the magnitude encountered
under the project are not unusual.
Closing Date Extensions and Completion
5.07        The closing date was extended three times from March 1989, to
March 1992, to allow fors (i) the possible extension to the project using the



-7-
substantial savings in the credit (ii) the completion of on-going commitments
such as the study for cost recovery and the study for the preparation of the
third urban projects and (iii) the selection of beneficiaries, for which, as
in the 8UDP, the ldeatification process of the targeted beneficiaries is not
an easy task under the Yemeni context. With IDA's concurrence, XHIWP proposed
to extend the upgrading to part of the remaining 132 ha in Ghuldil. Tender
documents were prepared and issued three times, but MMUP was unable to award a
contract because of the lack of response. Finally, MMUP lost control of the
land, the extensions to the project were dropped, and the savings were
cancelled.
Procurement
5.08        All procuremeat under the credit was implemented in accordance
with IDA's procurement Guidelines. However, the contractors9 mismanagement
and lack of ewperience in the country led to substantial delays during the
construction phase (para. 5.06 (a & b)). There were no procurement problems
regarding IDA and the Borrower.
Proiect Cost and Disbursement
5.09        The credit developed savings of about US$ 8.0 million equivalent,
using 1991 exchange rates, due to: (i) a low bid price for the physical works
(roughly 40 percent below the estimated cost for civil works); (ii) the
devaluation of the Yemeni Rial by 50 percent against the US Dollar; (iii) the
depreciation of the US Dollar against the SDR (the value of the Credit
increased from S$ 12.0 million equivalent in 1982, to US$ 15.3 million
equivalent in 1991); and (iv) a decrease of about 15 percent in the
anticipated quantities of work (the physical contingencies were not needed).
The total project cost (in local currency equivalents) estimated at YR1 82.3
million during appraisal increased to YR1 91.0 million, or an overrun of about
11 percent. The total expenditure in US dollars, on the other hand decreased
from the appraisal estimate of 17.89 million to US$ 11.67 million, or an
underrun of about 35 percent (Table 6, Part III), mainly due the depreciation
in the exchange rate of the Yemeni Riyal to the dollar.
5.10        The rate of disbursement from the credit was about half that
anticipated at appraisal (Table 3, Part III). By the original closing date of
March 1989, only about 42 percent of the credit proceeds had been drawn down.
An amount of SDR 6,262,000 (equivalent to the savings) was cancelled in April
1991. Disbursements continued for four months beyond the closing date at which
time the Credit was fully drawn down.
Audits and ReDortIng
5.11        Annual audits of accounts were prepared by competent independent
auditors and were regularly submitted on time. On one occasion, the
submission of the audit report to IDA was delayed because of newly passed
regulations which required clearance of the audit report by the Central
Organization for Government Accounts before submission to IDA. Semi-annual
progress reports on implementation also were submitted regularly and on time.
All audit and progress reports were deemed to be satisfactory.



-8-
6.    Proiect Results
6.01        The original size of the project was cut down during appraisal
from 125 ha. to 105 ha. due to expected shortages of funds. During
implementation9 it was evident that the project would realize a considerable
amount of savings (para. 5.09). IDA recommended that MMUP consider extending
the project to utilize the savings in the credit. KHUP issued "Phase II" for
tendering but did not draw adequate response to the repeated invitations.
Following the resulting delays some interested individuals in Hodeidah laid
claim to large portions of the land under "Phase II", and successfully
challenged the Government's ownership of the land in court. A reshuffle in
the Cabinet brought in a new team which did not share the enthusiasm of the
former minister for the project. Eventually the Government decided to abandon
implementation of the extension.
6.02        Notwithstanding the delays by the contractors (para. 5.02), the
project was successful in completing the physical components which included
the re-blocking, plot subdivision and provision of infrastructure services to
about 4000 plots with an area of about 105 ha. in Ghuleil. These included 3959
residential plots and 17 plots reserved for commercial uses and other
community services. The residential plots have been allotted to bsneficiaries
according to the criteria agreed to with IDA.
6.03        On-the-job training was imparted to a large number of local staff
to plan and supervise the implementation of urban development projects. Twenty
five of UDPU's local engineers, architects and surveyors attended specialized
training programs on urban development and housing abroad and rendered useful
services to UDPU upon their return. However, the appointment of an expatriate
municipal engineer to the Municipal office in Hodeidah early on in the project
was much delayed and the immediate benefits auticipated from this appointment
were not realized because of the lack of cooperation and understanding on the
part of the selected candidate.
6.04        The study on cost recovery to enhance the mobilization of
resources to finance the provision of services to urban residents, financed
under the Credit has not been satisfactorily completed by the consultants
(para. 5.03). On the basis of the recommendations arising from this study, the
Government was to formulate a national policy for municipal resource
mobilization (including billing and collection mechanisms) and subsequently
seek Cabinet and Parliamentary approval. After several attempts by MHMW to
contact the consultants, MHUP has undertaken to prepare, in-house, its own
draft legislation for municipal resource mobilization (along with appropriate
implementation mechanisms). IDA has agreed to review the draft legislation
after it has been further developed.
6.05        There have been considerable delays in the process of beneficiary
selection and plot allotment, while the collection of down-payments from the
beneficiaries has not begun because of a lack of staff with the requisite
level of skills at MHUP and the Urban Development Fund (UDF), which is
responsible for managing the cost recovery process. These staff shortcomings
have been repeatedly noted by IDA missions in their aide memoires.



7.    Economic Evaluation and Rstes of Return
7.01        The economic rate of return (ERR) of 36 percent, was estimated
using a similar methodology to that of the SAR in addition to: adjusting the
cost and benefit streams to reflect actual occurrences; and using the latest
plot pricing schedule of February 1991, made available by MHUP. Table 9, Part
III, shows the economic analysis. This increased ERR, compared to the 24
percent in the SAR, reflects the lower costs realized than estimated at
appraisal and the increased demand for housing evidenced by the proliferation
of informal housing in the area which consequently raised the market value of
the land.
8.    Imoact of the Proiect
8.01        The project contributed to the improvement of the quality of life
for some 4000 low income households at Ghuleil by providing them with urban
services. Potential beneficiaries had to go through a rigorous eligibility
screening process, agreed to with IDA, to give priority to households with
income below YR1 3000 per month at 1983 prices. Table 10, Part III,
highlights certain characteristics of the selected beneficiaries.
8.02        The project impacted the social environment by providing plots
used for schools, mosques and commercial areas. Nevertheless, with the influx
of the returnees to Hodeidah as a result of the 1991 Gulf Crisis, large
numbers of other dense squatter settlements have emerged on the periphery of
the project area, driving the prices of serviced plots so high that
beneficiaries of this project could be tempted to sell their allotted plots
and move into un-serviced plots nearby, despite the precautions outlined in
the credit agreement. Although by selling their allotted plots the
beneficiaries would be breaching their allotment contracts, the lack of a
formal land registration system made it almost impossible for MMU? staff to
assess the situation.
8.03        As new approaches to managing urban growth are being sought,
however, Yemeni professionals trained under the project are able to play an
important role thereby enhancing the likelihood of developing a solution
tailored to the Yemeni context. Several engineers and architects trained
under the project are working closely with a team from their former training
institute on the development of an urban management strategy. This initiative
is funded by a bilateral donor. The surveyors trained under this and the
First project have improved the quality of MHUP's base maps on which city
layouts and subdivisions, including those related to this project are based.
Engineers involved with the design of the Third project, the Taiz Flood
Disaster Prevention project have been able to assume full responsibility for
implementation.
8.04        The lack of comparable progress on the non-physical aspects of the
urban management - cost recovery, training of non-technical personnel,
selection of beneficiaries - largely reflects the limitud availability of
professionals with those skills in Yemen, especially within the civil service.



- 10 -
9.   Project Sustainability
9.01        Sustainability of the net benefits of this project will depend on
the ability of the government to olfer the beneficiaries secure land tenure
and fend off potential land ownership disputes through a viable modern land
registration system. The implementation of the land registration s.udy
completed under SUDP has been temporarily delayed because of administrative
changes within the Government. Other ingredients of project sustainability are
effective cost recovery mechanisms and the establishment of an equitable
resource mobilization system for financing and maintaining urban development
projects in general. Cost recovery from the beneficiaries has not started and
the results of the study for establishing the resource mobilization system
will be delayed considerably.
9.03        The erocion in the real incomes of Civil Servants in general is
increasingly threatening MHUP's ability to maintain the institution building
efforts achieved. MHUP9s ability to recruit and retain suitably qualified and
experienced staff for current and future projects has been restricted. In
response to requests by the MMUP and general practice in YAR at the time, IDA
had granted special salary supplements for UDPU's field staff to be paid out
of the Credit proceeds. Such supplements were later rescinded by the
Government since they were not considered sustainable after closure of the
credit,
10.   IDA Performance
10.01       IDA based its cost estimates for the project on detailed
engineering designs for about 32 percent of the project area and unit costs
from other similar projects. Because of uncertainties about the quality of the
subsoil, a 15 percent margin was allowed for physical contingencies.
Eventually this was not needed.
10.02       IDA had sixteen supervision missions, spread over eight years, by
experienced IDA municipal engineers, urban planners and financial analysts.
These missions provided guidance, quality control, procurement advice and
additional technical assistance, all aimed at improving the rate and quality
of project implementation and institution building.
10.03       In retrospect, IDA could have been more stringent in reviewing the
pre-qualification documents and caught the financial weakness of the selected
contractor at pre-qualification. Also, IDA could have taken a firmer stand
in: (i) the cancellation of project savings earlier, rather than raise local
expectations and then cancel the savingsl and (ii) the expedition of the much
lengthy process of plot allocation.
11.   Borrower Performance
11.01        The Borrower's performance was mixed. The Borrower expressed
strong commitment at the early stages of project inception. Soon after, the
project started incurring delays related, among other things, to institutional
aspects such as: unclear definition of the role of the General Directorate of
Housing and its staff vis-a-vis the local offices of MMUP resulting in



- 11 -
conflicting instructions; the inability to attract and recruit expatriate
staff, mainly because of a ceiling set by Government on the salaries of
foreign experts; the lengthy review procedures of the cost recovery Steering
Committee; the selection of beneficiaries; and, the collection of down-
payments for allotted plots. The Borrower was not able to translate its
commitments on issues such as land registration, cost recovery and an
equitable resource mobilization system for urban services in a timely manner
essential to the sustainability of urban development within the policy context
agreed to with IDA.
12.  IDA - Borrower Relationshig
12.01       The relationship between IDA's missions and the Government and its
Implementing entities was generally good. Issues raised by the parties were
addressed in a frank and constructive atmosphere. MMUP staff always sought
the advice of IDA missions and, whenever possible, adhered to it.
13.   Consult&iu  Services
13.01       Two cons.lting firms were employed to provide the required
technical assistance. The first firm was responsible for the study to develop
policies and procedures for cost recovery for urban services. It submitted a
final report which fell short of the Government's expectations, as it did not
include appropriate measures for implementing and administering the proposed
municipal resource mobilization measures as agreed upon. The second firm was
responsible for the preparation of a feasibility study, engineering design and
tender documents for a future urban development project. The study has been
completed satisfactorily and resulted in a new lending operation, Credit 2160-
ROY.
14.   Project Documentation and Data
14.01       Most aspects related to the project correspondence were well
documented in the Division and Regional files. Supervision and semi-annual
Progress reports during the implementation period were generally
comprehensive. The latter lacked detailed description of some key indicators
such as profiles of plot beneficiaries. Moreover, many documents prior to
project implementation were missing from the project files or misplaced.
15.   Status of Covenants
15.01       COvenantO under the agreement were generally complied with except
for a few delays to covenants related to Audits (para. 5.11). However,
covenants related to the selling of plots and depositing of the proceeds in a
special revolving fund have not been met since cost recovery has not started.
The status of compliance with covenants is shown in Table 69 Part III.
16.  Lessons Learned
16.01       Experience in ROY's urban sector developmont indicates that the
implementation of institutional components tends to take longer than physical
components. It is advisable to design policy reforms with due consideration to



- 12 -
the Yemeni context and the Government's ability to Implement novel ideas. The
following are particularly worth mentionings
(a) Like the first urban development project, SUDP, the project
was reasonably successful in meeting the physical project
objectives because more attention was devoted to physical
implementation than sustaining policy changes. As a result the
impact on the urban development policies of the Government was nt..
noticeable. Institutional issues should be simplified and given
more time than has been allowed for. Also, targeting the
improvement of the functioning of th} citywide land and housing
markets is more effective and sustainablo. than improving specific
neighborhoods.
(b) The implementation of the land registration and cost recovery
systems have to be a top priority, otherwise sustainability and
replicability cannot be attained. The land registration system
would, among other things, provide secure land ownership which is
necessary to put an end to the existing archaic land registration
system.
(c) Further enhancement to the efficiency of the organizational
structure of the implementing agency would reduce future problems
associated with implementing and administering similar urban
development projects. Areas where such enhancements would be
beneficial include: streamlining decision making processes; wider
inter and intra-agency policy coordination, similat to the close
cooperation demonstrated between NWASA, YGEC and UDPU in the first
two urban development projects; and, information feedback and
control mechanisms to ensure that adequate and reliable
information is available in order to redirect resources
effectively and in a timely manner.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF =ENKI
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(CREDIT 1441-YAR)
PART IIs PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Text as submitted by Borrower)
1.   REFLECTIONS ON THE PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
Relations between the Bank's supervisory staff and the Borrower' 8
representatives for this credit, the Ministry of Housing and Urban
Planning, generally remained good throughout the implementation period.
The communication between the two has been constant, frank and
constructive. This cohesive and cordial relationship proved beneficial
for all aspects of project implementation including designing and
construction of civil works, institutional development and training of
the local manpower - the major objectives of the credit.
2.   REFLECTION ON THE PERFORMANCE OF TH=  BORROWER
a.    The following components of the project were successfully completeds
(1)   Preparation of aeneral 5aSout and preliminarv design of
infrastructure networks to integrate the project area within the
existlna master plan of Hodiedah.
The task was accomplished by employing foreign experts and Yemeni
counterparts as one integrated team. The layout plans and final
designs were prepared in-house after extensive survey and study of
prevailing site conditions. Special consideration was given to
the selection of construction materials like sulphate resistance
cement, PVC pipes, rust proof electric and water supply fittings
and fixtures due to the presence of salts in the atmosphere and
the soil. Close coordination was maintained with the Planning
Department of MHUP, National Water and Sanitation Authority and
Yemen General Electricity Corporation for ensuring the adherence
of the designed works with their Master Plans, required standards
and specifications. The very fact that the networks are
functioning smoothly since their completion in 1989 speaks itself
of the quality of high standard of designs and finished works.
Due consideration was also given to the principle of cost economy
of the networks. A saving of about US Dollars 8.00 million was
effected. This amount was originally planned to be spent on
development of additional adjoining areas but the proposal could
not be implemented due to a dispute over the ownership of the
land. It has since been transferred to the Emergency Recovery
Project (Housing Component) under Credit 2258 YEN being



- 14 _
Implemented at Hodi.dah for Yemeni returnees from Gulf States and
Saudi Arabia.
(2)   Ufrradins of about 65 hectare of builtup area and develomUent of
about 1650 infill and serviced nlots on about 40 hectare of vacant
land within the oro1ect area. including the Provision of roads.
water aungly, sewerate and electricity networks and develoned
nlots for the construction of annronriate community facilities.
The construction of civil works was carried out through a private
contractor, Bengal Development Corporation of Bangladesh. This
was their first project in the Republic of Yemen. Their
assessment of the type and magnitude of tasks involved, employment
of resources of manpower, materials and equipment and knowledge of
procurement procedures were erratic. This resulted in delayed
mobilization and execution of the works. The project was
completed with over two years delay. However the quality of work
done was good, the credit for which also goes to the Borrower's
engineering staff who were capable, dedicated and devoted.
Details of the plots developed through the project are as under:
Residential                   3959
Schools                          3
Commercial Centres               2
Mosques                          8
Police Station                    1
Fire Station                      1
Post Office                       I
Clinic                            1
The project has brought enormous social and health benefits to the
neighbourhood of about 33600 residents and has definitely improved
the beneficiaries' quality of life.
(3)   Strengthening of MHUP canabilities to plan. desian. execute and
manage integrated urban develonment yroiects.
The KWUP capabilities to plan, execute and manage integrated urban
development projects have been greatly enhanced.
A core team of engineers, architects, planners, supervisors, socio
economists, administrators and other staff has been given on job
training, supplemented with theoretical knowledge gained from
courses abroad. It is now available with the Ministry and is
planning, designing and managing the new projects with expanded
organisation, as needed for each project.
The Emergency Recovery Project (Housing Component) under IDA
Credit 2258 YEM was completely designed inhouse by the HHUP
engineers who will also manage its implementation. For designing
of the Taiz Flood Disaster Prevention and Municipal Development
Project (Credit 2160 YEM) a team of qualified and experienced



- 15 -
engineers worked with the consultants throughout the conception,
preliminary and final design stages of the project preparation in
Yemen as well as In England. The supervision and management of
the Project is being carried out by UUP staff. The Institutional
frame work of NWUP has also )een strengthened by streamlining of
administrative and financial procedursa, development of systems
for -neficiary selection, plot demarcations, pricing criteria of
deve.a..ped plots and cost recovery.
During unification of Northern and Southern parts of the country
the experience gained on the urban development projects was of
inense assistance to design an effective and efficient
organisation for the Ministry.
(4) Carrvina out a studs to develol appropriate C0ot recovery policies
and procedures for the  rVOvision of urban services.
Contract for carrying out the study was awarded to the Institute
of Public Administration, New York City. The Terms of Reference
were drafted in consultation with the World Bank and included the
submission of draft legislation for modifying the existing cost
recovery legislations. The consultants failed to prepare the
study in accordance with the agreed Terms of Reference and did not
submit the draft legislation. The performance of the consultants
was poor. They did not make any useful contribution to the
subject matter. However, the Ministry has drafted a legislation
through its legal department which is presently under process
through the official channel. The institute's name is on the
World Bank approved list of consultants. In view of their poor
performance and extremely careless attitude, it is strongly
recommended that the consultants' name should not be given by the
World Bank, to the Borrowers for consideration for s'.milar
services.
(5)   Provision of trainina for the staff of the 2rolect unit in urban
plannina. engineerint and procurement.
One of the major achievements of the project is the training of
local staff in urban planning, engineering and procurement. A
team of 18 engineers and supervisors held the posts of co-Project
Manager, Chief Engineer, Implementation Engineer and Section
Engineers and site inspectors and remained directly responsible
for implementation of all components of the project. They gained
valuable experience and confidence to organise and manage future
urban development projects. The mamagement of Taiz Flood Disaster
Prevention and Municipal Development Project (Credit 2160 YEM) is
exclusively in the hands of Yemeni engineers excepting an
expatriate advisor (construction engineer) who is appointed only
because of the peculiarity rnd special design of hydraulic
structures which form bulk of the civil works. The Emergency
Recovery Project (Housing Component) under Credit 2258 has been
planned and designed exclusively by the Yemeni engineers who will



- 16 -
also supervise the construction phase. The future Urban Services
Development Project in Sanaa is also being planned ard designed by
Yemeni staff including preparation of tender documen a and
procurement of contractors' services. Training abroad of the
following Yemeni staff was also financed from Credits 1202 and
1441 and they are rendering useful service to the Ministrys
Institute                   Subject                     Staff Trs,ne
Institute of Housing        Housing/                    18 engineers/
Studies, Rotterdam,         Urban Development           architects
The Netherlands
Japanese International      Housing/                    4 engineers
Cooperation Agency,         Urban Development
Tokyo, Japan
Sagric International,       Cadastral Surveying         2 surveyors
Aidelaide, Australia
Halcrow Fox and             Designing of flood          3 engineers
Associates, London,         disaster prevention and
England                     road structures and
preparation of tender
documents
(6)   PreDaration of designs and bidding documents for a suitable future
urban develooment nrolect.
The new project was originally conceived to upgrade an area of
about 105 hectares encompassing a portion of the Old City of Taiz
by providing better access and improving water supply, sewerage,
stormwater drainage and electricity networks.  The project was
also to include the development of a suitable site and provision
of services for low cost housing in Taiug to improve traffic
management in Sanaa and to provide funds for a major study for
flood control with physical implementation to be carried out
through a later projec.. However, during the planning and
conceptual design stage it was revealed that the flood control
measures should take priority over all other works because the
funds spent on upgrading would be wasted if flooding of the area
was not effectively prevented. The scope of the project was
therefore modified to accord priority to flood control. The
designs and bidding documents of the project were ?repared by
Halcrow Fox and Associates with close collaboration of the
counterpart staff who fully participated in all "spects of the
project preparation. The designing and preparation of bidding
documents were delayed due to incompetency of the initial batch of
consultants but were ultimately completed when the inefficient
staff was replaced. The project was financed by the IDA under
Credit 2160 YEN and is under implementation and making
satisfactory progress.



- 17 -
(7)   Comuliance with covenants
The covenants agreed in the credit agreement were closely
monitored and timely actions were taken to achieve the requisite
objectives. The Ministry remained seriously aware of its
responsibilities under the covenants and inspite of a number of
restraints and problems the majority of activities were completed
on time.
(8)   £.e rtina
Reporting on project Implementation and auditing of project
accounts was carried out efficiently and on time. The format of
six monthly progress reports was agreed with the IDA supervisory
staff and all required information was included in it. All
Important events taking place during the project implementation
were included in the reports.
(9)   Urban develooment nroiects unit
Inspite of a number of handicaps due to lack of governmental
institutional frame work the unit's performanne has been good.
The Unit was Initially manned by foreign experts whose technical
and administrative knowledge and skills contributed significantly
towards the projects' conception, planning, designing, preparation
of procurement documents, supervision and successful completion.
The unit also achieved its goal of training the counterpart staff
who gradually took over the posts vacated by the expatriate
experts and performed extremely well on the preparation and
Implementation of subsequent projects.
3.  LESSONS LZARNT
a.    Designs should be sound, accurate and comprehensive in details and
simple to execute. Should be based on thorough knowledge of site
conditions, including climate, geological and hydrological data,
availability of manpower, construction materials and equipment,
and other relevant factors. The designed works should be cost
effective and efficient in operation.
b.   Close coordination with concerned departments like Planning
Department of MMUP, National Water and Sanitation Authority and
Yemen General Electricity Corporation be maintained for ensuring
adherence to the Master Development Plans, compliance with the
required standards and specifications and availability of water
supply, sewerage and electricity networks for taking additional
load. Such relationship resulted in smooth handing over of the
completed works and subsequent operation and maintenane-e by the
concerned departments.
c.    A contractor is the most vital link in the chain of execution of a
project. His selection should be based solely upon his



- 18 -
capability, competency and capacity to perform and not on any
other factor.
d.    The project site should be taken over free from all unauthorised
construction or ownership claims. All concerned departments and
agencies should sign a formal handing/taking over certificate
stating that the site was free from all legal encumbrances and
made available for implementation of the project.
e.    Most of the construction materials and equipment are not readily
available within the country. The system and procedures for their
procurement are cumbersome and time consuming especially if the
items were imported duty free.  A detailed analysis of total
requirements (including some reserve) should be carried out and
all items be imported in one operation during the mobilization
period instead of importing them piecemeal through out the project
implementation.
f.    The period of completion of projects in the Republic be based on
liberal time estimates due to scarcity of resources and lengthy
departmental procedures for conducting various project
implementation activities.



- 19 -
PRpJi-C CQMlM RgpOl
MMU OFMENL
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ComPlETlON REPORT
lCREDIT 1441-YARI
PART III: STASTAL INFORMATIQN
Table 1. Reted Bank Loans
Year of
Loan rtite         Purpose                        Approval        Status           Comments
Cr. 1202-YAR       A demonstration project to assist  1982        Closed          ?hysical works
Sana'a Urban       govemment in:                                  06192            implementation
Development        eFocusing intervention on                                      competed successfully.
development of urban land.                                     Project was delayed four
oProvision of infrastructure for                               and a half years mainly
lowest income groups.                                          because of administative
eEncouraging cost effective                                    and managerial problems,
buiiding materials and tesciuques.                             and the novelty of the
oReinforcing Institional                                       system in the country.
frameworc.                                                     Cost recovery and land
eTraining and preparation for                                  registration are not fully
future projects.                                              Implemented.
Cr. 21 60-YAR      oProvide city of Taiz with     1990            Ongoing          Project is aimost fully
Taiz Flood Disaster   essential flood control worcs.                              committed. Continuous
Prevention &       *lmplementina a project cost                                   delays In staffing key
Municipal          recovery mechanism at municipal                                positions. Resource
Development        level.                                                         mobilization study is
*Strengthening MHUP's                                         short of reqWrements.
institutional capabilities.
Cr. 2258-ROY        OHelp meet immediate returnee-   1991         Ongoing          Site locations have been
Emergency Recovery  induced needs for housing                                     determined. Plot
Credit Housing Sites  facilities by providing 2,500                               alloations and
Component          serviced sites.                                                procurement works are
progressing.
Proposed           oProvision of affordable                       Preparation
Urban Services     infrastructure.
Development Project  ODevelopment of collection
systems, disposal sites and
recycling facilities for managina
municipal solid and hazardous
waste.
oProvision of equiprent and
technical asstance.
Olnsional strengthening.
Source: ECAJMENA Information Center



- 20 -
Table 2.      ProiectmTime
P11 med              Revised               Actual
Item                    ,                         Date                  Date                  Date
Identification                                     12/82                                      12/82
Preparation/Pre-appraisal                         03183                 01/8311)              03/83
Appraisal                                         06/83                                       06/83
Credit Negotiations                               01/84                 10/83                 12/83
Board Presentation/Approval                       04/84                 12/83                 02/84
Credit Signature                                                                              03/84
Credit Effectiveness                              07/84                 11/84                 08/84wm
Credit Closing                                    03/89                 03/92                 03/92
Source: Project Files
Comments,
;1) Encouraged by early progress of Sana'a Urban Development Project (CR 1202-YAR), the Government expressed
willingness to process the project quickly.
(2) Delays by Govemrnment to ratify Credit Agreement.



- 21 -
Table 3. Loan Oligbnm2a
Cumultjlv Ostimatd gad Actual Disbursement
CJS$ millions)
Appraisal Estimate                  Actual
Semester
Ending          Disbursed   Cumuative    Percentage    Disbursed   Cumultive    Percentage
06/84          0.00          0.00          0.0        0.00          0.00         0.0
12/84          0.10          0.10         0.8         0.00          0.00         0.0
06/85           0.90         1.00          8.3        0.00          0.00         0.0
12/85           1.70         2.70         22.5        1.11          1.11         1A1
06/86           2.20         4.90         40.8        0.19          1.30         21.2
11/86          2.20          7.10         59.2        0.12          1.42         23.2
06/87           2.00         9.10         75.8         1.09         2.51         41.0
12/87           1.20         10.30        85.8        0.03          2.54         41.5
06/88           0.70         11.00        91.7         0.94         3.48         58.9
12/88          0.50          11.50        95.8        0.69          4.17         68.1
06/89           0.50         12.00        100.0       0.82          4.99         81.5
12/89                                                 0.35          5.34         87.3
06/90                                                 0.78          6.12(11      100.0
12/90
06/91
12/91
06/92
12/92
Source: Project Files
[Comments:
(1) SDR 6.26 million were canceUled from Credit. As of 04102/92 total value disbursed was SDR 4.94 million.
Second LUrban Development CCR 1441-YAR)
Wtnmt. Mtt_   * _  a,"a*ti 0t*.
13A              * __W
13~       Vt"  0  



- 22 -
Table 4. Prolect Imlementaton
Appraisal
Indicator                                                       Estmate               Actual
L UnarAdinn and Sites and Snrviss
- Completion of tender procedures                        06/84                 12/4
- Contract award                                         09/84                 04/85
- Commencement of construction                           10184                 07/85
- Completon of constructon                               09/86                 03/89
11. Techncl AW    e
- Competion of Cost Recovery Study                       12/85                 12/91w"
Completion of Preparation of FuWre Project              12/87                 12/90
M. Selection of Bsneficiaries and Cost Recovarv
- Settng Selection Committee                             03/868                02/88
* Identification of beneficiaries                        03/86                ,11/91
- Start cost recovery Implementation                     01/86
Source: Project Files. UDPU Records
Comments:
(1) The Finra Report was deemed unsatisfactory by MHUP.
(2) It was agreed upon that the committee would be set up not later than six months before the completlon of the
infrastucture works of Phase I.
(3) Has not been implemented as of March 1992.



- 23 -
Table 5. Stabs of Cnvenants
Deadline for
Covenant     Subject                               Compliance        Status
CA 2.04      Closing Date shell be Matrch 31, 1989.                  Extended to March 31, 1992.
CA 3.02      Borrower shall maintain a project unit In               Met
Hodeidah with appropriate facilities and
staff.
CA           iorrower to employ a qualified Chief  05/84            Met in 05/84
3.03(a)i)    Engineer 05/84 - 12/87.
CA           o3rrower to employ a qualified        05/84            Met in 05/84
3.03(a)i1)    implementation Engineer 05/84 - 12/87.
CA           Borrower to employ a qualified Architect    05/85      Met
3.03(a)(Iii)
CA           Borrower to employ a qualified Financial  03/85         Met
3.03(a)(iv)  Analyst 06/85 - 12/87.
CA           o0rrower to employ a qualified Socio-  01/86            Met
3.03(aflv)   economist 01/86 - 12/87.
CA 3.05(d)    Borrower to write detailed completion  09/92           Met
report no later than 6 months after
completion.
CA 3.08      Borower to take necessary actions to                    Met but Govemment claim was
acquire land or rights for project                     subsequently challenged
execution.
CA 4.01(a)    Borrower to maintain separate and                      Met
acceptable audited accounts on the
project.
CA 4.01(b)    Borrower to furnish Bank with audited  06/89           Met through 12/90
accounts at end of each FY.
CA           Borrower to exchange views and take into                Being implemented
4.02(a)(b)   account IDA"s views regarding study on
Cost Recovery {Part B-2).



- 24 -
Status of Covenants tcontinuedl
Deadline for
Covenant   Subject                                        Compliance          Status
CA 4.03(a)  Borrower to ensure that i) plots for construction of              met
community facilities shall be delivered to
responsible agencies; ii) construction of above
facilities to be completed under schedule
satisfactory to IDA; and Iii) such facilities be
operated under appropriate standards for original
purpose.
CA 4.04     Borrower to ensure acceptable plot pricing, ability               met
of beneficiary to pay and intended use.
CA 4.04(b)  Borrower to establish committee for beneficiary                   Met
selection no later than 6 months prior to
completion.
CA          Commercial plots to be sold by MHUP according to                  Pricing Agreed
4.04(c)(i)   pricing criteria satisfactory to IDA.
CA          Housing Plots sold only for selected beneficiary;                 Beneficiaries have been selected
4.04(c)(ii)   MHUP to charge 11% interest per year.                           according to agreed criteria. Cost
recovery has not started.
CA 4.05(a)  Maintain revolving fund (Sanata Urban                             Met
Development CA section 4.07) between borrower
and IDA.
CA 4.05(b)  Deposit into above fund all payments received by                  Not met since cost recovery has
MHUP from sale of plots.                                         not started
CA 4.05(c)  Deposited funds to be utilized exclusively to                     No funds have been used
finance future similar urban development projects.
CA 4.05(d)  Furnish IDA al requested Information regarding                    Met
status of fund and utilization of deposits.
CA 4.06(a)  Maintain MHUP-NWASA agreement of 11183                            Met
regarding charges and technical support.
CA 4.06(b)  Maintain MHUP-YGEC agreement of 10183                             Met
regarding technical support for electricity system.
CA 4.08     Borrower to ensure maintenance and repair of                      Met
roads, water, sewerage and electrical systems In
addition to communication facilities.
Source: Project Files



- 25 -
8. Anoraigal and Aetul Cgat
Item                                      Appraisal Estimate   Actual Cost
(all values in million units)
YPis      US$       YVRIs'1    US$(X
GHULEIL UPGRADING AND S=I-SAND SERVICES
A. Site Works                         1.53       0.33      4.41       0.57
B. Off-Site Infrastucture             2.97       0.65      4.34       0.56
C. On-Site Infrastructure             42.90      9.33      25.86      3.32
D. Design/Development                 -          -         3.73       0.48
E. Discount for use of mobilization   -          -         (0.79)     40.10)
advance                               -          -         (2.20)    (0.28)
F. Petention Money
TgHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Project execution & manacement     5.80       1.26      11.27      1.44
2. Training                           0.23       0.05      0.71       0.09
3. Strengthening Hodeidah Municipality  0.78     0.16      0.61       0.08
4. Study on Cost Recovery             0.55       0.12      0.85       0.11
S. Preparation of future project      2.30       0.50      8.16       1.05
PROJECT ADMINISIRATON
1. Local staff                        4.02      0.88       16.85     2.16
2. Equipment                          0.55       0.12      2.58       0.33
3. Special setvices                   0.75       0.16      0.65       0.08
Total Base Cost                       62.38      13.56     77.02      9.87
Contingencies                         18.90      4.33      13.99i    1.79
Total Project Cost                    82.28      17.89     91.01      11.67
Source: Project Fles, Urban Development Projects Unit Accounts (MHUP).
Note: Numbers might not add up exatlty due to rounding off.
(1) UDPU accounts supplied, up to 12/31/91
(2) Based on an avweage exchnge rate over life of project of US$ 0.1282NYPI.
(3) Reflcts differences in exchange rates according to UDPU accounts.



- 26 -
7. Aaraisal and Actual Proiect Financing       (US$ million)
Planned              Revised
Credit               Credit
Source                                       Agreement"'   %      Agreementm    %       Final'31      %
1 - Civil Works                               7.65          67     4.41          67    3.49           100
2 - Goods                                     0.12                 0.22          (4)    0.22          (4)
3 - Consultants Services                      2.12          100    2.24          100    1.95          100
4- Un-allocated                               2.28          -      0.07                  -
Fund"                                       --                                        0.46
Cancellations(' "                                               (6.4)                (6.54)
Total IDA                                     12.17                 .94                  .1I
Domestic                                      .725Z
Total                                             i11.6
Source: Project files, Urban Development Projects Units's accounts (MHUP)
Notes: Numbers might not add up exactly due rounding off.
Values In US$ were obtained from Credit Agreement Schedule 1 by converting the SDR value using the equivalent
disbursement rate.
(1) March 1984 equivalent disbursement rate US$1 .058/SDR.
(2) June 1991 equivalent disbursement rate US8 1.3251SDR.
(3) SDR and US$ values as supplied by disbursement records as of 04102/92.
(4) Percentage expenditure to be financed under this category:
100% of foreign expenditure
100% of local expenditue ex-factory
70% of other local expenditure
(5) Fund (Special Account) opened and maintained at Central Bank of Yemen in November 1986, with an amount
equivalent to US$ 1,000,000.
(6) Savings in Credit were cancelled, approximately SDR 6.26 million on 06ObI91.



- 27 -
8. Missign Dant
Type of Mission          MonNr    I of Persons   Days in Field   Performance Rating    Types of Problems
A- Up to ARoralsl
Identification"'         12/82     2              14            Not Applicable
Preparation/Pre-appraisal    03/83  2             16            Not Applicable
B. Agoraisal tQ Board Aooroval
Appraisal                06/83     5              15            Not Applicable
Pre-negotiation          10/83     2              7             Not Applicable
Discussionsm             02/82      1             11
Final Design Review      02/82      1             3
C- Board AnDroval to Effectiveness
D- Supervision
Supervision I"'          08/84     2              12            1
Supervision 11"'         10/84      1             8             1
Country Review"'         02/86      1             16            Not Applicable
Supervision III"'}       05/85     2              10            1                    Managerial
Supervision IV"'         10/86     2              11            '                    Implementation
Supervision V"'          01/86     3              12            1                    Implementation
Supervision VI"'         10/86     2              12            1                    Implementation
Supervision Vill"        02/87     1              9             2                    Implementation
Supervision VllI"'       10/87     3              13            2                    Implementation
Supervision IX"'         02/88     2              10            2                    Administrative
Supervision XI'          01/89     2              15            3                    Adminisrative
Supervision X("'         10/89     2              10            2                    Administrative
Supervision XII'"        01/90     1              10            2                    Adminisnrative
Supervision (IIl"'       11/90     1              1S            2
Supervision XIV"'        06/91     2              30(3          2                    Managerial
Supervision XV"'         11/91      1             16            2                    Managerial
Supervision/CompletionO'   02/92   3              15            2                    Managerial
Source: Project Files
Note: Implementation problems were due to the slow performance of the contractor. The main managerial problems were due
to coordination difficulties and clear line of authority at MHUP, lengthy bureaucratic procedures and insufficient staffing.
Administrative problems were due to the reluctance of Government entities to enforce institutional reforms or othe agreed
upon requirements at appraisal.
(1) Included work on other projects In the Urban Sector
(2) Included Discussions on other sectors
(3) Ramadan Holidays coincided with the mission



- 28 -
9        Economic Rate of Return of Land Develomment in ohuleil
Year                            1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Cost stream (1000 YR)          10645    2957   10645   15967   11236    7688
-ev~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
ReIdntiel pavd 4%1                                 0%      25%      35%      30%       t
Redea1ttal Unpaved t%                             0°%      IS       25t      30      1t
Ccmevie1 (ON                                       o0       3s5%    35%      30%       0
Lta categor                      Area             Price    Pie.    Prime    Pale.    prim
a2             Ua)    YR/8)    TR/O    TRAd    YRd
ReetdeItal Pove               U32000              150      165      215     226      350
ReldeatIa Unpve"              481000              tO0      110      152     160      200
cogeieal                       46200              200      220      250      26)     300
Benefit Stream (1000 YR)
Residential Paved                                 0    5445    9933    8940    3300
Residential Unpaved                               0   13228   25S89   23030    9630
Commercial                                        0    3557    4043    3638          0
Total Benefits (1000 YR)           0       0        0   22230   39565   35608   12920
Not Benefit (1000 YR)         -10645   -2957  -10645    6263   28329   27920   12920
Rg7                            36.48
Notes$
1.  Cost Stream is based on information supplied by IMIP (dated February 1991).
2. Land Prices are based on estimates supplied by KNUP (dated 1988 and 1991).
3. Occupancy was estimated using percentage completion of physical works.



- 29 -
10.   Profile of Beneficlars
1.    Total number of beneficiaries is 4800 families (about 18 percent of houses have 2 families living together).
2.    Breakdown of beneficfaries by household average monthly income:
Aeraae Mthl ncome RI                         Number of beneficiaries
1500 1800                                      960
1801 - 4000                                   1920
4001 and over                                 1920
3.    Breakdown of beneficiaries by number of persons per household:
Number of persons per
household                   Number of beneficiaries           lAcen=
10                           72                              1.5
9                           96                              2
8                           576                             1 2
7                           480                             10
6                          1066                             22
6                          1200                             25
4                           816                             17
3                           288                             6
2                           120                             2.5
1                           96                              2
4.    All plots have been allocated and have subsequently been developed, or in the process of, by the beneficiaries.
Source: Telex form MHUP dated September 8, 1992.
1.    The balance is trunk infrastructure serving other communities.
2.    The total surface delineated for implementation under the project was
originally fixed at 125 ha. However, cost estimates during appraisal exceeded
the available funding and the size of the pro4ect was cut down to 105 ha.
Actual work completed reached 118 ha to allow for regular blocking of the
site.



IBRD 17364R
--~8    (   o'   - V4                              44'
byTh   I. ,to ff 
~dueiWIy I,' th.s  tw,             /  /.
bA,=         .) \"        Cs                   ~~~~~~~~~~~20t-                  20'-
0~    lb   betewddw  boh -e .e    /  ,.
pottol ofd                                                               3 /L SAUDI ARAB8A _.
* -> JU         .  te Rd     )
X ( ' ! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E. O F
1koSa/,i  -Gulf->.    X   \ t                                   ETHIOPIA             ul/ of Aden
N1                             I      I?'     (~~~~~~~~~~~~ WIBOUTISOAA
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sn~
REPUWIC OF YEMEN I  IJ \\
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJEC1117.  I/
HODEIDAH: LOCATION OF PROJECT SIT/
Project area 
Preliminary planning area
g  Squatetersettlement areais                                                        1992
Medium income areos t  ,l. ;S,,2,Sgh,!,,'fk'Xif
_   Mixed commlerciatl-residentia areas
Small-scale industry areas                    /\Xt             ,
Port expansion and related industrial area    1   iS        \           ,s
Roods .720, m'{ot
m-1       Elevation contours (meters)             E (7
international boundaries           F\               4( W           S 
KILOMETERS ,° i            2        3        4  
MILES O 0                                       3      * T         \gk
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AG .19\92 \X 



WI                          -        Z i I  IIf                       L..- m.. IIl 3i   r$l. 1\W\ U_-'HII35-*'f t  j                                                 l.P3   \                 wrii    '\*eetXE 
IRD17365R
Jo A. conva*0ve ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"  __'  Ua.-
dA    ondwJo*0"vrpmon md in
SCHOOL SECONDARY   :j~~jjI!jjIjjV                                                                      *                    Re Sea
V                                                                                            PmpceedmadInI.        1t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IAP 
SECOND URBANDARY SCHOOLPMENT PROJECT                      [                      i°nlormtrdl°cnede 5chool                                           arP      V               SAUDI ARABIA .SO
EISTN                        PORTSCARE
Mtepri 3/0mie --20°mmdii  Gowod .  ,$4REPUCOFYEN
SECON.wDe                              .--   0   mdo URBANgils@                                                          utr Development PROJECT  In.dw  Sc..                            Gu^/  iof 
GHULide         PRJC  LAYOUT                                                     doviesn                                                                               SAUDIce  ARABCmmerial    2\
GRIl    bullpplyt                         Existingsewerlinsmes                  7i Bomuniltvup hreasl-l qC                                  P  Hosn                                                )
- - 12  0m .w de                              2 5   m m   d igh olt g u d r ro n c b  H e lt P s o lc enr                                                 Je.r
0 0 MVadies                             High voltage undergrolsd cables                                                                                           THIOPIAie             /
Valves                            Schools                                                           C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       '2,~ ~u rl s
Fire hydrants                                  Open space ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                         ET    HIS0  OPI   00A9 
Z0                 0
Or~~~~~~~~~~~~~UUT19



RIWUI t(joorK
GHULE IL: YIA   LC
xPhnrojetLya
and infrastructure oimprovement
Plot boundariesroect'-,
Commercial -shopping   k
Comuit fcl;ie(lllI lbrry  isenor.scaatec
6M. wgideU-
Rm.sidentiotpah  mnmm 
Wesdete iauply-stsanevc
J                                                                                                                 Co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20mmercio. -saping
80mmundityacilubtins   l,irrydsesrycoLt.
300 ms. wdea
25 mm. wdice
.200 mnm. die,.an
Sewer getwr
Mimes o  20 ~~to                                            250 to  mm.gl dvolt    negrudcbe
Se-ontransformer
L.ow voltage overhead distribution lines
FEET 0           tOO          200          300          i.    Electric poles with lighting fixtures
a    Electric poles without lights
a    Wall brackets



