Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3709-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 11.5 MILLION
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 12, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1982                                 March 1983
Currency Unit = Yemeni rial (YRl)                            YRI
US$1 = YRls 4.54 1/                                4.54
YR1 1 = US$0.22                                     0.22
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31 (from 1981)
ABBREVIATIONS
CPO          Central Planning Organization
HCB          Housing Credit Bank
MAF          Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
MEW          Ministry of Electricity and Water
MVMH         Ministry of Municipalities and Housing
NWSA         National Water and Sewerage Authority
UDPU         Urban Development Project Unit
YAR          Yemen Arab Republic
YGEC         Yemen General Electricity Corporation
1/ No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared to the IMF. All
exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which has
been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Second Urban Development Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Amount.            Special Drawing Rights 11.5 million (approximately
$12.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Prc   t
D*e _ription;    The proposed project is designed to further strengthen
MMH's capacity to plan, design, and execute key urban
development programs at the local level; and to help the
Government remove development bottlenecks in the urban
sector while making full use of private initiative. It
would provide affordable infrastructure services to the
low-income population of the port city of Hodeidah, the
second largest city in YAR, at minimal cost. The project
would help develop the Ghuleil area and integrate it into
the city's master plan. It includes. (i) the upgrading of
65 ha of built up area to benefit about 13,000 residents;
(ii) development of another 40 ha to provide 1,650 plots
for families, and for social facilities (schools, dispen-
saries) with adequate infrastructure; (iii) provision of
roads and footpaths, water supply, sewerage, electricity
and street lighting; (iv) technical assistance of 180 man-
months for project execution and management, and strength-
ening municipal administration in Hodeidah; (v) a study
to design and evaluate alternative ways of mobilizing
resources to finance the maintenance of existing urban
services and the construction and maintenance of new ones;
and (vi) training and studies for preparation of future
projects.
The project would address the needs of the poorest segments
of the population in the city of Hodeidah. The major risks
are; (i) possible delays in implementation due to
difficulty in retaining qualified administrative and
technical staff and (ii) inadequate cost recovery. These
risks have been minimized through appropriate project
training, technical assistance and design features.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs;                                 Local        Foreign        Total
-    … $-----   million---
Ghuleil Upgrading and Site and Services
A.  Site Works
Site clearance                               0.05          0.02          0.07
Demolitions                                  0.14          0.08          0.22
Plot demarcation                             0.07          0.04          0.11
Sub-total                                 0.26          0.14          0.40
B.  Off-Site Infrastructure
Street system                                0.22          0.1.4         0.36
Water supply                                 0.04          0.07          0.11
Sewerage system                              0.04          0.08          0.12
Electricity and street lighting              0.07          0.17          0.24
Sub-total                                 0.37          0.46          0.83
C.  On-Site Infrastructure
Street system                                1.06          0.71          1.77
Water supply                                 0.85          1.71          2.56
Sewerage system                              1.42          2.85          4.27
Electricity and street lighting              0.50          1.15          1.66
Sub-total                                 3.83          6.43         10.26
Technical Assistance
Project execution and management             C.13          1.23          1.36
Training                                      -            0.05          0.05
Strengthening Hodeidah Municip.              0.02          0.14          0.16
Study on cost recovery                       0.01          0.11          0.12
Preparation of future project                0.05          0.45          0.50
Sub-total                                 0.21          1.98          2.19
Project Administration
Local staff                                  0.89           -            0.89
Equipment                                                  0.12          0.12
Special services                             0,17           -            0.17
Sub-total                                 1.06          0.12          1.18
TOTAL BASE COST                                  5.73           9.13         14.86



- iii -
Contingencies
Physical increase                        0.37              0.66          1.03
Price increase                            1.65             1.65          3.03
Total contingencies                       2.02             2.31          4.33
TOTAL PROJECT COST                               6.98            10.91         17.89
Financing Plan
Proposed IDA Credit                              1.09            10.91         12.00
Government                                       5.89              -            5.89
TOTAL                                        6.98            10.91         17.89
Estimated IDA Disbursements;  IDA FY
1985      1986       1987       1988      1989
-----------------$ million -----------… -----
Annual                       1.00       4.0        4.4        2.5        0.1
Cumulative                   1.00       5.0        9.4       11.9      12.0
Rate of Return:  25 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 4675-YAR, dated December 22, 1983



I



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
A SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) 11.5 million (approximately US$12.0 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to help finance a Second Urban Development project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _/
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (No. 2856-YAR), dated October 23,
1980 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. Country data are
attached in Annex I.
Introduction
3.         Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in
its socioeconomic structure and lhe material welfare of its citizens. The
republican government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution
succeeded in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the
foundations of a modern state.
4.         Political integration and the build-up of public institutions while
maintaining a liberal market orientation have provided the basis for rapid
development of the public and private sectors. Under the Three-Year Develop-
ment Program (1974-76) and the First Five-Year Plan (1977-81), the
foundations of the country's physical and social infrastructure were laid and
expanded, and first attempts were made at lifting agriculture, the mainstay
of the economy, out of its medieval setting; industrialization was also
started, albeit on a small scale.
5.         Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
the large inflow of remittances and transfers by Yemenis abroad, particularly
workers in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. These are estimated to have
increased from around $65 million in 1971/72 to a level that has fluctuated
around $1.2 billion on an annual basis between 1977 and 1982. Since 1980,
however, remittances have levelled off.  Largely as a result of these cash
1/ Substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report (P-3639-YAR,
dated August 23, 1983) for the Highway V credit approved by the Executive
Directors on September 13, 1983.



- 2 -
inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased significantly over the last
ten years, reaching an estimated $500 in 1982 (World Bank Atlas methodology).
6.        Although there are no reliable data on income and consumption
distribution in YAR, there are reasons to believe that the benefits from
recent growth have been widely distributed. Strong family ties ensure that
many people benefit from the increase in incomes. Public social
expenditures, especially in education and health, increased substantially,
and the associated benefits accrue directly to an increasing number of the
population.
Major Development Issues
7.        Overall economic performance during the First Plan period (1977-81)
has been satisfactory. Real GDP grew at around 6 percent p.a. Investment
effort was impressive averaging around one-third of GNP. These achievements,
remarkable as they are, should not, however, detract from the fact that YAR
continues to be one of the world's least developed countries. Productivity
levels are still extremely low, especially in agriculture. Over 90 percent
of the population resides in rural areas, a large part in remotea villages
without access to modern transportation, schools, electricity or health
services. Agricultural land and water are scarce and few mineral deposits
have been discovered so far. YAR's commodity exports are still extremely
low, reflecting the country's limited resources and the underdeveloped state
of its economy.  The shortage of skilled and semi--skilled manpower is an
overriding constraint to development and limits the capacity of the public
administration to manage and implement a growing and increasingly complex
development program.
8.        The budget deficit has emerged as a major issue in recent years.
Over the past five years, Government expenditures have increased at a pace
more than double that of revenues. By 1982, revenues represented only about
40 percent of expenditures and the budget deficit was 31 percent of GDP. At
the same time, the share of the budget deficit financed by external loans
dropped from an average 44 percent in 1977-81 to 17 percent only in 1982,
which compelled the Government to increase its borrowings from the banking
system (mainly the Central Bank). As a result, the money supply grew rapidly
during the recent years, and by mor,e than 25 percent in 1982. Despite this
rapid growth, inflation, measured by the Sanaa Consumer Price Index or by the
GDP deflator, hardly exceeded 6 percent in recent years since the growth of
money supply was accompanied by a continuous increase in imports which led to
a decline in foreign reserves, from 16 months of imports of goods and
services in 1977/78 to 3.5 months by end 1982 (and to less than 3 months in
March 1983), and this has kept the inflation rate from being higlher.  The
continuation of such a large budget deficit might reduce the reserves further
to a level where an increase in money supply wou'Ld most likely result in
higher inflation.
9.        Reducing the budget deficit calls for;  (a) in the short-run,
cutting public investment expenditures; and (b) in the medium-run, bringing



current expenditures under control, introducing more taxes 1/ and establishing
adequate users' fees. The Government is increasingly aware of the seriousness
of the situation and has taken a number of measures to keep expenditures
within the levels authorized by the 1983 budget. These include a selective
freeze on new hiring, restrictions on purchases of cars and furniture, the
creation of new public authorities, etc. The effect of these measures,
however, still remains to be seen. In particular, anticipated expenditures on
earthquake reconstruction will add considerable pressure on efforts to contain
the deficit. A Bank mission visited YAR recently to review the Government's
public investment program of the Second Five Year Plan (1982-86). Senior
government officials agreed with the mission that substantial cuts in the
public investment program are needed. The mission's report is expected to
help the Government in scaling down its investment in line with anticipated
resources.
Government Objectives
10.       Since the early 1970s, the country has been trying to develop human
resources and build new institutions, to strengthen the physical and social
infrastructure, to raise the productivity of the commodity-producing sectors,
and to improve the standard of living of the people, giving priority to their
basic needs. Most of the First Plan's targets which were in line with these
objectives have been met except in the agriculture sector where output of some
traditional crops has declined and overall growth fell considerably below
targeted levels primarily because of the abandonment of marginal rain-fed
areas where income opportunities could not compete with the opportunities of
migration. The production of qat (a mild stimulant) has been on the increase
and has competed for agricultural land. Its production is only partially
reflected in the national accounts.
11.       The Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86) has a 7 percent GDP growth
target calling for a total investment of around $6.5 billion (1981 prices)
over the plan period. The sectoral distribution of investment underlies a
continued broad-fronted strategy with an emphasis on agriculture and manpower
development. The plan's financing envisioned heavy dependence on external
sources with around 70 percent of investment expected to be covered by grants
and loan disbursements and direct foreign private investment. However, since
this expected level of foreign finance does not appear to be forthcoming and
because of the extremely tight budgetary situation that has developed recently,
the Government is in the process of revising its investment program and the
Bank is assisting in this effort (para. 9).
1/ The Bank report Mobilization of Domestic Financial Resources in the YAR
(January 6, 1982) made a number of recommendations in this regard as well
as on other resource mobilization possibilities. A number of these
recommendations have been implemented and others are under consideration.



-4-
Capital Flows and External Debt
12.       Since the 1962 Revolution, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifica-
tion as a "least-developed country," most of the aid has beer provided in the
form of grants and concessionary loans. Cumulative aid disbursements, in-
cluding grants, came to around $2.6 billion by the end of 1982. The
principal donors have been Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Iraq,
USA and West Germany as well as IDA and the Arab development funds.
13.       About one-half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and, more recently, for
budget support primarily from Saudi Arabia. Food aid has been provided
through the World Food Program and by a number of bilateral donors. A
significant part of official grants has been made available in the form of
technical assistance. Given the extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR,
this type of aid has high priority and will be needed by the country for many
years to come. Besides the grants, YAR received sizeable amounts of official
loans. Drawings on these loans have increased in recent years, reaching $262
million in 1981 and $246 million in 1982. Most of the official loans and
credits have been committed for the financing of specific projects, with the
main emphasis on roads, agriculture, and utilit:ies.
14.       The terms of official loan assistance have been very favorable.
Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of China are, for the most
part, free of interest. Western European countries have generaLly charged
between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates charged by Arab
countries have varied from 0 to 4 percent. Loan maturities range from 5-50
years, with an average of 20 years.
15.       YAR's external public debt outstanding on December 31, 1982 was
estimated at $2244 million, of which $1312 million was disbursed. IDA
credits accounted for $136 million or about 10 percent of the total disbursed
and outstanding debt reported. Because of the very favorable terms of
borrowing, the debt service payments amounted to $55 million in 1982,
equivalent to around 3.6 percent of gross foreign exchange earnings
(including workers' remittances and private transfers).  Service payments
could rise significantly to about 10 percent of the gross foreigrn exchange
earnings by the end of the 1980s.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
16.       The proposed credit would be the thirty-sixth to YAR, bringing
total IDA commitments to $356.5 million net of cancellations. The World Bank
1/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report (P-3639-YAR,
dated August 23, 1983) for the Highway V credit approved by the Executive
Directors on September 13, 1983.



- 5 -
strategy in YAR has been threefold:  to concentrate on developing the basic
institutions, skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for
development, to develop production and income in the dominant productive
sector, agriculture, and to support the Government in its programs to meet
basic needs in rural and urban areas.  To achieve these objectives, IDA has
extended eleven credits, totaling $120.4 million, for agriculture, fisheries
and rural infrastructure; fourteen credits, totaling $146.6 million, for
infrastructure including highways, ports, water supply and sewerage, power
distribution, and urban development; five credits, totaling $51.0 million,
for education and training; two credits, totaling $14.0 million, for
industry; a $2.0 million credit to promote the exploration of the petroleum
and geothermal resources; and a 310.5 million credit to strengthen and expand
the capability of the Ministry of Health to plan, staff and manage the
country's health care system. In FY78, an investment of $2.4 million by the
International Finance Corporation was approved to help finance a dairy and
juice project. Another investment of $4.0 million by IFC was approved in May
1983 to help finance a dry cell battery project. Further opportunities for
IFC involvement are being explored.
17.       A major constraint to YAR's social and economic development has
been, and will remain for some time, the critical shortage of professional,
skilled and semi-skilled manpower, and the newness and weakness of its insti-
tutions. World Bank strategy has emphasized strengthening institutions and
manpower capabilities through increased training of local staff and continued
technical assistance, as well as through direct financing for education. Thus
all IDA projects in YAR contain substantial institution-building components.
Two particularly important examples of the World Bank's support have been in
the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and the Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries (MAF). In CPO, the World Bank (through three grants totaling
$520,000) and the Kuwait Fund have financed a team of planning and economic
advisers so as to create a planning machinery. The Bank has also been the
executing agency for a UNDP-financed project to assist the CPO in the
preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan, 1982-86 (see para. 11). In MAF,
the Bank supplies the services of seven advisers initially financed by UNDP
with the Bank as executing agency, and now financed jointly by IDA, the EEC
Special Action Fund (under the Second Tihama project) and UNDP.  The
Agricultural Research Station at Taiz, which has the responsibility for
carrying out applied agricultural research for the country as a whole, is
also financed as part of this institutional support.
18.       YAR's disbursement performance (disbursements as a percentage of
total commitments) has been affected by a number of implementation problems,
although it still compares favorably to the regional average. Among the
recurrent problems that are commion to most countries at YAR's stage of
development are; delays in recruitment of consultants, delays in award of
contracts and resolution of conflicts with contractors, and finalizing
cofinancing arrangements.  The Government and IDA have agreed to hold country
implementation reviews twice a year to monitor the recurrent implementation
problems more closely and to address them promptly.



19.       Future World Bank operations are expected to consolidate past
achievements in the main infrastructure subsectors, spread the benefits of
agricultural and rural development projects to new outlying areas, accelerate
assistance to the Government in the energy field, and continue to meet the
large requirements of education and training. Particular attention will be
given to YAR's ability to implemenlt projects by insuring the availability of
key staff and technical assistance needs. Projects for agricultural develop-
ment in the Central Highlands area of YAR, petroleum products distribution
and geothermal exploration have been appraised. A second agricultural
development project in the undeveloped Wadi Jawf region has been prepared and
is in an advanced stage of preparation. Future operations are expected in
the areas of power distribution, transport, and mineral exploration and could
also include supplemental credits in water supply and sewerage and a possible
second line of credit to the Industrial Bank of Yemen.
20.       vAR has contributed an increasing portion of local currency financ-
ing in the past few years when the budgetary situation was favorable.  How-
ever, in view of the deterioratior in the budget and the fact that it remains
among the least-developed countries, it still requires special assistance
through financing of a large part of project costs, including local expendi-
tures when necessary.  As in the past, the costs of future projects are
expected to be substantially higher than the amounts that IDA can provide,
and we shall continue to cooperate closely with other donors so as to
maximize IDA's catalytic role in stimulating cofinancing. IDA-supported
projects have led to about $360 million equivalent of cofinancing from other
aid donors.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Urban Trends
21.       Urban growth in the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) is a relatively
recent phenomenon which began in the early 1970s. Only 10 percent of the
resident population lives in urban areas. Urbanization has begun to
accelerate in recent years. Whereas the total resident population of YAR has
grown at about 2.9 percent per annum over the last decade to about 6 million
in 1980, the total urban population, estimated at about 365,000 in 1975, has
grown at about 7.7 percent per annum between 1975-80.  Rural-urban migration,
especially of males who leave their families in the countryside in search of
work, has accounted for most urban growth. These trends are expected to
continue, and are likely to be aggravated by higher population growth, lower
international emigration rates, and the migration of entire families to
cities. As a result, the urban population is expected to increase to 20
percent of the total resident population by the year 2000.
22.       The urban population is fairly evenly distributed.  A widely
dispersed rural population, a rugged topography and deeply rooted traditions
of regional autonomy have combined to avoid the overwhelming primacy of any



- 7-
one city. Three cities--Sana'a, the capital, Hodeidah, the country's main
port, and Taiz, the principal southern trading city -- together accounted for
more than 80 percent of the total 1980 urban population. The most striking
demographic characteristic of YAR, however, is the number of people working
abroad who account for close to one-fifth of the country's total labor force.
Institutional Framework and Urban Development Policies and Programs
23.       The Government of YAR has only just begun to develop a
comprehensive urban policy, as urban issues have emerged relatively
recently. So far, Government intervention in the urban sector has mostly
been on an ad hoc basis, with the various ministries or agencies implementing
their own projects to meet urban demands.
24.       The Government, concerned by the deteriorating urban situation and
the lack of coordination among various urban development activities,
established in 1979 the Ministry of Municipalities and Housing (MMH), and
vested in it all authority regarding urban development. This Ministry has
now become the focal point of all government decisions in the field of urban
development.
25.       YAR is administratively divided into 11 governorates, each
administered by a governor appointed by the President of the Republic.
Fifteen major urban areas are organized into municipalities which represent
the MMH at the local levels of government. They are headed by "directors
general" who are administratively under the governor.
26.       At the national level, responsibility for managing urban
development is shared among the Central Planning Organization (CPO), the MMH,
the Ministry of Electricity, Water and Sewerage, and the Ministry of Public
Works. At the local level, these responsibilities are vested in the
municipalities. The system of municipal finance and management generates
meager local resources which can finance only limited urban services.
27.       While the Government is endeavoring to develop a coherent and
integrated policy and institutional framework to deal with urban development
issues, it is hampered in its efforts by a severe lack of financial resources
and a pervasive shortage of skilled personnel at all levels of
administration. These weaknesses, which pose obstacles to development in the
urban sector and to improving the well-being of low-income groups, can only
be overcome in the long-term. In the interim, it will be necessary to make
effective use of scarce resources through innovative and low-cost solutions,
and by continued technical assistance.
Infrastructure and Housing Conditions
28.       Although the development of urban infrastructure is now receiving
increasing attention, the most striking feature of the YAR urban setting



-8-
remains its lack of infrastructure. Only about 40 percent of the urban
population has access to potable water. Sewer systems in Hodeidah and Taiz
recently came into operation. Contracts for sewer projects in Ibb and Dhamar
are presently under review, and contracts for Sana'a are expected to be
tendered shortly.  Moreover, the major cities still lack adeq'.ately designed
and surfaced vehicular and pedestrian facilities. Garbage collection and
disposal is limited, and education and health services are still at a very
early stage of development. Several IDA-assisted projects under implementa-
tion would help to install some of these basic services.
29.       The provision of urban housing is seriously constrained by three
factors. Foremost among these is the absence of a formal land registration
system. The lack of cadastral surveys and of a modern ownership registry has
substantially increased the uncertainty of tenure, and resulted in the
proliferation of conflicting deeds for the same or ove-lapping properties.
This situation has undermined the establishment of an affective real estate
taxation system and complicated the planning of urban infrastructure. To
improve this situation, the First Urban Developmient Project included
technical assistance to help develop a modern land registration system in
Sana'a and to prepare legislation to apply it on a national basis. The
Government, with bilateral technical assistance, has now established a Land
Registration Department under the Survey Authoril:y in the Ministry of Public
Works and efforts are currently underway to develop a legal framework for
land registration consonant with Islamic principles and common law.
30.       The second constraining factor is the very high cost of housing due
primarily to the high cost of labor and materials, the low productivity of
local building contractors, and the high demand for housing. Rising housing
costs have siphoned off a significant proportion of the income of urban
residents, and have made access to housing extreme:Ly difficult for low-income
groups. The need for provision of housing at low cost was addressed in the
First Urban Development Project through a program of demonstration houses
illustrating the feasibility of using low-cost materials and techniques. The
third factor is the absence of a well-developed and coordinated housing
finance system. The Housing Credit Bank (HCB), established only five years
ago, has catered mainly to a limited number of medium- and high-income
groups. Low-income groups have had to rely on informal and hence costlier
sources of finance, mostly from absentee landlords working abroadl. The First
Urban Development Project therefore included provision of a line--of-credit
and of technical assistance to help strengthen the HCB.
IDA's Involvement in the Sector
31.       The proposed project would be the eighth IDA-assisted urban-related
project in YAR. IDA's involvement in urban infrastructure began in 1974 with
a credit (CR. 464-YAR) to help the Government finance the first public water
supply system in Sana'a and to establish the National Water and Sewerage
Authority (NWSA). Since then, three additional credits have been made to



- 9 -
YAR's major urban centers in the water supply and sewerage sector. Except
for the Sanaa Water Supply (closed June 30, 1980), all of these projects are
still being implemented. IDA also played a significant role in the estab-
lishment of the Yemen General Electricity Corporation (YGEC), which has
already received three IDA credits. At the Government's request, IDA carried
out an urban sector review in 1979 to identify major urban development issues.
The review concluded inter alia that:
(a) The Government urban development programs should be directed
towards the development of urban land rather than the
delivery of housing units, an activity best left to private
initiative;
(b) the Government programs should be targeted to the lowest
income groups; and
(c) the Government should sponsor specific programs to strengthen
the capabilities of local building contractors and encourage
the use of low-cost building materials and construction
techniques.
The review further concluded that achievement of the above objectives would
require the development of an institutional capacity to define and establish
appropriate urban development policies, rules and regulations; to acquire and
register land; and to implement integrated urban development projects.
32.       These findings and a review of the construction industry initiated
in 1980 under the UNIDO/World Bank Cooperative Program, formed the basis of
the First Urban Development Project (Cr. 1202 YAR), approved in February
1982. As noted, the project was intended to address the main constraints to
urban development.   Specifically, it includes (i) Infrastructure upgrading
and sites and services to focus Government interventions on cost-effective
land development and provision of infrastructure for lower-income
settlements; (ii) a pilot shelter and housing finance scheme designed to
reduce housing costs and provide access to mortgage finance for low-income
groups; and (iii) institutional development to strengthen MMH's capacity for
project execution (including the land registration program mentioned in
para. 29). Its implementation is proceeding well; the execution of civil
works is on schedule and the institution-building component is being
implemented satisfactorily.
33.       Continued IDA involvement in the sector is necessary to help
strengthen the institutional framework for urban development, and to assist
the Government in establishing a sound municipal taxation system that would
help mobilize resources to pay for urban services. This involvement can now
build on a sound sectoral dialogue and extend the successful experience of
the First Urban Development Project--the rationale for the proposed Second
Urban Development Project.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
34.        The proposed project was initially iderLtified in April 1981 during
pre-appraisal of the First Urban Development Project.  Project processing
was, however, delayed in light of absorptive capacity constraints in the
sector. Discussions on a second project were resumed in December 1982 and
preparation began in January 1983.  The project was appraised in May 1983.
The Housing Department of the MMH (with the assistance of consultants
financed under the first urban project) prepared the project through its
Urban Development Project Unit (UDPU), thus reflecting the success of the
institution building effort initiated under the first project. Negotiations
for the proposed Credit were held in Washington from December 9 to 14, 1983.
The YAR delegation was headed by His Excellency Ahmed Luqman, Minister of
Municipalities and Housing (MMH), and included representatives of CPO and
MMH. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic: Second Urban
Development Project" (No. 4675-YAR, dated December 22, 1983) is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the
Credit and the Project are summarized in the Credit and Project Summary and
in Annex III. Maps of the country and of the project area are attached.
Project Objectives and Description
35.        The proposed project is designed to further strengthen MMH's
capacity to plan, design, and execute integrated urban development programs
at the local level; and to provide affordable infrastructure services to the
low-income population at minimal cost. Under the project, the area of
Ghuleil, located in south-east Hodeidah, and one of that city's largest
settlements, would be upgraded. Sites and services would also be provided to
address some of the growing needs of low-income cotmmunities.  The planning of
Ghuleil would help integrate the project into the existing master plan and
city networks of Hodeidah. The upgrading of the existing built-up area of
65 ha would benefit some 13,000 persons while development of about 1,650
infill and serviced plots on a further 40 ha of undeveloped land would cater
to future low-income needs. Concurrently with the above, several measures
would be undertaken to further strengthen the institutional capacity of MMH.
In the context of the financial situation that calls for investment cuts, the
Government regards this project as a priority in view of the growing urban
population and the lack of adequate urban infrastructure and the fact that
most of the project's cost will be recovered from the beneficiaries.
Physical Component
36.        The physical component includes;  (i) preparation of a general
layout and preliminary design of the Ghuleil area for its integration into
the Hodeidah master plan; (ii) upgrading and provision of services of the
existing built-up area of 65 ha including reblocking and plot subdivision as
appropriate to service the needs of the 13,000 residents currently comprising



- 11 -
one fourth of the Hodeidah population living in unserviced areas; and (iii)
development of 1,650 infill and serviced plots on 40 ha. of undeveloped land
to accommodate future urban growth for groups with incomes between the 15th
and 40th percentile of the income distribution curve. Plot sizes would range
from 100 to 150 m2 and about 100 plots would be reserved for rehousing
families displaced by upgrading.  This combination of sites-and-services and
upgrading at the same location would allow an increase in the density from
the present 100 persons/ha. to about 225 persons/ha and would facilitate
effective use of infrastructure. Major improvements include the provision
of roads and footpaths, water supply and sewage facilities including house
connections, and electricity and street lighting. Beneficiaries would be
given a land title through the land registration program initiated under the
first project; UDPU would provide technical advice to facilitate construction
by the beneficiaries; and land would be reserved for social and community
facilities such as schools and dispensaries. The MH's Municipal Office in
Hodeidah would operate and maintain a solid waste collection scheme in
Ghuleil under a project financed by bilateral aid from the Netherlands.
Technical Assistance
37.       Consultancy and advisory services totalling 216 man-months would
be provided to MMH for the institutional development component as follows;
(i) Execution and Managementz expatriate staff to be attached to the UPDU
will comprise two engineers and one accountant (44 man-months each) and one
architect/planner and one socio-economist (24 man-months each); (ii) Hodeidah
Municipal Office; to be reinforced by one expatriate municipal engineer (24
man-months); (iii) Cost Recovery Study; consultancy services (12 man-months)
to help MMH prepare a study aimed at establishing suitable procedures for the
recovery of project costs from beneficiaries and for the creation of a
resource base for the future financing and maintenance of urban services; and
(iv) Training and Project Preparation; training of UDPU staff ($50,000) and
$500,000 for preparation of a possible third urban project. Overseas
training will be provided to the staff of MMH and the Hodeidah municipality
in the areas of urban planning, municipal engineering and procurement. This,
together with the on-the-job training provided under the first project, and
included under the proposed project through expatriate technical assistance,
would help enhance the capabilities of MMH and the Hodeidah municipality in
urban planning, project preparation and implementation, and reduce the extent
of reliance on expatriate technical assistance in the future.
Project Cost and Financing
38.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is esti-
mated at about $17.9 million equivalent, of which about 61%, or $10.9 million
represents the foreign exchange component. Physical contingencies have been
estimated at 10% of infrastructure costs for upgrading and sites and services.
Consultant services totalling $2.5 million have been estimated at an average
of $10,000 per man-month for short-term (up to one year) consultants and
about $7,000 per month for longer term specialists, including salaries, fees,



- 12 -
overhead, international travel, and subsistence.  These estimates are in line
with recent experience in YAR. Price contingencies reflect the project
implementation schedule and likely increases in services, construction costs,
materials, and equipment during project execution. Price contingencies for
local costs have been estimated at 15% for 1984, 12% for 1985 and 10% a year
thereafter. Price increases for foreign costs have been estimated at 7.5% in
1984, 7% in 1985, and 6% a year thereafter. Physical contingencies amount to
7.6 percent of base cost estimate and price contingencies amount to 22.6 per-
cent of base costs plus physical contingencies; total contingencies represent
31.9 percent of base costs, and 24.2 percent of total project costs.                           4
39.       The proposed IDA Credit of SDRs 11.5 million (approximately $12
million) would finance the entire foreign exchange cost of the project
($10.90 million), the local cost ($0.25 million) of the technical assistance
component and about 15 percent of the local cost ($0.85 million) of the infra-
structure works component. The balance of the project cost ($5.9 million)
would be financed by the Government. The proposed IDA Credit will be made to
the YAR Government under standard terms and conditions.
Project Implementation
40.       Under the overall direction of the Housing Department of the MME,
UDPU will be responsible for implementing all project components. UDPU would
be assisted by consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms of
employment shall be satisfactory to IDA (Developrnent Credit Agreement,
Section 3.03).  The project would be executed over a four-year pteriod.  The
chief engineer for Hodeidah, who is already in place, will direc;t project
execution in close consultation with the Director of the Housing Department,
the General Director of the MMH's Municipal Office in Hodeidah and the UDPU
Project Manager. A core team of UDPU personnel consisting of the chief
engineer, one implementation engineer, one architect-planner, one financial
analyst, and one socio-economist with their counterparts and administrative
staff, would be transferred to Hodeidah for project execution following
completion of the tendering process for major civil works. Upon completion
of the project, UDPU staff in Hodeidah would be transferred back to Sana'a to
assist in the preparation of future projects, or otherwise assigned to ensure
wide dissemination of the expertise accrued under the two IDA assisted urban
projects.
41.       All contracts (civil works, equipment and advisory services) would
be let by the MME and supervised by this Ministry in collaboration, when
warranted, with NWSA and YGEC.  After project completion, infrastructure
networks will be handed over as an equity contribution to the respective
utility agencies (NWSA and YGEC) which will be responsible for operation and
maintenance from their own resources. Agreements between MMH and NWSA, and
MMH and YGEC, satisfactory to IDA, will ensure administrative arrangements
during implementation for the provision of technical supervision and for the
operation and maintenance of applicable infrastructure (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.06).



- 13 -
42.       Detailed design and docunents stipulating the general condition of
contract for the first phase of works consisting of upgrading and provision
of sites and services on 40 ha. and preliminary design for the second phase
of works on the remaining 65 ha. were submitted to IDA for review during
negotiations and are satisfactory to IDA.  Tenders for the first phase of
works would be invited by February 1984 with works commencing by September
1984. The expected completion date for all project works and the technical
assistance program is March 31, 1988.
43.       MMH would keep separate accounts of all project-related trans-
actions and an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, would audit these
accounts and would submit his reports to IDA through the UDPU within six
months of the close of each financial year (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 4.01(b)). The UDPU would submit semi-annual progress reports to IDA
not less than two months after the end of each semester, including the finan-
cial status of the project and appropriate key indicators to measure the
progress in meeting project objectives (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.05).
44.       A Selection Committee chaired by the Governor of Hodeidah or his
designated representative will be established not later than six months
before the completion of infrastructure works of Phase I (para. 42) to
implement agreed procedures and criteria for selecting beneficiaries with
income between the 15th and the 40th percentile of the income distribution
curve (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.04(b)). Such criteria would
include inter alia the income of the beneficiaries and residency qualifica-
tions. This Committee will include inter alia representatives of the MMH,
the Municipal Council in Hodeidah, the Central Planning Organization and the
Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs.
Procurement
45.       Civil works for the coabined upgrading and sites and services
component of the project (amounting to $13.9 million), consisting of roads,
water supply, sewers, electricity and street lighting as well as preparation
and servicing of new plots would be procured through international competi-
tive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the guidelines for procurement under
IDA credits. Contracts would be awarded to a general contractor for both
phases of the project, or to one for each contract, with prequalification
being required. Goods and equipment financed under the project (amounting
to $120,000) would be procured through solicitation of at least three price
quotes from IDA member countries, and consultant services (amounting to
$2.6 million) would be procured by MMH in accordance with the IDA guidelines.
Disbursement
46.       Disbursement from proc:eeds of the proposed Credit would be made
as follows; (a) civil works, 67% of total expenditures; (b) goods and
equipment, 100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local expenditures ex-



- 14 -
factory and 70% of other local expenditures; and (c) technical assistance,
100% of total expenditures.  The disbursement schedule is based on that of
the first project which is proceeding on target. It is about a year less
than the average for projects with heavy civil works construction in YAR and
is justified on the basis of MMH performance under the first project.  The
Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by March :31, 1989.
Cost Recovery
47.       Strong emphasis has been placed during project preparation on cost
recovery to ensure long-term replicability. Project costs related to site
preparation, plot demarcation, on-site infrastructure, design and super-
vision, and project administration would be fully recovered throtugh down-
payments and improvement charges to be collected by NWSA on behalf of the
MMH. This arrangement, which is similar to that retained under the first
project, appears the most-effective way to ensure the collection of
improvement charges under the prevailing circumstances, given the serious
shortage of skilled manpower in YAR. NWSA is the only institution in YAR
which has the administrative and staff capability to perform this service
without undue burden.  It would collect the improvement charge simultaneously
with the water charge and would keep 3 percent of the collection proceeds to
meet its collection costs. The MMH would be responsible for the enforcement
of the payment of the improvement charges. An agreement between MMH and NWSA
on the procedures and administrative arrangements for the collection of
improvement charges would be maintained for the life of project (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 4.06).
48.       Pricing arrangements in the project area would aim at ensuring
equitable overall cost recovery. To reflect location, accessibility and
level of service the plots would be differentially priced by MMH to ensure
that existing and future low-income population could afford them. Land
reserved for community services would be transferred to appropriate
ministries at cost, whereas land for commercial development would be sold
at market value.
49.       About 84 percent of total project costs would be directly recovered
in nominal terms from project beneficiaries. The cost of off-site water
supply and sewerage would be recovered through tariffs (1 percent of total
project costs). The balance of the cost would be borne by the Government
(15 percent of total project costs) and includes mainly expenditures for
technical assistance, short-term training, special advisory services, and
equipment and office supplies.
50.       The cos:s of the residential plots would be repaid by beneficiaries
to the MMH at an interest rate of 11 percent per annum over a period of 20
years. A downpaymient of 10 percent would also be required for the purchase
of residential plots. The above on-lending rate to beneficiaries is similar
to that applied under the first urban project and is in line with those
discussed between the YAR Government and IDA for specialized institutions.



- 15 -
It is expected to be positive in real terms compared to the projected
inflation rate of 10 percent from 1984 to 1986.
51.       To prevent speculative sales, plot beneficiaries would be given a
lease-purchase contract in exchange for their monthly payment. Resale of
plots would not be permitted, except through MMH, for at least five years
from the date of obtaining the leasehold on their plots (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.04(c)). Upon full payment of the improvement costs,
beneficiaries would be given by MMH a freehold title, in line with principles
defined under the land registration component of the first project.
Affordability, Poverty Impact and Replicability
52.       An affordability analysis based on detailed surveys of household
incomes and housing expenditures was conducted by UDPU in the course of
project preparation. The analysis showed that households are willing to
spend 15 percent of their income for infrastructure improvements. Accord-
ingly, the cost of improvement in the upgrading and sites and services areas,
including utility payments, for the minimum plot option of 100 m2 would be
affordable to more than 95 percent of projected potential beneficiaries.
53.       The project will address the needs of the poorest people in
Hodeidah who currently lack access to serviced land. At present, about 35
percent of households in Hodeidah are below the 1980 Bank-defined absolute
poverty threshold and the 13,375 people in this category who could directly
benefit from the project represent 17 percent of Hodeidah's urban poor.
54.       The financial replicability of the combined upgrading and sites and
services scheme is for approximately one-third of all Hodeidah families cur-
rently living in low density squatter settlements, and design replicability
is facilitated because the Government owns most of the land in Hodeidah. The
cost recovery arrangements described in para. 47-51 will provide the
Government with a steady inflow of funds, pending the establishment of a full
municipal taxation system following study being undertaken under the project
(para. 37). These funds will accrue to the revolving fund to be administered
by the MH and set up under the first project within the Central Bank of
Yemen. They would be utilized exclusively for financing similar operations
in YAR's urban sector (Development Credit, Section 4.05). Together with the
strengthening of the MMH, such funding would further enhance the Ministry's
capacity to implement an expanded, self-supporting urban development program.
55.       The provision of urban services in the longer-term at a pace commen-
surate with growing needs is constrained by the present lack of an adequate
municipal taxation system. To address this problem, the development of a
sound land registration system is already being undertaken. The proposed
project includes 12 man-months of technical assistance to carry out a study
aimed at establishing a system of fees and taxes to help maintain existing
urban services and finance new ones, with terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association. Following completion of the study, the Government would



- 16 -
exchange views with the Association and agree on a plan to implement agreed
recommendations (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02).
Project Benefits and Risks
56.       The proposed project would continue to help the Government to
redirect public investment in the urban sector toward low-cost, replicable
land development programs which would benefit low-income groups while making
full use of private initiative. The combined development of the existing
built-up area and the vacant land in Ghuleil would lead to an effective and
efficient use of infrastructure. The project is financially sound, some
84 percent of its costs being directly recovered, with such funds becoming
available for promotion of similar projects in other urban areas. The
average rate of return on those investments for which the benefits are
quantifiable (representing 80 percent of total project costs) is esstimated
at 25 percent.
57.       Although the MMH has performed well to dlate and has proved its
ability to attract qualified expatriate and local staff, it is still a
relatively new institution building up its planning and implementation
capacity and must face the challenge of being able to retain competent local
staff on a long-term basis. Extensive technical assistance and tr-aining
during project implementation will address this need. Cost recoviery, as in
many countries, is a politically sensitive issue and will require a continued
strong commitment by the Government. Under the first urban project, a public
relations and public education campaign will soon be launched to sensitize
project beneficiaries to cost recovery, but experience in this area is still
limited. Improvement charges under the proposed project have however been
tailored to the beneficiaries' abilities to pay and will not be burdensome in
comparison with their current outlays on urban services.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, and the recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Association's Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
January 12, 1934



ANNEX I
- 17-                                            Page L of 5
T A B L e 3A
YEMEN, ARAB REP. OF      - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REP. OF                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1   1970/~~  ESTIMATE-  N. AFRICA & MID EAST    LAT. AMERICA S CARIB
AREA (TROUSAND SQ. 12)
TOTAL                                 195.0        195.0        195.0
AGRICULTURAL                           96.6         97.3         97.9
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                         ..       120.0        460.0              1340.0                      2088.2
ENERGY CONSUMFTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          7.0         15.0         62.0               810.4                      1407.6
POPULATION AMD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    4163.0         5258.0       7251.0/c
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           3.4          6.0         10.8                47.4                        65.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 12.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                  38.7
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                  2155
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                          21.3         27.0        36.1                 36.0                        35.6
PER SQ. EM. AGRI. LAND               43.1         54.0         71.9               449.0                        93.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (1)
0-14 YRS                            42.4         43.0        45.0                 43.9                        40.1
15-64 YRS                            54.4         53.9         51.9                52.8                        55.8
65 AND ABOVE                          3.2          3.1          3.2                 3.3                         4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.3          2.3          2.9                 2.9                         2.3
URBAN                                 8.1          8.0          8.2                 4.6                         3.7
CRLDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           49.7         48.8         48.5                42.5                        31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           28.9         26.5         22.8                12.0                         8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.4          3.3          3.3                 3.0                         2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOP PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         119.0         84.0         96.0                97.5                       113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMINTS)         90.0         76.0         76.0               102.3                       111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             69.0         55.0        58.0                 72.0                        67.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           18.0         14.0         19.0/d              17.8                        34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            60.4           ..         50.0                15.2                         5.3
BRALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          35.8         38.5         42.6                57.2                        64.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         211.6           ..        190.0               104.2                        62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  ..          4.0          4.0/e              59.3                        64.8
URBAN                                  ..         45.0        30.07-1              84.9                        77.8
RURAL                                  *           2.0          2 .07e             37.5                        44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..           ..                  ..                        54.6
URBAN                                  ..           ..           ..                  ..                        69.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..                  ..                        29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           130090.0      24370.0     11670.0               3536.0                      1776.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                  ..           ..      4580.0               1820.7                      1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              2730.0       1430.0/f    1700.0                643.3                       477.0
URBAN                                  ..           ..       230.0                545.0                       667.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..      6750.0               2462.0                      1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..          ..         14.3                26.4                        27.2
HOUSINC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..           ..          5.O/g
URBAN                                  ..           ..          4. 2j7,*
RURAL                                  ..           ..          6.0/
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..          2.8/
URBAN                                  ..           ..          1.b7jp.
RURAL                                  ..           ..          3.1..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..           ..                46.2
URBAN                                  ..           ..        56.5/g,              77.6
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..                16.1
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _   _ _ _   _ _  _   _ _   _     _ _ _ _   _ _  _- _ _-_- _ _     _ _- - _ _ __- _ _-_- _ _-_- - _- _ _-_- - _- _ _- _- - _- _ _- _ - -_ _ - -_ -



ANNEX I
-18 -                                                 Page 2 of 5
T A B L e 3A
YEMEN, ARAB REP. OF       - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REP. OF                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) la
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCCME
1960,       1970b   ESTfLMATE/       N. AFRICA & MID EAST    LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                       8.0         12.0         47.0                89.6                        105.0
MALE                      14.0         23.0         82.0               104.8                        106.3
FEMALE                     0.4          2.0         12.0                 72.4                       103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                        ..          1.0          5.0                41.7                         40.0
MALE                        .           2.0           .                  52.8                        38.6
FEMALE                      ..          0.1           ..                31.2                         41.2
VOCATIONAL (%. OF SECONDARY)             3.2/i        2.2          4.6/k               10.3                        34.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               45.0/i       51.0         44.0                31.9                         30.7
SECONhDARY                           24.07'       24.0          18.0/g              23.3                         16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                  2.5/i       10.0/f       21.0                 43.3                        79.5
CONSUKPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP               ..           ..           ..                 18.0                        45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOL'SAND POP             ..         15.3/f       15.6               138.1                        228.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..           ..          0.2                 45.6                       108.3
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") ClRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                  . .        10.7           . .                31.0                        64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTEEOANCE/CAPITA           ..           ..          0.9/d                1.7                         2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)             1263.0       1481.0       1809.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       3.7          4.5          5.4                10.7                         24.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 83.0         79.0         75.0                42.5                         31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     7.0          9.0         11.0                27.8                         23.9
PARTICIPATIOS RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.3         28.2         24.9                25.6                         31.3
MALE                                  57.7         55.0         49.9                45.4                         49.8
FE14ALE                                2.3          2.5          2.6                  5.6                        14.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.6          1.9                  1.8                         1.4
INCOlE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..           .
HIGHEST 20% OF HO USEHOLDS              ..
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        366.0               276.1                        289.8
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..               177.1                        184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..               400.0                        519.8
RURAL                                   ..           ..        157.0               283.3                        372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                22.0
RLRAL                                   ..           ..           ..                30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic rneans.  Coverage of cour tries amorg the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estirate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Resident population, includes migrant workers abroad for less than a year; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1972; Lg 1975; /h In
the major cities of Sanna, Talz and Modaidah; /i 1962; /j 1973.
May 1983



-19 -                                                                        AMIEX I
Page  -3  of- .5,-
OZF.IsrIONS OF SOCIAL INDlICdfOi
Notes-   Al thoogh ohs.aaa d      d- ,    rn rIm    eerly  uge   h  moss autor fIIIIlol aod                     ,  reial    It t l  A o t Pnoedththpey not he             ..t.nae.i.
dea-ihbodr   fs5ono               o  on  nreoda, and ouoonteora    ao   did tfferstoPas                 -      - tte ronns.e
foe...... teft    ....g Ap are    h   -Os routte  Oroty OF tOe sbjeos ro...sey and (2) a  -Onry group altO  -oseha  highrrao-rge IOuro   sh-otshe roa..try groap Ofth
-otJsrttor   lt       IrIfr    hOt   "'ros   Oil torortee' Eroopehe- "saddle   -. iroms no thifrm   and  Iddl  toot . ish.Oan   betuOse OF  tofsanorioa
st foo  .    Inne refar-'  iro-y d-n  the doeeagea on  popotanlon celged erilhsacnar   Or earnI  ndirator and chao- oniy ahe- onJ-ty ohse of                            essi
eneerised   nnsteningasregnsofon   tndinatosoesosher.   tessaoaragsare  anlyostolatroeprirgslneoaueofeonesntradotareeassam_ngttete.nstyaa
refeteore groupa. ~         OO
- total sotfate area ronyrinstf sand area and inland  sthers; 0960e,e  pypIO  _ a_eR thiild e                  af seda    enls  en oonnsst-n
190ad  1990l-O dse-.Ppuain eOaeigPesn- Pplnr   lle    ynne   tpast
s1  tAlualAnOeefumOOst5ah-edeyoatY.ynsnotyolanteaaeaatsnrae,asftatoae.ierid5nesss
for  rop, pssosa  teOn-   r n      "ts     ardesa  to ilielsss  1960,                           tosogot lha,rh-es             PjlIOd_d%b_~~    F p-,
1970 and l980 deaP.aado  e   opnlae      oa    ehsO,  n   orl epaatn   sts
AE-11   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~eao   o N.rs   itddh  ehe Pr--                               "ir respers-tds nbhe  at has         ...a..bed
1960, 190, and  980 data                                                               hpodlent One yyslrlao    natsfi5besoaa1eo6Cdat   penopa_ptaanae
1960 ?ER      adIOAdt.                                                                                    ra   OAtiti  ss de bIJOs           J plr-pa/-esr-  hobeanaOf   aediI. bea
f0on  97l Poe dlat9on   fd.Osan isootds  W-ha of 1 Joll ; 190(       91 n19     991...)              PI!otl(ylo                    te I   IToa  oa1:ets  opadissions to.nr iso.eI
asoogrootries; intO   19,ad191dt.'lla  Sn   fhashl  It pesnatrIoshldb otl   rhe                                                                                            indttl
PoroloOiAO  Pojettoota                                                                 -0. OAooeholdroosisno ofa geoup of  ndso5doale slo shone siie"Yqfsreer
tohal populaIon hp ad. austoorOtheirmortality  ad feersltty                        Oe householdfoe staers_aaIIpurposes
ce60y1na0 i-daltl   i   esl   iespmatysaiigt7. d1s98ags  erpatansy   tailogeso lad   o-ementtutts
ptara.  The persoesar  foe fertillnnhrantalso"Oane nOrse/lanis          uho...riad..oets
asoaogdatosintetilparodig   oInos  Ioe   ndpot  asf                    tcest   leon _lion(pseessof  eslog)-ttl IIah                        , adraa 
P PULaIONlAN  rIArLnom.hrrotnI   iootge   oeo   hn   ieCnesatsdei S5l,S-                                                          att  ePrIltn    -oii asgqenr  as'mY             s
.To-monaOipo--fstiliOhnan                       y forpro60co197r0 os-    s                     oftosl,tia-   ontoral-dollldanrasPsrn Ofs
dO,e.                                                                                           ....-Inn stn   onry poplotlo  d8entitdtogroot
harsh-li       rat                                                                                 _ baoaltoite dath  aba aedole`theatetOHZfIO
Ch-in  he11 alOtd onyafe  feilIn  aodjandsoolsn                                                IFto
d-cfahtohetlasnlaoo.. botarttduIotrte,Ofd-s                                                  HOUING       ncolhtloaenfsl-ts oa,aeofai
popolanton sits soil Ot taauhed.   l                                                    Saf hoh. oroathoId    --,nta,  Oas  n  fsi-   Oosad asr. a -ss    snadr
Population Irnafehy- --uo- tlonreulreOf  -                                                                                    a- sfoo  year  ofayrod  emapintatis
only;  1960,  1971 and OSlO data.                                               tnranlonalenrollsent Ipetoert of secondary)  - Oooanionsl snenisotbosa C.   eel U.
Plruhastn htSrcueIproo    COhI.IyilOr   (01   or  ,aridat   I-Icuetootl    catOl,A   te   rrgrseioh  pe dt a.-Iad
to yaesl.ad  ,otrad(I neaesodoa       -la   rFrnoos   fi-ya                                   atytadpoteeatscns Y   Lostitusons
"Iuano  Iothts  (yrssI-sfo  onl  tAhyos  tstlod                                                      rrlaar  andiI -eodory  lOa  d-Iirode  byoohss  f  echrsOnsy                 a
Crde-l-O AatIe.         huad       roidah  pet op--Ooosad o  mrId-fed                              Passened  CasE-11       osn   orlsol-  asnercr   oy-s   oo
ro-h gpn-d-unl Of _oe-AoarA,e nuahel f do1taraaoanll   as.s -O nay-ehciy
NOa nA1rai5 nspclote      yarll-od If he bnote- cef yheenag-ecfctdoOsesyI ret o Ouodatleln       i t                                                     epeeofiecOner  tnt  edg
fatnlnot-csfoa,anuIi_nadohaulabaoacpOF                                                               Fateas-b I d_effert fdataffretest  Oeat  saathnsprb-ystms
ofbit-cnto  Pden:1itas  . undneau   suao  rat11    Ioa fsoyyono                                counrie a...ls.d..a.        nhog
Paip  lctog-...   r   Ipccn   -ofsridomn-Peernefnrlod.i..era . pchlIch yen  fhoad- pnpolat                                                    ... esldeuniesdfn eor
dhua Hod  i_o ofuI rood _cO_uod dus.   I-rodouonsrba,nndad                                    sobedily'- 11 it i12ae 1c at - i Oa f netu       ie.ast
bosYd on19 os60      eaaycoaeriea  gOs    916, 1970,d18   eA           and 1981
dots.                                                                                     Idle r-tofoCs-,                                          I ....  I
anOnt,ad  boeai   tok eIIpIosecod   nna   ed  seeds,                                                  cryarahibr;  -lHi  197  andly 198  den..dr              I-    ,       .  1
Feeltsosdinfood peoasio, sn   aesi   ltthiin                                                           enYl    -  -tnc nd)-y femleliio  foreda pyerenngeo  sono  lo  fee
attnoodsni1981 i-A17 'ol  I-tO  dalta,                                                       and eld   d-Ectr ft-y sne  ad. ge1 a pO, eroeotnge  o5 sy tti  _ooe ote    90
n  _t sopy  fTolpr Idf.te   dopy hy of  oo  Isdeind af  Idh1Oe.                                farN-c-ator -    (rer.ent  -toal me    .. and fe             -le -Pati-tstse
fo    l    oo,spiIs etahlhd   y130   rrio-t ilosano,t   et   r   optd  ntt'   ae   n  f                                                        as   Ins
Thie  -oelroo   tce;  96-65,197  andel  -1980 dae                                                  onel  eednt   et  1a96oof po70etl-onde   lF sa  65end,, onses
data.,I   ..rI -l             CO pOf O   .i .    P.j                                                    155e  51f d10f                    -Y--5O  b    -   ..b~ii
cPrl  (ae   -1tatRt    e   tuad(-u s   etsprnnuodO                                                  perceotnos of POicn   li_e(hnnanns  adsn)      ssis   e  tte
coaneriss dat  dentoe   fin  lifeI table;mo  1970 ard- inl data,-hoeholds
yea  of. ged pe  tfona- lIe-dh;16,10   n  18   aa                                                     bootpnry  noeloli   htIc    ifne  be                               ' hTh    ia
ototaltneosssotonafrsprtecidMUoesttai.atd                                                        oHalellcanenyncnleola   o"hidfsorg   yraitar
sslnnyoln(s   nrataeslfhePraptlO    pcuosoo.   ca                                             eronb....f.fe-ash.    rbclosl   dpiedrothros
or-oraaon     l noti  ooadysdcoeot  oethoO  osoos                                         lcaliihdposmett-ocsgaross    d lingsubaae
fran a booon nap ha consIdered ~~~~~~Os  aoi adInhb rusc   ,,., acess of  C_a            telae    naa  o    oo  bouePiryItn  LoaOect                                   r
houe.nortu   aeaseaoosleocsn   oiaprsa_he  PtoyosSeaeradoa-ecn    frrattnohnnprlsor'aan
nenhetofnbshosslnoodctotsacsnuptndsdsrropotlonsn    psrto      cood
t eo day In I f I-hn   tho  "tioiler' srouter snade.-
Ieoiaan    mIercFcllaoos.                                                                                                                                  a  19



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATOR',
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (US$ Mln)                               ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
1982                   (Constant Prices)
(Current Prices)           FY1977-81      FY1982
GNP at Market Prices 1/               3685                      6            5
GDP at Market Prices                  3253                      6            5
Gross Domestic Investments            1384                     26            4
Gross National Savings                 872                      1           -4
Exports of GNFS                         324                    24           21
Imports of GNFS                       2417                     13            6
OUPUT, LABOR EFORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1981)
Value Added    Resident Labor Force         V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln       %    Thousand         %                    _S$  %
Agriculture              820       32         830        69          988       47
Industry                 206        8          54         5         3815      182
Services                1492       60         318        26         4691      224
TOTAL/AVERAGE      2518      10(         1202       100         2095      100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YRls Mln)
% of GNP
1978/79   1979/80   1981   1982        1982
Current Receipts                 2161       2755      3277    3720        22
Current Expenditure              1847       2531      3253    4584        28
Current Deficit/Surplus           314        224        24    -864        -5
Capital Expenditure              2618       2492      3807    4321        26
External Assistance, Net         1904        976      2437    2865        17
(including Grants)
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
---YRls Million Outst:anding End Period---
1980       1981      1982   March 1983
Money Supply                     9180       9905    L2519   13075
Claims on Government             2017       4039      8488    9332
Claims on Private Sector         2939       3234      3346    3513
----------Perce!ntages--------
1979/80      1981      1982
Money Supply as % of GNP         63         66        75
Annual Increase in;
Money Supply                 16          8        26
Consumer Price Index        11          5         3
_/ Not including private transfers by Yemeni migrants whose dturation of
stay abroad exceeds one year.



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Mln) _/
1978/79   1980   1981   1982
Exports of Goods, fob                  3       13      10       5
Imports of Goods, cif              -1250   -1915  -1748  -1967
Trade Balance                      -1247   -1902  -1738  -1962
Non Factor Services, net             -36      -21    -51    -37
Transfers and Factor
Income, net                        833    1084    788    924
Balance on Current Account          -450    -839  -1001   -1075
M & LT Capital, net                  416      600    542       649
Official Grants                    312      148    337      445
Official Loans, net 2/             104      452    205      204
Disbursements                   (114)   (467)  (262)   (246)
Repayments                      (-10)   (-15)  (-57)   (-42)
Other Capital (including
errors and omissions), net         162      167    126       72
Increase in Reserves (-)            -128       72    332      354
Net Foreign Assets                  1350    1392   1059        706
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                            DEBT SERVICES RATIO (1982) 3/
(US$ million)                1982                                           %
Total Outstanding             2244           Total Outstanding and
of which disbursed             1312          Disbursed                      3.6
1/  Based on Central Bank's statistics.  These figures differ slightly from
National Accounts' ones produced by CPO.
2/  Based on figures published in the Central Bank's financial statistical
bulletins. These figures differ slightly from debt information
compiled on a loan-by-loan basis.
3/  Workers' remittances and transfers included in denominator.
EM1DB
August 1983






- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUIS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(As of September 30, 1983 - ' Million)
A. Statement of IDA Credits 1/
Amount
Credit                                                             (less cancellations)
Number Year       Borrower                Purpose                    IDA   Undisbursed
Eleven credits fully disbursed                         88.5
662   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Livestock Credit and Processing 5.0            0.6
670   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Sanaa Water Supply II               10.0       2.6
714   1977 Yemen Arab Republic Port Development                     6.0       0.6
794   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Highways III                       11.5        4.2
805   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture II               10.5       2.3
837   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Power Distribution                  10.0       3.1
880   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture III              15.0      12.7
915   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Education III                       10.0       3.4
950   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply    12.0           11.8
978   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture IV                5.5       2.8
1025   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Fisheries Development              17.0       12.2
1067   1980 Yemen Arab Republic S. Uplands Rural Dev. II            17.0 2/    8.7 2/
1102   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Regional Electrification            12.0       3.0
1122   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Development              12.0        5.4
1202   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Sanaa Urban Development             15.0      12.6
1203   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Education IV                       12.0        9.9
1216   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Petroleum and Geothermal Exp.   2.0            1.3
1259 3/1982 Yemen Arab Republic Agr. Research and Development   6.0            5.7
1267   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Highways IV                          7.0       6.6
1294   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Health                             10.5        9.0
1308 3/1982 Yemen Arab Republic Agricultural Credit                  8.0       7.9
1340   1983 Yemen Arab Republic Education V                         10.0       9.7
1361 3/1983 Yemen Arab Republic Power III                           19.0      18.5
Total                                                331.5 4/
of which has been repaid                              0.2
Total now held by IDA                                331.3
Total undisbursed                                               154.6
1/ The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice
yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Beginning with Credit 1067-YAR, credits have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar
equivalents at the time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the
dollar equivalents as of September 30, 1983, for the undisbursed amounts.
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ Excludes a credit of $13.0 million for the Fifth Highway Project which was
approved by the Executive Directors on September 13, 1983 and signed on
October 17, 1983.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(Amount in US$ millions)
Year             Obligor            Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice       Dairy Products         2.4         -    2.4
Industries Co. Ltd.
1983    Yemen Dry Batteries         Dry Cell Batteries   3.25        0.75   4.0
Total Gross Commitments                           5.65      0.75   6.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, sales                                 -         -       -
Total commitments now held by IFC                 5.65      0.75   6.4
Total Disbursed                                   2.4         -    2.4
Total Undisbursed                                 3.25      0.75   4.0
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of $200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were approved
in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 to help finance, jointly with
the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of planning and economic
advisors and later a management/administrative expert. The Kuwait Fund
provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and $425,000.



- 24 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I;  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare             seven months (March-
project;                                   September 1982)
(b)  The agencies which prepared the project:  MMH with the assistance
of consultants
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA:           April 1981 (resumed
December 1982)
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:   May 15, 1983 and
completed in October 1983
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations;          December 14, 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness;               May 1984
Section II; Special Implementation Action by IDA
None
Section III; Special Conditions
(a)  Condition of Effectiveness;
None
(b)  Other Conditions.
Undertake a study that aims at establishing fees and taxes to
maintain and finance municipal urban services, and exchange views
on the recommendations of the study and agree on a plan of
implementation (paragraphs 37 and 55).
Agreements between MMH and NWSA and MMH and YGEC satisfactory to
IDA, will ensure administrative arrangements during implementation
for the provision of technical supervision and for the operation
and maintenance of applicable infrastructure (para. 41).



- 25 -
ANNEX III
Plage 1 of 2
Beneficiary selection criteria, satisfactory to IDA, would be
applied by a duly established selection committee (para. 44).
Satisfactory cost recovery arrangements would be maintained by the
Borrower (para. 47).



IBRD 17364
This map has been prepared by                       (                                            40                 44°               AUGUST 1983
The World Bank's staff e-clusvetlg
for the convenience ot the .iSI 
readers and is eocf-si'eiy for the                                                              20                                              20°
Interntal ue of The Wortd Bank         Zi     -
and the Internatonal Fina          s><SZMN>              / 
C,orportion TZ deno-amhateos      i\      X     S                \9\ SAUDI  ARABIA                                                           '
used and the boundaries shown am  j$I
on this map do not -mpty on the  .                                                                fe t
part of The Wortd Bank and the                                                                    Re~
nternatonat Fihance Corporatton,                                                              ._
ofay territoy Or any                                        f                                                       YEMEN'        /
ant ,sdret on th spt Xfts <o.~ ~yjZc-ii
enoseet hr coeptanne of      
soon boundaries      ifm          < 
\ oSo/if       >                 1-   E T HIOP IA                                                                            Guff oVf A d enr
R e                                          Td                                                                 R e .0
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                       \
HODEIDAH: LOCATION OF PROJECTSITE
Project area
,Preliminary planning area                        S      _ \          \\-0 X;
. -  Hocdeidah urban area..                             \o e            Zobi                             .     .      
. -  . Squatter settlement areas                                                                            AiRPORT     
Worker housing area                                      \,              '7                                             j    .
Medium  income   (reas|
Mixed commercial -residentialoare as        +W
Commercial center                                             09q                  -    -g:\   
S all-scle industry areos               
F W ishin g port i'^ s 
Port expansion and related industrial area,                         /      1l     1      X           
,::Airport oreo D])\ .. ' ..,,, 
Roads                                             i         Q(        A             r         :)
-1 -Elevation contours (meters).l                                                                               /     \
- -  International boundaries                      d1               A      ')       X      0    
KILONlETERS 0              1             2            3             4                           )      X         
I                          I            I       -.
MILES O0                                           2                    3,                                ' o






,J           ISLAMIC    -                                               Ar'                                                                                    4S
-RAO        TRE  OF  AAA.SA
< IRG          E       F  N IRAN                                                                                                YEMEN   ARAB   REPUBLIC
>,>!k,pWAt   ;m-'                                                                                       IDA-ASSISTED  PROJECTS BY SECTOR
X,UAECF ., B Ji                                            2                                              I  a R .E: e .,. PROJECTS
SAUDI ARAB A                                    oTec.                                                                                           Agricalteral
Cooperative and Agrcult.rtal Credit Bonk
A                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agricut-ra  Researc  Center
s -4-rwN -' < < < 1 JN                             '     -                                                                             Demonstration forms
Oreotiri                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gram  St.rage
_   tLIA  ! O                      = = . MAAA1}$  '?Sg                 *;  . d  . ; ' ;0 Q ; 0 tf: -   0                                     F,sh Markets
__________________________                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Health
7  I   -.                      p                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Edl.cat-a
SAAVA                      I                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Highewys
' . = = > /  B=                                         1; Highway Maintenance
TI -     -~~~~~~~~~~~~R= ~~.  ,
;-  - ~ ~             9 '   ffi   5       0 i;: 3       ; ;3 j 0    /X;;           3 ~~t-B                             tg     ~ PawEr Distrihutian Areas
-   *    Fewer ~~Sta  tin
] ]   \   -N$1                             : r-- ---^ 2 S           ;  _                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Transmission Lines
Water 5apply
Part D13e-1pment
r-<, _-\''                                                                                                           .s' '  ____ _ ___ ___  \  ~  ~  1  ,  f  : Urb-n  De-elaprent
-; ,f   /   >         ' i        /_r-3;  '~Bsg                  0 3                             EXISTING  FEATURES
FrNrary Raads
- -  -                                                                                                     - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secondary Roa.ds
Hoth ,orts
Governorote Capiltas
Br~ ~   ~                            ,                    ,   ,                                                                             BA ; .ar  National Capitols                        o
il ~ ~ ~ i   2             ,i    ,'   '            .                   ow .S ewrB4B  '--~'  IntarnaBional Boundaries
C _ _ - '"i        -                               -=° id  <,!  ' ,.fa ElecotioE   (-atersL
- HAJJ~-    <                                                           2                                         - ,  - .s-si hJg't f .'; . ;0 oJ1500
300
d' howbh           .                                                                                                            0    I ~     ./     _   _
AL MAHWEST                    n2~    ~ iB0                          ~          ~          oi
A, 3 >, ^ _'m P;9t;  ! l E}   O 20;
elciyerata  0                                                              N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c              0      .
Ma'*dinJt Al Ahi                   B OHAMAR
Z. __7 -- ,d ,'                 ,'. ,i _ _ 
Ro1nrkk'                                      - T -  '\
Sopwolkn = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -~                                                        I       i       <      - 'npm  
4- ' < - ~~~~~- - g fA*7. . t.s /2 sf AL ~~~~~~~~~BEIDA
B  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PfOETYA   0
'K.t t9.Al H.yb-n                                             -Ig 4B-UBE I                      I2
E3pm  F:     E
B-              'NmaBTes =                                                      - 'ALda/  \._m  ~-~~ .__.  TR  -EDA L  T I
MpCh.                                                                                                        -- ,B =LY . ~MBe  . .  "a  HDI  WAE iErrLThSdEGE
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .   M IDWAE E                                  eTEM
BA                                                      i                         7AN l't                           R7RRO
-             _                                                            -ARA -BOBS     ID  1S
f  C l_l I ~~~~~~~~> 1  o:      r                                                                  hDEN                  TRA9/AlHoyan  1OA AdPICU_TURE BT   4E4
~~~  MrrAGA ~      ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       FTM          
,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~-                           - BoF el M(de                                      BUrOHE BcLBo UDNEABLBOO DiELE BET    B
YouEras eOada,n               ~                                                0BTBLB. ,TLNA  B  tEVe!LELT   B    B
' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- AEIULUALRrCH E nE.-pEKT                                                        Al:R
Mocha                             -~~d -.~. W_   B          dB.  .W                                    R.IBO  aTUoL -1B0BSAB             r
I--  ilf                                                           OBJBOnBB A                          BIR
f-nzme C Tm AonrOedfooBfi3n'-r                   0a M0000 orDorBtnm am fTOmCdperOI irSB                    _       r
m                                                                                  triAG lsicon Aa                    art70 mtmo   AyAT7erdr  rDhc  fVhf 7   
'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~no  Bi550                                                            4S'T,,,itP



