Dacautont(O
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
C , /7c/- 2 t
Report No. P-4450-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 22.9 MILLION
(US$27.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A
NAVIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
January 29, 1987
This documzent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance
of their official dutic& Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Zaire (Z)
On September 12, 1983, Zaire introduced a transitional dual exchange rate
regime, comprising an official rate and a free market rate shown between
brackets above. The two rates were unified on February 24, 1984;
thereafter the rate has floated on a weekly basis.
Average 1986         January 10, 1987
Zaire 1.00 =          US$0.020                US$0.012
US$1.00    =          Z 50                    Z 82
The project was appraised using an exchange rate of Z 0.018 =$1.00, and
project costs are based on that rate.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCiAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AGCD      L  Administration GdnArale de la Coop4ration et du Ddveloppement
CIDA      -  Canadian International Development Agency
CMZ       a  Compagnie Maritime ZaIroise (Zaire Shipping Company)
EFF       -  Extended Fund Facility
EIB       -  European Investment Bank
FAC       a  Fonds d'Aide et de Coop4ration (French Aid and Cooperation
Fund)
GDP       a  Gross Domestic Product
GECAMINES =  Gen6rale des Carriares et des Mines
(Metals Production Company)
MNEI      =  Ministry of Economy and Industry
MP        =  Ministry of Planning
MPW       =  Ministry of Public Works
MTC       =  Ministry of Transport and Communications
OGEFREM   =  Office de Gestion du Fret Maritime
(Public Company for the Management of Freight)
ONATiA    =  Office National des Transports (National Transport Office)
OR        =  Office des Routes (Highway Authority)
PIP       =  Public Investment Program
RVF       =  Rggie des Voies Fluviales (River Traffic Authority)
RVM       =  R6gie des Voies Maritimes (Ocean Traffic Authority)
SNCZ      =  Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer du ZaIre
(National Railway Company)
VN        =  Voie Nationale (Principal Traffic Corridor)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Back authorization.



ZAIRE
NAVIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Credit end Project ESum
Borrower:                 Republic of Zaire.
Amount:                   SDR 22.9 millilon equivalent to about US$27.6
million.
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms.
Beneficiaries:            R&gie des Voies Maritimes (RVN) and Regie des
Voies Fluviales (RVF).
Relending Terms:          The Borrower would onlend SDR13.9 million,
equivalent to about $16.8 million, to RVM, and SDR
9.0 million, equivalent to about US$10.8 million,
to RVF. Subsidiary loans would be for sixteen
years including six years grace, at an interest
rate of 9.1Z per annum. RVM and RVF would bear
the foreign exchange risk.
Co-Financiers:            Cofinancing will be provided from a grant from the
United States Agency for International Development
(USAID), of US$1.5 million equivalent, and two
grants and a concessionary loan from the Kingdom
of Belgium (AGCD), of US$9.4 million equivalent.
Project Objectives        The project is intended to provide more efficient
and Description:         and reliable communications by strengthening RVM
and RVF, two important public transport sector
agencies, and by rehabilitating their
infrastructure and equipment. To this end, the
project would include: (i) for RVM: increased
hydrographic survey capability, improved pilotage,
increased capability to install and maintain
navigation aids, improvements to shipyard and to
dredging operations, studies, technical assistance
and training; and (ii) for RVF: improvements to
general services, increased hydrographic survey
capability, means to carry out special studies and
works, increased capability to install and
maintain navigation aids, improvements to
shipyard, rehabilitation of existing craft,
studies and supervision, technical assistance and
training.



- ii -
Benefits and Risks:        The main benefits of the project would be: (i)
concerning RVM, reducing maritime transport costs
by allowing use of larger ships and by making
night time navigation possible on part of the
channel; (ii) concerning RVF, to reduce (a)
capital needs for replacement of tugs and barges
and operating costs of the river fleet; (b) losses
due to grounding incidents; and (c) inventories of
goods iu transit.
Risks:                     Main project risks are that:  (i) implementation
could last longer than expected; (ii) the
productivity of RVM and RVF would not reach
expected levels; and (iii) traffic would not-
increase as projected. Measures such as the
creation of project implementation units, revision
of RVM's organizational structure, technical
assistance, training and monitoring of operational
indicators are included in the project in order to
reduce these risks.
Summary of Project Cost
Local      Foreign        Total
----US$ sillin)---
A. Regie des Votes Maritimes
Operational Improvements (equipment,
materials, floating craft, spare
parts and minor civil works)              2.1          10.6        12.7
Studies and Technical Assistance            0.5           2.8         3.3
Training                                    0.1           0.8         0.9
Sub-total                    2.7          14.2        16.9
B. R4gie des Voies Fluviales
Operatioual Improvements (equipment,
materials, floating craft, spare
parts and minor civil works)              4.8           9.9        14.7
Studies and Technical Assistance            0.2           3.8         4.0
Training                                    0.2           0.3         0.5
Sub-total                     5.2          14.0        19.2
Total Base Costs                            7.9          28.2        36.1
10% physical cont'ngencies                  0.7           2.1         2.8
Price contingencies                         1.6           7.4         9.0
Total Project Costs (net of taxes          10.2          37.7        47.9
and duties)



Local      Foreign      Total
-----(US$ million)-
Financing Plan:
IDA                                         -           27.6        27.6
AGCD                                        0.8           8.6        9.4
USAID                                        -            1.5         1.5
RVM/RVF                                     9.4           -          9.4
Total                       10.2         37.7        47.9
Estimated IDA
Disbursements:
FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94
Annual           1.2    1.6    4.4    6.6    5.9    4.0    2e4    1.5
Cumulative       1.2    2.8    7.2   13.8   19.7   23.7   26.1   27.6
Economic Rate of Return:
33% for RVM
19% for RVF
On average, about 25%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 6116-ZR.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THe EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A NAVIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zaire In the total amount of SDR 22.9
million (US$27.6 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance
a Navigation Improvement Project.   The proceeds of the Credit would be
onlent by the Republic of Zaire to the Regie des Votes Fluviales and the
R4gie des Votes Maritimes for a period of 16 yerras, including six years of
grace, at an interest of 9.1 percent per annum.   Cofinancing for the
project would be provided by the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) for the equivalent of US$1.5 million and by the Kingdom
of Belgium (ACCD) for US$9.4 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.              The latest country economic memorandum entitled  "Zaire:
Economic Change and External Assistance' dated March 29, 1985 (Report
No. 5417-ZR) was distributed to the Executive Directors In April 1985. A
Bank mission to assess recent economic developments and to review the
Public Investment Program visited Zaire in March/April 1986 and its
report is under preparation.  The following section is updated to reflect
the findings of the mission.  Economic indicators are provided in Annex I
of this report.
Background
3.           Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of its
area and the fifth largest in terms of its population, but its GNP per
capita estimated at US$140 in 1984, ranks among the lowest iu the
continent.    With  a population of  about  30 milion,  Zaire  has  a  low
population density estimated at 12 persons per square kilometer. About a
third  of its  population  lives  in urban areas.    Although  agriculture
(commercialized and subsistance) accounts for only 30 percent of GDP, it
provides employment and income for more than three-quarters of the
population.   Mining and mineral processing accounts for a third of GDP
and  about  two-thirds  of  the  country's  export  earnings.    Mining  hat
traditionally been a major source of public sector revenues.
4.         When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared for
the change, both technically and institutionally.   The first six years
following independence were marked by a violent political strife and a
severe disruption of the economy.   After the restoration of political
order in 1967, however, the country enjoyed a period of relative
stability and  economic  growth which  lasted  until  1974.    During  this
period, GDP grew at a rate of about seven percent a year in real terms.



-2-
The Crisis Period
5.          The first signs of crisis began to emerge in 1975 as copper
prices started to weaken. Between 1975 and 1983, the performance of the
Zairian economy was characterized by a series of crises and short-lived
recoveries, severe underutilization and deterioration of productive
capacity and infrastructure, the emergence of significaut economic and
financial imbalances, high inflation, and a decline in per capita
income.   Several factors, some of them predating 1975, contributed to
these  difficulties.      Among  these  are:       the  zairianization  and
nationalization measures of 1973/74, which though rescinded since,
destroyed the distribution network and undermined private sector
confidence; the heavy external borrowing of the early 1970s, much of it
at unfavorable terms and for projects with questionable economic
justification; and the deficiencies in economic management. The weakness
and volatility of world copper prices during most of this period
contributed to the severity of the crisis.  By 1979, GDP contracted by
about 10 percent below the pre-crisis (1972-74) level; inflation soared
to more than 100 percent with chronic shortage of essential consumer
goods, fuel and intermediate goods. With the balance of payments under
strain, external payments arrears continued to accumulate. Although two
stabilization programs supported by the IMF were adopted, and three Paris
Club reschedulings were concluded during the 1975-79 period, these could
not be implemented.
6.        Systematic efforts to cope with the crisis did not start until
1979. These included a new stabilization program supported by the DIF,
new debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris Club (December 1979) and
with the London Club (April 1980); the preparation of a public investment
program (PIP) for the 1979-81 period with the support of the Bank, the
installation of external advisors at the Central Bank and the Ministry of
Finance, the revamping of some institutions (the Customs Office, the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Investment Commissiou) and the creation of
others (a Central Pay Directorate in the Ministry of Finance).   Along
with a strong recovery of copper production, these measures resulted in a
considerable improvement of the economic situation in 1980.
7.           Largely on the strength of this improved performance, in
mid-1981, Zaire adopted a three-year program of economic and financial
adjustment  supported  by  an  "Extended  Fund  Facility'.    Zaire  also
contcluded another rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club in July
1981.   Further weakening of copper and cobalt markets, however, caused
exports to fall by US$540 million (about 25 percent in nominal terms).
The immediate shortage of foreign exchange resulted in a sudden decline
in imports which in real terms were half of the pre-crisis level. With
weakening financial discipline, the budget deficit quadrupled in nominal
terms, reaching 7 percent of GDP. Zaire could not comply with either the
criteria under the EFF or the Paris Club agreement. The EFF was formally
cancelled. The failure of the EFF meant the collapse of the premises on
which     the      hopes      of      recovery      had      been     built.



8.          In 1982, copper prlces continued to decline.  GDP contracted
further, and the overall balance of payments deficit reached a record
high.   By end 1982, external payments arrears totalled US$940 million.
On the domestic front, the budget deficit continued to remain high as a
percent of GOP. Both external and domestic confidence were at a low ebb:
a grossly overvalued exchange rate, pervasive price controls, and high
Inflation were the manifestations of widespread distortions in the
economy.    Faced  with  a  severe  economic  and  financial  crisis,  the
Government began efforts to reestablish conditions for recovery at the
end of 1982. These efforts included implementation In the first half of
1983 of a "shadow program", as a precondition for a formal stand-by
arrangement with the IMF.
The Stabilization Period
9.        The turning point for the Zairian economy came in 1983 when the
Government finalized, within the context of a formal IMF program, a
eeries of far-reaching measures, begun under the "shadow program". These
measures included; (i) immediate devaluation of the zaire by 73 percent
vis-a-vis the SDR; (i1) introduction of a transitional dual exchange rate
regime, with unification of the two rates in February 1984 and "floating"
thereafter; (III) a substantial liberalization and simplification of the
exchange and trade system, including a revision of customs duties; (iv)
decontrol of most prices, including agricultural producers' prices and
most interest rates; (v) tight expenditure controls, including reduction
of public sector employment; and (vi) a series of actions to reduce the
burden of parastatals on the budget, including the sale of some assets.
10.        The adoption of the policies outlined above was followed by a
substantive rescheduling agreement with tine Paris Club creditors and a
meeting of the Consultative Group in December 1983. At the Consultative
Group meeting, the participants took two important steps relevant to the
execution of the 1983-85 PIP.   They agreed on the appropriateness of
convening co-lender meetings on transport (highways) and Gecamines, and
they endorsed  Zaire's  decision  to reactivate  the External Resources
Coordinating Committee (which had not met for about two years).   The
co-lenders meeting on highways was held successfully in March 1985 and
two meetings on Gecamines in September 1985 and March 1986.
II.        The Government's stabilization-cum-liberalization program was
also a manifestation of the growing recognition of the importance of
private initiative and of the need to reduce Government intervention in
the economy.   The measures taken since 1983 were successful in putting
the Zairian economy onto a stabilization path:   the budget deficit
(taking into account rescheduling of interest payments on external debt),
which was 6 percent of GDP in 1982, turned into a budget surplus (about 1
percent of GDP) in 1985; the balance of payments current account deficit
(after reschedulings) declined from 4.8 percent of GDP in 1982 to 1.8
percent in 1985; and the rate of inflation which soared to 76 percent in
1983 was estimated at around 30 percent in 1985.  Some of these -measures



-4-
had an immediate impact. Many price distortions were eliminated so that
private  sector  activities  could  be  redirected  from  rent-seeking
activities towards directly productive sectors.  The supply response in
the fooderop sector was impressive, but the results were mixed in the
manufacturing sector. While short-run supply-side constraints, with the
exception of the availability of credit, were by and large eased,
capacity utillzation rates in the industrial sector remained low.   In
addition, demand for manufactured product. was curtailed by the sharp
reduction In purchasing power in urban areas.   Following a real GDP
decline of 2.6 percent in 1982, growth picked up in 1983 and reached 2.8
percent in 1984. According to the preliminary estimates, GDP growth was
around two percent in 1985.   This slowdown was due largely to lower
import growth as the foreign exchange shortage worsened.
12.          With the floating exchange rate and the liberalization of
exchange restrictions, both the volume of transactions and the premium on
the parallel foreign exchange market were substantially reduced. In the
non-copper export sector, significant export volumes were restored to
official channels.   Nevertheless,  developments in the external sector
during 1983-85 were characterized by weak export prlces and net capital
outflows.  The primary source of strain oU the balance of payments has
been on the capital account. Firet, disbursements on grants and medium-
and long-term loaus have declined precipitously since 1980.   Second,
private capital flows, including new direct foreign investment, have
remained at negligible levels even after the 1983 reforms. Third, the
debt service burden has continued to increase notwithstanding debt
reschedulings.    The  rapid  decline  in  disbursements  on  medium- and
long-term (M&LT) loans to Zaire can be traced back to fluctuations in the
commitments before 1983 and their continuous decline thereafter.  Since
1983, the major source of commitments and disbursements has been
multilateral donors which have increased their lending to Zaire both
individually and as a group.  Transfers from bilateral sources as a group
have been negative since 1983.
13.         Zaire successfully concluded further rescheduling agreements
with the Paris Club creditors in May 1985 and May 1986.  Until December
1986 it met all of its external debt obligations under the Paris and
London Club agreements.  In spite of these reschedulings, the impact of
debt service and of the rapid depreciation of the zaire on fiscal
management has been drastic.   The combined effects of exchange rate
depreciation and revenue measures taken since 1983 have been significant:
the ratio of fiscal revenues to GDP rose from 10 percent in 1982 to 17
percent in 1985.   The tax base, however, remains heavily dependent on
export-based  activities  such  as  copper  and  oil  sectors.    Despite
significant revenue increases, the budget has been under immeuse pressure
because of the increasing debt service burden since 1982.  Soaring debt
service payments in local currency terms, have necessitated massive cuts
in salaries, expenditures on goods and services, and investment
expenditures in real terms.  The share of debt service payments (after
reschedulings and including arrears and domestic debt service) rose from
17 percent of total expenditures in 1982 to 73 percent (of which 55
percent  was  for  external  debt  service  payments)  in  1985,  thus
considerably reducing the Government's latitude in allocating budgetary
resources.



- 5 -
14.       The brunt of financial adjustment fell on the Investment budget
whlch financed 10-15 percent of the public Investment program.   As a
share of total budgetary expenditures, investment spending declined from
12 percent In 1982 to less than 3 percent in 1985. This corresponded to
0.4 percent of GDP.  Overall financial execution of the 1983-85 PIP was
65 percent, with a much lower physical execution rate. Implementation of
the program varied significantly among the sectors. Agencies which used
self-generated funds were able to Implement a larger proportion of their
programs than those which depended on investment budget for domestic
funds.
15.       In 1986, the situation became considerably more difficult.  The
terms of trade fell by an estimated 20% because of widespread declines in
the prices of most exports in US$ except for coffee, and because since
70 percent of imports are in European currencies the depreciation of the
dollar against European currencies caused Import prices measured in
dollars to Increase. With lower tax revenues from exports, the budgetary
situation became considerably tighter.  At the saue time the Government
was under considerable pressure to increase the salarles of civil
servants that had declined by 80% in real terms over the past 10 years.
Budgetary expenditures increased by more than was expected due largely to
a 65% increase in the salar'es of civil servants announced in June,
1986.   The shortage of foreign exchange led to a faster than expected
depreciation of the Zaire which increased the budgetary cost of debt
serviclng.   Investment expenditures were squeezed further, to less than
Z  1 billion  (less  than  US$  14 million).    Nevertheless,  based  on
preliminary estimates, the budgetary deficit rose to Z 9 billion, about
2% of GDP.
16.        With less budgetary counterpart funds available, disbursments
slowed on external medium and long term loans.   In addition, as the
budgetary situation deteriorated it became increasingly difficult to keep
within the credit ceilings agreed with the IMF.   Purchases that were
planned for June and July 1986 were postponed, and this further tightened
the  balance  of  payments  situation.    Imports  were  adjusted  further
downwards and declined by an estimated 5Z in volume. GDP growth slowed
to an estlmated 1.6% in 1986 compared to 2.5% in 1984-1985.
17.           Growing dissatisfaction with the continued slow pace of
economic growth, and the perceived failure of external donors to support
the reform process more actively, created strong political pressures to
slow down the economic liberalization program. These pressures converged
at the meeting of the Central Committee of the governing party on October
29th 1986, at which time a number of planned measures were announced
which appeared to indicate a forthcoming reversal of some of the
Goveroment's major reforms, including its commitment to a market
determined exchange rate and to price and interest rate liberalization.
Following discussions with the Bank and the IMF and contacts with its
principal bilateral partners in December 1986 and January 1987, the
Government reaffirmed its commitment to the process of structural
adjustment and economic reform which it has been implementing since
1983, and its intention to negotiate a new stand by arrangement with the



- 6 -
IMF. The exchange rate was adjusted on January 10th from Z 70 - US$ 1.00
to Z 82, which was closs to the estimated  parallel market rate.   The
Government also indicated its intention to continue with weekly adjustments
of the exchange rate to reflect market conditions.
Medium Term Prospects:
18.         Doapite 7.aire'a stabilization effort and major policy reforms
since 1983, the country's external situation will remain difficult in the
years to come. For the 1986-90 period, the prospects of real export growth
are  not  favorable.   The volume  of copper,  cobalt,  and  zinc  exports
accounting for more than half of export revenues, is expected to remain
unchanged.  Much of the growth in exports is expected from gold, oilver,
coffee  and  increasingly  from  manufactures.         In  terms  of  volume,
export,growth  is not expected  to exceed  3 percent  during  the  1986-90
period. At the same time, the projected evolution of Zaire's export prices
indicate a slight decline in the terms of trade for the 1986-90 period.
External debt service paymext will continue to represent a major burden on
the balance of payments.   Of Zaire's  total external debt outstanding,
estimated at US$ 5.4 billion at the end of 1985, almost two thirds have
been rescheduled at near market terms.  The debt service payments on past
medium and long-term debt falling due in the 1986-90 period is US$4
billion, excluding the obligations to the IMF. As a result, Zaire's ratio
of external debt service payments to exports of goods and non-factor
services before rescheduling could increase from 27 percent in 1985 to 35
percent in 1988.
19.         In addition to the external financial situation, several other
constraints will continue to hamper the country's ability to resume growth
in the medium term. First, the domestic financial situation will continue
to remain tight.  In 1985, debt service after rescheduling, represented 50
percent of budgetary expenditures and it will continue to limit the
resources available for compensation of public servants and public
investment. Second, despite improvements in recent years, the institutions
in charge of economic and financial management as well as some of the major
parastatals need further strengthening. Third, is the need to improve upon
the maintenance of an inadequate physical infrastructure.
20.          The Government's growth strategy as expressed in the 1986-90
Five-year Plan is aimed at achieving a minimum growth rate of GDP of 3.5
percent a year over the 1986-90 period, mainly by promoting private sector
activities, and by focusing on the rehabilitation of public infrastruc-
ture.   This should allow for a real increase in per capita income.  The
Government' s strategy is basically sound, but its success rests on the
concerted efforts of Zaire and its international partners. For GDP to grow
at 3.5 percent a year, an annual import growth of 4.6 percent during
1986-90 would be required.    Import requirements  are estimated at $1.7
billion in 1987, $1.8 billion in 1988 and $1.9 billion in 1989.  Given the
limited export prospects and debt service payments, the external financing
gap will increase from US$ 765 million in 1987 to about US$ 1 billion in
1989. Zaire will therefore continue to need increased financial assistance
fromthe international community in the form of grants, concessional
borrowings and debt relief. The last meeting of the Consultative Group



-7-
(April 1986) was encouraging; aid indications from donors for the 1986-87
period were substantially larger than the disbursements of the 1983-85
period, but in spite of this favorable development, public grants and loans
will not be enough to fill Zaire's external financing gaps until the end
of the decade.   Private capital flows, especially in the form of direct
investment by Zairois and foreign entrepreneurs alike, will also be needed.
21.       The growth path of the Zairian economy will largely depend on the
efforts made by the Government at pursuing financial discipline while
implementing a structural adjustment program with two major goals: the
first would be to put in place an appropriate incentive framework, designed
to redirect resources away from rent seeking towards productive activities;
and the second would be to improve public sector management by
institutionalizing a public expenditure programming process, by defining
more clearly the role of public enterprises in the Zairian economy, and by
improving  the  day-to-day  operations  of  public  administration.         The
Government is continuing to take measures that go in the right direction.
First, it is seeking the support of the IMF for a new stand-by. Second, it
is updating its core public investment program, which has been reviewed by
the World Bank and endorsed by the Consultative Group, with an emphasis on
the rehabilitation of infrastructure and on selected new investments.
22.       Since 1983, Zaire's economy is on the way to recovery.  Continued
efforts to maintain essential, internal and external equilibria in the
context of a program of adjustment with growth could enable a turnaround in
the early 1990's provided the external support, in the forms and amounts
needed, is forthcoming.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
23.          From 1969 to date, the Association has approved one Special
African Facility Credit (US$30 million equivalent) and 40 credits totalling
about US$650 million for agriculture, transport, development finance
company operations, water supply, power, petroleum technical assistance and
education projects.   The Bank Group has also extended grants totalling
US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two planning assistance
projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan of US$100 million for the
Gecamines Mining Expansion Project, which was cofinanced by the European
lnvestment Bank and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, and which provided for
special repayment arrangements. A Technical Assistance Credit was approved
in 1983 to assist Gecamines with its efforts to restructure its
organization, improve its manpower and prepare a long-term rehabilitation
and  expansion  program.    The  IFC,  which has  a US$1.3 million  equity
participation  in  the  SociftE  FinanciAre  de  Ddveloppement  Economique
(SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million loan in 1978 for an offshore oil
production project, and a US$230,000 loan in 1982 for studies related to
the development of an aluminium complex at Banana.   In 1985, IFC has
approved a US$6.25 million loan to, and a US$528,000 equity participation
in a textile company (SOTEXKI); a US$15.0 mill i-O loan to the "Grands
Hotels du Zaire"; and a US$100,000 equity participation in a cotton farming
operation.   Annex  II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of September 31, 1986.
24.    -    A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been
institution  building.    The  development  finance  company  (SOPIDE)  was



-8
established ln 1970 with assistance from IPC and IDA. The major transport
agencies, Office National des Transports (ONATRA), Sociftd Nationale des
Chemins de Fer Zairois (SNCZ), Rhgie des Voiss Fluviales (RVF), M6gie des
Voies Maritimes (RVM) and Office des Routes (OR), have received technical
and financial assistance from the Association, which also helped establish
the National Livestock Development Authority (ONDE).   In the case of the
Metals Production Company (Gdcamines), the Bank loan originated a dialogue,
still ongoing and now supported by a technical assistance credit, intended
to define ways and means to strengthen the management, financial position
and planning of the company.
25.            Project implementation has been satisfactory  in spite of
difficulties   resulting  from  the  country's  inadequate  manpower  and
management capability and, in recent years, because of the economic
crisis. In the last two or three years, release of the required budgetary
funds '-as been difficult periodically because of budgetary constraints.
Lack of foreign exchange to finance spare parts and fuel, and the poor
condition of the transport network and marketing system, have resulted in
severe  supply  problems  for most  projects.    Recruiting  and  retaining
adequate staff has also been difficult.   Overall reviews of Bank Group
projects with Zairian officials in 1980 and 1983 provided an integrated
view of implementation problems, and acceleration and improvement in the
utilization of Bank Group assistance.   They assisted the Government in
formulating the important economic measures of September 1983 (para. 9).
26.         Sixteen credits and one loan have been totally disbursed, and
completion reports have been issued. Performance Audit Reports have been
issued for the first three SOFIDE and Highway Projects, the River Transport
Project,  the Rail/River Project and the First Education Project.   The
conclusion of the audit and completion reports was that the Bank Group's
impact on institution building had been mixed.  All project entities had
encountered operating difficulties beyond their control as the problems
besetting the investment environment were exacerbated by the Government's
zairianization/radicalization    measures.          Nonetheless,    effective
administrations had evolved in the Water Authority REGIDESO, SOFIDE and the
Highway Agency (OR). The performance of ONATRA, a large transport agency,
has also considerably improved overtime.   More attention to institution
building activities would have been beneficial in the education secior;
administrative weaknesses in the Department of Education were cited as
partly responsible for poor performance under the First Project and the
inability to implement investment components under the Second Education
Project, which resulted in cancellation of US$18.8 million in February
1983.   Bank Group support to all of the above mentioned entities is
continuing through follow-on projects designed to address the issues raised
by the completion and audit reports.
27.         The rate of disbursement to Zaire (about 27 percent for fiscal
years 1984-1986) has been improving and is above average for the Eastern
Africa Region. While disbursement performance in general is satisfactory,
difficulties have arisen in several projects. In the case of early credits
for transport, education and livestock (Credits 255-ZR, 272-ZR and 398-ZR),
the lack of a strong project entity caused implementation delays. Economic



-9-
conditions were also a factor in slowing project progress where goverument
counterpart funds were not available (Third Highway, Credit 660-ZR; Second
Education, Credit 624-ZR) and where the investment environment experienced
slow recovery from the aftermath of abrupt nationalization (Fourth SOFIDE,
Credit 710-ZR).  Future project implementatiou should be less affected by
the above influences given the strengthening of inst:tutions under
subsequent projects and efforts by the Government to improve budgetary
support of IDA-financed projects. As of June 30, 1986, the Bank Group's
share of Zaire's total debt disbursed and outstanding was about 10 percent.
28.        In the past three years, the Bank Group's sain efforts have been
directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development of the
agriculture, industry/mining and transport sectors, in part through the
design and implementation of appropriate new policies. Initial efforts in
support of the energy sector include the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation
Project (Cr. 1224-ZR) and the Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelectric Power
Project (Cr. 1421-ZR). Our lending will continue to assist the development
of the agriculture sector, including policy reforms under the agricultural
component  of  a proposed  Structural  Adjustment  Credit;  to promote the
development of the industrial and mining sectors; and to support the
transport sector. Ia addition, further support will be considered for the
energy sector to develop power, and to minimize the cost of supplying
petroleum products to the country.  An Education Technical Assistance and
Training Project to improve the management of the education sector, a
G6camines rehabilitation project and a Second Power Project were recently
approved.   Preparation for a technical assistance  project  to  improve
Investment planning, budgetary procedures and management is under way. In
addition to investment projects, a Structural Adjustment Credit to address
cross-sectoral issues and pave the way for medium-term recovery is under
preparation, and an Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit, to assist the
Government in rationalizing and simplifying tariff structure and export
procedures, the tax regime of industrial enterprises, and finance imports
of spare parts and essential equipment has recently become effective.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
I. The Transport System
29.           The transport sector is critical to the development of Zaire
because of the country's size (about 2.3 million km2) and the uneven
distribution of population and economic activities. The most significant
element in Zaire's transport network is the river/rail system which
provides about 15,000 km of navigable waterways and 5,000 km of rail track
in several disconnected networks.  Most of the 145,000 km of roads, of
which only 2,400 km are paved, were built to provide local access and to
feed into the river and rail network. One main seaport, Matadi, and two
major inland ports, Kinshasa and Ilebo, cnnnect rail and river transport.
Of about 50 airfields and airstrips in Zaire, 15 are served by local
airlines and five can accommodate wide-bodied aircraft.   Two pipelines
transport refined petroleum products from Matadi to  Kinshasa.  Zaire's
principal traffic corridor is the Voie Nationale (VN), a transport chain
(rail-river-rail) stretching nearly 2,700 km from the mineral-rich Shaba



- 10 -
Region to the Atlantic Ocean on the estuary of the Zaire River. The VN is
crucially important to Zaire because it is the only evacuation route for
its mineral exports entirely within the country.
30.         The transport sector has suffered greatly from the economic
difficulties of Zaire.  While the basic transport infrastructure exists,
it has severe limitations.   Insufficient maintenance and investment over
many years have generally resulted in an accumulation of worn-out,
unreliable and outmoded equipment and facilities that, together with weak
management and lack of incentive for operating staff, translate into poor
service and high transport costs.
31.   Sector Organization.   The organization of the sector is basically
sound.  Three large parastatal agencies dominate the transport sector: (i)
the Office des Routes (OR), which maintains the 40,900 km of main roads;
(ii) the Office National des Transports (ONATRA), which provides transport
services on inland waterways and rail services between Matadi and Kinshasa,
and which operates all but one of the principal ports; and (iii) the
Soci4tE Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (SNCZ), which operates the
country's railways (except for the Matadi-Kinshasa line).   Other small
parastatals also play an important role in transport. The main ones are:
(i) R&gie des Votes Maritimes (RVM) and REgie des Voies Fluviales (RVF),
which serve the key purpose of maintaining the infrastructure for water
transport, the backbone of Zaire's transport system; (ii) RLgie des Voies
AAriennes which builds, maintains and operates airports; (iii) Air Zaire,
the state-owned airline with scheduled domestic and international services;
and (iv) Compagnie Maritime Zaire (CMZ), thenational shipping company.
Except for OR, which is under the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), these
agencies are placed under the technical control of the Ministry of
Transport and Communications (MTC); all are also under the financial
control of the Ministry of Portfolio (MPF).   In general, the transport
parastatals enjoy a satisfactory degree of autonomy. In addition, a large
number nf private operators, encouraged by the absence of restrictive
regulations, play an increasingly important role.   Professional truckers,
private river and air carriers, and large companies transporting on their
own account, compete now actively with the large public agencies for almost
any kind of traffic (except minerals). Today, private companies handle all
road transport, about two-thirds of air transport, and one-third of river
transport.
32. Sector Strategy and Planning. The Government's main objectives in the
sector over the past few years have been: (i) to focus the limited
available resources on rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing
network; (ii) to improve operations through strengthening of management and
training; and (iii) to improve the capacity of major existing internal
transport routes. This strategy is supported by the Bank Group and other
major aid agencies which have provided substantial resources for that
purpose.
33.       Planning and policy analysis in the sector is the responsibility
of a study unit within MTC, and the planning cells of the main
parastatals.   They all coordinate their analyses with the Ministry of
Planning (MP). The Government has prepared a new 1986-90 Public Investment
Program  (PIP), which was presented to the Consultative Group meeting in
April 1986.  The PIP properly gives priority in tranasport to maintenance
and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and equipment. The PIP has a



number of deficiencies, however.  It includes some projects which have low
justification.   The analysis of costs, technical alternatives, economic
returns,   and   financial   feasibility   of   sub-projects   also   needs
strengthening,  particularly  for  ONATRA  and  SNCZ.    In  addition,  the
investments of major public companies, in particular CMZ and Air-Zaire, are
not inclu_l....  The Bank is assisting to review and update the PIP.   The
proposed Project,    appraised jointly with MTC and MP, would represent the
RVM and RVF components of the new PIP.
34.  Major Sector Needs and Issues.   over the past few years the major
needs in the sector have been to:  (i) maintain and rehabilitate transport
infrastructure and equipment; (ii) strengthen the operations, management
and finances of public transport sector institutions; (iii) develop human
resources; and (iv) improve the structure of incentives for suppliers and
users  of  transport  services.    These  needs  are  well  understood  by
Government, which has taken significant steps towards meeting them.
35.  Maintenance and Rehabilitation:   There has been much effort in the
recent past co increase maintenance to adequate levels, to rehabilitate
infrastructure and equipment, and to modernize worn out or obsolete
facilities. This approach should be pursued through comprehensive programs
such as those under implementation for OR, SNCZ and ONATRA's ports system.
In addition, several areas, which have been neglected, need an increased
level of activity, particularly the infrastructure for maritime, river and
air transport, feeder roads and the facilities for transshipment between
transport modes.    These  efforts  will  require  considerable  resources,
particularly in foreign exchange. Such resources should be provided by the
Government, through appropriate tariff and budgeting policies, and
mobilization of additional contributions from external donors.   Recently,
the Government has taken sound decisions in this respect. Until 1985, The
tariffs of ONATRA and SNCZ have been adjusted regularly (although with some
delays) to adequate levels and funds made available for road maintenance
and rehabilitation have been increased by more than 100 percent  in real
terms  since  1983.    However,  tariff  increases  have not  kept  up  with
inflation  since  1985.   Because of the scarcity  of local and foreign
resources, it is important to undertake in-depth technical and economic
evaluation of all projects.   Each public agency should take investment
decisions within the framework provided by a sound and regularly updated
five-year rolling investment plan.   Currently, only OR and, through the
proposed project, RVM and RVF have developed such plans.   Through the
ongoing sector dialogue, the Bank Group is pursuing this approach with
other agencies in the sector.
36. Strengthening Sector Institutions. The organization and management of
public agencies have been improved.   These efforts, which have been most
effective at ONATRA and OR, should be continued steadily, particularly at
SNCZ, RVH and RVB. The proposed project would pursue this objective at RVN
and RVF.   In some cases, mainly Air-Zaire and CMZ, a more fundamental
restructuring  needs  to  be  carried  out.    The  Government  has  already
undertaken appropriate actions to this effect.   The performance of the
Admiuistration also needs to be strengthened.   In the medium-term, the
essential  priorities  include:      (i)  to  strengthen  transport  policy
formulation and investment planning capabilities; and (ii) to develop the



- 12 -
instituonal set-up for the maintenance and rehabilitation of feeder roads.
Action is underway on (i) through a reorganization of GET ard on (ii)
through the preparation of a major feeder roads component in the fortcoming
Seventh Highway Project.
37. Development of Human Resources. To strengthen the performance of the
transport sector agencies, th e Government also needs to pursue actively the
development of human resources. Large training programs have been included
in recent Bank Group projects in the sector and positive results are being
registered at OR, ONATRA and SNCZ.   Training programs still need to be
established in the Administration, complemented with corrective measures
related to salary and work environment improvements.  In the parastatals,
training  should  be  better  adjusted  to  production  objectives,  with
improvements in personnel management and the incentive framework to
increase staff productivity. ONATRA, and specially OR, have already taken
positive measures along these lines.  Consistent with this objective, the
proposed project includes training components for RVM and RVF staff. At a
more general level, actions should also be taken to improve the quality of
specific technical institutes and to follow-up and coordinate training
activities at sector level.
38. Incentive Framework for Transport Services. Over the past years, the
Government has taken important policy measures which have increased the
sector's  efficiency.      Substantive  progress  has  been  achieved,  in
particular, concerning fuel pricing.   The Government has eliminated the
cross-subsidy between gasoline and other fuels, and has introduced a
pricing system that takes account of location. As a result, the prices of
gasoline and diesel oil were in 1986 above economic cost. Similarly there
was  rapid  progress  concerning  road  user  charges  which  reached  an
economically  adequate  level.    Further  action  is  required,  however,
concerning pricing, transport regulations, and specific issues related to
the construction industry.  Despite improvements since 1984 in the pricing
of  mineral  exports,  ONATRA  and  SNCZ  still  have  distorted  tariff
structures.   Measures already taken to simplify these and to establish
cost-related  tariffs  should be more vigorously implemented.   Transport
regulations are generally adequate, but some restrictions to competitition
between rail and road transport and within road transport itself should be
removed.   Furthermore, legal texts and administrative controls should be
simplified.   Finally,  better incentives  are needed in the construction
industry.    In particular,  financial  constraints  should  be  removed  to
increase competition and encourage lower prices, and the amount of civil
works executed by public agencies on force account should be reduced
whenever possible. Measures will be taken under the Sixth Highway Project
to address these constraints. In a broader context, these issues are being
discussed with the Government in the context of the draft Trausport Sector
Memorandum.
39.  Bank Group Experience in the Transport Sector.  The Bank Group has
supported  Goverument's  actions  aimed  at  (i)  strengthening  the  major
institutions in the sector and improving the efficiency of the main network
through emphasis on improved maintenance, rehabilitation and better
incentives; and (ii) mobilization and coordination of the substantial
external cofinancing requirements.        Dialogue with Government on major
issues in the transport sector has intensified during the last few years
and is being pursued  through different  channels:    (i)  Zaire's  sector
strategy was the object of a special presentatiou during the last Country



- 13 -
Implemevtation Review in Kinshasa (May 1983); (ii) a draft Transport Sector
Memorandum is being discussed with Government and (iii) specific issues,
such as institutional development, tariff structures and road user charges,
are also being addressed within the context of individual projects.
40.      Since Zaire's independence in 1960, IDA has helped to address the
sector's constraints through financing six highway projects and six other
projects  in the railways,  river transport  and ports  subsectors.   Two
Project Performance Audit Reports have been issued, one for the First
Highway Project (1978), and the second covering the Second and Third
Highway Projects and the River Transport and First Rail/River Projects
(October 7, 1983).  The main conclusions of the latter report, which are
generally confirmed by the experience under more recent projects (especial-
ly the Fourth Highway Project for which a PCR was issued in January 1985)
can be summarized as follows:  (i) the projects under review were probably
too ambitious, given their difficult environment, and some deficiencies in
project design and supervision prevented the full realization of their
objectives; (ii) the projects aided in bringing about major institutional
developments (launching of OR, RVF, and RVM, substantial reorganization of
ONATRA, and training of large numbers of Zairian employees), but serious
problems remained concerning the size, responsibilities and strategies of
ONATRA and OR; (iii) while technical assistance still played a role in the
management of ONATRA and OR, the process of replacement of managerial
positions by Zairian staff should be pursued while contlnuing to ensure the
availability of adequate management skills; (iv) policy making and control
institutions should be strengthened   in parallel with the main transport
agencies; and (v) investment priorities should be analyzed within the
context of the entire transport system, rather than in relation to one
major transport corridor such as the Voie Nationale.
41.          These problems are being addressed through sector dialogue,
ongoing projects and preparation of new projects, and continuation of large
training programs and institutional development efforts in ONATRA, OR nmd
SNCZ. A broad review of the organization of the road sector and studies
designed to help Government address key policy issues were carried out
under the Fifth Highway Project. Furthermore, the analysis of RVF and RVM
operations and financial management, financed under the Ports Project, led
to formulation of the proposed project.
42. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement. The sector is vital to economic
activity within Zaire, particularly with regard to the export of minerals
which are Zaire's main source of foreign exchange. IDA's participation in
the sector has already contributed to the clarification of sectoral
objectives and the policy dialogue with the Government is good.   It has
been pursued through the Transport Sector Memorandum which addresses key
issues affecting the performance of the sector, particularly pricing and
regulations, institutional aspects, policy formulation and investment
planning, human resource development and modal coordination. The rationale
for IDA involvement in the project is to continue assisting the Government
in addressing critical sector issues, improving the efficiency of the main
transport sector enterprises and helping mobilize and coordinate the
substantive external resources required as a means of fostering growth of
economic activity.   RVM and RVF provide a key service to the sector as
awhole  and  require  comprehensive   rehabilitation  programs  involving
substantial changes in technology and institutional strengthening.



- 14 -
II. The Maritime and River Transport Subsectors
43.  Ports.  Matadi and Boma, Zaire's only maritime ports, are located on
the ZIire River.   Matadi, which handles 95 percent of  their  combined
traffic (1,450,000 tons in 19B5) is 150 km inland.  About 380 ships were
handled at Matadi and Boma in 1985.  Larger ships (part:.. -.arly container
vessels) with a higher average load have called in recent years, a
reflection of the rapid technological change in shipping on the
West-African coast.  There is a 60 km long stretch between Matadi and the
ocean, however, in which the river meanders and becomes wide and shallow,
creating a major access problem.   The navigation channel must be dredged
and adjusted on a continuous basis to perform adequately.   The result is
that the access to Matadi is difficult, many vessels are only partially
loaded and lightening at the mouth of the river is sometimes necessary,
with serious effects on the cost of maritime transport to Zaire.
44.        Since the 1970s Government's major actions in the subsector have
been the creation of CMZ and OGEFREM, a public agency responsible for
managing the allocation of freight among shipping companies in accordance
with the UN code of conduct.   OGEFREM has revised regulations within the
framework of current international agreements, and the new procedures
appear to serve more adequately present Zairian international shipping
needs.  The cost of maintaining the navigation channel is well covered by
user charges.  If non-operating revenues and expenses are excluded, RVH's
revenues were about 15 percent higher than operating costs in 1984.  The
tariffs of Matadi and Boma ports are way above costs, however, so that, in
1984, shippers paid on the average about 1.75 times the total cost of port
access and cargo handling.   There are indications that such high tariffs
could prevent an optimum mix of ships from calling at Matadi and Boma. RVM
will carry out, before June 30, 1988, in conjunction with ONATRA, a study
of the impact of their tariff policies on the mix of ships serving Matadi
and Boma, and on the cost of maritime transport for Zaire. Government and
RVM would discuss the results of the study with IDA and implement promptly
thereafter  the  mutually   agreed   recommendations   that  concern  RVM.
Recommendations for port tariffs should be considered by ONATRA as part of
a general restructuring of the tariff structure which would be a major goal
under the second ONATRA modernization project, under preparation.
45.   Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM).   RVM was created in 1971 as an
operationally  and  tinancially  autonomous  agency  under  MTC.    It  is
responsible for maritime river navigation downstream of Matadi; its main
tasks are the dredging of the navigation channel in the meandering zone,
provision and maintenance of navigation aids, pilotage, hydrographic
surveys, and charts.   Although RVM's current organizational structure is
generally adequate with able top managers, there remain serious weaknesses
in its management and organization, of which the following are the most
important: (i) inadequate planing and coordination of human and material
resources; (ii) inadequate communications between the various departments
and divisions; (iii) poor match between organizational structure, physical
plant, and activities of the Regie. The main consequences are poor results
in   equipment   and   personnel   utilization.        Under   IDA   financing
(Matadi-Kinshasa  Ports  Rehabilitation  Project,  Credit  1335-ZR),  RVM
retained consultants in 1984 to study the management and organization of



- 15 -
its operations and finances. Their recommendations, under implementation,
are expected to have significant impact on the dredging, hydrographic
surveys and pilotage functions. The technical assistance component of the
project is also expected to improve management performance, by establishing
good procurement practices, good information flows, and strengthen
accounting and auditing systems.   An immediate problem is the lack of
authority at Boma, where RVM's operations take place far from the general
manager's office which is located in the capital, Kinshasa. RVM intends to
improve its internal coordination, first by creating a position of
principal director located in Boma.   Approval of this position by RVM's
Board and MTC and nomination of a person whose qualifications and
experience are acceptable to IDA would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
46.       RVM has about 1063 employees.  The staff is relatively old and in
general  lacks  proper  qualifications.    Personnel  management  is  also
inadequate.   RVM has begun to take measures to address this situation.
These efforts should be pursued, particularly, in the area of manpower
planing and staff training.   The proposed project would provide for an
expert to strengthen RVM's capabilities in these areas and to asslst in the
production of a manpower development plan.  RVM intends also to give much
emphasis to training in the coming years. A training program was recently
developed for the 1986-89 period. It was reviewed by the Bank and found to
be well adapted to RVb's needs. This training plan, which is included in
the proposed project covers: (i) training in Zaire of about 250 employees
of RVM in almost all technical specialities; and (ii) overseas training of
50 higher-level staff.
47.        Prior to identification of the proposed project, RVM lacked an
ilvestment plan and capabilities to make economic and financial analysis of
investment alternatives on a continuous basis. Recognizing this need, RVM
has recently decided to create a planning unit.  RVM would (a)  submit to
IDA by March 1st of each year, a five-year rolling plan covering all
projected investments for such pertod, based on realistic financial
projections, including a reasonable forecasL of available local and
external funds and on economic criteria acceptable to IDA, as well as
analysis of the implementation of the previous year's plan; and (b) modify
the program as appropriate following its review by IDA and exchange of
views with IDA. RVM would also exchange views with IDA on any proposal for
an additional investment prior to undertaking it.
48.       RVM's financial performance has been and is expected to continue
to be good.   The main reason is that RVM bills its customers in foreign
exchange, while it pays staff and suppliers in local currency. Therefore,
as the zaire depreciated, RVM benefitted from the combined effect of an
automatic adjustment of tariffs in local currency equivalent and relatively
slower cost increases due to the differential between local inflation and
currency depreciation.   In 1984, RVM's profitability was good (working
ratio of 54 percent) as well as its financial condition (current ratio of
30 and no long-term debt). Financial projections also show that RVM would
continue to perform satisfactorily during the project period.  Liquidity is
projected to remain high with working capital about equal to one year of
operating income. Profitability would remain strong as the working ratio
would stay below 70 percent.   RVM's debt burden would increase to an



- 16 -
acceptable level during the project period.  The debt to equity ratio is
projected to peak at 30 percent in 1991 and gradually taper off as debt is
repaid and earnings are accumulated.   Earnings are projected to be more
than  sufficient  to  service  debt.    Most  importantly,  the  projections
demonstrate that RVM can achieve good finiancial performance without
increasing in real terms the cost o` its services to users.
49.  The River Transport Subsector.  Zaire's river network is one of its
great natural assets.  It includes about 15,000 km of navigable rivers and
lakes reaching directly almost two-thirds of the country.  However, since
rivers are interrupted by rapids in some key locations and waters are often
too shallow for craft of a reasonably efficient size, less than 4,250 km of
the  river network is of economic importance.   Total river traffic is
considerable.   With over 900 million ton-km., it accounts for about 22
percent of all transport traffic in Zaire. It is mainly carried by ONATRA
(two thirds of total traffic) and about thirty main private firms whose
importance is growing fast.   The river fleet is large and represents a
sizeable capital.   Yet, it is in general utilized inefficiently mainly
because navigation is made difficult by the poor maintenance of the river
network, RVF's main responsibility. This makes water transport more costly
and unreliable than it needs to be, with repercussions on the entire
transport chain of which water transport is a uecessary link.
50.        In recent years, Government's intervention in the subsector has
been mainly limited to custom controls and some safety regulations.   In
practice,  river  transport  has  developed  freely.    User  charges  were
increased considerably in 1985.   Revenues from user charges and fuel tax
paid by river users are now well above the cost of operating and
maintaining the river network.
51.  Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF).  RVF was established in 1971 as an
operationally and financially autonomous agency under MTC.  Its principal
tasks are to install and maintain navigation aids, occasionally dredge
shallow river sections and clear flood debris, carry out regularly
hydrofraphic surveys, update aud publish the river navigation atlas,
forecast water levels and depths, and issue notices to river users.   The
management and organization of RVF's operations and finances used to be
very poor.   Under the direction of a new general manager,  these were
reviewed in 1984 by consultants financed by IDA under the Matadi-KIinshasa
Ports   Rehabilitation  Project   (Credit   1335-ZR).        Most   of   their
recommendations have been or are being implemented.  RVF's organizational
structure was revised and now fits well its needs.   The most important
outstanding tasks are to:  (i) improve the management information system
and the supervision of work; (ii) accelerate the decision-making process;
(iii) ameliorate the organization of logistics, tasks which are made
unusually difficult by the wide spread of RVF's activities, but which RVF
can be expected to completn in the coming years with the assistance
provided by the proposed project; and (iv) strengthen costing and
accounting systems.
52.           The qualifications of RVF's 940 employees are in general
insufficient and personnel management  needs  to be  improved.    RVF is
addressing these issues adequately, by introducing rational criteria for
recruitment and promotion, and by integrating training and personnel



- 17 -
mnagement.   RVF has recently prepared a training plan for the 1986-90
period which was reviewed by IDA and found satisfactory. The plan which is
an element in the proposed project includes:   Ci) training  -a Zaire of
about 240 employees In technical fields; and (ii) overseas tra.suing of 15
senior staff In management and specific specialities for which no local
expertise is avallable.
53.         RVF lacked a real investment plan before project preparation.
Recognizing the need for development of lnvestment planning and monitoring
capabilities, RVF created a planning unit.   As in the case of RVM, RVF
would sulait and discuss with IDA each year its five-year rolling
investment program.
54.       In contrast to RVM, RVF bills its customers in zaires and it has
been unable to pas on to them inflationary cost increases as fast as it
has  incurred them.    Profitability between  1980 and  1984 deteriorated
steadily (RVF's working ratio increased from 43 percent in 1980 to 101
percent  in  1984).    RVF's  financial  condition  is  still  satisfactory,
however. Its current ratio stood at 2.8 by the end of 1984 and it did not
have any long term debt. The earning deterioration and collection problems
with some customers need nevertheless to be corrected to prevent a
liquidity gap which could affect operations adversely. Lower inflation and
increases in revenues in real terms should enable RVF to gradually restore
profitability. In 1986, RVF's revenues increased considerably through (i)
increased receipts from fees charged to ONATRA to the same level as the
prlvate sector's (they were about 12 percent lower before) and (ii) the
proceeds of a Z 99 million new diesel tax and an extraordinary budget
allocation.  These measures will result in a considerable improvement of
RVF's financial  position at the end of  1986.   The projections  show,
however, that additional increases in revenues in real terms would still be
necessary from 1987 on to restore RVF's profitability and permit it to
maintaln a healthy financial position.   Revenues would need to increase
each year between 2 percent and 20 percent (or an average 10 percent) in
real terms during the 1987-91 period, This could be achieved through
adjustments in the levels of the user fees and the new tax on diesel oil.
RVF would then be able to service its debt, provide for its investments,
maintain an adequate liquidity and create a provision for foreign exchange
losses. From 1992 on, RVF would also be able to maintain a satisfactory
financial position with revenues constant in real terms.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
55.          The Project was prepared with the assistance of consultants
financed under the Matadi-Kinshasa Port Rehabilitation Project (Credit
1355-ZR). It was appraised in July/August 1985. Negotiations were held in
Washington from September 9 to 17, 1986.   Messrs. Kala E'Ber and Ngole
fliki, General managers of RVF and RVM respectively, led the Zairian
delegation.  A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Zaire Navigation
Improvement Project' No.  6116-ZR is being distributed  separately.   A
supplementary data sheeet is provided in Annex III.



- 18 -
56. Project Objectives and Description: The proposed project supports the
Government's  objectives  of  providing  more  efficient   and   reliable
communications through rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and
equipment, modernization of facilities and work methods, and strengthening
major organizations in charge of the transport sector. More specifically,
the project's main objectives would be (A) for RVM to: (i) recommence night
navigation for ships between tie Atlantic Ocean and Matadi Port, except in
the meandering zone of the river; (ii) maintain a dredged channel depth of
28 feet, at least 10 months per year; (iii) improve the efficiency of
dredging and surveying operations; and (iv) improve the security of
navigation; (B) for RVF to: (i) maintain navigational channels on the main
river network to appropriate technical standards; (ii) increase the
efficiency and reliability of surveying, river signalling and dredging
operations; and (iii) improve the security of navigation.
A. Regie des Voies Maritimes Component
57.  Infrastructure and Equipment.  The project would allow RVI to increase
the quality of its hydrographic and topographic work by providing
electronic positioning equipment, instruments, data processing facilities,
and five new small craft, and by rehabilitating about five other small
craft.    Similarly,  to provide  transport  for  the  pilots,  the  project
includes rehabilitation of three pilot boats, and a new fast seaworthy
pilot launch.  The installation and maintenance of navigation aids requires
a buoy tender suitable for difficult working conditions and adequate
facilities and equipment which RVM does not have. The existing buoy tender
would be rehabilitated and a new, smaller unit, which can also be used to
re-supply the dredges, would be acquired. Also included in the project are
materials and accessories required for navigation aids, and a buoy
maintenance yard, as well as the rehabilitation of three crafts and the
acquisition of one to service the navigation aids.
58.           The project would also increase the productivity of RVM's
dredging fleet by providing spare parts, technical ameliorations to the
dredges, additional instrumentation, and a new small inspection launch. To
improve maintenance, the project would also provide improvements to the
shipyard and shops, including rehabilitation of a slipway, tools, machines
and motor testing bench.   In addition the project would include a new
hydraulic excavator, mounted on a pontoon, to carry out special dredging
and bottom cleaning works.
59.  Consulting Services, Technical Assistance and Training.  The project
would provide about 70 man-months of consulting services to prepare plans
and tender documents and detailed planning of the force account work as
well as to study the economic impact of RVN and Matadi Port tariff
policies.    The  eng'-neering  work  is  already  being  carried  out under
financing from an advance under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). A
geotechnical investigation and a reduced scale model would also be included
to improve future dredging efficiency.   Long and short term technical
assistance, totalling about 129 man months, would be provided to fill key
positions, to assure technology transfer and to assure successful project
implementation.    In  addition,  the  project  would  include  a  training
specialist for two and a half years, overseas training for 50 staff, local
training for most of the personnel, and training aids.



- 19 -
B. Regie des Voles Fluviales Component
60.   Infrastructure and Equipment.   The project would provide for needed
repairs and improvements to RVF's shipyard and buildings at Kinshasa,
including:    small  civil  works  for  the  slipway,  pier  walls,  slope
protection, crane foundations, sewer and electrical lines, and office
equipment.
61.           The project would strengthen RVF's capability to carry out
hydrographical surveys by providing instruments, radio communications
system,  and a  launch.    Also  included  in the project would  be  field
expenses, materials and equipment for special studies on the Kasai river
required to update the charts and improve the security of navigation.
62.          In order to improve RVF's capability to install, inspect and
maintain navigation aids, the project would include a new inspection
launch,  two new buoy tenders,  and one fast launch.   In addition, the
project would provide rehabilitation of most of RVF's fleet, and
improvements to the shipyard required to achieve this objective, including:
rehabilitation of shop equipment, new shipyard mobile equipment, one new
slipway crane, materials, and spare parts.
63.  Consulting Services, Technical Assistance and Training.  The project
includes provisions for about 30 man-months of consulting services to
prepare plans and bid documents for civil works, acquisition of equipment,
spare parts and materials, and to prepare the detailed plans for the work
to be carried out by force account. This work is being carried out under
PPF financing and is nearly completed. A detailed implementation schedule
for procurement and consultants services was reviewed at negotiations.
Given the complexity of the work and the multiplicity of tasks, the project
would provide four man-years for the supervision of the implementation. In
addition, about 270 man-months of technical assistance required to fill key
positions  in  RVF's  organization  and  to  assure  successful  project
implementation,  would be provided.    The project would also include a
training specialist for 24 months, overseas training for about 15 strff,
local training for the majority of the staff, and a variety of trainiag
aids.
Total Project Cost and Financing Plan.
64.        The total project cost for both components is US$47.9 million.
The foreign exchange component is US$37.7 million or about 79 percent of
total cost.   Base costs are in September 1986 prices and exchange rates.
Physical contingencies of 10.0 percent on local and foreign costs have been
added to base costs, excluding consulting services and training.  Foreign
price contingencies are as follows:  7.2 percent in 1986, 6.8 percent in
1987 and 1988, 7.0 percent in 1989, 7.1 percent in 1990 and 4 percent
thereafter. Local inflation has been projected at 20 percent per year from
1986 onwards.   It has also been assumed that the exchange rate will be
adjusted to compensate for the difference between local and international
inflation.   Costs are net of taxes and duties,  since both Regies are
exempted from payment of taxes and duties on goods and services acquired
for investment purposes.



- 20 -
65.       The US$37.7 million foreign exchauge coat of the project would be
financed by external donors.   The proposed IDA Credit of US$27.6 million
would finance 58 percent of the project total coat.  US$1.0 milllon has
already been made available by IDA to Zaire under a PPF advance to finance
part of the project's consulting servlces and technical assLatance. This
amount would be refinanced  by  the  IDA  Credit.    In addition  to  IDA,
l'Aduinistration GOnhrale de la CoopEration et du DWveloppement (AGCD -
Belglum), would provide US$8.6 million equivalent for technical assistance,
consulting services, training and equipment for RVF and RVM, the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) has provlded US$1.5
million for equipment  and  technical assistance  for RVF.   The US$10.2
million local cost would be financed by RVM (US$3.5 million), RVF (US$5.9
million)  and  AGCD  (US$0.8  million).    The  signing  of  the  financing
agreements wlth AGCD would be a condition of effectiveness of the prppomed
Credit.
66. Relending Terms. Government would onlend credit proceeds to RVM and
RVF for 16 years, including 6 years grace, and with a 0.75 percent
commitment fee. The interest rate would be 9.1 percent. RVM and RVF would
bear the foreign exchange risk. The signing of subsidiary loan agreements
acceptable to IDA would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Implementation and Monitoring
67.          The project would be implemented by PYM and RVF.   With the
support provided by the technical assistance and training components of the
project,  each  Ifigle  would  have  the  capacity  to  carry  out  its
implementation.  The project implementatlon started in 1986 under AGCD and
USAID financing and both RUgies' own resources, and is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1993.   Preparation of tender documents will be
substantially completed by April 1987.   RVM and RVF would also submit to
IDA no later than June 30, 1987 draft training programs for staff members
to be trained overseas.
68.         Both RYF and RVM have recently created project implementation
units to organize and supervise the execution of the Project and, in the
future, assume responsibility for other projects.  The terms of reference
of these units and of their managers were agreed with IDA. The recruitment
of the two project managers is underway and would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
69.       A critical aspect of the upgrading of each Regle'a management is
to monitor, through selected performance indicators, their operating
efficiency, and to take required corrective actions in a timely manner.
Each Rfigie would submit to IDA by November 30 of each year, starting in
1987, performance targets for the following year and, by February 28 of
each year, starting in 1988, an analysis of its performance against the
targets of the previous year together with a list of measures it intends to
take to improve performance.  Performance targets for 1987 were agreed at
negotiations.



-21-
704 ; Procurement find Disbursement.   The rehabilitation of vessels and
equipment would be carried out mostly by force account.   Detailed work
programs were reviewed at negotiations. The procurement of materials and
parts required for rehabilitation would be done mostly by ICB and only the
fitting ant assembly work by force account.   New equipmeAt, new vessels,
spare pr.rts, instru;ments, tools, supplies and materials financed by IDA
would be procured on the basis of ICB, in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines (May 1985) with a separate contract for each type or group of
similar types of gosods. All items would be procured on the basis of lists
approved by IDA. Items costing no more than US$50,000, but not exceedinv
US$500,000 in the aggregate for each RUgie, would be procured by
international and local shopping, on the basis of at least three quotations
from different suppliers, dealers or manufacturers. Proprietary spare parts
would be procured by direct contracting after negotiations for an amount
not to exceed US$500,000 equivalent for each Regie. Civil works contracts
would be awarded following LCB since the size of the contracts (US$50,000
to US$300,000  equivalent)  i  unlikely to attract  foreign coutractors.
Local procedures have been reviewed and found acceptable.   The special
studies of the Kasai river would be carried out by force account. All
other studies would be carried out by consultants. Experts and consultants
financed by IDA would be recruited under terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA and iu accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
Training would be provided by specialized institutions selected by the
ltgies in accordance with their specific needs after consulting several
possible candidates and under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. A
procurement table is attached as Annex IV.
71.         IDA credit funds would be disbursed over six years on the
following basis: (i) Vessels: 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 50
percent sf  loca.1 expenditures; (li) spare parts, supplies, materials and
equipment  (except vessels):    100 percent  of foreign expenditures;  80
percent of local expenditures for ex-factory costs; and 75 percent of local
expenditures for other items purchased domestically; (iii) civil works:
100% of foreign and 20 percent of local expenditures; (iv) technical
assistance,  consulting  services  and  data  processing:    100 percent  of
foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures; and (v) training
fellowships and teaching materials; 100 percent of total expenditures.
72. Special Account. In order to expedite and facilitate disbursements, a
Special Account would be opened by each PMgie in a commercial bank and on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. The Association would
deposit an-amount of US$0.25 million equivalent in foreign exchange in each
special account.    The Accounts would be replenished on the basis  of
withdrawal applications submitted monthly.   These applications would also
comprise a statement of account indicating movements since the last
application, -and a reconciliation showing that the balance represents the
original  amount deposited  in  the  account less  payments  for which  a
withdrawal application is submitted. All claims would be fully documented
except for claims relatlug to any contract or purchase order whose value is
less  than  US$20,000  that  would  be  submitted  under  statements  of
expenditures. The documentation for these claims would be held in RVM and
RVF and made available for inspection by project supervision missions.



- 22 -
73. Auditing and Reporting Requirements. Each RMgie would have its annual
accounts and financial statements, including project-related statements of
expenditures and Special Account, audited each year during the project
period by independent auditors acceptable to the Association. The audited
reports would be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year.   The auditors would be required to attach a report of
compliance with financial covenants to the audit report.
74.         Each RAgie would also prepare quarterly progress reports of a
format and content acceptablT  to the Association.   The report would be
submitted to the Association no later than two months after the end of each
quarter. RVH and RVF would also prepare a project completion report in a
form acceptable to the Association no later than six months after the
closing date of the project.
75.    Institutional  Strengthening.    In general,  the  organization  and
management of RVM's and RVF's finances are weak.  Main weaknesses have been
identified in two studies financed under the Matadi-Kinshasa Ports
Retabilitation     Project  (Credit  1335-ZR).    On  the  basis  of  the
recommendations of these studies, RVF and RVM would complete the
reorganization of their general accounting systems and establish analytical
cost accounting systems and RVM would put into place systematic internal
auditing procedures to evaluate the effectiveness of and compliance with
internal controls according to an agreed schedule.   Technical assistance
and training would be provided to assist RVM and RqF in these tasks.
76.  Financial Covenants .  In order to assist the Government and the Bank
monitor financial performance and adherence to the project financial
strategy outlined above, the following covenants were:  For RVK:  (i) the
operating ratio would not exceed 85 percent in 1987 and after, including a
depreciation charge calculated on revalued assets; (ii) no payments would
be made to Government on account of dividends or other retribution on
capital (except debt service or payment for services received) without
IDA's consent if any such payment should cause cash and other liquid assets
to fall below the amount of working expenses for the preceding six months;
and (iii) the debt to equity ratio would not exceed 45 percent.  For RVF:
(i) the operating ratio, after including a depreciation charge calculated
on fixed assets revalued annually, would not exceed 120 percent in 1987,
100 percent in 1988, 90 percent in 1989, 85 percent in 1990 and 80 percent
in 1991 and thereafter; (ii) RVF would take all necessary steps so that its
total amount of receivables not exceed at any time sixty five days of
billing; and (iii) debt service coverage would not fall telow 1.5:1.
Benefits and Risks
77.        The Project provides for a comprehensive program to enable RVM
and RVF to perform at about the appropriate level of economic efficiency
given current conditions and alternative investment opportunities in
Zaire.   It would make navigation on the maritime and inland sections of
Zaire's river network considerably easier, faster and more secure.  As a
result, larger ships woD d be calling at Matadi and Boma and the average
load per ship would increase substantially. Lightening operations would be
reduced and ships' waiting time due to the lack of night navigation would
decrease.    These  changes  would  reduce  greatly  the  cost  of maritime
transport to and from Zaire. Similarly, on the inland waterways, the



- 23 -
average turn-around time of tugs and barges would be reduced substantially
and grounding accidents would become exceptional.  As a consequence, the
operating cost of river convoys would decrease as would the capital cost of
replacing and expanding the river fleet to satisfy transport demand and the
cost of financing the stock of goods in transit on the river network
(mineral exports in particular).   The Economic Rates of Return (ERR) are
expected to be 33 percent for the RVM component and 19 percent for the RVF
component.   The combined ERR would be 25 percent on 84 percent of total
project cost.
78.           The main risks associated with the project are that:  (C)
implementation could last longer than expected; (ii) the productivity of
RVH and RVF would not reach expected levels; and (iii) traffic would not
increase as  projected.    Measures  such  as  the creation  of  a  project
implementation unit, revision of RVM's organizational structure, technical
assistance, training and monitoring of operational indicators are included
in the project in order to reduce these risks. A sensitivity analysis has
shown that even under restrictive assumptions the project components still
achieve satisfactory ERRs.   If project implementation is slower by two
years, the ERRs decrease to 28 percent and 18 percent for RVN and RVF
respectively. If the increase in productivity of RVM and RVF is lower than
expected so that the water depth in the maritime channel is 26 feet Instead
of 28 feet, and 25 percent of the river network is not properly marked, the
ERRs are still 17 percent and 13 percent.  If the increase in traffic is
only half of the projected growth rate, thp ERRs are still 28 percent and
15 percent.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
79.         I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommead that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
January 29, 1987
Washington, D.C.



- 2 -
ANNEX I
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS                  Page 1 of 2
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
--nuor  Crorth Rates  (3
US S Millions  An percent of COP                  at 1980 prices
1984                   1984          1983       1984         19o6
GOP Market Prices                  4982.2             188.8               0.8        2.8          2.5
CDP Factor Colt                    4872.6               97.8              1.4        3.1          2.C
Agriculture                    1608.4               32.6               2.0        3.0          3.0
Induntry                       176650               36.8               4.1       2.6           1.6
Other                          1667.1               32.8              -6.9        3.6          3.1
Net Export  of CNFS                   6.2                4.1
Import of ONfS                 2831.6               36.9                          8.9          2.8
Export of CNFS                 2040.0               41.8                ..        4.7         -1.3
Gross Fixed Investment              811.6               16.2                         6.6         -3.3
Consumption                        4162.4               77.                          3.0          4.8
Gross Domestic Savings             819.8              22. S                         1.8         -8.9
Gross Notional  Sawing.            483.3              12. 0                       -27.0          2.7
PUBLIC FINANCE (Central Government)
Z:mires millions                  % of GCP
1983    1984      1966             1983       1984         1985
rurrent revenues                    10998   25994    41366               11.4       14.4         17.2
arrent expenditures               11459   28193    37664               11.9       14.6         16.7
urrent deficit                      -461    -199      3696              -8.S       -0.1          1.5
Capital expenditures                  647    1019       9S6              -1.1       -0.7          1.1
Overall deficit                     -1108   -1218      2748              -1.1       -0.7          1.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES             1980    1991      1912              1983       1984         1985
Money snd Quasi-money              3307.3  4644.9   8857.8              14082      18792       2392G
Dank credit to public sector    2329.4  3783.6   7888.0                 10252     13396         14847
Bank credit to private sect.    1061.1  1436.4   2666.3                  3897       6947         9687
Monsy&Quesi-money (X CDP)            11.7    11.7      15.5              14.6       16.4         10.0
Consumer Pric.Indax(1975=100)   1313.3  1813-1   2487.9               437S.3    6664.8        8061.3
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer Price Index                         38-1      37.2              76.0      62.1         30.0
Bank credit to public sec.                   82.4    10886               30.0      30.7         10.8
Bank credit to private sec.                  36.6      86.7              46.2       52.6        62.9
NOTE!  All conversions to dollars in this tablo arm at the average exchange rate
preval;ng in the period covered.



- 25 -
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS               A
Page 2 of 2
BALANCE  OF PAYMENTS
US S Md lions
1980     1981       1982      1983      1984      1986
Exports of Goods & Services        2371.4   1772.3    1658.2   1776.8   2008.1   20086.3
of which Merchandiso(FOB)       2143.6   1499.8    1476.8   1697.3   1893.2   1889.0
Imparts of Goods A Services        2486.9   2278.1    2035.8   1941.3   1877.B   1886.9
of which Merchandise(FOB)       1761.0   1636.7    1436.3   1329.8   1321.2   1370.4
Private tranuf rs (net)             -79.4      -3.6       -8.8       3.2    -91.2    -61.1
Current Accoun. Balance
(before rescheduling)          -291.6   -603.7    -590.6   -349.6   -349.5   -300.3
(after r-acheduling)           -291.5   -469.1    -547.6   -111.7   -166.0   -212.2
Off;cial Grants   (net)             266.8    247.6       160.1    173.2    174.3    169.2
Public Capital    (net)             -22.1   -168.6    -178.8   -196.7   -295.2   -298.3
Priv.Capital(net),Err.& OGiss.    68.6         31.8       91.6    -15.6    102.5    174.2
SDR Allocation                       26.8      18.9       17.7      0.0       0.0       0.0
Increase (-)in Int. Reserves        -48.2    113.2        36.3     -b O      33.8      -2.0
Reduction (-) in Arrears          -1347.1    129.7      380.9   -613.1    -75.9    -51.1
Other Financing                    1829.6    478.7      244.0   1082.9    584.3    477.5
of which Debt Rescheduling        1612.6    371.4      160.1    971.7    477.7    411.4
EXCHANGE RATE
Zaires/USS        AVG. EXCH.ATE (Z/USS)
Aug.24,1979-Feb. 22,1980              2.1           1Q81            2.8
Feb.22,1980-June 19,1981              3.1           1981            4.4
fune.19,1911-Septem.12,19            5.6           19S2             5.8
eptember 12,1983 [1]               26.9            1983           12.9
-ebruary 24,1984                    33.0            1984           36.1
1986           47.0
EXTERNAL DEBT (Outstanding Dec. 1986,MilI.USS)
Medium Long Term        S38  6
1986o    1981       1982      1983      1984      1985
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                   22.7      21.9       13.8     14.3      26.4      27.7
MERCHANDISE EXPORT (M;l.USS)         1980      1981       1982     1983      1984         1985
Copper                   ~~~~~1632.5    766.6   193.7    781.2    675.5    697.6
Cobalt                              a 377.3    158.3    182.8    121.4    226.6    249.6
Dimonds                             113.6      77.2      76.2    138.9    220.4    222.6
Other Metals                        113.1    115.7       84.2    127.2    106.6        76.0
Ceffee                              163.1    111.8      165.0    116.5    212.2    188.0
Crude oil                           225.1    273.5      274.3    236.6    322.9    389.0
Other                               157.8    112.9      127.2    116.6    128.2    148.0
Marketing Cost A Adjustment.        -38.9   -106.2    -163.6    -40.0         2.1       6.6
Total exports FOB                  2143.6   1499.8    1471.8   1597.3   1893.2   1889.6
of which:  Cecaminse            1178.4    744.2       814.1    822.2    931.0    966.4
[1] On September 12,1983 Zaire introduced a transitional dual exchange rate regime
consisting of an official rate and a free market rate ,shown in parentheses above.
The two rates were unified on February 24,1984; henceforth the rate is fluctuating
and its market price determined in the interbank market were Commercial Banks
acn buy and sell foreign exchange and the Bank of Zaire can intervene to
regulste the market.



- 26 -
AN II
Pge I of 2
SrAm  OF BANK MI O        OTIGS IN ZIE
A. SAl    OF ANK 1W   A)D MA CREDfS (As of September 30, 1986)
loam or
Celit   Year                                             Anaut in US$ Million
Nmber   Sge        Brrwwr                           Dnk       MA, I/   Ubcisbursed
Prior
to  em   0qgo &    Tanport                 91.58 2/
1960     Otraco     Ihf rastructbre
(ae loan Rilly DIbsursed                            100.00
Sixteen Crlits Rally Disbured                                 20D.34
796     1978      ZAIRE     QdU Palm                           7.31         3.61
902     1979      ZAIE      Railways                          20.00         3.72
998     1980      ZAIR       iffth Dew. FInance               18.50         0.80
1040     1980     ZAIE       Smilholder ikze                   11.00         2.03
1089     1981     ZA41E      Iilu bogo Sugar                  26.40          0.60
1152     1981     ZAIRE      Iiso-lu Taclcal Assistance  2.90               0.04
1180     1982     ZAIE       OAaRA ?dernizatimn               26.00         11.88
1224     1982     ZAI        Siaba Pawer System Rehabilitation  19.0O        1.97
1241     1982     ZAIRE      1ter  upply II                   18.00          1.48
1244     1982     ZAIR       Agriculture T.A.                  5.o           1.36
1264     1982     ZAIRE      Secan Cotto                      11.30         8.67
1273     1982     ZAIRE      Sixth DPC                        21.50          3.22
1290     1982     ZAIE       Highway V                        43.50         5.56
1325     1983     ZAIRE      Nrth East rwal Dvelopent         13.00         8.81
1335     1983     ZAIRE      Ports Rehabilitaticn             25.00         14.02
1336     1983     ZAIRE      (caides T.AL                      7.00         2.62
1409     1983     ZAIRE      Petmleun Sector T.A.              4.50         2.73
1421     1984     ZAIE       Thzizi I Hydroelectric           15.00         9.21
1475     1984     ZAIRE      Railys II                        26.00        25.63
1492    .1984     ZAE        Seventh DEC                      36.00         14.82
1519     1984     ZAIE       Education Tehbical Assistance     9.00         5.73
1540     1985     ZAIE         za Agriculitural Dwelopment    12.50         12.16
1609     1985     ZAIE       Seeds                            14.90         14.47
A006     1986      ZAIE      Sixth  Iway                       30.00        29.35
1608     1986     ZAIRE      Sicrxh Hlhy                      55.00        54.37
16B5 3/ 1986      ZAIRE      Eighth DEC                       50.00         50.00
1708 3/ 1986      ZAIRE      Ixdustrial Sector Adjusbent      20.00         2D.00
1712 4/ 1986      ZAIRE      SeeadnPower                      37.00         37.00
2682 31  1986       CAKMrS    csmi   Iehabdlitation           110.O       110.00
A019 1   1986      ZAIRE     lIdstrial Sector Adjustount      60.00         60.00
lbtal (less cancellaticns):               301.58   845.65        405.86
- of iJddi hs been repid                   150.04     4.39
lbtal nw outstanding:                      151.54   841.26
Aumt sold:                      54.47
of uIdch has beea repaid      54.47
2xn bIed by ank ad ID 1/                   151.54   841.26
lbtal Tktshursaie                          110.00   405.86       405.86
11 US dol lr ammts for credits 1089-R aid cierds are oipated at the rate of Qkedit
igotatics dates.
2/ Omranteed by the Kgdxn of Bgium.
V Sipal blt not yet effective.
4/ Approved  ht  tet s1gued.



- 27 -
,M ILI
Page 2 of 2
B. sM        COF IFC  ESDWM1  (as of Jbe 30, 1986)
Fiscal                                            Amut in US$ lMffiaz
Year           Obligor                Busiessa    La     tuLy   ibtal
1970     So1Mto FEmri&e de           IFC          -      0.8      0.8
veoppmet (SDFIE)
19B4     SocIt6 Finr2&re de          DFC          -      0.5      0.5
DEvCEt (9SOFME
1985     Socit  Tetle de             Thiile       9.0    0.6      9.6
L-Mg                            y
1985     Grais Hbtels dii Zaire     HIte         15.0     -      15.0
-y
1985    S&ciAt Textile               (bttoa       -      0.1      0.1
igricole 7aroise            Farug
Total gross cmmitnmts                  24.0    2.0    26.0
less:-re        s                      -        -       -
- unx lsburswd                    6.4    0.3      6.7
Jdby IhC                                17.6    1.7    19.3



26 -
Annex III
(Page 1 of 2)
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I:    TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
a)  Project preparation                     1984
b)  Pre-appraisal mission                   March 1985
c)  Appraisal Mission                       July/August 1985
d)  Negotiations                            September 1986
e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness           June 1987
SECTION II:   SPECIAL BANK IMPLEMENTATION ACTION
a) None.
SECTION III:  SPECIAL CONDITIONS
a) RVM would carry out, in conjunction with ONATRA, before
June 30, 1988, a study of the impact of their tariff
policies on the mix of ships serving Matadi and Boma and of
their consequences on the total cost of maritime transport
for Zaire; Government and RVM would promptly thereafter
discuss the results of the study with IDA and implemeut the
mutually agreed recommendations (para. 44);
b) RVM and RVF would (a) submit to IDA by March 1st, each
year, beginning in 1987, five-year rolling plans of all
their investments, starting with the current year, as well
as reviews of implementation of previous year's plans; the
coutent and schedule of these plans would be based on
criteria acceptable to IDA and on realistic financial
projections including a reasonable forecast of available
local and external funds; (b) modify the program as
appropriate following its review by IDA and exchange of
views with IDA. RV! and RVF would also exchange views with
IDA on any proposal for an additional investment, not
included in the plan, prior to undertaking it (paras. 47
and 53);
c) RVM and RVF would maintain Project Implementation Units and
Project Managers to bead these unitB under terms of
reference acceptable to IDA; Project Managers' experience
and qualifications and terms of employment would be
acceptable to IDA (para. 68);



- 29 -
Annex III
(Page 2 of 2)
d) RVH and RVF would complete the reorganizatiou of their
general accounting systems and establish cost accounting
systems and RVM would put into place systematic auditing
procedures, according to an agreed schedule (para. 75).
e) RVM and RVF would submit, for IDA's approval, by
November 30 of each year, starting in 1987, targets for
their performance indicators for the following year; RVM
and RVF would prepare and submit for IDA's review by
February 28 of each year, starting in 1988, analyses of
their performance against agreed targets for the previous
year, together with a list of measures they intend to take
to improve performance (para. 69);
f) Government and RVF would take measures (including tariff
increases and an increase in the tax on fuel products
allocated to RVF if required) so that RVFIS operating
ratio, after including a depreciation charge calculated on
fixed assets revalued annually, does not exceed 120% in
1987, 100% in 1988, 90% in 1989, 85% in 1990, 80% in 1991
and thereafter (para. 76).
SECTION IV:   SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS
a) RVM and RVF would nominate project managers whose
experience and qualifications and terms of employment would
be acceptable to IDA (para. 68);
b) RVM's Board and MTC would approve the creation of a
position of principal director located in Bona and the
nomination of a person whose qualifications and experience
are acceptable to IDA (para. 45);
c)  Signing of subsidiary agreements (para. 66); and
d)  Signing of cofinancing agreements with Belgium (para. 65).



C30 , - D  S UDAN  4I                             CEN
r                          31 -^IEl /<  ,. 66 N.
I. -r    Ak                   r 
AFRICANLkEP         REPUBIC O'S
JUANZANI
O'C.' A JV  AItGA A
\NAMISIAIi'II
f. .  |'OF THoE CONGO
_%.
/. | t M|PEOPLES REPUBLICUN
Al N GOF LT A CONG
SaND
KIOMEF50.a      lOC       200       300       4XO        ,
MILES             ioC - o         20010
-~~~~~~~ ZAI R E
'BN                    TRANSPORTATION NE
A 71 A Arr/C    -                          -     Nnownd Roads
:-;                      ~~~~~~~Payed Roods
0iMain Ealrth/Grayel Roods
-  . {                 -      Rni~~~~~~lZlroods
>                     t~~~~~~~~I    Air Fields
:~~~~~~
~         .J                           Rvers. L  Porls
,                       *    ~~~~~~~~~Reion Capliwb
; ~~~~~~~~~~~Region Boundaries
Internalional BoundorAeS
-, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     R -ZV> . .:.                        4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, -.4.: 



IORD 16564R2
I
CENTRAL  FRICAN REPUBLIC                                          SUD AN
IN                                                               S UJ D- A.  N   
ii                      eal                C     -'E'
NF>_ -   hZAEN
,Akr. tISALA   ,^  j        <HAUT-ZAIRE
[via-a        N         *Y~~~~~~~~~~~~iANGAMS1
4>    XF,;J.    ~~~~~~~  < \   X S~~~UGANDA
D UL-~                                  t     {  Nw  l r-       U b4.R
,r (< \S  i                                                  v1
-'*  <  >Yo   \  ts-- \)  /~~~~~~~~~~T   KI.D>bFA-F7
>->   r    /  i  KASAI)IENT LeJ        <            r K A    BuRuND   ,
F4~~~~K
UJGCIDEN~~~~~~~CDETAL>             ?              K.ObO-h@>-r.  W
-  |   v  \.  K  gincz t X a^8,NDa 2t J ' f tTANZANIAi
S,&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o&
fr-so ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~I
s&er( l  >r,s s o                   \jsbao(   </            5 \\
ZAMBIA
_ --._._   \ - 4--{- H  \  X      Sa               /S       S h~~~~~.4-o
JANUARY 1986



I



