Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13915
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
NAVIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1761-ZR)
JANUARY 19, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency unit: Zaire (Z)11
January 1989        US$1  =         Z300
December 1990       US$1  =        Z2,000
December 1991       US$1  =       Z91,080
December 1992       US$1  =  Z2,736,250
March 31, 1993      US$1  =  Z2,529,500
December 31, 1993'  US$1  =         NZ12
February 28, 1994    US$1  =       NZ 108
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                                    3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                              0.624 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)       =              0.386 square miles
I metric ton (m ton)                          2.204 pounds (Ibs)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGCD            Administration Generale de la Cooperation et du Developpement (Belgium
aid agency)
CMZ             Compagnie Maritime Zairoise (Zaire Shipping Company)
GECAMINES   Generale des Carrieres et des Mines (Metals Production Company)
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
IDA             International Development Association
ILO             International Labor Organization
MNEI            Ministry of Economy and Industry
MP              Ministry of Planning
MPW             Ministry of Public Works
MTC             Ministry of Transport and Communication
OGEFREM         Office de Gestion du Fret Maritime
PDG             President Directeur General
PIP             Public Investment Program
RVF             Regie des Voies Fluviales (River Traffic Authority)
RVM             Regie des Voies Maritimes (Sea Traffic Authority)
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
VN              Voie Nationale (Principal Traffic Corridor)
In October 1993 the Bank of Zaire introduced a new currency unit, the New Zaire (NZ), = Z3,000,000.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
January 19, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Zaire
Navigation Improvement Project (Credit 1761-ZR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Zaire - Navigation Improvement Project
(Credit 1761-ZR, SDR 22.9 million) prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II contributed
by the Borrower which is reflecting views different from that of the Region. The Credit was closed
eleven months before schedule (January 25, 1994). Less than 60 percent of it was disbursed.
Project objectives were to maintain adequate navigation channels in the Zaire estuary and
river. The project was a comprehensive program of investments and institutional development for
the agencies in charge of estuary and river navigation. The credit financed navigation aids;
hydrographic and dredging equipment; and training and technical assistance, which was co-financed.
Project implementation was partial. Objectives were not reached; despite sizeable procurement
of equipment, channels were not maintained; the performance of the executing agencies deteriorated.
Poor management; embezzlement of funds (in one executing agency); high rotation of management
teams; Government's lack of commitment; and deteriorating economic and political conditions were
among the causes of failure. The provisions of the Credit Agreement were not complied with. IDA's
supervision was not cost effective; staffing lacked continuity; reporting was inadequate; no
coordination took place with co-financiers, who canceled early their participation. The project,
steadily rated as a problem project, should have been closed earlier. Its outcome is rated as
unsatisfactory, its sustainability as unlikely, and its institutional impact as negligible.
No completion mission could take place. The PCR is perfunctory and incomplete -- and
more factual than analytical or conclusive. Part II raises important design and performance issues
ignored in Part I.
The project will not be audited.
Attachment
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diaclosed vithout World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................................                                                                                                      iv
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT IDENTITY  .................................................I
B. PROJECT BACKGROUND                                                             ..................................................I
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ...............................................2
Project Objectives  ................................................................2
Project Description .................................................................3
D. PROJECT DESIGN  AND ORGANIZATION  ..................................................4
E.  PROJECT   IM PLEM ENTATION   ..................................................5
Credit Effectiveness  and  Project Start-up  ..........................................................5
Implementation  Schedule  .........................                                         ........................................5
Procurement .................................................................5
Special Account .................................................................6
Project Costs .................................................................6
Project Financing  ................................................................6
Disbursements .................................................................6
F. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  AND RESULTS ............................................7
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                                           ................................................. 10
H. IDA'S PERFORMANCE ...................................................... 11
I. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE ...................                                                                      .............................. 11
J. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP .................................................                                                                                      12
K.  CONSULTING     SERVICES                                                                        ................................................. 12
L.  PROJECT   DOCUM ENTATION    AND   DATA    ................................................. 12
Tllis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table  of  Content  (Cont'd)                                                                                             Page  No.
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
As prepared by Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF)                                    .................................... 14
As prepared by Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM)                             .................................... 17
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Status of IDA  Operations in Zaire .....................................                                      26
2. Project Timetable .....................................                                                        27
3. Credit Disbursement Schedule ..................................... 28
4. Project Costs ..................................... 29
5. Project Financing .....................................                                                        30
6. Project Results ...................................... 32
7. Status of Loan Covenants for RVM ...................................... 33
8. Status of Loan Covenants for RVF ..................................... 35
9. Use of Bank Resources ..................................... 37
ANNEXES
1. Disbursements by Component and Category .................................... 38
2. Project Costs ....................................                                                             39
3. Financial Indicators (RVM) ..................................... 40



Preface                                                                              i
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Navigation Improvement Project in
Zaire, for which Credit 1761-ZR in the amount of US$27.6 million (SDR22.9 million) was
approved on February 24, 1987.
The original closing date was December 31, 1994. The credit was however canceled on
January 25, 1994, along with 15 other IDA-financed projects because of the deterioration of the
political and economic situation in Zaire which contributed to non compliance by the Government of
Zaire and the implementing agencies with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement. Zaire
also became delinquent on its debt service payments to IDA. Disbursements were suspended for all
credits on July 15, 1993, and IDA placed Zaire in "non-accrual status" on November 15, 1993.
Total disbursements under this credit were US$18.04 million (SDR13.46 million). The
undisbursed balance of US$12.66 million (SDR9.44 million) was canceled.
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and the
President's Report (No. 6116-ZR and P-4450-ZR respectively); the Credit and Project
Agreements; supervision reports; interviews with Task Managers; correspondence between IDA
and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.






i.i.                                        Navigation Improvement Project (Cr. 1761-ZR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The main objective of the Project was to assist the Borrower in strengthening its Maritime
and River Transport sub-sector by (i) rehabilitating and modernizing existing infrastructure,
equipment and facilities of both the Sea Traffic Authority (RVM, Regie des Voies Maritimes) and
the River Traffic Authority (RVF, Regie des Voies Fluviales); and (ii) improving the
administration, operation, and management of RVM and RVF. With respect to RVM, the project
was expected to help (i) reduce maritime transport costs of Zaire's exports and imports by
allowing the use of larger ships or better loading and (ii) reduce the waiting time of vessels by
making night-time navigation possible on the channel. Concerning RVF, the project sought to
reduce: (i) capital needs for replacement of tugs and barges as well as operating costs of the fleet;
(ii) losses due to grounding and (iii) inventories of goods in transit.
Implementation Experience
2.    The credit were approved by the Board on February 24, 1987, and the Credit and Project
Agreements signed on March 16, 1987. The credit became effective on December 16, 1987,
following a nine-month delay related to (i) slow ratification by Belgium of the agreement for
financial assistance to RVF, and (ii) the need for measures by the Government and the executing
agencies (RVM and RVF) to fulfill the effectiveness conditions (Para. 16).
3.    The first year's performance of both RVM and RVF was in line with SAR projections,
based on the selected indicators. In early 1990, however, for political reasons, the technical
assistance by USAID (for RVF) and by Administration Generale de la Cooperation et du
Developpement (AGCD) ceased to participate in the effort to strengthen the managerial capacity
of the two enterprises. The two aid agencies disbursed, respectively, 23.7% and 34.7% of their
financial commitments and could not reach their objectives (Para. 23).
4.    Coordination between IDA, AGCD and USAID was weak, with each financing institution,
for the most part, oblivious of the other cofinanciers (Para. 40).
Project Results
5.    The project was partly successful in achieving the rehabilitation and modernization of the
infrastructure, equipment and facilities of both RVM and RVF. For RVM, the project provided
modern equipment for hydrographic surveying, faster launches for pilotage, better capacity for
maintenance of navigation aids, modern technology and additional capacity including self-
unloading barges for dredging operations. These acquisitions are estimated to represent about
80% of the priority program to improve operational objectives (Part III - 6, A).



Evaluation Summary                                                              iii
6.    Regarding RVF, acquisition of navigation aids are estimated to represent about 50% (Part
III - 6, B).
7.    The project was not successful in achieving the strengthening of the administration,
operation, and management of RVM and RVF, which was to be achieved through an important
training and technical assistance program to be financed by the cofinanciers. Managerial and
organizational capacity of the two institutions (especially RVM) did not improve during project
implementation, despite staff training, and substantial technical assistance support (Paras. 9 and
12). This was mainly due to a lack of stable leadership and the absence of managerial autonomy.
The RVM component of the project was informally suspended July in 1989 to July 1990 because
RVM ignored repeated warnings by supervision missions and external auditors to strengthen
financial management and controls. In fact, RVM squandered its then abundant cash reserve.
Two members of RVM's senior management were jailed in June 1989 for embezzlement (Paras.
25 and 26).
8.    The institutional strengthening objective of the project also became a victim of the
deteriorating economic and political conditions of Zaire after 1990. A sharp decline in traffic
affected revenues for RVM and Government budgetary contribution for RVF became inadequate.
The quasi collapse of the monetary system and the corresponding overall scarcity of goods and
supplies hampered normal operations and maintenance within the maritime subsector. Therefore,
from 1991 onwards, the supervision team refocused the project on organizational and financial
restructuring of the entities, including staffing and other cost reductions to adapt to the changing
environment in Zaire. The RVF component was suspended on December 24, 1991, and RVM on
May 3, 1993, for non-compliance with provisions of the credit and project agreements related to
operational and financial covenants (Part III - 7 and 8). The remedial actions requested to resume
disbursements addressed the issues.
9.    No sustainable improvement occurred in the management of RVM (Para. 34) despite the
suspension of disbursements. RVF, however, benefited from two extensions of the suspension up
to September 30, 1993, because of substantial progress by its management and the Government in
fulfilling the conditions for lifting the suspension. RVF accomplished an organizational and
financial restructuring of its activities with an initial reduction of staff by nearly 50% within 18
months, envisioning a smaller, more efficient structure responsible only for defining and
supervising the works needed to maintain secure river navigation.  Such works would be
performed, on the other hand, by the private sector. However, RVF remained dependent on
Government budgetary contributions which continued to be inadequate, thereby inhibiting its
implementation capacity (Para. 33). The credit was then canceled on January 25, 1994 .
Project Sustainability
10.   The project failed to achieve the objective of improving the managerial capacity of both
enterprises. However, this is mainly due to the deterioration of the economic environment and the
lack of managerial autonomy of public enterprises in Zaire (Paras. 36 and 37).



iv                                          Navigation Improvement Project (Cr. 1761-ZR)
Findings and Lessons Learned
11.   A public enterprise lacking the autonomy to adjust to the declining economic conditions is
not viable under such conditions. Future IDA lending in the sector should take this into account
(Para. 4).
12.   During implementation, it became clear that neither RVM nor RVF was experienced in
dealing with Bank procurement procedures. This could be prevented in the future by training,
through appropriate seminars, the officials of the Government and the enterprises involved (Paras.
43 and 44). The importance of audit reports was not appreciated, and compliance is still not up
to date.






Part L. Project Review From IDA's Perspective                                    1
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA's PERSPECTIVE
A.    PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name             Navigation Improvement Project
Credit Number             1761-ZR
RVP Unit                 Africa Region
Country                  Republic of Zaire
Sector             :     Infrastructure
Sub-sector               Maritime and River Transport
B.  PROJECT BACKGROUND
13.   Following independence in 1960, Zaire's economy expanded at an average rate of 4.9
percent between 1967 and 1973 (in real terms) due to favorable terms of trade and robust foreign
investment. The current account balance was in steady surplus, social indicators improved and
inflation was under control. During 1974-1982, "Zairianization" and nationalization of foreign-
owned businesses led to a substantial falloff in GDP growth. Expansionary fiscal policies and
budget deficits, heavy external borrowing and nonproductive public investment projects fueled
inflation. The adjustment program launched at the end of 1983 covered the 1984-1989 period.
Based on traditional market orientation, rational public resource management, liberalization of
prices and trade, and improved investment and export incentives, the program initially held
promise. During 1984-1986, GDP growth averaged 3.3 percent per year compared with a 0.7
percent increase in the preceding three years. By late 1986, however, Zaire was once again
unable to contain budget deficits and non-productive public spending, and had partially reversed
previous progress in price liberalization and exchange rates. During 1987-1989, despite higher
exports and external transfers, GDP growth reached an average of only 0.6 percent per year.
Zaire's adjustment effort essentially failed because of poor economic management.
14.   Since early 1990, political gridlock and social instability has driven Zaire to unprecedented
social and economic deterioration. Production capacity, investment and fiscal mobilization have
been rapidly declining.  Private investment and foreign assistance including IDA-financed
technical assistance disappeared after the October 1991 riots. Damage from the riots was
assessed at over US$2 billion, including commercial and private property (about one-quarter of
GDP). At the end of 1992, the country had about US$11 billion of external debt, of which
US$3.4 billion was in arrears. The runaway government spending financed by monetary creation
has resulted in high inflation, raising current account deficits and mounting external arrears.
Economic indicators deteriorated: creditworthiness and investor confidence; the condition of
productive assets and infrastructure; and living standards and social indicators. The national
railways have completely ceased operation. During 1989-1993, GDP declined by more than 20
percent, copper production by 70%, consumption of petroleum products by 50%, road and river
traffic by over 70%. Inflation was estimated at 2700 percent for 1992 and at an even higher rate



2                                           Navigation Improvement Project (Cr. 1 761-ZR)
for 1993. The local currency depre,ciated over 100,000 times between November 1989 and
November 1993.
15.   The transport sector is critical to the development of Zaire because of not only the
country's size (about 2.3 million km2) but also the uneven distribution of its population, natural
resources and economic activities. The most important element in Zaire's transport network is the
river/rail system which provides about 15,000 km of navigable waterways and 5,000 km of rail
track in several disconnected networks. Most of the 150,000 km of roads, of which only 2,500
km are paved, were built to provide local access and to feed into the river and rail network.
Matadi is the main seaport and Kinshasa (the capital) and Ilebo are two major inland ports which
connect rail/river and sea transport. Zaire's principal traffic corridor is the Voie Nationale, a
transport chain (rail/river/rail/road) stretching nearly 2,700 km from the mineral-rich inland Shaba
Region to the Atlantic Ocean on the estuary of Zaire River. The Voie Nationale is considered
important to Zaire's economy because it provides the country's only egress for its mineral exports
within the country.
16.   The declining economic conditions have seriously affected the transport sector in Zaire.
Insufficient maintenance and investment have resulted in outdated, unreliable equipment and
facilities; these have combined with weak management and unqualified operating staff, as well as
unfavorable weather conditions, to raise transport costs and lower the quality of services.
Changing governments in Zaire have not been unaware of these pressing needs. However, the
country's political and economic turmoil has prevented the development of immediate and long
term solutions to the growing problems of the sector.
17.   Only five small IDA projects, supporting human capital development, maintenance of key
infrastructure and protection of environment, have been approved since 1992.  Arrears of
US$23.9 million forced IDA to suspend the remaining portfolio of 15 IDA credits on July 15,
1993. On November 15, 1993, Zaire was placed in non accrual status. Undisbursed balances
totaling US$158 million have been canceled.
C.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives
18.   The main objective of the project was to provide more efficient and reliable maritime and
river communications by rehabilitating existing infrastructure and equipment, modernizing
facilities and work methods, and strengthening major organizations in charge of the transport
sector. Specifically, the project's objectives were:
(A) For RVM to:
(i)  recommence night navigation for ships between the Atlantic Ocean and Matadi
Port, except in the meandering zone of the river;



Part . Project Review From IDA's Perspective                                        3
(ii)   maintain a dredged channel depth of 28 feet, at least 10 months per year;
(iii)  improve the efficiency and surveying operations, and
(iv)   improve the security of navigation.
(B)   For RVF to:
(i)    maintain navigational channels on the main river network to appropriate technical
standards;
(ii)   increase the efficiency and reliability of surveying, river signaling and dredging
operations; and
(iii)  improve the security of navigation.
Project Description
19.   RVM Component: With respect to infrastructure and equipment, the project sought to
increase the quality of RVM's hydrographic and topographic work by providing electronic
positioning equipment, instruments, data processing facilities and five new small crafts. The
rehabilitation of five other small crafts and three pilot boats, along with a new fast seaworthy pilot
launch would also benefit RVM. The project also included the rehabilitation of an existing buoy
tender, as well as the purchase of a new, smaller unit, these would be used in the installation and
maintenance of navigation aides (including the re-supply of dredges) under difficult working
conditions. Project components included other materials and accessories required for navigation
aids and a buoy maintenance yard, as well as the rehabilitation of three crafts, and the acquisition
of one, to service the navigation aids.
20.   In order to increase the productivity of RVM's dredging fleet, the project included the
provision of spare parts, technical improvements to the dredges, additional instruments and a new
small inspection launch. To improve maintenance, the project also undertook improvements to
the shipyard and shops, including rehabilitation of a shipway, tools, machines and a motor-testing
bench. Another component provided for was a new hydraulic excavator, mounted on a pontoon,
to carry out special dredging and bottom cleaning works.
21.   Concerning consultant services, technical assistance and training, the project was designed
to use:
(i)    70 man-month of consulting services to prepare plans and tender documents as
well as to study the economic impact of RVM and Matadi Port tariff policies,
(ii)   129 man-month long and short term technical assistance to fill key positions, to



4                                             Navigation Improvement Project (Cr. 1761-ZR)
assure technology transfer and successful project implementation;
(iii)   a training specialist for two and half years, overseas training for 50 staff and local
training for most of the personnel.
22.   RVF Component: In terms of infrastructure and equipment, the project provided for
needed repairs and improvements to RVF's shipyard and buildings at Kinshasa, including, small
civil works for the shipway, pier walls, slop protection, crane foundations, sewer and electrical
lines and office equipment. The project also sought to strengthen RVF's capability in carrying out
hydrographical surveys by providing instruments, radio communications system and a launch.
23.   In order to improve RVF's capability to install, inspect and maintain navigation aids, the
project included a new inspection launch, two new buoy tenders, and one fast launch. Other
elements were the rehabilitation of most of RVF's fleet as well as improvements to the shipyard
required to achieve this objective, including rehabilitation of shop equipment, new shipyard mobile
equipment, one new shipway crane, materials and spare parts.
24.   Consultant services, technical assistance and training covered by the project were:
(i)    30 man-month consultant services to prepare plans and bid documents for civil
works, acquisition of equipment, spare parts and materials, and to prepare detailed
plans for work to be carried out by force account;
(ii)   up to four man-years for supervision of implementation, depending on the
complexity of the work and multiplicity of tasks;
(iii)   270 man-months of technical assistance required to fill key positions in RVF's
organization in order to assure successful implementation of the project.
D.  PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
25.   The project was essentially designed to support the Government's objectives of providing
a more efficient and reliable maritime and river transport system through rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure and equipment and strengthening major organizations in charge of the transport
subsector. The responsibility for project implementation was given to two Regies, RVM and
RVF, in their respective fields with the support provided by the technical assistance and training.
Before disbursement of the credit, both RVM and RVF were required to create project
implementation units (PIUs) to organize and supervise project execution and further assume
responsibility for future projects. Recruitment of both project managers was under way prior to
project approval.
26.   A critical aspect of the upgrading of each Regie's management was to monitor, through
selected performance indicators, their operating efficiency, and to take required corrective actions



Part I. Project Review From IDA's Perspective                                     5
in a timely manner. Beginning in 1987, each Regie was required to submit to IDA, by November
30 of each year, performance targets for the following year; starting in 1988, an analysis of the
performance compared to the prior year's objectives was required, by February 28 of each year.
The analysis was expected to result in recommendations for measures to improve project
performance. Performance targets for 1987 were agreed at negotiations.
E.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up
27.   Credit 1761-ZR was approved on February 24, 1987. The Credit and Project agreements
were signed on March 16, 1987, and the credit became effective nine months later (December 16,
1987). The delay was related to ratification problems in the Kingdom of Belgium: faced with a
choice of grant or credit financing, or a combination of the two. Belgian authorities finally
selected the grant option. The original closing date of the project was December 31, 1993, but
due to delay in credit effectiveness it was revised and rescheduled for December 31, 1994.
Implementation Schedule
28.   The total project cost was estimated at US$47.9 million with a foreign exchange
component of US$37.7 million (79 percent). IDA's contribution, estimated at US$27.6 million
(about 58 percent of total cost) and all in foreign exchange, was to be implemented over 8 years.
IDA's contribution represented about 73 percent of the total foreign exchange financing cost.
Project implementation had started in 1986, under AGCD and USAID financing and both Regies'
own resources. It was expected to be completed by December 31, 1993, but was rescheduled to
December 31, 1994. Under the new agreement, preparation of tender documents was expected to
be substantially completed by April 1987. RVM and RVF were also expected to submit to IDA
no later than June 30, 1987, draft training programs for staff members to be trained overseas.
With the exception of some tender documents, all these projections were not implemented or only
partially implemented.
Procurement
29.   The rehabilitation of vessels and equipment was planned to be carried out mostly by force
account. Detailed work programs were reviewed at negotiations. The procurement of materials
and spare parts required for rehabilitation was to be completed mostly through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), and only the fitting and assembly work by force account. New
equipment, new vessels, spare parts, instruments, tools, supplies and materials financed by IDA
were planned to be procured on the basis of ICB in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines with
a separate contract for each type or group of similar type of goods. IDA-approved lists would
determine procurement of all items. Items costing between US$50,000 and US$500,000 in the
aggregate for each Regie were planned to be procured by international and local shopping, on the
basis of quotations from at least three different suppliers, dealers or manufacturers. Proprietary



6                                           Navigation Improvement Project (Cr. 1761-ZR)
spare parts were to be procured by direct contracting after negotiation for an amount not to
exceed US$500,000 equivalent for each Regie.  Civil works were planned to be awarded
following Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) as the size of the contracts (between US$50,000 and
US$300,000) was unlikely to attract foreign contractors. Local procedures were reviewed and
found acceptable. Consultants were to prepare all studies other than the special studies of the
Kasai river, which would be carried out by force account. Experts and consultants financed under
IDA credit were to be recruited under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA and in accordance
with Bank Guidelines for the use of consultants. Procurement procedures did not present any
major problem during implementation. RVM did face some problems, however, that arose from
the absence of its project director after two years. These problems included a lack of knowledge
regarding IDA's procurement procedures, as well as communication problems within the country,
both sets of problems were overcome, to some extent, by the project's technical assistance. The
Regies did, however, complain of delays associated with IDA's complex procurement procedures.
Special Account
30.   In order to expedite and facilitate disbursements, each Regie was to open a Special
Account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association. IDA planned to deposit an amount
of US$0.25 million equivalent in foreign exchange in each Special Account. The accounts were
to be replenished on the basis of monthly withdrawal applications comprising a statement of
account showing changes since the last deposit in the account less payments for which a
withdrawal application is submitted. Full documentation was required for all claims except those
related to a contract or purchase order valued under US$20,000, which were submitted under
statements of expenditures. The Regies were to safekeep documentation of these claims and be
prepared for inspection by project supervision missions.
Project Costs
31.   A comparison of estimated and actual project costs is given in Part III - 4.
Project Financing
32.   A comparison of the estimated and actual project financing is given in Part III - 5.
Disbursements
33.   Estimated versus actual schedules of IDA's disbursements are shown in the following
table. The actual disbursement schedule followed the typical disbursement profile for Zaire. The
final disbursement was made on December 29, 1993. At the cancellation of the credit, estimated
and actual IDA disbursements were as follows:



Part I. Project Review From IDA 's Perspective                                    7
Estimated and Actual IDA Disbursements
US$ Million/IDA Fiscal Year
Estimated IDA Disbursements     1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
(SAR dated January 23, 1987)
Annual                          1.2   1.6   4.4   6.6   5.9   4.0   2.4   1.5
Cumulative                      1.2   2.8   7.2   13.8  19.7  23.7  26.1  27.6
Actual IDA Disbursements        1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
(as of December 31, 1993)
Annual                          0.0   1.7   1.3   3.9   3.5   3.0   3.9   0.7
Cumulative                      0.0   1.7   3.0   6.9   10.4  13.4  17.3  18.04
F.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
34.   The use of technical assistance, consultant and training specialist amounted to 229 man-
months for RVM and 348 man-months for RVF, one third less than projected. There is no
indication, moreover, that the project did not use enough technical assistance (Part III. Annex-2).
35.   At the end of 1987, the technical assistance by USAID (for RVF) and by AGCD (for both
RVF and RVM) was in place and the performance indicators for both Regies were in line with
SAR projections. Due to political problems, however, neither AGCD nor USAID reached their
objectives; both stopped their activities in early 1990, spending only 23.7 percent and 34.7
percent, respectively of their financial commitments.
36.   At the beginning of 1988, although RVM's performance indicators were in line with SAR
targets, its most important activity--dredging--showed less improvement due to an ambitious
investment program which mainly focused on self-financed, non-essential ship buying activity.
The Bank opposed, and eventually stopped this activity. At the same time, RVM appeared to
have excessive resources and IDA underlined the urgent need for a tariff study.  RVF
performance indicators in 1988 did start to show weakness; its deteriorating financial situation led
to reduction in the quality and volume of regular services such as servicing navigation aids in
Kasai. At that time, RVF needed to increase the fuel tax in order to improve its financial
situation. The fuel tax increase came much later, however, and never became a reliable source of
revenue for RVF.
37.   Long criticized by IDA, RVM's financial mismanagement was finally proved by the
imprisonment of PDG and DEA, for embezzlement of US$4.0 million equivalent since July 1988.
RVM had abused its privileged financial status (resulting from its revenues in foreign currency) by
ignoring basic discipline of sound financial management. The new PDG of RVM was alerted to
institutional weaknesses and excessive investments, and agreed to take the necessary measures to
resolve these problems.  However, the 1989 budget established by the new management
committee showed no indication of any move towards financial prudence. Consequently, RVM's



8                                           Navigation Improvement Project (Cr. 1 761-ZR)
operational performance was far below projections and its record in project implementation was
equally poor. In 1989, only 3 out of 8 contracts were signed. RVM agreed to revise the 1989
budget along more prudent lines and to prepare a plan for a major reduction of staff In July
1989, following mission recommendations, disbursements for the RVM component were
informally suspended.
38.   At the end of 1989, RVM's technical and financial directors were replaced. Plans were
made for the reduction of 370 staff by the end of 1989, with further targeted reductions adding up
to 800 staff by the end of 1992. This goal was never realized, mostly for political reasons; at a
later stage, RVM even hired more staff and increased its payroll. In addition, the accounting staff
were to implement in full the auditors' recommendations to improve accounting standards and
procedures; most of these recommendations were not adopted. RVM did not fulfill most of its
financial covenants.
39.   The acute shortage of funds which RVF faced overshadowed organizational and
operational weaknesses, which included overstaffing and poor identification of operational
priorities. At the beginning of project implementation, RVF was unable to meet performance
targets and honor its financial covenants because of the Government's failure to authorize
increases in river and navigation taxes (its two main sources of revenue). However, at the end of
1989, the level of river tax was increased to Z3.5 per liter and indexed. Also, cross debts between
the Govemment and fuel companies were agreed and settled, allowing RVF to receive fuel tax
dues from the petroleum companies on a regular basis, albeit for a short period. The increase in
revenue temporarily returned RVF to a normal level of operations. RVF also agreed to consider
divestiture of its dockyard and workshop activities, and to strengthen its financial management.
Plans to return to a normal level of operations included the proper identification of priorities as
well as staff reductions. The increased level of resources did not continue as planned, however,
and in 1990, financial difficulties again plagued RVF, essentially due to non-payment of the
counterpart funds by the Government. Due to RVF's financial and managerial difficulties, IDA
encouraged the Regie to undertake--with project funding--a study of its dockyard and workshop
activities with a view of their privatization.
40.   Following the May 1990 mission, IDA lifted its informal suspension of disbursements to
RVM at the end of June 1990. The Government had promised to finance half of RVM's staff
reduction plan; the other half would come from RVM's own budget. RVM's performance
indicators showed some improvement.  On the other hand, the lack of adequate financial
resources (due to increase in navigation and river tax arrears) forced RVF to cease all operations
as of October 1990, when Z90 million monthly revenues were not even sufficient to cover
monthly expenses for fuel and lubricants.
41.   At the end of 1991, however, as the Government failed to keep its part of the
commitment, RVM was unable to carry out its staff reduction program. At the same time, its
financial situation deteriorated due to increasing arrears by petroleum companies, as well as
decreasing shipping traffic and transportation revenue in the Bief Maritime (access channel). To
increase efficiency and enhance revenue, RVM, with IDA's recommendation, launched an



Part 1. Project Review From IDA 's Perspective                                    9
important study to identify ways to improve the shipping transportation and management of Bief
Maritime. The study was completed under difficult conditions and its results were discussed in
October 1993. The lack of commitment of RVM was confirmed at that time. The last full
supervision mission before the cancellation of the credit took place in October 1993. In addition
to uneasy general conditions in the country, no sustainable improvement had occurred in the
management of RVM; also, management had not executed the agreed upon staff and cost
reduction measures. A last effort was made to define with RVM and the Government a global
restructuring plan to provide a basis for refocusing this project component. This effort failed
because RVM did not attend the meetings. RVM later produced a final report of 8 volumes at the
end of January 1994. In retrospect, IDA should have taken the signal given by the lack of interest
of the Government instead of focusing on technical issues.
42.   Regarding RVF, irregular provision of financial resources and counterpart funds from the
Government investment budget forced RVF to operate at a minimum activity basis, with
substantial delays in buoying activities. Further, physical execution of RVF's activities stopped
completely due to shortage of funds to purchase fuel for ships. As a result, buoying activities
were curtailed for 10 months, from July 1990 to May 1991. In addition, technical performance
indicators, as well as operating and financial ratios, lagged well behind the SAR objectives. Based
on the Regie's poor financial performance, as well as the views of the ship owners in Zaire, a
gradual privatization of RVF was introduced, and IDA proposed to explore the possibility of a
management contract and institutional restructuring of RVF.
43.   At the end of 1991, IDA suspended disbursements as neither the Government nor RVF
honored their commitments. RVF was unable to improve its management, secure regular flow of
financial resources, implement cost reduction measures, and finally carry out its mandate. As a
consequence of this lack of commitment on the part of RVF and the Government, on December
24, 1991, IDA suspended the RVF component of the credit.
44.   At the end of 1992, only one out of four dredges owned and operated by RVM was in
operation, because of poor maintenance and lack of planning in spare parts acquisition. During
the same year, however, RVM made noticeable efforts to comply with the recommendations of
the June 1992 Aide-Memoire, mainly for:
preparation of a revised staff reduction plan;
launching of a study on the improvement of transport system in Bief Maritime; and
submission of audits and presentation of accounts.
However, due to lack of funds expected from the Government, RVM did not resume its staff
reduction plan.
45.   Because of the unrest of January 1993, the restricted March 1993 mission was conducted
from Brazzaville (Congo). The mission was unable to meet with any official of RVM or RVF
because of the decision of the Government. Again IDA failed to act at this time. Based on the
implementation reports, RVF finally outlined a plan and called for bids to lease out those activities



10                                         Navigation Improvement Project (Cr. 1761-ZR)
to be done on Force Account. This would have been in line with IDA's recommendations to
restructure RVF, by limiting RVF activities on river markings, supervising work programs and
preparing navigational maps and hydrological surveys. Also, RVF, despite the country's difficult
conditions, executed a minimum program in order to ensure navigability on 1,337 km. of the Zaire
river and 121 km on the Kasai river. In addition, the Government made available to RVF the
equivalent of US$1.17 million to implement a minimum operational program and to finance the
agreed staff reduction plan. As of March 1993, RVF executed 51 percent of agreed staff
reductions, from 920 to 465. The RVF component of the project remained suspended, and
because of RVF management's willingness to complete the restructuring, the cancellation was not
decided, and instead suspension was extended until September 30, 1993.
46.   With respect to RVM, the new management tried hard to be more cost conscious due to a
sharp decline in maritime transport and revenues. With regard to the October 1992 mission's
recommendations, the relatively good results obtained from RVM were encouraging. However,
due to the general conditions of the country, the mission also recommended suspension of all
disbursements on this RVM component. A prerequisite for lifting the suspension was the full
implementation of the cost reduction program, including the staff reduction element, which has
been the main issue since the beginning of project implementation.
47.   Disbursements on the RVF component were first suspended on December 24, 1991, due
to the persistent non-compliance with the Credit and Project Agreements related to the provision
of counterpart funds and operational and financial performance. The RVF component was
scheduled to be canceled on December 31, 1992. RVF benefited from two extensions up to
September 30, 1993, because of substantial progress made by its management and the
Government in fulfilling the conditions for lifting the suspension. However, besides the general
condition of the country, the last mission also found the Government's financial support remained
inadequate. So far, no sustainable mechanism such as a permanent payment order has been
established. Given country conditions and the fact that RVF depends mainly on budgetary
contribution, the mission believed that its implementation capacity was insufficient in the absence
of adequate and sustained government financing. As it did for RVM, the mission requested the
cancellation of the remaining balance of the RVF component. As of December 31, 1993, the total
remaining balance of Credit 1761-ZR was about US$12.66 million (SDR9.44 million).
G.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
48.   Despite some late positive developments, the project became a victim of deteriorating
general conditions and the non-accrual status of Zaire. Its proposed modified and restructured
form would have created a much smaller but more efficient new structure at RVF, with many of
its activities transferred to the private sector. This form could have provided another good
example (as it was in the case of Office des Routes) of the privatization of various public sector
services in Africa. The declining conditions in Zaire leave little room for hope, with respect to
project sustainability.



Part 1. Project Review From IDA 's Perspective                                   11
49.   While generating some positive physical results, the project failed to reach financial and
managerial standards of performance. If the private sector alternative is not acceptable to the
Government, continuous and costly efforts and investment will be necessary to maintain a
reasonable level of efficiency as demand in the transportation sector continues to decline.
H.    IDA'S PERFORMANCE
50.   IDA's efforts in preparing this project started much earlier than the SAR (1986). Early
identification started in 1983 but due to technical and administrative problems, the project became
effective only in 1987. IDA devoted substantial efforts to the preparation and appraisal of the
project (98 men/weeks) (Part III - 9) and developed reasonable conditionalities. While economic
and financial analyses used up a substantial amount of resources, supervision was almost equally
important (92 men/weeks). Since the date of effectiveness, 12 bi-annual supervision missions
closely monitored the project; according to the RVF's former Project Director, however, certain
missions were too short to cover all the problems of the Regie, while certain others had other
preoccupations.  In addition, frequent changes in supervision teams are reported to have
prevented close collaboration with the two Regies, including technical assistance.
51.   Throughout the Navigation Improvement Project, IDA continued to make appropriate
contributions to the physical, technological and institutional development of the transport sector
in Zaire. The preparation of the project was conceptually accurate in integrating the objective of
efficiency increase in the sector with institutional and program strengthening. However, the
country's limited absorption capacity and unpredictable events made project completion much
slower than expected, preventing even the completion of the project by canceling it mid-way.
52.   The cost projections were underestimated for RVM but generous for RVF. Both Re'gies
had two other cofinanciers (AGCD and USAID) which were committed to financing this project.
IDA did not play a sufficiently active role in coordinating the total financing of the project; IDA
did not even know when the cofinanciers' disbursements were stopped.
53.   Supervision reports, however, did not include updated key costs and standard financing
tables. In the future, numbering and classifying supervision reports should help to easily evaluate
the quality of supervision during the preparation of the PCR, and will eliminate confusion about
the number of field supervision missions, as opposed to Form 590 updates made at Headquarters.
However, it is important to recognize IDA's efficiency in closely monitoring the project's
compliance and suspending the credit when necessary for both RVF and RVM components of the
project.
54.   Overall, IDA lacked judgment and did not focus on the overall sustainability of the
project. IDA also failed to take action when the lack of ownership of the RVM reform made its
failure. In retrospect, given the spiraling economic collapse of the country, IDA should not have
extended supervision as long as it did.



12                                         Navigation Improvement Project (Cr. 1761-ZR)
I.    BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
55.   The beneficiaries (RVM and RVF) experienced substantial difficulties in complying with
agreed covenants. Delays occurred in obtaining audited and unaudited reports from RVM and
RVF, not only because of inexperience with financial reporting but also because of a lack of
understanding of the requirements of the project covenants. The Borrower and beneficiaries,
while interested in a project which provided an opportunity to re-equip two parastatals, did not
feel strongly committed to covenants in credit agreements. Frequently changing governments
seemed to have their own policies and agendas which were implemented without consideration for
credit covenants on counterpart funds, staff attrition, tariffs, procurement, allocation of special tax
revenues, etc. This placed the supervision missions in a difficult position and forced them to
renegotiate informally what had already been agreed upon.
56.   Following supervision, reminders from IDA to the Government of commitments under the
credit agreements (such as regular payment of counterpart funds as well as special tax revenues
for the Regies) met with no response. While IDA stood by its commitments, the Government--
which had absolute control of the two Regies--appeared to want to keep its options open. All
these problems indicate that project design not only overestimated the willingness and absorptive
capacity of the Government, but also underestimated the hidden impact of growing social
problems and major political changes in Zaire.
J.    PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
57.   Despite the difficult implementation environment and generally unfavorable conditions,
IDA's relationship with the Government, RVM and RVF was excellent until the cancellation of
the project. It was understood on all sides that the generally deteriorating environment in Zaire
was the main reason for the project's cancellation and that should the overall equilibrium be
restored, IDA activity will resume.
K.   CONSULTANTS SERVICES
58.   The performance of consultants with respect to studies was generally satisfactory.
Supervision reports and interviews did not reveal any significant problems with consultant
performance in relation to their terms of reference.
L.  PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
59.   The project's legal agreements adequately reflected IDA's interests and were intended to
support achievement of project objectives. Basic project documentation was standard for this
type of project, but rapidly changing events left them partially outdated. The SAR did not always
reflect the facts in the field. In certain important components, it was impossible to compare



Part . Project Review From IDA's Perspective                                       13
implementation results with projections: for example, initial projections for maintenance of a
dredged channel depth of 28 feet compared with 24 to 26 feet as modified during implementation
and 21-23 feet in terms of its most frequent level in reality. Such problems were not always
mentioned in supervision reports. These reports failed to report updated project costs and lacked
quality performance indicators. In order to compare projections made prior to implementation
with actual results for each project, the supervision team should prepare a comparable standard
table which, if necessary, should be updated regularly.
60.   With the exception of RVF's Project Director's (technical assistance) technical and
procurement reports, neither the Government nor beneficiary institutions (RVM, RVF) sent
regular quarterly or annual progress reports or budgets. All information for the preparation of
this PCR was based on the SAR and supervision reports, interviews with Task Managers and the
correspondence between the Government, beneficiaries and IDA.



14                                         Navigation Improvement Project (Cr. 1761-ZR)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEw FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF, River Traffic Authority)
(English Translation)
A.    PROJECT DESIGN, IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
Project Design
Although the key objectives of the project were well-formulated at the time it was
designed, the choice of ways and means to achieve those objectives was unfortunately not
considered carefully enough. In particular, project preparation did not take account of projections
of the likely adverse effects of the deterioration in the country's political, economic and social
fabric which had first manifested itself during the period of Zairianization and nationalization of
foreign-owned businesses (1974-1982).
In addition, the project sought to improve RVF's operational capabilities without changing
the agency's out-dated structure and by relying on extensive procurement of new equipment. No
institutional reform was planned; more importantly, no study was made of the agency's capacity to
administer the river transport system in a rational and effective manner.
Project Implementation
As a consequence of over-estimation, at the design stage, of the operational capabilities of
local institutions (the Government and RVF), the project failed to progress according to schedule.
Operational weaknesses--particularly those of the Government--revealed themselves fully in the
course of the implementation process. The constant lack of Zairian counterpart funds also
seriously interrupted project implementation. An additional problem was the halting of bilateral
assistance arrangements with both Belgium and the U.S.
The rigid nature of the performance indicators developed at the outset of the project partly
explain the Bank's poor evaluation of the performance of RVF. It may also be noted that the
various World Bank missions were reluctant to review these indicators, although requested to do
so by RVF.
Despite these problems, the investment component of the project, cofinanced by the
World Bank and Belgium, was largely implemented. The presence of the project director was
also of great assistance to RVF in gaining an understanding of Bank procedures, and thus
contributed appreciably to the execution process.
Following a series of often acrimonious arguments in the course of the various supervision
missions, RVF and the Bank agreed that studies toward a reorganization of the agency should be
undertaken. Indeed, these studies enabled RVF to muster its forces by reframning its objectives
and correctly identifying its organizational shortcomings.  The launching of several training



Part I. Project Review From Borrower's Perspective -RVF                          15
activities, which helped RVF address its human resources problems, also served to facilitate
project implementation.
Project Results
Prior to cancellation of the project, RVF had decided to downsize and to subcontract
certain works in order to devote its energies to overseeing works execution and thus ensure
continuation of the project. In this regard, it would be advisable to steer investment activity more
toward the specific needs created by this new pattern of organization: financing of control
equipment, information technology facilities, navigation aids, construction of fixed buoys, selected
capital works, etc.
However, given the notably social character of the services provided by RVF, its
reorganization should not be regarded by the Government as a pretext for leaving it to its own
devices. Appropriate arrangements for Government funding of particular works are essential(cf
the case of the Highway Authority [Office des Routes]).
B.  COMMENTS ON PART I OF THE PCR
The material in this section of the Report provides a faithful account of the history of the
project from its design stage to its cancellation. RVF is gratified at the relevance and accuracy of
the points covered in Part I.
C.  BANK PERFORMANCE
Although the Bank took what we regarded as a long time to finalize preparations for this
project, we must recognize that upon effectiveness, the Bank spared no effort to assist RVF in
moving ahead with implementation. This is well illustrated by the number of supervision missions
conducted in the course of the project.
However, we deplore:
-     the various changes in the composition of the Bank's mission teams;
-     the short duration of certain missions, which gave us the impression of some lack
of Bank interest in the project;
-     the slow pace of written communication between the Bank and RVF, which
contributed significantly to the delays in implementing some components of the
project,
-     the lack of coordination between cofinanciers (USAID, AGCD).



16                                          Navigation Improvement Project (Cr. 1 761-ZR)
Apart from these weak points, the Bank managed all other aspects of the project
efficiently, remaining in regular contact with RVF and the Government and cooperating with them
willingly at all times.
D.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
RVF concurs fully with the statements made on page 11 of Part I of the Report.
However, RVF believes it made every possible effort to acquaint the Government with any
internal problems of which RVF was aware. In numerous instances, the Government failed to
follow through on RVF's various requests, particularly as regards financing of the agency's
operations and reorganization.
Many actions did not progress as planned because a number of managerial posts (Financial
Director, Administrative Director, Technical Director) were unfilled at certain times. RVF had to
make far-reaching changes among its professional staff in order to meet the requirements of the
Bank's final appraisal missions.
E.    COMMENTS ON PART 1111 OF THE PCR
The various statistical tables dealing with financial operations during the project
implementation period clearly show not only sums disbursed but also the balance of credit
proceeds canceled. With regard to the latter, RVF requests renegotiation once the Government
of Zaire has discharged its commitments to the World Bank.
SEAL OF THE OFFICE OF THE MANAGING DIRECTOR
REGIE DES VOIES FLUVIALES
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE



Part II. Project Review From Borrower's Perspective - RVM                     17
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM, Sea Traffic Authority)
(English Translation)
A.   PREFACE
This document constitutes part II of the completion report of the project to improve
navigation in Zaire, Credit 1761-ZR. It should be added to parts I and III prepared by the
International Development Association (IDA).
It was provided that the credit should be closed on December 31, 1994. However, as
the political and economic conditions no longer permit the project to be executed because of
the general worsening of the situation in Zaire, the credit was terminated early, on January 24,
1994.
This report analyzes issues central to the project and includes an ex post evaluation of
project implementation from the borrower's point of view, underscoring lessons for the future.
The report was prepared on the basis of the credit, project and subsidiary credit
agreements, supervision reports, financial statements, correspondence between IDA, the
Government and RVM, credit negotiation reports, and correspondence with suppliers.
B.  GENERAL COMMENTS
This report comprises the ex post evaluation of the River Navigation Project, Regie des
Voies Manitimes component.
This project was financed mainly by World Bank Credit 1761-ZR, which totaled
SDR13.9 billion including PPF 350-ZR. In addition to domestic financing ($3.3 million), the
project also received $2.1 million in AGCD cofinancing. The project component received an
additional FF2.5 million in the form of a grant from the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
(FAC) [Aid and Cooperation Fund].
The credit and project agreements were signed on March 16, 1987, but the credit only
took effect on December 16, 1987. Because of the weaknesses found in RVM management,
the World Bank informally suspended disbursements in the period spanning July 1989 to June
1990. Because of the deteriorating economic and social conditions, and in view of the accrual
of US$23.9 million in arrears owed to IDA, the balance of the credit (SDR5.59 million) was
canceled on January 24, 1994.
Disbursements accounted for 60% (SDR8.31 million) of the total amount, including
PPF 350 ZR. The execution ratio was estimated at less than 50%.



18                                        Navigation Improvement Project (Cr. 1761-ZR)
C.   PROJECT DESIGN
Preparation
The project was identified in 1983 following the decline noted along the Voie
nationale. In order to remedy the situation, the government had decided to implement projects
aimed at augmenting the Voie nationale's capacity.
With respect to RVM, the project was intended to improve navigation conditions in the
maritime reach of the Zaire River in order to provide passage for vessels drawing 28 feet
during 10 months of the year, and to shorten the waiting time for vessels by making night-time
navigation possible upstream and downstream from the meandering zone of the river.
To prepare the project program, four studies were conducted in the following areas:
-     administrative and financial organization, including analytical accounting by Price
Waterhouse;
-     hydrography, buoyage and piloting by the autonomous port of Bordeaux;
-     shipbuilding and dredging by the Electrobel Engineering-International Marine and
Dredging Consultant maritime works group (TEE-IMDC); and
-     training for the ORT.
Subsequently, the economic appraisal of the proposed measures was conducted by the
PAB-SOTREMER-IMDC-TEE groups.
Appraisal
The critical analysis of the diagnostic and feasibility studies carried by the consultants,
RVM and the World Bank, and designed to define the project's various programs, was
somewhat perfunctory.
Consequently RVM's investment needs were poorly identified, especially with regard
to hydrography, buoyage and piloting; the costs of the project's components were
underestimated. A significant portion of the investments proposed by the consultants was left
out of the program, only to prove ultimately indispensable to the proper operation of services.
The underestimation of the needs of the enterprise is attributable in part to RVM, who
thought it had sufficient resources to finance the investments not included in the program with
the World Bank, and later found it was unable to undertake them.
The costs were underestimated because the World Bank team taking part in the project



Part 11. Project Review From Borrower's Perspective - RVM                         19
appraisal considered the costs cited by the consultants to be too high. Instead of checking
these through consultation with suppliers, the costs were adjusted arbitrarily.
Credit Negotiation
At the time of the negotiations concerning the credit and project agreements, the World
Bank presented draft proposals which it had previously prepared. These were examined article
by article while the Zairian delegation was in Washington on a short visit.
While the principle of preparing draft agreements is firmly established, it would be
desirable for the Zairian side to have the time necessary for a thorough examination of these
documents, given their importance. Accordingly, the text of the agreements should be sent to
the borrower for analysis and comment prior to negotiations. This would prevent possible
conflicts between the credit agreements and laws in various countries.
From the general standpoint of design, RVM regrets that no training of its staff
engaged in implementing the project was provided for in the course of the preparation phase.
Such training ought to have consisted of:
information visits to IDA  offices involved with the credit, and other enterprises
working with IDA;
familiarization with Bank procedures concerning loan agreements, the use of special
accounts, and procurement and disbursement.
It is proposed that in the future the training needs of the agency assigned to implement
the project be covered by the PPF.
IDA should therefore avoid recommending ill-timed technical assistance but instead
give priority to specific, high-level, well-targeted technical assistance conducive to the
project's smooth overall operation. It is unacceptable for the project manager to spend all his
time and the enormous resources placed at his disposal solely in coordinating the awarding of
contracts.
At the time of project implementation, and in order to make sure that proper
technology transfer takes place, it would be useful to integrate the project management unit
into the organization chart of the project's executing agency (at the receiving end). The
creation of floating parallel structures consisting only of the project manager had the
disadvantage, at RVF, of not providing for the training of the person taking over after the
project manager's departure. The example of RVM, where Zairian managers were well
trained in the course of project implementation, should be followed.
In addition, the Government did not participate in the project preparation and
evaluation phases through one of these bodies, for example GET.



20                                         Navigation Improvement Project (Cr. 1761-ZR)
The Government should have qualified, permanent experts in the field of project
management. These experts should be responsible for handling the various key problems
relating to the preparation, appraisal and implementation of investment programs financed
through bilateral and multilateral cooperation. Such an arrangement promises better continuity
in project follow-up, particularly with regard to compliance with government-approved
agreements.
It would also be more beneficial for the team of World Bank experts participating in the
preparation of the project to include a lawyer. Minimizing the influence of the political
environment and the impact of the various national laws may complicate the project's
satisfactory execution.
D.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up
The project was identified in 1983.  The diagnostic and feasibility studies were
completed in 1985. The programs were prepared in 1986, the Credit and Project Agreements
were signed on March 16, 1987, and the credit became effective on December 16, 1987. The
actual start-up of the project took place in 1988.
The delayed start-up caused a mismatch between the situation on the ground, which
changed from 1985 to 1988, and the objectives defined on the basis of the initial studies.
In the future, all appropriate measures should be taken to reduce such delays, and the
legal and political constraints should also be borne in mind.
Implementation Schedule
The project implementation schedule was not complied with because of the long delay
between the appraisal and start-up of the project, the Bank's cumbersome procurement
procedures, the difficulties encountered with some suppliers, the questioning by the
supervision missions of certain agreements governing contract awards, and RVM's lack of
experience at the start of the project concerning procurement and disbursement procedures.
To the above must be added the under-estimation of certain component costs.
Additional studies were necessary throughout project implementation (e.g., the crane for the
dry dock). Furthermore, some of the project's components did not have implementation
timetables (reduced model).
Starting in July 1990, following IDA seminars on procurement in Kinshasa and on
disbursement procedures in Abidjan, the planning office relaunched the implementation of the
investment program to good effect. The later blockages resulted primarily from the World



Part 11. Project Review From Borrower's Perspective - RVM                     21
Bank's long delays in reacting to the various dossiers submitted by RVM, and to the latter's
unsatisfactory execution of the staff reduction program, a prior condition imposed by IDA for
the issuance of invitations to bid whose terms were already approved.
Procurement
The World Bank's procurement procedures are burdensome but efficient, so long as
there is satisfactory communications between the agency responsible for project
implementation and the various divisions of the Bank.
In the future it will not be necessary for RVM to hire outside consultants to prepare
bidding and procurement documents.
RVM currently employs the necessary qualified staff. In this regard, it should be noted
that it previously experienced major difficulties in implementing the project start-up phase, in
spite of the project manager's presence. At the end of his mandate only three contracts had
been signed. Subsequently, RVM proved itself able to prepare bidding and procurement
documents (cf. list of managers concerned).
Project Financing
The total cost of the project was $20.8 million. IDA Credit 1761-ZR and the AGCD
provided $15.4 million and $2.1 million, respectively, for a total of $17.5 million. It was
planned that RVM would fund local outlays valued at $3.3 million. IDA's contribution was to
be made in different currencies, amounting to the equivalent of SDR13.35 million. With the
World Bank's assistance, RVM negotiated and obtained a FF2.5 million grant from the French
cooperation agency for the purpose of strengthening the training effort.
On the date the project was closed, December 31, 1993, IDA had disbursed a total of
SDR8.31 million, or US$11.6 million equivalent, for an execution rate of 75%, while RVM
counterpart was $2.3 million, for an execution rate of 70%. The RVM counterpart was
underestimated due to the absence of a system for reliably determining the costs (cost
accounting).
Despite several reminders, RVM did not receive from AGDC the statement of its
disbursements for the project. This made it impossible to obtain figures for the financial
execution of the Belgian counterpart in conjunction with the relevant program (Transflumar).
The high execution rate on IDA Credit 1761-ZR in dollars is partly due to the dollar's inflation
in relation to the SDR (1 dollar = 0.86 SDR in 1986 and 0.75 SDR at the end of 1993).
Disbursements
The disbursements against IDA Credit 1761-ZR proceeded satisfactorily from project
start-up to completion. Out of a total of SDR13.9 million, including IDA Credit 1761-ZR and



22                                         Navigation Improvement Project (Cr. 1761-ZR)
PPF P.350-ZR, executions amounted to 8.31 million, or 60%.
Special Account
RVM did not make effective use of the special account because it had a poor
understanding of the account's operation.  This weakness was remedied in the course of
project implementation.
E.    PROJECT RESULTS
Technical Performance Indicators
Steady improvement in the performance indicators was generally seen in the course of
the period 1987-1991, except with respect to minimal depth, which had reached abnormally
low levels (18-20 feet) in 1988 and 1989, because of the unfavorable natural conditions
prevailing in the maritime reach.
Beginning in 1992, the technical performance indicators deteriorated in comparison
with the preceding years, mainly as a result of diminishing availability of equipment.
Financial Results
The financial performance indicators were generally below project objectives from
1989 onwards in the case of the net operating ratio, and from 1988 onwards in the case of the
debt ratio. The continuing drop in gross receipts due to the decrease in maritime traffic
starting in 1988, and the failure to apply cost-cutting measures satisfactorily, account for this
situation.
The determination of performance indicators made it possible to introduce management
by objectives into RVM. However, it was shown that some indicators had been overestimated
during project preparation (ratio of dredger availability and minimal depths, over 10 months),
while others did not correctly measure the objectives assigned to RVM.
The list of indicators should have been supplemented with quality indicators, such as
the dredging effectiveness rate introduced by the project's technical assistance, and the
objectives based on the actual level of activity.
Equipment
Execution of the project enabled RVM to purchase new equipment and the necessary
items for the rehabilitation of some floating units. Nevertheless, not all the measures essential
to improving the quality of maintenance were implemented (working stock of spare parts, dry-
dock crane, etc.).



Part 11. Project Review From Borrower's Perspective - RVM                    23
Consequently, the condition of the working equipment deteriorated continuously as the
project was implemented, especially the dredgers.
F.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The RVM project remains viable, in spite of the very unfavorable economic, social and
political conditions in Zaire since 1990.
RVM will have to make efforts to establish sound management and introduce better
allocation of its financial and human resources.
RVM's partners must also grasp the special nature of the Zaire River, which poses
unique problems. The World Bank's hydrographic and dredging experts have spent a lot of
time learning about this very important aspect of RVM management.
With regard to the definition of performance standards, hydrographic performance must
be regarded as more important than dredging performance, expressed in quantitative terms of
m3 dredged.
Despite the quality of the experts assigned to study the updating of the investment
program in 1990, the misunderstanding of the natural dynamics of the Zaire River, which
depends primarily on the climatology of the watershed and the power of the flood crests in the
maritime reach, led the World Bank to mistakenly question the recommendations concerning
measures to be undertaken with a view to ensuring effective RVM dredging operations (IMDC
study on the reevaluation of the RVM investment program).
Previous studies did not pay particular attention to the technical condition of the
dredgers.  An expert report should be prepared on the production equipment, and a
determination made of the number and type of dredgers necessary for more effective
operations.  The RVM  investment program  should be modified on the basis of that
information.
The World Bank funded the study on improving the transport system in the maritime
reach of the Zaire River, at a cost of about $800,000. The Government should consider the
options with respect to restructuring RVM before launching new programs.
World Bank Performance
Generally speaking, the preparation, appraisal and monitoring of project
implementation were carried out by the World Bank in a satisfactory manner.
In addition to building up the capacity of the working equipment, dealing with the
World Bank enabled RVM especially to:



24                                          Navigation Improvement Project (Cr. 1761-ZR)
-     establish  management by  objectives: determination  of performance  indicators,
assessment of the enterprise and its environment, short- and medium-term projections,
definition and quantification of objectives, etc.;
-     seek effectiveness in its technological and operational management;
-     understand the need for rigorous management of financial and human resources.
Senior DPE staff and their counterparts in other departments, who worked with World
Bank experts on a regular basis, were able to benefit from a considerable amount of
technology transfer. The project's technical assistance office even stated that RVM would not
need technical assistance as defined in the project's evaluation for the management of future
projects.
Nevertheless, the very swift turnover of project managers left the impression that the
World Bank's memory of the project was somewhat unreliable during its postponements and
resumptions. This led to the revisiting and renegotiation of some earlier agreements.
Furthermore, the rather short durations of the supervision missions did not often permit
a thorough review of the key problems for the viability of the endeavor. This was a factor
until Mr. Charlier was hired as a World Bank Consultant . Mr. Charlier devoted about two
weeks to discussions with the various on-site supervisors.  The quality of the dialogue
improved as a result.
Borrower Performance
From 1987 to 1991 RVM's performance, as measured by technical performance
indicators, was satisfactory except for the draught indicator.  After 1992, most of those
indicators fell below the project's standards (see paragraph on project results).
Financial and administrative management was less satisfactory, especially with respect
to the submission of audited statements by certain deadlines, cost control, and staff reduction.
The management tools that were to be put in place in connection with the project (reliable cost
accounting, rigorous monitoring of all expenditures, etc.) were not established. Reasons and
explanations were given at the time.
RVM management weaknesses are largely due to rapid turnover of senior staff and a
centralized form of management, not to a lack of managerial independence. In this respect, it
should be noted that six management teams succeeded each other in the course of project
implementation. Public enterprises in the Zairian system enjoy managerial independence
except in certain matters where prior authorization is required (transfer of assets, etc.).
Managers have very broad authority.
To improve management, the following measures can be considered in the future:



Part 11. Project Review From Borrower's Perspective - RVM                        25
-     install solid, stable leadership;
-     sign a performance-contract with the manager providing for positive or negative
assessments (resulting in retention or replacement);
-     make signing such a contract a conditionality; and
-     base project management on a model favoring greater decentralization of management
decisions.
The deterioration of the socio-political environment and the very rapid turnover of
government teams starting in 1990 have weakened the Government's ability to apply all
provisions of the agreements. The Government was unable to honor its commitment to
compensate for insufficient RVM funds in order to carry out the staff reduction program.
The fact that the various government teams which took over from each other were not
sufficiently informed about the project necessitated constant renegotiation of commitments
already approved.
It is important that the Government consider setting up a specialized agency to monitor
the commitments undertaken in conjunction with international agreements.
IDA-RVM Relations
Relations between IDA and the RVM were generally good. However, RVM deplores:
the rigid positions taken by IDA experts who at the outset had limited experience with
the dynamics of the Zaire River;
the insistence on matters of detail (e.g., the transport of pilots) at the expense of
substantive problems (e.g., immobilization of dredgers), which often created tension
during the negotiations; and
the fact that some agreements were negotiated without prior study, e.g., staff reduction
to 800 employees, which complicated their implementation.



PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                                                      ON
1. STATUS OF IDA OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
(RELATED BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS)
Amount in USS Million
Planned
Loan/Credit No.           Fiscal Year         Borrower                 Purpose               Bank          ]DA   Undisbursed    Closing
________ ________ ________ __      _____ _______    D ate
-Loan before Zaire's        -Prior to June 1960   -Congo & Otraco   -Transport and                91.58       (2)           0.00
Independence                                                       Lnfrasturcture
-Two Loans fully disbursed   -1985              -Zaire/ Gecamines  -Mining                       210.00        0.00         0.00
-Forty-eight Credit fully
disbursed                    -From 1961-1992    -Rep. of Zaire                                     0.00      771.80         0.00          -
Including SECAL & SAL
1608                         1986           Rep. of Zaire      Sixth Highway                              55.00      132.79         12/31/94
1761                         1987           GVT/RVM and        Navigation Inprov                          27.60       13.38         12/31/94
1796                         1987           Rep. of Zaire      South Shaba Agric. Dev                      4.40        0.66         12/31/94
1791                         1987           Zaire/SSES         Small Enerprise Dev                       25.00        15.31         12/31/94
1832                         1988           Rep. of Zaire      Econ & Fin Mngt Instit                     12.00        4.37        12/31/94
1839                         1988           Rep. of Zaire      Higher Education Rational.                 11.00        0.11        06/30/94
1939                         1988           Rep. of Zaire      Third Water Supply                         45.00        5.47        04/30/94
1953                         1988           Rep. of Zaire      National AIDS Control Prog.                 8.10        5.29         12/31/94
1958                         1988           Rep. of Zaire      Agri. Sect Mngt & Inst Dev                 11.60        2.93        06/30/96    o*
2051                         1989           Rep. of Zaire      2nd Gecamnines T.A.                        20.00        19.09        06/30/95
2096                         1990           Rep. of Zaire      Pilot Extension                             5.90        2.02         12/31/93
2178                         1991           Rep. of Zaire      Pilot Feeder Roads                         12.40        10.34        12/31/97
2196                         1991           Rep. of Zaire      Social Sector                              30.40       24.60         12/31/95    fa
2213                         1991           Rep. of Zaire      Education Rehabilitation                   21.00        19.87        06/30/96
2292                         1991           Rep. of Zaire      National Agriculture Research              16.70        16.15        06/30/97
2293                         1991           Zaire/SNEL         SNEL Tech Asst.                             9.89        4.63         06/30/94
-TOTAL ACTIVE PROJECTS   As of 31/10/93                                                                       315.99      158.01
-TOTAL (less cancellations)    As of 31/10/93                                                    301.58      1243.32       (3)                      o
-Of which has been paid                                                                                      23.66
-Total outstanding incl. undisb
-Amount sold                 As of 31/10/93                                                       132.31     1219.66       (3)
-Of which has been paid                                                                          54.47
-Total held by Bank & IDA                                                                          54.47
-TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                                                                77.84      1399.49       (3)
158.02      (3)           _
(1) USS amount of credit from 1982 and onwards are computed at rate of negotiations dates.
(2) Gauranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium; because of depreciation of USS



Part 111. Statistical Information                                               27
2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item          Date Planned      Date Revised             Date Actual
Identification                                          1983
Preparation                                             1984
Appraisal                                               July-August 1985
Negotiations                                            September 1986
Board Approval                                          February 24, 1987
Credit Signature                                        March 16, 1987
Credit Effectiveness   June 1987                        December 16, 1987
Credit Closing      June 30, 1994    December 31, 1994  November 15, 1993 (canceled)
Credit Cancellation                                     November 15, 1993



28                                                 Navigation Improvement Project (Cr. 1761-ZR)
3. CREDIT DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
APPRAISAL                           ACTUAL (aS of 11/3 0/93)
IDA FY        US$ miU    Cumulative         %          US$ mill    Cumulative         %
Amount                    Cumulative     Amount                     Cumulative
1987               1.20         1.20          4.3%          0.00          0.00          0.0%
September
December
March            1.00
June            0.20
1988               1.60         2.80         10.1%           1.67          1.67         6.1%
September       0.40
December         0.40
March            0.40                                      1.00
June            0.40                                      0.67
1989              4.40          7.20         26.1%           1.29         2.96         10.7%
September        1.10                                     0.18
December         1.10                                      0.16
March            1.10                                      0.75
June             1.10                                      0.20
1990              6.60         13.80         50.0%          3.85          6.81         24.7%
September        1 .60                                     1.07
December         1.60                                     0.90
March            1.70                                      0.38
June             1.70                                      1.50
1991              5.90         19.70         71.4%          3.49          10.30        37.3%
September        1.50                                      1.44
December         1.50                                      1.27
March            1.50                                     0.62
June             1.40                                     0.16
1992              4.00         23.70         85.9%          3.07          13.37        48.4%
September        1 .20                                     1.18
December         1.00                                      1.03
March            1.00                                     0.11
June            0.80                                      0.75
1993              2.40         26.10         94.6%          3.88          17.25        62.5%
September       0.60                                      0.11
December        0.60                                       1.83
March           0.60                                       1.18
June            0.60                                      0.76
1994               1.50        27.60        100.0%          0.79         18.04         65.4%
September       0.50                                      0.74
December        0.40                                      0.05
March           0.30
June            0.30
SDR Million                    US$ Million (1)
Ofiginal Amount                                22.90                              30.70
Less Disbursed                                 13.46                              18.04
Amount to be Canceled                           9.44       _                      12.66
(1) Based on DTS = USS1.34



4. PROJECr COSTS (EXPENDITURES FROM CREDIT BY COMPONENT/CATEGORY)
APPRAISAL                                 ACTUAL
Actual
Estimated Cost (1)            Local       Foreign          Total        Local       Foreign         Total    Realization
A. Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM)
(a) Operational Improvements
(equipment, materials, floating craft,
spare parts & minorcivil works)       2.10        10.60         12.70          1.47         10.18         11.65       91.7%
(b) Studies & technical Assistance       0.50         2.80          3.30         0.05           1.61          1.66       50.3%
(c) Training                             0.10         0.80          0.90         0.19           0.17          0.36       40.0%
Sub Total- RVM                           2.70        14.20         16.90         1.71          11.96         13.67       80.9%
B. Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF)
(a) Operational Improvements
(equipment, materials, floating craft,
spare parts & minor civil works)      4.80         9.90         14.70          2.43          6.86          9.29       63.2%
(b) Studies & Technical Assistance       0.20         3.80          4.00         0.43           1.83          2.26       56.5%
(c) Training                             0.20         0.30          0.50         0.13           0.14          0.27       54.0%
Sub Total - RVF                          5.20        14.00         19.20         2.99           8.83         11.82       61.6%
Total Base Costs                         7.90        28.20         36.10         4.70          20.79         25.49       70.6%
Physical Contingencies (10%)             0.70         2.10          2.80         0.00           0.00          0.00        0.0%
Price Contingencies                      1.60         9.00          9.00         0.00           0.00          0.00        0.0%
Total Project Cost (net of taxes &      10.20        37.70         47.90         4.70          20.79         25.49       53.2%
duties)                                                           _



5. PROJECT FINANCING
A. PROJECT FINANCING (US$ MILLION (M))
LOCAL                           FOREIGN                                    TOTAL
Appraisal          Actual        Appraisal           Actual        Appraisal          Actual      Realization %
IDA                0.00             0.00            27.60            18.04           27.60            18.04            65/4%
AGCD               0.80             0.00             8.60             2.23            9.40             2.23            23.7%
USAID              0.00             0.00             1.50             0.52             1.50            0.52            34.7%
RVM/RVF            9.40             4.70             0.00             0.00             9.40            4.70            50.2%
TOTAL              10.20            4.70            37.70            20.79           47.90            25.49            53.2%
B. PROJECT FINANCING PLAN/SAR PROJECTIONS
RVM                                 RVF                             TOTAL
Financing Institutions    Local     Foreign       Total       Local    Foreign       Total      Local    Foreign        Total
IDA                        0.00        16.80       16.80       0.00        10.80      10.80       0.00       27.60      27.60
AGCD                       0.00        2.10        2.10        0.80        6.50        7.30       0.80        8.60       9.40
USAID                      0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         1.50       1.50       0.00        1.50        1.50
RVM/RVF                    3.50        0.00         3.50       5.90        0.00        5.90       9.40        0.00       9.40        :
TOTAL                      3.50        18.90      22.40        6.70        18.80      25.50       10.20      37.70      47.90
C. PROJECT FINANCING (ACTUAL AT 11/19931)
RVM                              RVF                         TOTAL   _         _"a
Financing Institutions  Local   Foreign       Total     Local   Foreign       Total    Local   Foreign        Total
IDA                      0.00     11.26      11.26       0.00      6.78       6.78      0.00      18.04      18.04     65.4%
AGCD                     0.00      0.70       0.70       0.00      1.53       1.53      0.00      2.23       2.23      23.7%
USAID                    0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.52       0.52      0.00      0.52       0.52      34.7%
RVM/RVF                  1.71      0.00       1,71       2.99      0.00       2.99      4.70      0.00       4.70      50.0%         _
TOTAL                    1.71     11.96      13.67       2.99      8.83      11.82      4.70     20.79      25.49      53.2%
(1) Actual "US$" cost calculations are based on "DTS = US$1.34", US$ - BF 32.00.



6. PROJECT RESULTS
A. Direct Benefits, RVM
Indicator                        Appraisal                Actual                  Actual               Actual
(12 months)           Jan-Sept 1991          Jan-Sept 1992         Jan-Sept 1993
1. Maintain a dredged channel depth of at least
10 months per year                               28 feet                 25 feet                24 feet               21 feet
2. Total dredged volume (1000m3)                    6900                   4655                    2109                  2511
3. Availability of dredging equipment               61%                    55%                     47%                   58%
4. Effective utilization of dredging equipment      54%                    42%                     24%                   28%
5. Efficiency rate in dredging services             82%                    76%                     51%                   48%
6. Length of survey profile (km)                    15000                                          9500                  127 H 31
7. Loss of ship time due to pilotage                150H                                           127 H 31              640 H 29
8. Loss of ship time due to lack of navigation aids  300 H                                         (1H22'48")            (IH22'48")
P.S.    1) Indicators are based on three units per each dredging group;
2) Actual indicators are based on 9 month periods while appraisal indicators were for 12 months.
B. Direct Benefits, RVF
Actual                 Actual                Actual
Indicator                        Appraisal                 1990                    1991             Jan-Sept 1992
1. Length of river regularly provided with
navigation aids (km)                             3500                    3650                   2700                    2140
2. The length of river inspected (km/year)         7500                    2950                    1910                   0
3. Length of river covered by buoy tenders at
work (km/year)                                   28000                   12500                  12050                   3000
4. Availability to work of the buoy tenders (%)    75%                     56%                    37%                     50%
5. Effective work of buoy tenders (%)              60%                     23%                     13.5%                  0%
6. Number of water level recorders maintained
(units/year)                                     60                      0                      5                       10
7. Surface covered by hydrografic surveys
(ha/year)                                         Indicator considered not meanigful for this project, dropped during implementation



32                                                 Navigation Improvement Project (Cr. 1761-ZR)
6. PROJECT RESULTS (CONT.)
C. Economic Impact
Economic Impact                         Appraisal                  Actual
Economic Rate of Return:
RVM                                                  33%                       n.a.
RVF                                                  19%                       n.a.
Average                                              25%                       n.a.
P. S. Lack of actual data availability prevents actual ERR calculations.
D. Studies, RVM
Studies                         Purpose                      Impact of Study
Project engineering and         Preparation of plans and tender  Partial success in implementation
preparation of tender documents    documents for the acquisition of  of the project (at the beginning and
equipment and works             just before cancellation)
Study of Economic Impact of RVM   Improving tariff structure     This study depends on the
and Matadi Port Tariff Policies                                  recommendations of study No. 4
Geotechnical Investigation and  Increase efficiency of dredging and   Not started due to cancellation of
Reduced Scale Model             future depth of the channel      Belgium aid (AGCD)
Improvement of Transport Systems  Study of alternative transport costs   US$0.8 million study giving
in Zaire River Bief Maritime)   in Zaire River (Bief Maritime)   different cost structures for
different scenarios
Comparative Study for garage    Privatization of garage          Internal study for maintenance cot
of vehicles
Management of pilotes and their    Better utilization of pilotes and  Justification of the investments in
transport                       their vehicles                   pilotes' transportation
E. Studies, RVF
Studies                         Purpose                      Impact of Study
Flood and Low Water Forecasting   To better understand the hydrology   Reduce depth estimation problems
of the river
Study and Improvement of Kasai    Improve navigation conditions on    Partially completed in Kandolo.
River Rock Passes               the river                        Riverside determination is
completed
Study of Kasai River Send Passes   Improve navigation conditions on    Study partially completed for
the river                       Lediba by USAID
Photogrammetry of the Kasai River  Periodically update the charts (600   Photogrammetry of Kasai river has
km)                             been stopped with the cancellation
of the project
Computerization of RVF          Efficiency increase              Study completed but not applied
due to cancellation
Impact of Workshop in RVF       Privatization of workshop        First part completed. Not is
stopped due to cancellation
Restructuring of RVF            Increase efficiency in management  First part completed. Not is
of RVF                          stopped due to cancellation



7. STATUS OF COVENANTS FOR RVM                                                         -
(AS PER CREDIT AGREEMENT) AS OF NOVEMBER 1993
General Conditions        Compliance                                  Results
Covenant/Ref      Clause    Yes      No                           Expected                           Actual       Comments
ARTICLE III        3.01 (a)          No      Borrower declares its commitment to objectives of project as       Lack of
set forth in Schedule 2 without any limitation or restrictions;   counterpart funds
Borrower to cause RVF to carry out defined objectives and                              '-I
shall not take or permit to take any action which would
prevent or interfere with performance                                                   o
3.01 (b)   Yes            Borrower to relend to RVF amount of such proceeds of credit
under categories 7 to 12 of Schedule I and under subsidiary
Loan Agreement under terms and conditions approved by
IDA
3.01 (c)           No    Borrower to exercise its rights under subsidiary Loan               Technical
Agreements to protect interests of Borrower and IDA, to            performance
accomplish purpose of the project and not to amend, abrogate      indicators lagging
or waive subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof        well behind
plans. See
attached Aide
Memoire
3.02      Yes             Unless IDA otherwise agree, procurement of goods, works
and consultant's services to be governed by provisions of
Schedule 2
3.03       Yes            Borrower and IDA agree that obligations set forth in Sections
9.03 - 9.07 (insurance, goods and services, plans, records,
report and maintenance) to be carried out by RVF
3.04               No    Borrower to take or cause to take all action required on its        Lack of
part to enable RVF to carry out obligations under Sections        counterpart funds
3.05 - 4.05 of RVF Project Agreement.
Note: Articles IV, V & Vl relate to Remedies of IDA, Effective Date, Termination and designation of Representatives of Borrower and Addressees;
Article I relates to definitions.



7. STATUS OF COVENANTS FOR RVM  (CONT.)
General Conditions        Compliance                                    Results
Covenant/Ref     Clause       Yes    No                          Expected                              Actual         Commcnts
2.01               No  Commitment to due diligence and efficient implementation    See attached Aide
ARTICLE II                                   of                                                     Memoire for
objectives and conditions                              Financial
Covenants and
Status of
Technical
Performance
indicators
2.02       Yes          Maintain and properly operate                                             Balance of
Special Account                                                           Special
Accourit was
reimbursed to
IDA in
March 1992.
2.03       Yes          Proper procurement of goods and services
2.04                    Proper execution of General Conditions 9.03-9.07
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   N o                                                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
2.05                    Perform all obligations under RVF subsidiary Loan      See attached Aide                   X
No    Agreement                                              Memoire for
Financial
Covenants and
Status of
Technical
Performance
__________   _______                                           indicators        __
2.06       Yes          Exchange views and inform on adverse conditions                           _
2.07       Yes          Maintain Project Implementation Unit with experienced
____ ___   Project Manager
2.08                    Submit by June 30, 1987 a draft training program                          Data
No                                                                              submitled at
later dates
Note  Article I relates to Definiitions.



8. STATUS OF COVENANTS FOR RVF
(AS PER PROJECT AGREEMENT) AS OF NOVEMBER 1993
General Conditions             Compliance                               Results           _
Covenant/Ref        Clause       Yes        No                      Expected                      Actual         Comments
3.01                   No       Carry out operations with qualified and                  See Form 590 and
ARTICLE III                                            experienced management and staff and proper              attachments for
administrative and financial practices                   06.01.92
3.02                   No       Operate and maintain plant, machinery,                   See Form 590 and
equipment and all property within sound                  attachments for
engineering, financial and administrative                06.01.92
practices
3.03          Yes               Maintain proper Risk Insurance
3.04 (i)               No       Submit by November 30 each year (from Nov.               Data was provided at
30, 1987) a list of targets to be achieved during        later date during
following year                                           Supervision
Missions
3.04 (ii)              No       Submit by February 28 each year (from                    Same as above
February 28, 1987) a review of performance
.________ .against targets
3.05 a                 No       Submit by March Ist each year, a five year               Same as above
rolling Investment Plan and analysis of
previous plan to reflect IDA's view
3.05 b                 No       Exchange views with IDA on proposal for                  Same as above
additional investment prior to commitment



8. STATUS OF COVENANTS FOR RVF (CONT.)
Financial Covenants             Com liancc                        RCsults
Covenant/Ref         Clause       Yes        No              Expected              Actual                Comments
4.01                 a,b          Yes                 Audit Reports                 Received
a                      No       Gross Revenue to expenses    0.85         No action on tariff
4.02                                                  ratio of 1.15                             increases and lack of
counterpart funding
b & c                  No        Prepare Annual Operation     None         Lack of commitment from
Plan                                      Management
4.03                 a - e                   No       Debt service ratio of 1.5     1.25        Lack of commitment from
Management and lack of
counterpart funding
(i)                    No        Develop Cost Accounting      None         Lack of commitment from
4.04                                                  System                                    Management
(ii)                   No        Prepare Re-organization      None         Lack of commitment from
Plan                                      Management
4.05                                         No       65 days - Receivable        4.4 months    Lack of commitment from
turnover                                  Management
'-



9. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A.    Staff Inputs                                            _
Task                                              Input (Staff Weeks)
Project Preparation                                                               34.8
Project Appraisal                                                                 63.4
Credit Negotiation                                                                12.0                                                    a
Credit Processing                                                                 11.9 
Project Supervision                                                               91.6
Other                                                                              3.8
Project Completion Report (estimate)                                               9.0
TOTAL                                                                            226.5
B.     Missions
Project Cycle     MonthYear |No. of Persons   |  Days in Field   |              Specialization (a)    Performance  Type of Problems (c)
Project.Cycle     Month[Vear        o. of Persons _F        ays in Field                   l   Rate (b)
Through Appraisal    IDA's very early identification mission went to Zaire in 1975 but real identification came much later, in 1983. After many
Identification       delays, the appraisal mission took place in July/August 1986. The project received board approval on February 24, 1987. The
Preparation          project became effective on December 16, 1987.
Preappraisal
Appraisal
Supervision 1          11/87             2                    16              E, FA                  I             PR
Supervision 2          09/88             2                    12              E, FA                  3             PR, M, I
Supervision 3          05/89              1                   12              E                      3             PR, M
Supervision 4          11/89             2                    13              E, FA                  3             PR, M, I
Supervision 5          05/90             4                     6              E, FA, EC,C            3             PR, M, I
Supervision 6          10/90             2                    14              FA, C                  3             PR, M, I, AV
Supervision 7          05/91             2                    32              E, FA                  3             PR, M, I, AV
Supervision 8          05/92             4                    17              E, FA, EC, C           3             C, M, PR, AV, I
Supervision 9          10/92             4                    14              E, FA, EC, C           3             C, M, PR, AV, I
Supervision 10         03/93             2                    13              EC, FA                3              C, M, PR, AV, I
Supervision 11         10/93             3                     9              E, FA, EC, C          3              C, M, PR, AV, I
PCR                    01/94              1                    0              EC                     3
P.S.   The project had a total of 26 supervisions of which 11 were on site supervision missions. 15 out of 26 updates were conducted from Washington.
(a)    E = Engineer; FA = Financial Analyst; EC = Economist; C = Consultant
(b)    I = No or minor problem; 2 = Moderate problem; 3 = Major problem
(c)    I = Implementation delays; PR= Procurement problems and delays; AV = Availability of local funds problem;                           4
C = Compliance with legal documents problems; I = Development impact problems; M = Management performance problems.



ANNEX 1. DISBURSEMENTS BY COMPONENT AND CATEGORY                                                   OO
(in US$ million (1))
DISBURSEMENT                                UNDISBURSED
Component/Category                  Allocated         Disbursed       Disbursed %          Amount              %
A. Regies des Voies Maritimes (RVM)
(a) Civil Works                              1.01              0.00              0.0%               1.01            100.0%
(b) Vessels                                  7.19              4.55             63.3%              2.64              36.7%
(c) Spare parts, Equipment, Materials        4.73              4.76            100.6%              -0.03             -0.6%
(d) Studies and Technical Assistance         2.00              1.34             67.0%              0.66              33.0%
(e) Training                                 1.22              0.17             13.9%               1.05             86.1%
(f) Unallocated                              2.11              0.00              0.0%              2.11             100.0%
(g) Fund A; Special account                  0.00              0.01                               -0.01
Sub-Total - RVM                                   18.26             10.83             59.3%              7.43              40.7%
B. Regies des Voies Fluviales (RVF)
(a) Civil Works                              0.20              0.00              0.0%              0.20             100.0%
(b) Vessels                                  3.22              3.14             97.5%              0.08               2.5%
(c) Spare parts, Equipment, Materials        5.49              1.52             27.7%              3.97              72.3%
(d) Studies and Technical Assistance         1.14              1.71            150.0%              -0.57            -50.0%
(e) Training                                 0.33              0.14             42.4%              0.19              57.6%
(f) Unallocated (2)                          1.36              0.00              0.0%              1.36             100.0%
(g) Fund B; Special account           __0.00                                      -                0.00               -
Sub-Total -RVF                                    11.74              6.51             55.5%              5.23              44.6%
PPF (P.350-ZR)                                     0.70              0.70            100.0%              0.00               0.00
TOTAL COST (net of taxes and duties)              30.70             18.04             58.8%             12.66              41.2%
(1)    Numbers are based on "DTS = USS1.34"
(2)    Including undisbursed PPF (P350-ZR) of US$0.52 million; 70% for RVM and 30% for RVF.
N



ANNEX 2. PROJECT COSTS
A.     Expenditures from Credit by Component/Category (in US$ million (1))
APPRAISAL                                  ACTUAL
Estimated Cost (1)                Local       Foreign          Total        Local        Foreign        Total       Actual
Realization
A. Regies des Voics Maritimes (RVM)
(a) Civil Works                          0.70          0.60           1.30          0.26          0.00          0.26     20.0%
(b) Vessels                              0.70           4.90          5.60          0.41          4.98          5.39     96.3%        o
(c) Spare parts, Equipment, Materials    0.70           5.10          5.80          0.80          4.80          5.60     96.6%
(d) Studies and Technical Assistance     0.50           2.80          3.30          0.05          2.01          2.06     62.4%
(e) Training                             0.10           0.80          0.9(          0.19          0.17          0.36     40.0%
Sub-Total - RVM                              2.70         14.20          16.90          1.71         11.96         13.67     80.9%
B. Regies des Voies Fluviales (RVF)
(a) Civil Works                           1.00          0.14          1.14          0.04          0.00          0.04     3.5%
(b) Vessels                              3.10           6.63          9.73           1.20         4.14          5.34     54.9%
(c) Spare parts, Equipment, Materials    0.70           3.13          3.83          1,19          2.45          3.64     95.0%
(d) Studies and Technical Assistance     0.20           3.80          4.00          0.43          2.10          2.53     63.3%
(e) Training                             0.20           0.30          0.50          0.13          0.14          0.27     54.0%
Sub-Tolal - RVF                              5.20          14.00         19.20          2.99       8,83            11.82     61.6%
Total Base Costs                             7.90         28.20          36.10          4.70         20.79         25.49     70.6%
Physical Contingencies (10%)                 0.70          2.10           2.80          0.00          0.00          0.00     0.05
Price Contingencies                          1.60          7.40           9.00          0.00          0.00          0.00     0.0%
Total Project Cost (2) (net of taxes & duties)  10.20     37.70          47.90          4.70         20.79         25.49     53.2%
B.     Project Financing (US$ million(l))
LOCAL                            FOREIGN                                     TOTAL
Appraisal         Actual          Appraisal         Actual          Appraisal          Actual          Realiz %
IDA                   0.00              0.00            27.60             18.04            27.60             18.04           65.4%
AGCD                  0.80              0.00             8.60              2.23             9.40              2.23           23.7%
USAID                 0.00              0.00              1.50             0.52              1.50             0.52           34.7%
RVM/RVF               9.40              4.70             0.00              0.(0             9.40              4.70           50.0%
TOTAL                10.20              4.70             37.70            20.79            47.90             25.49           53.2%        \o
(1)    Numbers are based on "DTS = US$1.34 and BF  US$32.00"



(2)    Thc project includes PPF (P.350-ZR)
ANNEX 3. FINANCIAL INDIICATORS/RVM
OCTOBER 31, 1993
RATIOS               Projection    1987      1988      1989      1990       1991      1992      1993       1994
A. Current Ratio                Sup. A
1.18       2.05      1.30      0.97      1.09      0.81       0.76       1.70     1.00
B. Debt Ratio                  Inf. A          0.14      1.39      3.85     11.50     51.00      60.00    269.00    273.00
45%
C. Ratio of current assets/short               6.36      4.66      0.53      0.27      0.14       0.25      0.07      0.06
term debt
D. Revenue (DM million)                       34.50     31.00     28.00     26.00     19.00      15.60     13.00     13.00
(tax maritime included)                                 ..
P.S.   - Financial indicators are based on June 30, 1993, results and projected for 1994
- DM 13 million revenue in 1993 is the result of 9-month period (January-September 1993)
z1
i.
r1



