D_smut ci
The World Bank
FOR OMCI4L USE ONLY
Report No. 6116-ZR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAIRE
NAVIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
January 23, 1987
Transportation Division
Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance
of their offlcal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discbsed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIV.ALENTS
Currency Unit       G      Zaire
Z 1.00                     US$0.018
US$1.00            =       Z 57.0
(As of September 1986)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter                           3.28 feet
1 -kilometer (km)         -       0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (ki2)          0.386 square mile
1 square meter (m2)       G       10.76 square feet
I cubic meter (W3)  .             1.13 cubic yards
1 metric ton (ton)        -       2,204 pounds
ACRONYMS AND ARREVIATIONS
AGCD      -    Administration Gen6rale de la Coop4ration et du
DEveloppement (Belgium)
ANEZA     -    Association Nationale des Entreprises de Zaire
CCCE      -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CFMK      -    Chemin de Fer de Matadi A Kinshasa
cmz       -    Compagnie Maritime Zairoise
DSW       -    Directorate of Shipping and Waterways
DWT       -    Deadweight Ton
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
FAC       -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
GET       -    Groupe d'Etudes de Transport
LRH       -    Laboratoire de Recherche Hydraulique (Borgerhaut,
Belgium)
MP        -    Ministry of Planning
MPF       -    Ministry of Portfolio
MPW       -    Ministry of Public Works
MTC       -    Ministry of Transport and Communications
OGEFREM   -    Office de Gestion du Fret Maritime
ONATRA    -    Office National des Transports
OR        -    Office des Routes
PDG       -    President DElf6gu6 General
PIP       -    Public Investment Program
PIU       -    Project Implementation rUnit
RVA       -    REgie des Voies Aeriennes
RVF       -  -Regie des Voies Fluviales
RVM       -    Regie des Voies Maritimes
SNCZ      -    Soci4tg Nationale des Chenins de Fer Zairois
VN        -    Voie Nationale
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development
Fiscal Year
January 1   December 31



FOR OFFICIAL UhR OnLy
ZATR
NAVIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary                                    (i)
Documents available iu the Project File                      (lv)
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...................................    1
A.  Background .........................................    1
B.  The Transport System ......       I...................e..    1
C.  Sector Organization .......... ..... ..    ...............    2
a)  General *.....*..*,************..................      2
b)  Office des Routes .                                    3
c) ONATRA ..........................                       3
d)  SNCZ ....  
e)  Other Public Agencies       ..........................    4
f)  Private Sector         4...............................    4
D.  Sector Strategy, Planning, and Main Issues    .........    4
a)  Sector Strategy and Planning       ...................  4
b) Main Sector Needs and Issues, and
Government's Actions ...5.................   .......    5
E.  Bauk Experience In the Transport Sector        ............    7
F. Rationale for the Bank Group's Involvement
in the Propcsed Project ....        ........................    8
II.  THE MARITIME AND RIVER TRANSPORT SUB-SECTORS ...........    9
A.  The Maritime Transport Sub-Sector         ..................    9
a)  Network, Traffic and Shipping, and
Sub-Sector Issues  ...... .........  ..........  .....    9
b)  RUgie des Voies Maritimes:  Organization,             10
Staffing and Training, Operations, Investment
Planning    .                                        11
This report was prepared by J-C. Crochet (Senior Economist), A. Kassab
(Financial Analyst), A. Litvak (Port Engineer) who appraised the Project
in July/August 1985. C. Tran-Luu (Training Specialist) and M. Wright
(Hydrographic Specialist, Consultant) also participated in the Appraisal
Mission.  L. Dommen and B. De Souza helped in preparing this report.
This document has a rtrct disbuon and may be used by recipients only in the performane
of thir offia dute Its contents may not otherwise be discked without Word Bank authorizton.



Tabl, of Contents (cont.)                                    Page No.
B.  The River Transport Sub-Sector ......................  14
a) *Net rk, Traffic, Operators and
Sub,-Sector Policies                               14
b) R1gle des Votes Fluvlales: Organisatilon,
Staffing and Training, Operations, Investment
Planning ..................... .16
III. THE PROJECT                                               19
A.  Objectives     .....                ....ceece.   19
B.  Pzoject Description                                    19
a) OSgie des Voies Martimes                           20
b) Rigie des Voles.Fluviales eeCCCcC*CCb      ..........  24
C.  Project Cost and Financing Plan                       28-
D. Implemuntation and Monitoring                          30
Bo, Procurement                                            31
F.  Disbursements    ................c...c.ee   32
G. Auditlig and Reporting Requirements o*9oe*..........   34
a.  Environmental Aspects                                 34
IV.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS               35
A.  General                                               35
B. Benefits and Beneficiaries                             35
C. Traffic Projections                                    36
a) Factors Affecting Traffic                          36
b) Traffic Forecasts  .                               37
D.  Economic Analysis                                     37
a) Pegie des Votes Maritimes                          37
b) RSgie des Voles Fluviales                          39
I  Risks    ....c..e.....C....cc......C.C............   40
V*  FINANCIAL EVALUATION                                       41
Ac Past Performance                                       41
a) R6gie des Voles Maritimes                          41
b) R5gie des Voles Fluviales                          42
B. Financial Projections                                  43
a) Assumptions c.ccec.cCcccecec..C.ccecoccccce    43
b) Regie des Voles Maritimes                          43
c) R6gie des Voles Fluviales                          44
. Financial Strategy   .... ..              .      .e..   45
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...e                47
2.01   RVM's Organization Chart
2.02  RVM's Training Program, 1986-1989
2.03  RVM's Operations
2.04   Criteri& for the Analysis of Investment Projects
2.05  List and Navigable Length of Zaire's Main Rivers



ANNEXES (Continued)
2.06   Breakdown of River Freight Traffic, 1984
2.07   River Freight Traffic:  Allocation by Origin or
Destination, 1984
2.08   River Freight Traffic:  Shares of ONATRA and
Private Operators, 1975-1984
2.09   RVF's Organization Chart
2.10   RVF's Training Program, 1986-1990
2.11   RVF's Operations
3.01   Summary of Technical Assis.sncee
3.02   Detailed Cost Estimate - Rggie des Voies Maritimes
3.03   Detailed Cost Estimate - R6gie des Voies Fluviales
3.04   Project Implementation Schedule - Rfgie des Votes Maritimes
3.05   Project Implementation Schedule - R4gie des Voies Pluviales
3.06   Terms of Reference for Pro'ect Managers
3.07   Operational Objectives
3.08   Project Financing Plan
4.01   Matadi Port, Annual Freight Traffic, 1980-1984 Actuals, 1985
Estimates, 1990-2000 Projections.
4.02   Boma Port, Annual Freight Traffic, 1980-1984 Actuals, 1985
Estimates, 1990-2000 Projections.
4.03   River Freight Traffic, 1984 Actuals, 1985 Estimates,
1990-2000 Projections
4.04   Shipping Traffic, 1985 Estimates
4.05   Shipping Traffic, 1990 Projections
4.06   Shipping Traffic, 1995 Projections
4.07   Shipping Traffic, 2000 Projections
4.08   RVM's Project Component, Main Assumptions for the
Calculation of Economic Benefits
4.09   RVM's Project Component, Cost and Benefit Streams
4.10   Number of Convoys on the River Network, 1985 Estimates,
1990-2000 Projections
4.11   RVF's Project Component, Main Assumptions for the
Calculation of Economic Benefits
4.12   RVF's Project Component, Cost and Benefit Streams
5.01   RVM - Income Statements, 1980-1984
5.02   RVM - Balance Sheets, 1980-1984
5.03   RVM - Funds Statements, 1980-1984
5.04   RVM - Ratio Analysis, 1980-1984
5.05   RVF - Income Statements, 1980-1984
5.06   RVF - Balance Sheets, 1980-1984
5.07   RVF - Funds Statements, 1980-1984
5.08   RVF - Ratio Analysis, 1980-1984
5.09   RYF - Profitability Analysis, 1980-1984
5.10   Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
5.11   RVM - Pro-formsa Income Statements, 1985-1995
5.12   RVM - Pro-forma Balance Sheets, 1985-1995
5.13   RVM - Pro-forma Funds Statements, 1985-1995
5.14   RVM - Pro-forma Ratio Analysis, 1985-1995
5.15   RVF - Pro-forma Income Statements, 1985-1995
5.16   RVF - Pro-forma Balance Sheets, 1985-1995
5.17   RVF - Pro-forma Funds Statements, 1985-1995
5.18   RVF - Pro-forma Ratio Analysis, 1985-1995
Map:   IBRD  No. 16564 R2



Z AIRE
NAVIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJFCT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         Republic of Zaire
Benefieiaries:    Rfgies des Votes Maritimes  (tRV) and Regies  des Voles
Fluviales (RVF).
Amount:            SDR 22.9  million (US $ 27.6 million equivalent).
Relending Terms:  The Borrower would onlend SDR 13.9 million, equivalent to
about US$16.8 million, to RYM and SDR 9.0 million, equival-
ent to about US$10.8 million, to RVF for sixteen years in-
cluding six years grace. The interest rate would be 9.1.
RVM and RVF would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Co-Financiers:    Co-financing will be provided through a grant from the Uni-
ted States Agency for International Development (USAID),
US$1.5 million equivalent, and two grants and a concession-
ary loan from the Kingdom of Belgium (AGCD),US$9.4 million
equivalent.
Terms:             Standards IDA terms.
Project              The main objective of the proposed project is to provide
Objectives        more efficient and reliable communications by strengthening
and Description   R6gie des Voies Maritimes (RVM) and Regie des Voies Fluvia-
les (RVF), two important public agencies of the transport
sector, and rehabilitating their infrastructure and equip-
ment.  To this end, the project would include:   (i) for
RVM: increase in hydrographic surveys capability, improve-
ments to pilotage, increase in capability to install and
maintain navigation aids, improvements to shipyard and to
dredging operations, studies, technical assistance and
training; and (ii) for RVF, improvements to general serv-
ices, increase in hydrographic surveys capability, provi-
sion of means to carry out special studies and works, in-
crease in capability to install and maintain navigation
aids, improvements to shipyard, rehabilitation of e :isting
craft, studies and supervision, technical assistance and
training.
Benefits:          The main benefits of the project would be:  (i) concerning
RVM, to reduce (a) maritime transport costs of Zaire's
exports and imports by allowing use of larger ships or
better loading of those currently used; and (b) waiting
time of ocean-going vessel-- by making night time naiigation
possible on part of the channel; (ii) concerning RVF, to



'(ii)
reduce (a) capital needs for replacement of tugs and barges
and operating costs of the river fleet; (b) losses due to
grounding Incidents; and (c) inventories of goods in tran-
sit.
Risks:            Main project risks are that:  (i) implementation could
last longer than expected; (ii) the productivity of RVM
and RVF would not reach expected levels; and (lii) traffic
wonld not increase as projected. Measures such as the cre-
ation of project implementation units, revision of RVM's
organizational structure, technical assistance, training
and monitoring of operational indicatGrs are included in
the project in order to reduce these risks.
Summary of Project Cost
Local     Foreign     Total
…---  US$ million-----
A. Regie des Voies Maritimes
(i) Operational Improvement (equipment,
materials, floating crafts, spare
parts, and minor civil works)            2.1        10.6       12.7
(it) Studies and Technical Assistance         0.5         2.8        3.3
(iii) Training                                 0.1         0.8        0.9
Sub-total                   2.7       14.2       TKV
B.   Mgie des Voies Fluvi3les
(i) Operational Improvement (equipment,
materials, floating crafts, spare
parts and minor civil works)            4.8         9.9       14.7
(ii) Studies and Technical Assistance        0.2         3.8        4.0
(ill) Training                                0.2         0.3        0.5
Sub-total                   5.2       i[76        1.
Total Baseline Cost                        7.9        28.2       36.1
physical contingencies                     0.7         2.1        2.8
Price contingencies                        i.6         7.4        9.0
Total Project Cost                         10.2       37.7       47.9
Financing Plan
Proposed IDA Credit                        -          27.6       27.6
AGCD                                       0.8         8.6        9.4
USAID                                      -           1.5        1.5
RVM/RVF                                    9.4         -          9.4
Total                       0.237.7
_-__



(iii)
stimated IRK Disbursements:
FY87   FY88  FY89   FY90  FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94
Annual           1.2    1.6    4.4    6.6    5.9    4.0    2.4    1.5
Cumulative      1.2    2.8    7.2   13.8   19.7   23.7   26.1   27.6
Economic Rate of Return:
About 33X for RVM's main component (36% of total project cost)
About 19X for RVF's main component (48X of total project cost)
On average, about 252 for the two components (842 of total project
cost)
!bi: IBID No. 16564 RZ



(iv)
ZAIRE
NAVIGATION IMPROVEIN4T PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Documents Avails)le In the Project File
RUgie des Voies Maritimes
1.  Etude sur l'Amulioration des Conditions de NavigabilitE du Bief
Maritime du Fleuve Zaire, TRACTIONEL and DMOC, 1985
2.  Amelioration des Conditions de Navigabilit6 du Bief Maritime du
Fieuve Zaire, SOFREMER and Port Autonome de Bordeaux, 1985
3. Evaluation Economique, Port Autonome de Bordeaux, SOFPEMER,
TRACTIONEL and INDC, 1985
4. R6gie des Voies Maritimes, Rapport Banque Mondiale, Price Waterhouse
et AssociEs, 1985
5. Plan de Formation de la RVM, ORT, 1985
6. Rapport de Mission A la RVM, Mr. Tran Luu, 1985
7. Report of Consultant Hydroarapher M. R. Wright, SEACONSULT, 1985
8. Project Appraisal:  Working Papers
9.  Documents previded by RVM at negotiations
R:gie des Voies Fluviales
1. Etude de l'Organisation Administrative et Technique de la RVF, SEGES,
1985
2. Projets d'Investissements de la REgie des Voies Fluviales -
Justification Economique, BCEOM, 1985
3. Regie des Voies Fluviales, Rdponses au Questionnaire Banque Mondiale,
SOBEMAP, 1985
4. Plan de Formation de la RVF, ORT, 1985
5.  Rapport de Mission a la RVF, Mr. Tran Luu, 1985
6. Project Appraisal:  Working Papers
7. Documents provided by RVF at negotiations



ZAIRE
NAVIGATION IMPROVL1ENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background
1.01      Zaire, the third largest country in Africa, covers an area of 2.3
million km2., Nearly the entire eountry lies within the watershed of the
Zaire River, the many tributaries of which affect practically the entire
country. The population of about 31 million is unevenly distributed; some
regions, 'such as the tropical forest which covers the center of the coun-
try, are almost deserted, while othors, mostly in the periphery, are dense-
ly populated. Overall population growth is about 3 percent annually. How-
-ever, the urban population is growlng at 7% due to rural migration with the
result that about one-third of the people now live in the cities. The main
economic activities, agriculture and mining, are situated in peripheral
areas of the country, sometimes as far as 2,000 km from the capital or the
nearest seaport. All these factors explain the critical role of transport
in the economy.
1.02        For various reasons, both internal and external, the Zairian
economy has declined since 1975 (Zaire Economic Memorandum, March 29,
1985).  GNP per capita decreased to less than US$150 in 1983.  Inflation,
fueled by deficit financing, ran high, and arrears on repayment of external
debt mounted. As foreign exchange became scarcer, imports had to be curt-
ailed resulting in acute shortages of materials and spare parts. This, in
turn, has led to deterioration of mining, manufacturing and transport fac-
ilities*  Moreover, as Government's revenues shrark, its ability to fund
investments also diminished.   This unfavorable economic environment has
severely hampered the transport sector, further constraining a possible
economic recovery.
B. The Transport System
1.03      Zaire's transport system is an interconnected network of rivers,
railways and roads linked at strategic points. The dominant element in the
system is tne Zaire River and its tributaries which provide some 15,000 km
of navigable waterways. This network of rivers has been complemented by
about 5,000 km of railways consisting of several lines to form a rail/river
system for interregional  transport and external  access.   Most of the
145,000 km of roads, of which only 2,400 km are paved, were built to pro-
vide local access and to feed into the rail and river networks.   A few
major roads, however, also provide for interregional transport. The coun-
try has one main seaport, Matadi, and two major inland ports, Kinshasa and
Ilebo, which are hubs for rail and river transport.  There are about 50
airfields and airstrips in Zaire, of which about 15 are served by local
airlines. Five airfields can accommodate wide-bodied aircrafts.  Two pipe-
lines transport refined petroleum products from Matadi to Kinshasa.



-2-
1.04       The main traffic corridor in Zaire is the Vote Nationale (VN)s a
multimodal chain of transport comprised of the railway line from the Shaba
mining area to Ilebo port on the Kasai River, barge transport from Ilebo to
Kinshasa on the Kasai River, rail transport from Kinshasa to Matadi, and
maritime transport from Matadi port through the Zaire ebtuary to the sea.
The VN is crucially important to Zaire because it is the only evacuation
route for its mlneral exports located entirely within the country. Miner-
als account for about 60% of Zaire's foreign exchange earnings. The second
main transport artery is the Zaire River from Kinshesa to the north and
northeast regions. Important down-river traffic includes oil-palm and for-
estry products, manioc, rice, rubber and coffee.  As is the case on the VN,
up-river traffic is composed mostly of manufactured and imported goods.
Road transport in general is a complement to rail and river transport, al-
though It now competes with these modes whenever their level of service has
deteriorated. In addition, road transport plays an increasingly Important
role in supplying the urban centers with food from the agricultural hinter-
land and the rural areas with agriculture inputs and processed goods.
1.05       The development of Zaire's transport system has been determined
by readily available river transport in many areas, the distribution of the
population, the location of mineral deposits in the far southeast and the
long distances between centers of activity. Overall, the transport system
is adequate given the country's level of development and its resources.
There are wide regional disparities, however, and severe limitations to the
system's capacity because of the low availability of equipment, the poor
conditior. of infrastructure, and considerable inefficiency in use. Zaire's
economic decline, the shortages of local funds and foreign exchange, and
some inappropriate decisions concerning tariffs, budget allocations, and
investment incentives have resulted in low levels of maintenance and asset
replacement. Zaire is now faced with an accumulation of worn-out, unrel-
iable and outmoded equipment and facilities that it has only recently begun
to rehabilitate and modernize on an adequate scale.   Ongoing Bank Group
projects  are assisting Government  in doing  so.   The proposed Project
expands these efforts to two other important public agencies.
C. Sector Organization
(a) General
1.06      The organization of the sector, largely the result of extensive
studies prepared about a decade ago, is basically sound and for the time
being serves the sector satisfactorily.   Three large parastatal agencies
dominate the transport sector: (i) the Office des Routes (OR), the nation-
al agency responsible for road construction and maintenance; (ii) the Of-
fice National des Transports (ONATRA), operating ports as well as river and
rail transport; and (iii) the SociEt5 Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois
(SNCZ), the national railway company. Other smaller parastatals also play
an Important role in transport.  The main ones are:  (i) R6gie des Voies
Maritimes (RVM) and K4gie des Voies Fluviales (RVF), which would implement
the proposed Project and are described in more detail in Chapter II; al-
though small in size, RVM and RVF, whiich the Bank helped Government to
create in early 1972, serve a key purpose, chat of maintaining the infra-
structure for water transport, the backbone of Zairets transport system;



3_
(ii) Regie des Voies AAriennes which builds, maintains and operates air-
ports; (iii) Air Zaire, the state-owned airline with scheduled domestic and
international services; and (iv) Compagnie Maritime Zairoise (CMZ), the
national shipping company.
1.07      Except for OR, which is under the Ministry of Public Works (MPW),
all the above agencies are under the technical control of the Ministry of
Transport and Communications (MTC); all are also under the financial
coatrol of the Ministry of Portfolio (MPF).  In addition, the Ministry of
Planning (MP) coordinates transport investments with the needs of other
sectors. In general, the transport parastatals enjoy a satisfactory degree
of autonomy.
(b) Office des Routes
1.08        OR is responsible for construction and maintenance of about
57,000 km of classified roads.   Because of its limited resources, it has
wisely concentratcd on the 40,900 km of national and priority regional
roads.   With about 8,000 employees, it is operationally amd financially
autonomous and geographically decentralized.   In the mid-1970's, OR went
through a period of uncertainty concerning its responsibilities and strate-
gies and had difficulty adapting to a deteriorating economic env!ronment.
OR has now matured into a well-organized and well-managed institution with
a motivated staff. For the first time, it has established a comprehensive
program of activities and investments to be carried out in 1986-88 with
financing from a large number of external donors including IDA at.d the
Special Africa Facility through the Sixth Highway Project (1985).
(c) ONATRA
1.09        ONATRA provides transport services on the Zaire River and its
tributaries, railway services between Matadi and Kinshasa, and operates the
ports in the Zaire River estuary and most of the river ports in the inter-
ior. It has a staff of about 19,000 employees and has four operating divi-
sions, Ports, Railways, River Transport and Shipyards.  ONATRAhs perform-
ance has been adversely affected by the deterioration of its facilities and
by declining transport demand. Its operations have significantly improved,
however, since 1977.   The ongoing ONATRA Modernization (1982) and Ports
Rehabilitation Projects (1983), which are co-financed by IDA, ADB, KfW and
CCCE, are helping ONATRA to consolidate these achievements and start rehab-
ilitating its facilities and equipment.
(d) SNCZ
1.10       SNCZ, which has about 23,000 employees, operates about 4,600 km
of rail line in three separate networks, several rail to river transship-
ment ports and river transport on the Kivu and Tanganika lakes. SNCZ per-
formed poorly in the 1970's and early 1980's, accumulating large financial
deficits. Government has started to reorganize SNCZ's management and has
instituted sound measures, including tariff increases (until 1985), which
should be pursued to continue improving SNCZ's situation in the coming
years.   The Second Railway Project (1984), which is co-financed by IDA,
ADB, CCGE and Belgium, is designed to support SNCZ's recovery.



-4-
()- Other Public Agencies
1l11       The three "Regies" have had difficulty in the past in fulfilling
their mandates.  KVF and RVM in particular have had serious technical,
financial and managerial problems that they are starting now to overcome
(Chapter II), a process that IDA helped to initiate and for which they
still require extensive support. RVA is suffering from deteriorating fa-
cilities and insufficient resouices.  An assessment of its main needs iL
currently underway. The overall performance of Air Zaire and CMZ has been
poor; both have lost much ground to international and local competition and
are in a weak financial position. To improve their situation, Government
has recently taken stringent measures, including major staff reductions
(two-thirds of Axr Zaire staff in particular), sale of a DC-1O and retire-
ment of three cargo ships.  In both cases, Government also established
management contracts with interniitional companies.
(f) Private Sector
1.12        In practice, there is very little  regulation in the transport
sector. As a consequence, the number of private operators is increasing.
Professional truckers, private river and air carriers, and large companies
transporting on their own account, have recently been competing actively
with the large public agencies for most traffic except minerals and
containers.   Today, private companies handle all road transport,  about
two-thirds of air transport, and one-third of river transport.
D. Sector Strategy, Planning and Main Issues
(a)  Sector Strategy and Plannlng
1.13       The Government's main objectives in the sector over the past few
years have been: (i) to focus the limited available resources on rehabili-
tation and maintenance of the existing network; (ii) to improve operations
through strengthening of management and training; and (Iii) to improve the
capacity of major existing internal transport routes.
1.14       This strategy is supported by the Bank Group and other major aid
agencies. As a consequence, the transport sector is one of the main recip-
ients of external funds in Zaire.  Since 1975, the foreign cost of almost
aU investments in road, railway, port and river transport have been finan-
ced by donors as well as a large part of road maintenance operations. This
has necessitated extensive coordination. Bank-supported projects have been
key in this process by attracting large amounts of co-financing. Transport
was discussed in June 1981 at a meeting of Zaire's Consultative Group and
in June 1983 at a U.N.-sponsored roundtable in Kinshasa. A co-financing
meeting was also held in March 1985 to assemble the external funds required
for the implementatiun of Zaire's 1986-88 highway program.
1.15       Planning and policy analysis in the sector is the responsibility
of (l) MP, (ii) the Groupe d'Etudes de Transport (GET), a study unit within
MTC, and (iSi) the planning cells of the main parastatals.   In general,
their performance has been inadequate in recent years, mainly because of
the sbortage of qualified professionals, inadequate organization and
insufficient informetion flows. Government should rapidly take action on



-5-
this subject, as recommended in a recent draft Transport Sector Memorandum
(TSM, August 1986) and, in particular, launch a study to reorganize GET,
which IDA has agreed to finance under the Second Railways Project.
1.16       Government recently prepared and submitted to the Consultative
Group a 1986-90 Public Investment Program (PIP). The transport part of the
PIP, which was reviewed by the Bank in March 1986, established sector
priorities correctly in general, particularly by emphasizing maintenance
and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and equipment.   The sector
program has a number of deficiencies, however. It includes some projects
which are not justified, the extension of the Gbadolite airport for
example. The analysis of costs, technical alternatives, economic returns,
and financial feasibility of the sub-projects is also unsatisfactory,
particularly for ONATRA and SNCZ.  In addition, the investments of major
public companies, in particular CMZ and Air-Zaire, are not incluued. In
the coming years, Government should improve and update regularly the PIP.
In the short term, specific projects should still be fully appraised before
they are undertaken. The proposed Project which has been appraised jointly
with GET and HP, is included in the PIP as Its RVM and RVF components.
(b) Main Sector Needs and Issues and Government's Actions
1.17      Over the past few years, the major needs in the sector have been
to: (i) maintain and rehabilitate transport infrastructure and equipment;
(ii) strengthen sector institutions and develop human resources; and (iii)
improve the structure of incentives for suppliers and users of transport
services. These needs are well understood by Government which has taken
significant steps towards meeting them.
Maintenance and Rehabilitation
1.18      There has been much effort in the recent past to increase mainte-
nance to adequate levels. At the same time, the rehabilitation of infra-
structure and equipment, and the modernization of worn-out or obsolete
facilities must be pursued through comprehensive programs such as those
under implementation for OR, SNCZ and ONATRA's ports. In addition, several
areas which have been neglected in the recent past need an increased level
of activity, mainly the infrastructure for maritime and river transport,
feeder roads, the infrastructure for air-transport and the facilities for
transshipment between transport modes. These efforts will require consid-
erable resources, particularly in foreign exchange, which Government,
through appropriate tariff and budgeting policies, and external donors
should provide to the sector. In these regards, Government has taken sound
decisions'in the recent past.  The tariffs of ONATRA'and SNCZ have in gen-
eral been adjusted regularly until 1985 (although with some delays) to
adequate levels and funds made available for road maintenance and rehabili-
tation have been increased more than 1002 in real terms since 1983 and now
amount to about US$45.0 million annually. Zaire is one of the few African
countries that has given priority so clearly to the maintenance and
rehabilitation of its highway network.  Since 1985, the tariffs of ONATRA
and SNCZ have not been adjusted adequately, however; if not corrected, it
would make the modernization efforts of these two agencies difficult to
pursue.



-6-
1.19         Because of the scarcity of resources, it is important that
in-depth technical and economic evaluation of all projects be undertaken.
Each public agency should take its Investment decisions within the frame of
a good and regularly updated five-year rolling investment plan.   For the
time being, only OR and, through the proposed Prolect, RVM and RYF have
such a plan. In addition, the transport capacity of the different sub-sec-
tore should also be coordinated through GET and MP so that costly imbal-
ances or bottlenecks do not occur.
Strengthening of Sector Institutions and Development of Human Resources
1.20      Ongoing improvements in the organization and management of public
agencies, which have been most effective at ONATRA and OR, must be contin-
ued steadily, particularly at SNCZ, RVM and RVF. Modern management tools
such as budgetary and management information systems should be put in place
in all parastatals. In some cases, mainly Air Zaire and CMZ, a more funda-
mental restructuring needs to be carried out, which Government has already
begun. The performance of the Administration also needs to be much imp-
roved.  In the medium term, the main priorities are:  (i) to centinue to
improve the processes for elaborating transport policies and planning in-
vestments; and (ii) to start establishing the institutional set-up for the
maintenance and rehabilitation of feeder roads. Action is underway on (i)
through a   reorganization of GET; and (ii) through the preparation of a
major feeder roads component in the forthcoming Seventh Highway Project.
1.21      The development of human resources should a8so be pursued active-
ly. Large training programs have been included in recent Bank Group-sup-
ported projects In the sector and positive results are being registered at
OR, ONATRA and SNCZ.   Recently,  as many as 2,500 employees have been
trained yearly in these institutions. The training of high level staff in
Zaire and overseas has also been considerably developed. Training Programs
still need to be established in the Administration with, in parallel, mea-
sures to start correcting the poor salaries and work conditions of staff.
In the parastatals, training should be better adjusted to production objec-
tives, personnel management improved, and incentives provided to increase
productivity. ONATRA and, in particular, OR have taken valuable measures
along these lines.  At a more geneval level, actions should also be taken
to improve the quality of specific technical institutes and a training co-
ordination committee should be created to follow-up and coordinate training
activities at the sector level.
Improving the Structure of Incentives for Suppliers and Users of Transport
Services
1.22       Over the past years, Government has taken important measures  in
this area which have done much to increase the sector's efficiency.  Mhuch
progress has taken place, in particular, concerning fuel pricing. Govern-
ment has eliminated the cross-subsidy between gasoline and other fuels, and
introduced a pricing system that takes account of location and raised sub-
stantially the level of tax on gasoline and diesel oil.  An a result the
prices of gasoline and diesel oil were in 1986 substantially above actual
economic cost and road user charges reached in most cases an economically
adequate level.



-7-
1.23       Further progress is needed concerning pricing, transport regula-
tious and specific issues related to the conscruction industry.   Despite
much improvement since 1984 in the pricing of mtneral exports, ONATRA and
SNCZ still have very distorted tariff structures. Measures should be taken
in the coming years to simplify these and base tariffs on actual costs.
Transport regulations are, on the whole, adequate.   Some restrictions to
competition between rail and road transport and within road transport it-
self should be removed, however.  Furthermore, legal texts and administra-
tive contre,1s should be simplified.   One last area related to transport
where better incentives are needed is the construction industry. Financial
constraints, In particular, should be removed to increase competition and
encourage lower prices, and the amount of civil works done by public agen-
cies on force account should be reduced whenever possible. An Increasing
share of periodic maintenance of earth/gravel roads should in particular be
done by contractors, a process which will be started under the Sixth High-
way Project.
E. Bank Experience in the Transport Sector
1.24      The Bank Group agrees with the Government's strategy in the tran-
sport sectoL and has designed its assistance to support it. Since Zaire's
independence in 1960, the Bank has helped finance six highway projects
(Credit 152-CK, US$6.0 million, 1969; Credit 292-CK, US$19,0 million, 1972;
Credit 536--ZR, US$26.0 million, 1975; Credit 916-ZR, US$26.0 million,
1979; Credit 1290-ZR, US$43.5 million, 1983; Credit 16Q8-ZR, US$55.0 mil-
lion, 1985, supplemented by US$30.0 million Special Africa Facility financ-
ing), one river transport project (Credit 255-CK, US$7.0 million, 1971),
two railway projects (Credit 902-ZR, US$20.0 million, 1979; Credit 1475-ZR,
US$26.0 million, 1984), two rail/river projects (Credits 571-ZR, US$26.0
million, 1975, and 1180-ZR, US$26.0 million, 1982) and one port project
(Credit 1335-ZR, US$25 million, 1983).
1.25       Dialogue with Government on major issues in the transport sector
has intensified during the last few years and is being pursued through
different channels:   (i) Zaire's sector strategy was  the object of a
special presentation during the last Country Inplementation Review in Kin-
shasa (May 1983); (ii) a Transport Sector Memorandum is under discussion
with Government; and (iii) specific issues, such as institutional develop-
ment, tariff structures and road user charges, are being addressed within
the context of individual projects.
1.26      Two Projects Performance Audit Reports have been issued, one for
the First Highway Project (1978), and the second jointly for the Second and
Third Highway Projects and for the River Transport and First Rail/River
Projects (October 7, 1983).   The main conclusions of the latter report,
which are generally confirmed by experience under more recent projects (in
particular the Fourth Highway Project for which a PCR was issued on January
31, 1985) are the following:
(i) The projects under review were probably too ambitious.
Because of the difficult environment in which they were im-
plemented and some deficiencies in project design and super-
vision, only part of the projects' objectives were met;



-8-
(ii) The projects aided in bringing about major institutional
development. New agencies were launched (OR, RVF and RVM)
and an existing one, ONATRA, was substantially reorganized.
Large numbers of Zairian employees were trained.   There
remained, however, in the audit's opinion, serious problems
concerning the size, responsibilities and strategies of
ONATRA and OR;
(iii) Technical assistance still plays an Important role in the
management of ONATRA and OR. The process of -replacement of
expatriates by Zairian staff must be pursued while ensuring
the  availability  of  adequate  technical  resources  for
management;
(iv) The institutions responsible for policy making and control
should be strengthened in parallel with the main transport
agencies;
(v)  Investment priorities should be analyzed within the context
of the entire transport system, rather than in relation to
one major transport corridor such as the VN, the main inter-
nal route for mineral export.
1.27      All these questions are being addressed through sector dialogue
and ongoing projects, for example, by continuation of large training pro-
grams and institutional development efforts in ONATRA, OR and SNCZ, a broad
review of the organization of the road sector (Fifth Highway Project),
analysis of RVF and RVM operations and financial management which led to
the proposed Project (Port Project), and studies designed to help Govern-
ment address key policy issues such as the adequacy of road user charges
and the price of petroleum products (Fifth Highway Project), the develop-
ment of air transport and the reorganization of GET (Second SNCZ Project).
Recent projects (ONATRA Modernization,  Port and Second Railway Projects)
have also focused on key priorities of the sector, as a whole, and have not
been limited to the VN's requirements.
F. Rationale for the Bank Group's Involvement in the Proposed Project
1.28       There is a strong rationale for the Bank Group's involvement in
the proposed Project. First, the transport sector is a major consumer of
national resources and of foreign exchange in particular, and IDA plays an
important role in helping Government take appropriate measures to improve
its efficiency and assemble the external assistance that it requires. This
action has been very positive in the recent past and should be pursued.
Second, RVM and RVF provide a key service to the sector as a whole. They
both need comprehensive programs of rehabilitation involving substantial
changes in technology and institutional  strengthening.   Only the Bank
currently has the capability to help Government establish such programs and
supervise their implementation. In addition, Bank assistance is needed to
mobilize   the  required  external  financing  and  coordinate  donors.



-9-
II, THE MARiTIME AND RIVER TRANSPORT SUB-SECTORS
A. The Maritime Transport Sub-Sector
(a) Network, Traffic and Shipping, and Sub-Sector Issues
The Maritime Section of the Zaire River
2.01       Matadi and Boma, Zaire's only maritime ports, are located on the
Zaire River.  Matadi, which handles 95X of of their combined traffic is
about 150 km inland; Boma is about 60 km downstream from Matadi. Between
Boma and the ocean lies a 60 km long stretch in which the river meanders
and becomes wide and shallow, with high siltation, creating a major access
problem.   Sand bars move constantly and the navigation channel must be
dredged and adjusted on a continuous basis. Currently, the water depth is
only about 24 feet in certain sections of the channel.  Relatively wide
variations have occurred in the past and in spite of on-going maintenance
dredging, water depth, which has sometimes been as low as 21 to 22 feet, is
in general unpredictable.   Outside the meandering zone, the Zaire river
does not present unusual difficulties, although numerous navigation aids
are required.
Traffic and Shi ping.
2.02        In 1985, total tonnage handled in the ports of Matadi and Boma
was about 1,365,000 tons and 96,000 tons respectively.   Traffic through
:atadi has increased substantially in recent years, to a large extent
because of higher volumes of food imports. Today's traffic is about the
same as in 1970-74, the peak years since Independence and slightly below
the average of the 1950s.  On the contrary, Boma's traffic has declined
continuously until the early 1980s and stabilized at a level which is about
40% of its 1950's average. The rapid growth of container traffic has been
the major change of recent years. It increased by about 50% between 1980
and 1985.1/
2.03        About 380 ships were handled at Matadi and Boma in 1985.  The
majority were polyvalent ships of 10 to 20,000 Deadweight Tons (DWT)
carrying  containers  and  general cargo, and  conventional general cargo
ships. A relatively small number of fully cellular container ships are
serving Matadi (15 to 25 in recent years) but their size is increasing and
at least one additional major line is planning to introduce such vessels in
the near future.   About half of the log traf f ic and 70% of wheat are
carried in specialized vessels.  Tankers of about 30,000 DWT serve Ango-
Ango, the terminal for petroleum products.  The total number of ships serv-
ing Matadi has decreased substantially as larger ships with a higher aver-
age load have called in recent years.  A large number of shipping lines
serve Zaire's ports, most belonging to the Europe-West Africa conferences,
a reflection of Zaire's trade patterns. The national company (CMZ) and a
1/   Recent traffic data are in Annexes 4.01 and 4.02.



- 10 -
Belgian company (CMB) handle about 50% of the non-bulk traffic.   Both
companies as well as some less important ones have a semi-direct service
from and to Western Europe and tend to take the maximum possible load to
and from Zaire.
2.04        The low and unreliable waterdepth of the Zaire rlver creates a
major constraint for vessels servitlg Matadi and Boma.   Currently CMZ's
ships are loaded only up to 60% of their capacity and wheat bulk carriers
from the USA can bring to Matadi only less than half the maximum possible
cargo. Tankers unload about 60% of their shipment (to be later transported
by barges) in Moanda, near the ocean, before going to Matadi. Thi8 makes
varitime transport to Zaire much more costly than it needs to be.   in
addition, the risks of various accidents on a river section which Is a real
lifeline for Zaire's economy are not negligible.
Sub-Sector Issues.
2.05          Government's policies concerning maritime transport are, in
principle, formulated and applied by the Directorate of Shipping and
Waterways (DSW) of MTC.  Government's major actions since the 1970s have
been the creation of CMZ and the Office de Gestion du Fret Maritime
(OGEFREM), a public agency responsible for managing the allocation of
freight among shipping companies in accordance with the UN code of
conduct. OGEFREM has revised regulations within the framework of current
international agreements, and the new procedures appear to serve adequately
present Zairian international shipping needs.
2.06        The cost of maintaining the navigation channel is well covered
by user charges which consist mainly of fees for pilotage and channel use
based on ship's deadweight tonnage. If non-operating revenues and expenses
are excluded, RVM's revenues were about 15% higher than operating costs in
1984. However, the tariffs of Matadi and Boma ports are way above costs,
in 1984, shippers paid on the average about 1.75 times the total cost of
port access (including RUM's fees) and cargo handling. There are indica-
tions that such high tariffs could prevent an optimum mix of ships from
calling at Matadi ar; Boma. AL negotiations Government agreed that RVM and
ONATRA would jointly carry out, before June 30, 1988, a study of the Impact
of their tariff policies on the mix of ships serving Matadi and Boma, and
of the consequences on the total cost of maritime transport for Zaire.
This study would be financed under the proposed Project.   Government and
RVM also agreed to discuss the results of the study with IDA and implement
promptly thereafter the mutually agreed recommendations that concern RVM.
Recommendations for port tariffs should be integrated by ONATRA in a
general restructuring of its tariff structure which the recent TSM has
shown to be a major goal for the coming years and which would be Implement-
ed within the context of the Second ONATRA Modernization Project, now being
prepared.
(b) R6gie des Voies Maritimes
2.07        RVM was created In 1971 as an operationally and fiancially
autonomous  agency  under  the  supervisory  authority  of  NTC.    It  is
responsible for maritime river navigation downstream of Matadi; its main
tasks



- 11 -
are the dredging of the navigation channel in the meandering zone, provi-
sion and maintenance of navigation aids, pilotage, hydrographic surveys,
and charts.
Organization and Management
2.08       The current organizational structure of ROM is sound.  The Regie
is divided into five departments, reflecting the nature of its activities,
namely:   (i) General Services, (ii) Administration, (iii) Finances, (iv)
Shipyard, and (v) Operations (Annex 2.1). The Operations Department, the
heart of RVM's physical activities, is quite logically subdivided into the
following four divisions, each corresponding to one of RUM's major func-
tions: (i) Hydrography, (ii) Navigation aids and dredging, (iii) Pilotage,
and (iv) Coastal station. The activities of the Regie are supervised by a
seven-member Board of Directors, chaired by the Chief Executive Officer
(PDG), and by a six-member Management committee and a three-member audit
committee. The PDG, appointed by a presidential decree, upon nomination by
MTC, is responsible for the day-to-day operations.
2.09       The current PDG, in place for about two years, is a very dynamic
former Minister of Finance, and is actively attempting to improve all
aspects of EVM's activities, management, training, staff relationships and
motivation.  Some of his plans have already been approved by the Govern-
ment, and, in several instances, construction of new buildings has commen-
ced and orders for parts and materials have been placed.
2.10        In general, RVM has been able to discharge its responsibilities
reasonably well, at least to the extent that ocean going vessels have con-
tinued to be able to have access to the Port of Matadi, even though the
available water depth has, at times, been reduced significantly. There are
serious weaknesses in RVM's management and organization, however, of which
the following are the most important: (i) inadequate planning and coordi-
nation of human and material resources; (ii) inadequate communications
among the various departments and divisions; (iii) poor match between
organizational structure, physical plant, and activities of the Regie. The
most obvious consequences of these deficiencies arc inadequate procurement
procedures and information flows, with very poor results in equipment and
personnel utilization. Under IDA financing (Credit 1335-ZR), RVM retained
consultants in 1984 to study the management and organization of its opera-
tions and  finances.   Their  recommendations,  under  implementation,  are
expected to have significant impact on the dredging, hydrographic surveys
and pilotage functions. The technical assistance component of the project
is also expected to improve management performance, by establishing good
procurement practices, good information flows, and in general by enhance-
ments to the emtire management process.
2.11        The PDG's office is located at Kinshasa, away from the R6gie's
operations, which take place at Boma. This is logical in Zaire's central-
ized system, which forces the PDG to spend much time interacting with Gov-
ernment and banking officials in the capital.  This creates, however, a
serious problem of lack of authority at Boma, where, sometimes, important
decisions wait for the attention of the PDG.  RVM intends to create a



- 12 -
position of principal director located in Boma, and to take additional mea-
sures for better coordination, once it has Jointly assessed with IDA the
impact of the reorganization started in 1985. Approval of the above posi-
tion by RVM's Board and MTC and nomination of a person whose qualifications
and experience are acceptable to IDA would be a condition of Credit effect-
iveness.
Staffing and Training
2.12       RVM's staff is relatively (Id and in general lacks qualifica-
tions.  50% of RVM's 1,063 employees are, for example, over 40 years old.
Because the skills of regular staff are not sufficient, about 700 tempor-
aries are also employed. In addition, tha management of personnel is inad-
equate. There are, in particular, no clear criteria for recruitement and
promotion.   RVM has begun to take measures to address this situation.  A
substantial number of university graduates has been recruited in recent
years and their level of expertise and motivation is higher. Work is also
underway to improve the job classification.  Those efforts should be pur-
sued, particularly, in the area of manpower planning and staff training.
The proposed Project would provide an expert to strengthen RVM's capabili-
ties in these areas and assist in the production of a manpower development
plan. Remuneration levels are on average comparable to that of other pub-
lic agencies and much higher than in the Administration.
2.13       Since 1983, a separate training division exists in the Adminis-
tration Department, but it has not to date organized any training activi-
ties, which continue to be organized by the individual departments with
varying degrees of success.  The operations and shipyard departments have
for example been quite successful in the training of hydrographers and
machine operators. In the future, all training activities would be coordi-
nated by the training division.
2.14      A training program was developed by RVM, with the assistance of a
consultant, for the period 1986-1989 (Annex 2.02), with the following
general  objectives:    (i)  improve  the  qualifications  of  RVM's  best
staff;(ii) train new staff to replace those who are to retire or reinforce
current staffing in accordance with RVM's investment plan.  The training
program was reviewed by a Bank specialist and found to be well adapted to
RVM's needs.
2.15       The training plan involves:  (i) training in Zaire of about 250
staff members in a variety of specialties (navigation aids, topography,
mechanics, electronics, electromechanics, computer science, inventory con-
trol, work organization, management, etc.) for which there are good local
training institutions; and (ii) overseas training of 50 higher-level staff
in specific techniques of management and operations, for whom local train-
ing would not be available.



- 13 -
Operations 2/
2.16      Hydrographic Surveys:  In order to keep access to Matadi open and
well marked, RVM must carry out hydrogrephic surveys continually, particu-
larly in the meandering zone of the river. The tasks include soundings,
plotting, charting and day-to-day guidance to the dredging fleet. RYM has
done this task rather well but with a low productivity because of its old
and outdated equipment and very inadequate buildings and shops. To improve
its hydrographic survey work, both in speed and in accuracy, RVM needs mod-
ern positioning and sounding equipment, as well as better maintenance of
its launches.
2.17       Dredging:  In the meandecing zone of the river, RVM must dredge
continually to guarantee sufficient water depth for ocean vessels. It is a
daily task for RVM to decide where and how much to dredge and where to
deposit the dredging spoils.   Maintaining the navigation channel is a dif-
ficult and never-ending task, for which RVM has received an4 will continue
to receive assistance from Belgian aid (Laboratoire de Recherche Hydrau-
lique of Borgerhaut - LRH).   Recent economic and technical analyses have
shown that the aim should be to maintain a minimum depth of 28 feet year
round, a task which will require large increases of productivity and utili-
zation of the dredging fleet, consisting of five self-propelled suction
dredges of 800 to 1,500 m3 holding capacities.   The productivity of the
dredging fleet has been low, but has still averaged over 5 million m3 from
1980 orwards; a crucial problem has been the lack of spare parts, due not
necessarily to lack of funds but to lack of purchasing expertise. Some im-
provements and changes to the dredges will enhance the productivity of the
fleet. Additionally, RVM is responsible for minor clean-up dredging at the
port of Matadi, a task for which it does not presently have any means.
2.18       Navigation Aids:  RVM must provide and maintain buoys, lights,
markers and ranges to assist ocean vessels navigating the Zaire River to
Matadi. Most of these aids are old and, although well maintained, are in
need of replacement and modernization. While RYM can maintain gas lights
quite well, electrical aids give maintenance problems due to lack of facil-
ities.   RVM needs modern buoys, adequate workshops,  and a buoy fitting
yard. The existing buoy tender is very old but still serviceable; the same
applies to a number of small craft used for tending the navigation aids.
2.19      Pilotage:  Pilotage, compulsory for all ocean vessels navigating
to Matadi, is done by a team of expatriate and Zairian pilots doing a good
job. The only problem is the logistics of transportation of pilots between
Banana (on the Atlantic Ocean), Matadi and Boma. RVM requires rehabilita-
tion of existing, and procurement of new pilot launches.
2.20       Ship Repair Facilities and Workshops:   To maintain a fleet of
five dredges, numerous hydrographic and pilot craft and navigation aids,
RVM requires adequate maintenance facilities.  For this purpose it has a
suitable floating dry dock, in reasonably good condition, mechanical,
electrical and electronic workshops, warehouses for parts and materials,
2/   A more detailed description of RVM's operations is in Annex 2.03.



- 14 -
two small slipways in bad condition and rather inadequate small administra-
tion and engineering buildings.  The workshops need extensive repairs, some
of which are currently being done. Also required are some civil works, but
the main problem in the shops is training, organization and procurement of
spare parts.
Investment Planning
2.21       Before the proposed Project was established with the assistance
of consultants and the Bank's appraisal mission, RVM did not have a real
investment plan nor any capability to make economic and financial analysis
of investment alternatives on a continuous basis. Recognizing this need,
RVM has recently decided to create a planning unit, which would be respons-
ible for regularly updating its investment plan and, possibly, producing
statistics on maritime transport and operational indicators, and inputs for
RVM's annual report. At negotiations, RVM agreed to produce by March 1st
each year, beginning in 1987, a five-year rolling plan of all its invest-
ments, starting with the current year, as well as a review of implementa-
tion of the previous year's plan. The content and schedule of this plan
would be based on criteria acceptable to IDA (Annex 2.04) and on realistic
financial projections including a reasonable forecast of available local
and external funds. RVM would also consult the Association before under-
taking any investment that is not in this plan.
2.22       In addition to the investment plan of its components of the pro-
posed Project, RVM has established an extensive five-year construction pro-
gram (about US$5.0 million total cost) including new offices, shops, staff
housing and social facilities.  The construction of offices and shops is
required for operational reasons (in particular to offer appropriate work-
ing conditions to the hydrography and administrative departments).   New
residential and social buildings would also help attract and retain quali-
fied employees in Boma. The size and the implementation schedule of the
program were reviewed at negotiations on the basis of a quantitative justi-
fication of RVM's needs for new buildings. Beginning in 1987, RVM's con-
struction program would also be included in its five-year rolling invest-
ment plan.
B. The River Transport Subsector
(a) Network. Traffic, Operators and Sub-Sector Policies
River Network
2.23       Zaire's river network is one of its great natural assets.   It
includes about 15,000 km of navigable rivers and lakes reaching directly
almost two-thirds of the country.   This network has two major features,
with important consequences on its role in Zaire's transport system.
First, in some areas, the rivers are interrupted by rapids and the need for
transshipment adds considerably to transport costs. For this reason, the
upper part of the Zaire river network (3,000 km south of Kisangani) is
today of limited use.   Second, waters are often shallow and water depth



15 -
changes substantially with seasons. The Zaire River (1,740 km from Kisan-
ganl to Kinahasa) offers a minimum draft of 1.50 a all year. In addition,
only about 2,400 km of waterways, with an average draft equal to or higher
than 1.0 m all year 3/, can be used by craft of a reasonably efficient
size, As a result, oily about 4,t50 km of the river network is potentially
of economic importance. Furthermore, a precise and sometimes costly system
of navigation aids is also required on a good part of these 4,150 km.
River Traffic
2.24      Total river traffic is considerable.  It was estimated in 1984 at
about one million Tons or 921 million Ton-km, which was about 221 (on a
ton-km basis) of all transport traffic in Zaire. The main products were
milneral exports (244,000 tons), petroleum products (214,000 tons), fores-
try products (139,800 tons) and agriculture goods (152,000 tons) (Annex
2.06). The main characteristic of this traffic is that it is very unequal-
ly distributed, as shown in Annex 2.07. The Kasai and Zaire Rivers account
for 58% and 261 of all tonnage, respectively. Freight carried on the other
rivers is only between 3,000 tons and 45,000 tons. This is a reflection of
the low population density In Central Zaire. A second feature is that the
traffic is decreasing. Traffic in 1984 was about 20% lower than in 1975
(Annex 2.08), mainly because of the decrease in agricultural exports and in
volumes of manufactured products consumed isuland. With the growth of eco-
nomic activity, this trend Is likely to be reversed (para. 4.08).
River Operators
2.25       In addition to ONATRA (para. 1.09), there are about 30 private
firms of a substantial size and 650 small operators involved in river
transport. The importance of private firms has grown considerably. Their
share of total   traffic has increased from 14% in 1975 to 34% in 1984
(Annex 2.08), mainly because the security and reliability of their services
are much higher than ONATRA's.
2.26       ONATRA and the 30 "large" private firms operate a considerable
fleet, with an instant transport capacity of about 205,000 tons, about 80%
of which belong to ONATRA. The private fleet is relatively young and in
good condition, 70% of the vessels are less than 15 years old. ONATRA:s
plant, on the contrary, is dilapidated:   95% of its vessels were built
before 1960. The small operators, on the other hand, own about 850 units,
usually wooden whalers with a unit capacity of 10 to 20 tons.
2.27        ONATRA and the large private firms operate like modern busi-
nesses. Their efficiency is in general unsatisfactory, however. One major
reason is that navigation is made difficult by the poor maintenance of the
river network, RVF's major responsibility. A good part of the total fleet
and the most intensively used is made up of barges with a capacity of over
250 tons and a draft often higher than one meter, which, given the geogra-
phic characteristics of Zaire's main rivers, are highly dependent on RVF's
ability to establish and maintain navigation channels.
3/   The list and navigable length of main rivers is in Annex 2.05.



- 16 -
Sub-Sector Policies
2.28       As for the maritime transport sub-sector, Government's policies
concerning river transport are the responsibilities of DSW*  In practice,
river transport has developed-freely in recent years. The very few regula-
tioiia that exist are concerned mainly with customs controls and safety.
Their implkmentation is in general uneven and often cumbersome. They will
need to be streamlined in the long term.  Currently, the main sub-sect>-
issue is the cross-subsidy between departments of ONATRA which results in
ONATRA's-river services being rendered below costs at the expense of port
users. ONATRA is now setting up a cost accounting system and, as required
under Credit 1180-ZR for the ONATRA Modernization Project, intends to take
measures when this is completed so that the long run marginal cost of each
service is covered by its revenues.
2.29        User charges have increased considerably in 1985 and are now
above the cost of maintaining the river network. They consist mainly of
(i) annual fees paid to RVF by ship owners and based on the slze and/or
engine power of vessels and log rafts, and (1i) taxes paid to Government on
diesel oil (river operators consume about 40,000 m3 of diesel oil yearly).
In 1985, total charges were about 50% above the cost of maintenance, mainly
because total taxes paid on diesel oil increased from nearly zero to about
Z 230 million (two-thirds of total charges), as a result of Government's
changes in the price structure of petroleum products. River operators pro-
vide, therefore, a net contribution to public finance. In the current eco-
nomic context, this is acceptable; the excess of charges over cost repre-
sents only about 8% of the total cost of river transport and is not expect-
ed to create a real distortion in resource allocation.
(b) Regie des Voies Fluviales
2.30      RVF is responsible for providing security of navigation, on all
navigable parts of the river network upstream of Kinshasa and on lake
transportation routes. RVF was created in 1971 and is an operationally and
financially autonomous agency under the supervisory authority of NTC. Its
principal tasks are to install and maintain navigation aids, occasionally
dredge shallow river sections and clear flood debris, carry out regularly
hydrographic surveys, update and publish the river navigation atlas, fore-
cast water levels and depths, and issue notices to river users.
Organization and Management
2.31      The organizational structure of RVF is satisfactory.  RVF's acti-
vities are divided into five departments which fit well the nature of the
physical functions performed, namely: (i) General Services, (ii) Adminis-
tration, (iii) Finances, (iv) Hydrography, and (v) Technical (Annex 2.08).
The main physical activity of RVF is carried out by the Hydrography Depart-
ment, which is correctly divided into three divisions:   navigation aids,
studies and special works, and inspection. The Board composition and the
nomination of the Chief Executive Officer (PDG) are done in the same manner
as for RVM (para. 2.08).



- 17 -
2.32       The current PDG, in place for about three years, is well quali-
fied and experienced; he has demonstrated good management qualities and has
considerably improved the performance of RVF.  Under his direction, the
management and organization of RVF'e operations and finances were reviewed
In 1984 by consultants financed by IDA (Credit 1335-ZR). Most of their
recommendations have been or are being implemented.   The most important
tasks that remain to be done are to: (i) improve the management informa-
tion system and the supervision of work; (ii) accelerate the decision mak-
ing p3ocess; and  (iii) ameliorate the organization of logistics, tasks
which are made unusually dificult by the wide spread of RVF's activities.
Staffing and Training
2.33      The qualification of RVF's staff is in general insufficient and
the management of personnel needs to be improved. RYF has about 940 emplo-
yees. About 30% are under-qualified and part of the remaining cannot per-
form as required to fulfill RVF's role. In some areas such as the ship-
yard, the lack of qualified staff has become acute. In addition, descrip-
tions and classification of jobs, and the eriteria for recruitment and pro-
motion are not satisfactory.   RVF's new management is addressing these
issues adequately. A job classification study has started under IDA finan-
cing (Credit 1335-ZR), and measures have been taken to integrate training
and the management of personnel.   A training division has recently been
created, which would be strengthened by technical assistance under the pro-
posed Project.  On average, remuneration levels are comparable to that of
other public agencies.
2.34      Until 1985, organized and systematic training has been lacking in
RVF, though a program for training of qualified officers for river naviga-
tion aids has been quite successful. RVF has developed a training program
for the 1986-90 period with the assistance of a consultant. This program,
which is shown in Annex 2.10, was reviewed by a Bank specialist and found
acceptable. Its general objectives are to: (i) improve the qualifications
of RVF's best staff; (ii) train new staff to either replace those who are
to retire or to reinforce current staffing to make implementation of RVF's
investment plan possible; and (iii) improve the management and organization
capacity of managers and supervisors. This plan involves the training in
Zaire of about 240 staff in the same specialities as those described under
RVM's training plan (para. 2.15). In addition, overseas training is pro-
posed for about 15 senior staff in management and specialities for which no
local expertise is available.
Operations 4/
2.35       Chaunel Markigs and Navigation Aids;  In numerous areas of the
river network, the navigation channel meanders continuously, changing Its
location seasonally in random patterns.   RVF's first responsibility is
therefore to provide channel markings, ranges, buoys and lights, which need
4/   A more detailed version of RVF's operations is in Annex 2.11.



- 18 -
frequent repositioning and maintenance, as well as issue notices to river
users and update the navigation atlas. This work Is carried out by buoy
tenders and field work brigades which must spend months at a time in remote
locations. Considezing the working conditions and tools, this work has
been carried out rather well.   Considevable improvements are, however,
required as many of the Ouoytenders are old and/or in poor condition.
There is need for materials, navigation lights and other minor craft.
2.36       Hydrographic Surveyeo  RVF carries out surveys over the entire
length of the rIver network in order to locate the navigable channels, to
follow the river eaolutions and to execute special studies at difficult
passes. This work is carried out by fleld teams, usually living in barges
for months at time in very remote locations. Given its inadequate means,
KVF has done a reasonably good job in the past few years.  The floating
crafts, sounding equipment, plotting tools and office facilities are out-
dated, however, and need to be rehabilitated or replaced.
2.37       Civil Works:  At certain river passes, RVF needs to carry out
civil works (such as rock removal) and dredging and to install permanent
markers. This task should be done by field teams having appropriate accom-
modations and equipment. This is a8 vital task for which RVF is currently
not equipped, and which is badly overdue.
2.38      Ship Repairs, Workshops and Administration:  In order to maintain
its fleet and to prepare and maintaln navigation aids, RVF operates a ship-
yard at Ndolo, Kinshasa. Though much improved in the last two years, the
entire installation is in poor shape, suffering chronic lack of spare
parts, materials, tools, management and trained personnel.  The product-
ivity of the techaical services under which these tasks are carried out is
very low. At Ndolo and in downtown Kinshasa, RVF also has administration
offices, from which it attempts to control its extensive network of opera-
tions.   It needs consolidation of facilities and improved communication
with Its vessels and far-away operations.
Investment Planning
2.39       RVF (as RVM) did not have a real investment plan before Project
preparation. Recognizing the reed for an investment planning and monitor-
ing capability, RVF had already taken a positive step by creating a plan-
ning unit. Given the need to follow up and update regularly its investment
plan on the basis of good technical, economic and financial analyses, RVF
agreed.at negotiations to fulfill the same conditions as RVM (para. 2.21).
RVF's construction program was reviewed by IDA at appraisal and is part of
its Project component.



- 19 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01       The proposed Project supports Goverr.ment's objectives of provid-
ing more efficient and reliable communications by rehabilitating existing
infrastructure and equipment, modernizing facilities and work methods, and
strengthening major organizations in charge of the transport sector. More
specifically, the main Project objectives would be as follows: (a) for RVM,
(i) recommence night navigation for ships between the Atlantic Ocean and
Matadi Port, except in the meandering zone of the river; (ii) maintain a
dredged channel depth of 28 feet, at least 10 months per year; (iii) im-
prove the efficiency of dredging and surveying operations; and (iv) improve
the security of navigation; (b) for RVF, (i) maintain navigational channels
on the main river network to appropriate.technical standards; (ii) increase
the efficiency and reliability of surveying, river signalling and dredging
operations; and (iii) improve the security of navigation.
B.  Project Description
3.02       The project is a comprehensive program of investments and insti-
tutional strengthening for RVM and RVF covering the 1986-91 period.   It
includes the following:
(a) For RVM:
(i)  increase in hydrographic surveys capability;
(ii)  improvements to pilotage;
(iii)  increase  in  capability  to  install  and  maintain
navigation aids;
(iv)  improvements to shipyard;
(v)  improvement to dredging operations;
(vi)  studies;
(vii)  strengthening  RVM's  management  through. technical
assistance; and
(viii)  training.
(b) For RVF:
(i)  improvements to general services;
(ii)  increase in hydrographic surveys capability;
(iii)  provision of means to carry out special studies and
works;
(iv)  increase  in  capability  to  install  and  maintain
navigation aids;
(v)  improvements to shipyard;
(vi)  rehabilitation of existing craft;
(vii)  studies and supervision of project execution;
(viii)  strengthening  RVF's  management  through  technical
assistance; and
(ix)  training.



-20-
Below is a description of each program component:
(a) i!gie des Voies Maritimes
Increase in  ydrographic Survys Capability
3.03        Bathymetric Survey Equipment: Positioning techniques currently
used by RVM are slow, and do not permit sufficient follow-up of the river
evolutions in the meandering zone. An electronic positioning system which
will improve the efficiency at a relatively modest investment consists of
three fixed beacons on the Zaire bank, and two mobile units for the laun-
ches. A new launch is also included in the program, as well as the rehab-
ilitation of three existing craft.
3.04       Topographic Survey Equipment: The electronic positioning system
proposed for thr bathymetric work will reduce the topographic support acti-
vity required. However, since topographic survey equipment is currently in
very poor condition, the program includes a new small launch, the rehabili-
tation of an existing one, and the acquisition of some long range instru-
ments.
3.05      Tide Recording Equipment:  Knowledge of water levels on the Zaire
river downstream of Matadi, affected by tides, floods and low water
periods, is essential for accurate charting of depths, and for the study of
river evolutions and sedimentation patterns. RVM needs to replace old tide
recorders, add new tide recording stations, and build supports for both old
and new stations.  Thus the program includes the acquisition of 26 regis-
tering tide recorders, their installation, and one fast launch to service
the units and retrieve the data.
3.06         Hydrometry and Sedimentology Equipment:   LRH established the
techniques currently being used for measurement of liquid and solid flows
on specified river sections; the method has proven satisfactory, requiring
only the means to carry it out. The program includes the rehabilitation of
one launch, and the acquisition of its instrumentation.   Additionally, a
catamaran type vessel for hydrometric and sedimentology research is
included as well as laboratory materials for sedimentological work to
provide a better understanding of river evolutions .
3.07       Data Processing Equipment:  To take advantage of the electronic
positioning equipment, which will increase the capability to generate chart
data, as well as to generally improve the quality and speed of the mapping,
charting, graphing and other desk functions of RVM, the program includes
the acquisition of small computers, software and associated equipment.
Improvements to Pilotage
3.08      Pilotage is one of the most important functions of RVM, and res-
toration of night navigation on a section of the river is one of the pro-
gram objectives. The most pressing needs to improve pilotage are related
to the transportation of the pilots; the program includes a new seagoing
pilot launch, the rehabilitation of three pilot launches and the acquisi-
tion of a new fast transfer launch.



- 21 -
Increase in Capability to Install and Maintain Navigation Aids
3.U9        Rehabilitation of Buo  Tender:   Insuallation, maintenance and
retrieval of buoys, in rather difficult conditions of current, is an impor-
tant function of RVM.   The buoy tender "Zaire", re-conditioned prior to
delivery to Zaire in 1960 and still in operation, needs to be rehabili-
tated; a rpcent expertise has concluded this is feasible because the bull
is in rema.iably good condition. The work would be done partly by force
account and partly by aubcontracting.
3.10      Combiuation Buoy Tender/Supply Boat. While the rehabilitation of
the buoy tender 'Zaire' takes place, RVM will be left without the capabi-
lity to maintain buoys for about eight months. Additionally it is neces-
sary to have a back-up unit for emergencies. Also the efficiency of dredg-
ing operations would be increased by having a supply boat bringing fuel,
parts and consumables to the dredges, avoiding return/resupply trips. By
combining the two functions, it is possible to justify a new craft, which
will in fact solve both problems. The new vessel will have full buoy ten-
der capabilities but will not have living accommodations.
3.11        Buoys and Buoy Maintenance Yard:  At present the condition of
many buoys is deplorable, and unsafe for navigation even in daylight. The
program includes a buoy maintenance yard, with limited fabrication capabil-
ity, the acquisition of curved end pieces and side-wall plates for about 65
buoys, welding and other yard equipment. To provide limited night naviga-
tion, conventional acetylene lights are included as well as solar panels,
which might provide the cheapest solution in the long term. Also included
are spare parts for the existing acetylene factory.
3.12       Maintenance Craft: Routine inspection and gas replenishment of
buoys, as well as repairs and construction of new land-based alignment
markers, require continued use of small craft.  The program includes the
rehabilitation of three very old craft plus the acquisition of a new one.
Improvements to Shipyard
3.13         Generally the condition of the equipment at the shipyard is
satisfactory.   The program components, listed below, will modernize the
facilities and improve their efficiency: (i) pile supported walkway to
provide access to floating dry-dock; (ii) rehabilitation of two slipways
for small craft, including new drives and repairs to the bases and the
rails; (iii) repairs to the mooring berth utilized by the dredges; (iv)
reconstitution of spare parts and materials inventory for the dredges,
small craft and other equipment; (v) miscellaneous tools and machine tools,
davits and a diesel test bench.
Improvement to Dredging Operations
3.14        The improvements in hydrographic surveys capability and to the
shipyard  should  have  a  positive  impact  on  dredging   operations.
Additionally, the following necessary actions are included in the program:
3.15       Instrumentation Aboard the Dredges:  Appropriate instrumentation
is considered indispensable in order to maximize the dredging efficiency,



- 22 -
thus the following instrumentation is included, inter alla, in the program:
(i) instantaneous charge recorder, giving the weight of the material in the
hoppers; (ii) void gage, indicating suction at the pump inLake; (iii) con-
centration gage, indicating the content of solids in the suction duct; (iv)
echosounder to establish water depth at the point of intake; (v) flow velo-
city, to know the velocity of the dredged water-sand mixture; (vi) posi-
tioning system, compatible with the one to be utilized for hydrographic
purposes.
3.16       Stationary Dredging:  Only one of RVM's dredges is capable of
dredging in a stationary position, which under certain conditions may
greatly improve the efficiency; the program includes the conversion of an
additional dredge and the acquisition of two used split bottom barges.
3.17       Sliding Doors:  Two. dredges have defective sliding doors systems
which reduce the efficiency of dredging operations. The program includes
the reconstruction of the sliding doors mechanisms, with the assistance of
the manufacturer of the dredges.
3.18      Insoection  Launch:  As explained in paragraph 3.10, the acquisi-
tion of a buoy tender/supply boat will increase the efficiency of dredg-
ing. Additionally, a small launch will permit fast access to a dredging
inspector.
3.19      Excavator:  RVM is responsible for the dredging operations at the
public piers in Matadi, for which it has a very old coal fired clamshell/
hopper dredge long past its useful life. In addition, RVM finds occasion-
ally the need to dredge hard materials on the navigation channel, but to
date it has not been able to do it, and new river evolutions strongly sug-
gest it will be required shortly to do so.  Both functions will be served
by a barge mounted hydraulic excavator included in the program.
Studies
3.20      Project Engineering and Preparation of Tender Documents:  Approx-
imately thirty-five man-months of a consultant in hydrography and naviga-
tional aids and thirty man-months of a dredging consultant are required to
prepare plans and t,.nder documents for the acquisition of equipment and
works, as well as detailed plans for the force account work. This is being
carried out under PPF financing.
3.21      Study of Economic Impact of RVM and Matadi Port Tariff Policies:
About five man-months of a specialist in shipping and a transport economist
are required to (i) study the impact of RVM and Matadi port tariff policies
on the mix of ships serving Matadi and Boma and the consequences on the
total cost of maritime transport for Zaire, and (ii) make recommendations
for improving tariff structures.
3.22      G-itechnical Investigation and Reduced Scale Model:  The evolu-
tions of the river are influenced by the river bed soil conditions, parti-
cularly by rock formations near the surface, which determine the creation
and displacements of sand banks. The knowledge of these rock formations is
an essential precondition to carrying out reduced scale laboratory studies,



- 23 -
and understanding trends in river evolutions.  Thus a geotechnical investi-
gation, including borings, soundings and geotechnical interpretations,
forms part of the investment program. Two reduced scale model studies are
also needed, the first dealing with sediment transport and supply to the
meandering zone, and the second with the dredging and possible evolutions
of the navigable channel. These studies may have a very significant impact
on the efficiency of dredging and the future depth of the channel.
Technical Assistance
3.23       Technical assistance is required to fill key positions in RVM's
organization, to assure successful implementation of the project, and to
strengthen RYM by gradual technology transfer at appropriate organizational
levels. The Administration G4n6rale de la Cooperation et du D4veloppement
(A"CI) of Belgium and LRH are currently providing technical assistance, and
have agreed to a unified approach within the context of the program, to
continue providing it.  The components (which are detailed in Annex 3.1)
have been defined as follows;
si)  Lon  Term:   About 84 man-months of assistance to fill the
ftollowing positions:   project manager, specialist in stock
management and spare parts procurement, specialist in radio-
positioning, specialists in cost acounting and financial
management.
(ii)   Short Term:   About 45 man-months of expert services  to
address specific matters in the fields of radio-positioning,
hydrography and other fields where outside support would be
needed.
Training
3.24       The program would assist RVM in strengthening its manpower plan-
ning and training capabilities and implementing its 1986-89 training plan
(Annex 2.02) as follows:
(i)   Training and Manpower Planning Assistance:   A specialist,
for 28 months, to organize the training division, define the
responsibilities of the training staff, train the training
staff, prepare a manpower development plan and update train-
ing programs.
(ii)   Overseas Training:   Overseas training of approximately 50
employees for an average of three man-months each, in the
areas of management, dredging, hydrography and nayigation
aids, pilotage, and shipyard operations, to be carried out
overseas, coordinated and organized by an institution spe-
cialized in training and executed by public and private
sector firms having appropriate training facilities and pro-
grams. The exact program for each individual has to be work-
ed out in detail by RVM's training division.   At negotia-
tions, RVM agreed to submit no later than January 30, 1987,
such a program for IDA's approval.



- 24 -
(Iii) Local Training: Local training of about 250 employees for an
average of two man-months in almost all areas related to
RVM's work. This will be carried out by local institutions
such as ONt.4's navigation school or the Institut National
de Preparation z-ofessionelle (INPP).
(iv)  Training Aids:  Vehicles to provide transport to local train-
ing centers, didactic and audiovisual materials, and miscel-
laneous expenses for training seminars.
(b) Regie des Voies Fluviales
Improvements to General Services
3.25       Civil works at shipyardi  Built in 1955, the existing basin and
the pier separating it from the Klngabwa channel are generally in very poor
condition; overdue repairs to the pier walls, slope protection, mooring
rings, and wood fendering must be done quickly due to the risk to the pier
stablity imposed by the annual river floods. The slipway requires some re-
levelling work and the construction of the foundation for a new crane. The
work will be carried out by contractors.
3.26      Rehabilitation of offices and buildings   The offices of the hy-
drographical and technical services are dispersed without any logical plan
over a large area, making difficult the control and decreasing the effi-
ciency of the work; the sewer and electrical lines and other basic facili-
ties also need urgent repairs. About 1500m2 of existing buildings will be
renovated; this will be carried out by contractors. Additional minor rep-
airs will be done by force account.
3.27      Small Computers and Software:  The calculations and drawing func-
tions of the hydrographic services personnel are done today using old fash-
ioned tools and methodology; the efficiency and the quality of their work
would be enhanced by the introduction of some small computers, software,
and associated equipment.
Increase in Hydrographic Surveys Capability
3.28        Precision Hydrographic Instruments:   In recent years Belgian
Cooperation has supplied RVF with instruments; however, there is still an
insufficient number of levels and their accessories, water level recorders,
echosounders, sedimentological kits, and other specialized hydrographic
equipment, which are included in the program.
3.29      Radio Communications System:  The enormous area covered by RVF's
operations, and the need to have missions of many months duration on remote
locations, make the coordination and supervision of field work extremely
difficult; the program includes 28 long distance radios and four telex
units.
3.30      Hydrographic Survey Launch:  Detailed surveys conducted regularly
by RVF should be preceded by reconnaissance missions to prepare and plan
the work; it is also necessary to conduct inspection trips, and at times to
assist the survey crews in carrying out special studies, To achieve these



-25-
objectives, a fast survey launch, fully equipped, is included in the pro-
gram.
Means to Carry out Special Studies and Works
3.31      Flood and Low Water ForecastiLg:  RVF needs to be able to predict
the flood and low waters, In order to inform the river users, to plan its
own operations, and to better understand the hydrology of the river. This
is particularly important in some areas of the VN, such as the Kasai rock
passes, for which ONATRA must know in advance the maximum draught accept-
able for each convoy. This continually on-going work requires the instal-
lation of level recorders and long duration field missions to measure level
and flow in selected river sections.  This component includes field and
travel expenses, equipment and personnel.
3.32      Study and Improvement of Kasai River Rock Passes:  Navigation on
the Kasai river between Dima and Kese is very difficult due to the exist-
ence of rocks, high currents, moveable sand banks and narrow passages, con-
ditions which have caused a number of accidents in the past few years.
Between 1940 and 1960 navigation conditions were quite safe, due to the
construction of many fixed markers, appropriate navigation alignments, and
occasional minor dredging works, but all are in very poor condition today.
An urgently required detailed survey and reconstruction of markings is
included in the program.
3.33       Study of Kasai River Sand Passes:  In some areas of the Kasai
there are wide pools, characterized by the axistence of many islands and
sand banks, in permanent evolution, among which the river meanders conti-
nuously, seasonally and unpredictably changing the location of the naviga-
tion channel; in order to arrive at a stable and passable channel, a long
term study is required, and its first phase is included in the program.
3.34        Photogrammetry of the Kasai River:  The continuously changing
configuration of the sand passes and pools of the Kasai forces RVF to
periodically update the charts. A complete aerial photography coverage of
the Kasai river, about 600km., is included in the program.
3.35       Rehabilitation of Pexmanent Navigation Aids:  In many areas of
the VN there is a clear need for permanent navigation aids, including both
the rehabilitation of old markers and construction of new ones. This type
of work is done by RYF's own crews, and requires lodging barges, river
supply boats, construction materials and hydrographic supervision.
3.36,      Self-powered Clamshell Dred);e:  RVF's functions include maint-
enance dredging along public piers on the river's ports, as well as occa-
sional dredging and removing of obstructions on the navigation passes. For
this function it currently has a very old and difficult to maintain dredge,
and a replacement unit is included in the program.
Increase in Capability to Install and Maintain Navigation Aids:
3.37       Inspection Craft:  Inspection of navigation aids helps adequate
planning of the maintenance and replacement of these aids. Additionally,
inspectors should have the ability to correct defective signals, and



- 26 -
therefore require a buoy tender type of craft. Thus the program includes
one new inspection craft comparable to a small buoy tender.
3.38       Buoy Tender:  RVF plans to scrap four very old small buoy ten-
ders, aged 50 to 70 years, and to replace them with one new modern unit and
one older one which needs to be rehabilitated. This is required to provide
minimum maintenance of navigational aids in secondary rivers.
3.39       Fast Launch, Lake Tanganylika:  This unit would replace one des-
troyed in the 1960s, restoring RVF's ability to install and maintain navig-
ational aids on Lake Tanganyika, necessary for the safety of navigation and
required by international rules.
Improvements to Shipyard
3.40       Rebuilding of Materials and Parts Stocks:   RVF has suffered a
chronic lack of parts and materials. While Belgium has given some assist-
ance, the stocks are again at or near zero. The program includes a minimum
level of parts and stocks sufficient to cover the needs for  about one
year. RVF is expected to replenish the stocks on a regular basis, closely
following the rate of utilization.
3.41       Rehabilitation of Shop Equipment:  The program includes repairs
and reconstruction of components such as slipway motors and machine shop
lathes, as well as acquisition of new components such as various motors,
welding machines, hoists, testing bench, etc. A major portion is the comp-
letion and rehabilitation of equipment previously supplied by USAID. The
actual assembly and repair work will be done by force account.
3.42      Shipyard Mobile Equipment:  The shipyard needs urgently, for its
correct and efficient operation, some mobile equipment, including two fork-
lifts, one tractor and trailer, one flatbed truck, and some small vehicles,
all included in the investment program.
3.43         Slipway Crane:  The slipway maintenance and hull repair work
would be made much more efficient by the provision of a mobile crane which
would permit lifting heavy plates and motors, faster and more securely.
This is included in the investment program.
Rehabilitation of Existing Craft
3.44      The rehabilitation of existing craft, the biggest and most impor-
tant component of RVF's investment program will include 10 buoy tenders, 3
barges, 6 small pushers, 2 dredges, 6 launches and 2 clamshell hopper
barges. The program will be carried out partly by force account and partly
by subcontracting to local yards.
Studies and Supervision of Project Execution
3.45       Engineering and Preparation of Tender Documents:  Approximately
thirty man-months of consultants' work is required to prepare plans and
tender documents for the civil works and the acquisition of equipment and
parts, as well as to prepare the detailed plans for the work to be carried
out by force account.   This work, almost completed by negotiations, is
carried out under PPF financing.



- 27 -
3.46       Supervision of Project Execution:  Given the complexity of pro-
ject execution, the fact that a large part of the work is -expected to be
cArried out by force account and RVF'a shortage of technical experts, the
program includes four man-years of supervision by various specialists who
would ensure the quality control of the work and be responsible to the pro-
ject implementation unit (para. 3.53).
Technical Assistance
3.47      Technical assistance is required to fill key positions in RVF's
organization, to assure successful implementation of the Project, and to
strengthen RVF by  gradual  technology  transfer  at high organizational
levels.  USAID and AGZD, which had already committed important technical
assistance components to RVF prior to the Project appraisal, have agreed to
a unified and consistent approath.   Neverthelessj their components are
herein listed separately for ease of comprehension (with details in Aanex
3.01).
(i) USAID: To carry out studies in the Kasai and install navi-
gation marks, USAID will provide two hydrographers, total-
ling about 32 man-months.   Additionally, to assist RVF in
ordering parts and materials to rehabilitate shop equipment,
USAID will provide a machine-tool specialist for about 12
months.
(ii)  AGCD:   Continuing an on-going program, AGCD would provide
about 178 man-months over a five year period, including the
following positions: (i) navigation aids expert; (ii) spec-
ialist in stock management and spare parts procurement;
(iii) shipyard director; and (iv) financial specialist; and
short-term missions by hydrographers.
(iii) Other Technical Assistance: Additional technical assistance
is required for (i) project management (about 36 man-_onths)
and (ii) short-term missions by technical specialists (about
12 man-months), and is included in the program.
Training
3.48       As for RVM, the program would assist RVF in strengthening its
manpower planning and training capabilities and implementing its 1986-90
training plan (Annex 2.10).  To that purpose, it includes:
(i)  Training  and  Manpower  Planning  Assistance:    A  training
specialist, for a 12-month assignment and 12 man-month
short-term missions, to organize the training and manpower
planning functions in RVF Including the training of traintng
staff and the preparation of basic procedures and programs;
(ii)  Overseas Training:   Training of approximately 15 employees
for an average of 3.5 man-months each, in the areas of
management, hydrography, navigation aids, and shipyard oper-
ations, to be carried out overseas, organized and coord-
inated by a specialized training institution, and executed
by public and private sector organizations, having suitable
training facilities.  The detailed program for each indivi-
dual shall be worked out by RVF training division, assisted



- 28 -
by the training specialist. At negotiations, RVF agreed to
submit, no later than June 30, 1987, such a program for
IDA's approval.
(iii)  Local Training:   Local training of about 240 employees for
an average of two man-months in most technical areas. This
would be carried out by suitable local institutions.
(iv) Training Aids:  A vehicle to ensure transport of personnel
to  various  training  centers   at  Kinshasa,   production
material, audio-visual-equipment and other minor items,
C.   Project Cost and Financing Plan
3.49       The total Project cost, including contingencies, shown in Table
3.1 on the following page and detailed  in Annexes  3.02 and 3.03,  is
estimated ct US$ 47.9 million (US$ 22.4 million for RVM and US$ 25.5
million for RVF).  The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$ 37.7
million (US$ 18.9 million for RVM and US  18.8 million for RVF), or about
79% of total cost.   Base costs are in September 1986 prices.   Physical
contingencies of 10.0% I/ on local and foreign costs have been added to
base costs excluding consultant services and  training.   Foreign price
contingencies are as follows: 7.2% in 1986, 6.8% in 1987 and 1988, 7.0% in
1989,  7.1% in  1990,  and  4.0%  thereafter.    Local  inflation  has  been
projected at 20% per year from 1986 on. It has also been assumed that the
exchange rate would be adjusted to compensate for the difference between
local and international inflation.   Costs are net of taxes and duties,
since both Regies are exempted from payment of taxes and duties on goods
and services acquired for investment purpose.
3.50         Cost estimates were prepared by engineering consultants and
reviewed by the appraisal mission.   Cost estimates have been derived as
follows: (i) for equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies, defined at
final engineering level, they are based on engineers' estimates, and are
supported by informal quotations; since most project items are standard,
this is sufficient; (ii) for civil works, where applicable, estimates are
based on final engineering for the quantities and on current contracts for
the unit prices; (iii) for technical assistance, consultant services and
training, estimates are based on actual costs for similar services rendered
under other projects in Zaire.
3.51      The USS 37.7 million foreign exchange cost of the Project would
be financed by IDA, AGCD and USAID and the US$ 10.2 million local cost by
RVM, RVF and AGCD.  Project items to be financed by IDA, AGCD, USAID and
the RCegies are detailed in Annex 3.08. The proposed IDA Credit of US$ 27.6
million would finance 58% of the Project's total cost. US$ 1.0 million has
already been made available by IDA to Zaire under a PPF to finance part of
the Project's consulting services and technical assistance. This would be
refinanced by the IDA Credit.  Government would onlend th- proceeds of the
Credit to RVM and RVF, at 9.1% interest rate for 16 years, including 6
years grace, and with a 0.75% commitment fee. RVM and RVF would bear the
1/   Civil works are only 6% of the total costs.



- 29 -
Table 3.1: Cost Eatnte l/
Local Foreign Total Local ForeIp Total Foreign as
--l.llion Zares--  ---S$ MLlios-     % Of Total
A. Mae Des Voies Msrities
Iwxease in Hydrographic Surwy
CalablIity                        17.1   105.5   122.6    0.3    1.8   2.1      86
Iroements to Pilotage               5.3    29.6    34.9   0.1    0.5   0.6        85
Iuirovosit to vigation Aids        56.4   175.9   232.3    1.0   3.1   4.1        76
I1 8)ovSets to StIpyard            14.6    86.5   101.1    0.3    1.5   1.8       85
WovBt  in iraedging Operations    23.4   208.1   231.5    0.4    3.7   4.1        90
Stife 2/                           22.8    74.2    97.0   0.4    1.3   1.7        76
Unical Assistne 2/                  8.2    81.9    90.1    0.1    1.5   1.6       91
TraIni=~                  6.8    49.3    56.1    0.1    0.8   0.9      88
Sib-total          154.6   811.0   965.6   2.7   14.2  16.9
B. lMgLe Des Voies Fluviales
Iwpovesmits to  1nera1 Services    23.9    6.7    30.6    0.4    0.1   0.5        22
rease in Hdr          Survey
Capability                        14.0   57.2    71.2    0.3    1.0   1.3       80
Mums for Speca Stwfies aol Wlr     68.4    85.1   153.5    1.2    1.5   2.7       55
merease in apability to lIall and
Nintain  bvigatian Aids           32.9   107.5  140.4   0.6    1.9   2.5        76
ITnrovewits to Shipyard            16.9   127.9   144.8   0.3    2.2   2.5       88
nId1uhQjtatjon of EKtstixg craft  113.2   184.7   297,9    2.0    3.2   5.2       62
Studies and apei,n                  6.1    29.5    35.6   0.1    0.5   0.6        83
¶IIeIical Ad sistane 2-             5.3   186.6   191.9    0.1    3.3   3.4       97
ltainlng                            10.5   20.6    31.1    0.2    0.3   0.';      66
Sbb-total          291.2   8)5.8  1097.0    5.2   14.0  19.2
Base Cost                         445.9  1616.8  2062.7    7.9   2&2  36.1        78
Physical Ontlngeies                38.6   117.4   156.0   0.7    2.1   2.8       76
Prle Cbnrirgenci                 397.1  1539.6  1936.8   1.6    7.4   9.0       82
Total (nst of taxes)              881.6  3273.8  4155.5   10.2   37.7  47.9      79
1J/ Septenber 30, 1986 priees, with IU$  z 57.0; difetences of one decinrl are due co rouding.
Z/ Studles for eqUeering and preparation of tender doemaents (about 65 uaruxintbs for RN and 30
usnn  tls for RVF) and techdical awsistance to initiate project _nt (about 6 mwn-umtbs for
RM and about 6 Imrucntbs fcr RYF) are financed by a US$ 1.0 mWlJ.o PFF.



- 30 -
foreign exchange risk. The signing of subsidiary loan agreements accept-
able to the Bank would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. The Project
financing plan is shown in Table 3.2 below:
Table 3.2: Project Financing Plan
RVM comPonent       RVF component          Total
Local    Foreign     Local   Foreign    Local   Forelin
(US$ million)       (US$ million)       (US$ million)
IDA                     16.8         -       10.8       -        27.6
AGCD           --         2.1        0.8      6.5        0.8      8.6
USAID          -         -           -        1.5       -         1.5
iv97R-F     3.5       -           5.9      -         9.4      -
Total          3.5       18.9        6.7     18.        10. 2    V7
The formalisation of the financing agreements with AGCD would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness.   The USAID financing has already been approved.
D.   Implementation and Monitoring
3.52       The Project would be implemented by RVM and RVF.  With the sup-
port provided by the technical assistance and training components of the
project, each Regie would have the capacity to carry out its implementa-
tion. Project implementation started in 1986 under AGCD and USAID finan-
cing and both Rggies' own resources, and would be completed by December 31,
1993. The implementation schedules, shown for RVM in Annex 3.04 and for
RVF in Annex 3.05, were reviewed at negotiations.
3.53        Both RVF and RUM have recently created project implementation
units (PIU) to organize and supervise the execution of the Project and, in
the future, assume responsibility for other projects.   There is a good
understanding between the two Regies and IDA on the PIUs' roles and, in
particulars their integration in the companies' organizational structure
and their responsibility to coordinate effectively the activities of the
various departments involved in the Project. At negotiations, RVN and RVF
agreed to maintain PIUs under terms of reference acceptable to IDA. A pro-
ject manager would be nominated by each Regie as soon as required, in any
case, as a condition of Credit effectiveness and the position would be
maintained thereafter. Terms of reference for the project manager are in
Annex 3.06. The project manager's experience and qualifications and terms
of employment would be acceptable to IDA.
3.54        A critical aspect of the upgrading of each R'gie's management
system is to monitor, through selected performance indicators (shown In
Annex 3.7), their operating efficiency, and to take required corrective
actions in a timely manner. At negotiations, each R6gie agreed to prepare
and submit to IDA's review by February 28 each year, starting In 1988, an
analysis of lts performance against these indicators together with correct-
ive measures to be taken to improve performance. The targets for 1987 were
agreed upon by each RU-gie during negotiations. The targets for each of the
subsequent years would be submitted by each RUgie for IDA's approval by
November 30 of each year starting in 1987.



- 31 -
E.    Procurement
3.55           Proposed  procureient  arrangements  are  summarized  in Table  3.3
below-.
Table 8.8 - Procura_nt Arrnagnents
Ptolect Element                                    Mto------  r rSuent    thod-
Ic       ieOhr1   ../ TOTAL
2. RVM
(a) Civil works                 0.0     (.2       0.8      90       1 
0.0     (9.7)   (0.8)      09.     (1.1)
(b) Hdrographi. and             0 9      0.0      0.1      0 .      1.0
survey equipment           (09.)    9.0      (0.1)     o.0     ( .7)
(e) New floating craft          7.6      9.0      0.4      g.0      8.1
(6.7)    0.0      (0.1)    0.0      (6.8)
td) Sr   r,Inetryon             1        1.0      1.3      a.o      4.1
ttlo  nnd art~ hntnbiI     (1 6)    (0.6)    (0.8)     9.0    (2.9)
(Navgation  id                  1.8 0     .0 0     .00     0 0      I 
parts ond materials        (1.8)     0.0      0.       0.90    (1.8)
(f) Maintenonce and ship-       0.4      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.4
yard equipment             (0.4)     0.0      0.9      0.9    (0.4)
(9) Consulting servics          0. 0              I9 1     9.       1.5
0.0      9.9     (0.9)     0.9     (9.9)
(h) Technical assIstance        0.9    0a a       209) 2.0          2.0
90f      0.0     (0.9      9.0    (0.9)
(1) Training                    0.2      0.0      1.2      0.0      1.4
(0.2)    0.0    (1.0)    0.0    (1.2)
) Refinancing PPF               a 0      0.0      9.0      0.7      9 7
0.0      6.0      0.0    (0.7)    (0.7)
Subtotal RVM          12 6      2 2      6 9      0.7    22.4
(10.8)    (1.2)    (4.1)    (0.7)   (16.8)
(a) Civil works                 0.0      1.6      0.0      0.0      1.8
0.0    (0.2)      0.0      0.0     (9.2)
(b) Hdrographig  rt             ao.2     0.0      0.7      0.0      0.9
r vy equipmen              (0.1)    0.0       9.0      9.0     (9.1)
kc) Nmw flo ting craft          8.8      0.9      2.6      9 0      5.8
(2.0)    0.0      0.0      0.0      (2.8)
(   p    pr)   atrvme4n-        3.8      0.0      4.?      0.0      s.a
tton *na r4, el blt-   (3-3)     0 -0    (1 9)    o 0       (6.1)
craft       *.0      *.u      9.0      9.0      0.0
parta and materIals         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
(f) Maintenance and ship-       9.8      0.a     1        0.0      1.9
yard equipment             (. 2)    0.0      (9.4)     0.0     (0.6)
(a) Consulting services        0°     0.9         0.8      0 .      0.8
0.0      9.9    (9.6)      9.0    (0.6)
(6) Technical *asitannce       0.0       9.9      5.1      0.0      5.1
0.0      0.0     (1.0)     0.0    (1.0)
(I) Training                    0.0      0.0      9.7      0.0    0a7
0.0      0.0    (0.8)      0.0    (0.8)
) Ref in ascoil PPF            0.0       9.0      g.0      .8,     .a8
0.9      0.9      9.0     (0.8)    (0.8)
Subt-otal RVF          7.4      1.8    10.2        A .    25.5
(6.2)    (02)    (4.1)    (; .)   (106.)
TOTAL RVM AND RYF     29.9      8.7    281       (1.      47.
(17.9)    (1.4)    (6.2)    (0)   (.6)
NOe~ ~ ~    ~ ~~ ~V S&  ft#*n rn    °   trureloounvu  0tn*nc*d bydtho 1111no",
_1/ wo    peocui unzr   t * sooule nxulziso or under Go-    Mot
_v=W°lC.    u



-32-
3.56       The rehabilitation of vessels and equipment would be carried out
mostly by force account, slace there is no alternative dry dock available
in the case of RVM and only one alternative private slipway, with varying
capaeity constraints, in the case of RVF. Detailed programs of rehabilita-
tion were reviewed at negotiations. The procurement of materials and parts
required for the rehabilitation would be done mostly by ICB and only the
fitting and assembly work by force account. RVN and RVF have experience in
rehabilitation work and, with the support of the Project, are expected to
bi^e the capability to carry out satisfactorily the force account work.
3.57      New equipment, new vessels, spare parts, instruments, tools, sup-
plies and materials financed by IDA would be procured on the banis of ICB,
in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines (May 1985) with a separate con-
tract for each type or groups of similar types of goods. All items would
be procured on the basis of lists approved by IDA. Items costing no more
than US$50,000, but not exceeding US$ 0.5 million in the aggregate for each
R0gle would be procured by international and local shopping on the basis of
at least three quotations from different suppliers, dealers or manufac-
turers.   Proprietary spare parts would be procured by direct contracting
after negotiations for an amount not to exceed US$ 0.5 million equivalent
for each Regie. Exceptions to ICB would therefore not exceed US$ 2.0 mil-
lion or less than 20% of the total IDA financing concerning new equipment,
new vessels, spare parts, instruments, tools, supplies and materials.
3.58       Civil works contracts would be awarded following LCB because the
size of the contracts is unlikely to attract foreign contractors.   Local
procedures have been reviewed and found acceptable.
3.59       All contracts above US$ 50,000, about 90% of total project cost
excluding technical assistance, consulting services and training, would be
submitted for prior review by the Association.
3.60       Most special studies of the Kasai would be carried out by force
account. All other studies would be carried out by consultants. Experts
and consultants, financed by IDA, would be recruited as needed, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA and in accordance with the August 1981
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants".   Training would be provided by
specialized institutions selected by the R6gies in accordance with their
specific needs after consulting several possible candidates and under terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
F. Disbursements
3.61      IDA credit fr-.s3 would be disbursed on the following basis:
(i)  Vessels:  100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local ex-
penditures;
(ii) Spare parts, supplies, materials and equipment (except
vessels): 100% of foreign expenditures; 80% of local expen-
ditures for ex-factory costs; and 75X of local expenditures
for other items purchased domestically;
(lii) Civil works: 100% of foreign and 20X of local expenditures;
(iv)  Technical   assistance,   consulting   services   and   data
processing: 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local
expenditures;



- 33 -
(v)   Training fellowships and teaching materials;  10O  of total
expenditures.
3.62       All claims would be fully documented except for claims relating
to any contract, purchase order, or training activity (paras. 3.24 and
3.48) whose value is less than US$ 20,000 that would be submitted under
statements of expenditures.   The documentation for these claims would be
held in RYM and RVF and made available for inspection by IDA supervision
missions.   In order to expedite and facilitate disbursements, each R6gie
would open a Special Account in a foreign currency and in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.   The Association
would deposit an amount of US$ 0.25 million equivalent in foreign exchange-
in each Special Account. The Accounts would be replenished on the basis of
withdrawal applications submitted monthly.  These applications would also
comprise a statement of account movements since the last application, and a
reconciliation showing that the balance represents the original amount
deposited in the account less payments for which a withdrawal application
is submitted.
3.63      The estimated schedule of disbursements of IDA funds for both RVM
and RVF is shown in Table 3.4. The disbursement schedule follows the typ-
ical disbursement profile for Zaire.   The closing date is December 31,
1994.
Table 3.4 - Estimated Disbursement Schedule of IDA Credit
IDA Fiscal Year            Disbursement During    Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                    Quarter             at the end of Quarter
---US$ million                US$ million---
RVM           RVF
1987   March 31, 1987         0.7            0.3               1.0 I/
June 30, 1987          0.1           0.1               1.2
1988   September 30, 1987    0.2             0.2               1.6
December 31, 1987      0.3           0.1               2.0
March 31, 1988         0.2           0.2               2.4
June 30, 1988          0.3           0.1               2.8
1989   September 30, 1988    0.7             0.4               3.9
December 31, 1988      0.7           0.4               5.0
March 31, 1989         0.7            0.4              6.1
June 30, 1989          0.7           0.4               7.2
1990   September 20, 1989    1.0             0.6              8.8
December 31, 1989      1.0           0.6              10.4
March 31, 1990         1.0            0.7             12.1
June 30, 1990          1.0           0.7              13.8
1991   September 30, 1990    0.9             0.6              15.3
December 31, 1990      0.9           0.6              16.8
March 31, 1991         0.9            0.6             18.3
June 30, 1991          0.8           0.6              19.7



-34-
1992   September 30, 1991    0.8             0.4              20.9
December 31, 1991      0.7           0.3              21.9
March 31, 1992         0.7            0.3             22.9
June 30, 1992          0.5           0.3              23.7
1993   September 30, 1992    0.3             0.3             24.3
December 31, 1992      0.3            0.3             24.9
March 31, 1993         0.3            0.3             25.5
June 30, 1993          0.3           0.3              26.1
1994   September 30, 1993    0.2             0.3              26.6
December 31, 1993      0.2           0.2              27.0
March 31, 1994         0.2            0.1             27.3
June 30, 1994          0.2           0.1              27.6
1/  This amount is repayment of the PPF.
G. Auditing and Reporting Requirements
3.64      At negotiations each Regie agreed to have its annual accounts and
financial statements, including Project-related statements of expenditures
and Special Accounts, audited each year during the Project period by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit report would be furnished to
IDA no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. The audit-
ors would be required to attach a report of compliance with financial cove-
nants to the audit report.
3.65      At negotiations, each RGgie agreed to prepare quarterly progress
reports of a format and content acceptable to the Association. The report
would be submitted to the Association no later than two months after the
end of each quarter. RVM and RVF also agreed to prepare a project comple-
tion report in a form acceptable to the Association no later than six
mounths after the closing date of the Project.
H. Environmental Aspects
3.66       None of the Project's elements would adversely affect the envi-
ronment. Dredging of the meandering section of the Zaire River downstream
of Boma applies mainly to recurrent sediments, and its disposal would not
affect the area as it is a negligible amount in comparison with the natural
sand displacements.



- 35 -
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. General
4.01         Since the first PIP (1979), one of Zaire's top priorities has
been to improve the performance of its basic transport system which is of
key importance to agriculture and mining, the two sectors which are expect-
ed to lead a recovery of the economy. With much needed assistance in the
form of both foreign exchange and technical assistance from the interna-
tional aid community, significant progress has been achieved in many
areas. The performance of ONATRA and OR has improved in the past years.
Important rehabilitation and modernization programs are being implemented
in these two public agencies as well as in SNCZ. However, because of the
high complementarity between transport modes in Zaire, it is essential that
improvements also'take place at RVM and RVF, the two agencies responsible
for the river network, a central piece of Zaire's transport system.
Despite recent improvements, the performance of RVM and RVF on the whole
has not been very goodfor many years and the facilities and equipment of
both agencies have badly deteriorated. The Project's main objective is to
rehabilitate RVM and RVF and strengthen their organization and management
so that they become able to fulfill their role according to sound technical
and economic criteria. This Is consistent with Zaire's economic develop-
ment strategy a' elaborated in its latest PIP in which the Project is in-
cluded.
B. Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.02       The Project is a comprehensive program to enable RVM and RVF to
perform at the appropriate level of economic efficiency given current con-
ditions and alternative investment opportunities in Zaire. This would be
achieved by a considerable rehabilitation of both R6gie's equipment and
facilities, the replacement of worn-out equipment, the introduction of new
technologies and the strengthening of management, organization and staff.
As the productivity of both Regies increases, navigation on the sections of
the river network that they control would become easier and faster. Better
use of the current equipment of shipping companies and river operators
would be fostered; introduction of larger, more efficient vessels would be
encouraged; and investments needed to satisfy transport demand would be
reduced.
4.03       Shipping oompanies and river operators would be the main direct
beneficiaries of the project. In the case of the RVM's component, whenever
spot chartered ships or CMZ's vessels are concerned (about 50Z of the total
tonnage of 1990), Project benefits would be passed on fully to Zaire under
the form of lower shipping rates and reduced operating costs. Whenever
other foreign shipping companies are concerned, it has been assumed, as is
currently the case under port projects, that only 50% of the benefits would
be passed on to Zaire under the form of special discounts or lower shipping
rates, This would benefit importers and exporters and, tIh ough higher pro-
ducers' income, eventually trickle down through the economy. In the case
of the RVF's component, Project benefits would be vassed on to producers
and consumers to a large extent, since river transport is becoming increas-
ingly competitive in Zaire as shown by recent developments such as the
changes in carriers' traffic shares.   Agricultural production and rural



- 36 -
areas should particularly benefit from reduced transport rates. In gener-
al, a very large share of Project benefits will consist of foreign exchange
savings, contributing therefore to the removal of one of the main con-
straints to the development of Zairets economy.
C. Traffic Projections
(a) Factors Affecting Traffic
4.04       Future traffic at Matadi and Boma and on the river network will
depend on three major. factorsl/:   (i) the economic performance of Zaire
and in particular the developmeut of agriculture; (ii) GECAMINES' mineral
production; and (iii) availability and use of the southern routes for ex-
port of mineral products and import to Shaba.   These factors are briefly
analyzed below:
4.05       Zaire Economic Performance:  On the whole, the economy of Zaire
has been stagnant in the past few years.   Medium-term prospects for the
prices of Zaire's main export commodities are not good and even with
reasonable assumptions concerning debt reschedullig and capital inflows,
the country will continue to face a severe shortage of foreign exchange as
well as an inadequate level of investment.  It has therefore been assumed
that Zaire's economy would at best experience a slow growth from 1985 on
(about 3%). Import volumes would remain below their pre-crisis level until
1990 then increase by about 3% a year. Mineral production, as explained
below, would remain stagnant. Fuel imports would remain at their 1984-1985
level until 1990, then rise slowly. Agricultural production would increase
about 4% per year, which would generate a higher demand for manufactured
products inside Zaire and reverse the current trend of an increasing share
of bulky food products among imports. The only expected major development
is an increase in exports of forestry products from about 110,000 Tons in
1985 to 600,000 Tons in 2000, the maximum capacity of Matadi port.  This
would take place mostly in the 1990s; it is justified by the high propor-
tion (currently over 50%) of African timber reserves which are located in
Zaire and the gradual exhaustion of exploitable resources in some of the
main producers (Ivory Coast in particular).
4.06      GECAMINES' Production.  It is assumed that all measures would be
taken to enable GECAMINES to maintain its total mineral production at
550,000 tons per year, which is about the maximum level of past years and
the goal of its five-year investment program; given GECAMINES' competitive
position on international markets, it is also realistic to assume that this
level can be sustained  on the long term.   This requires  considerable
Investments.  As a result, GECAMINES imports are expected to regain their
high level of the late 1970s.
lJ The possibility of creating a commercial port in Banana with good road
and rail connections to Kinshasa does not affect traffic projections
substantially since it would not be justified until Zaire's maritime
traffic reach a much higher level and traffic diversion from Matadi
would be large only if the types of vessels serving the West African
coast changed drastically.



- 37 -
4.07         Availability and Use of Alternative International Transport
Links:   It is expected that the recent improvement in the VN's capacity
would continue in the future and that mineral exports on the VN would in-
crease from about 275,000 Tons in 1985 to 350,000 Tons in 1990 and 400,000
Tons in 1995.  These improvements, which are a main government objective
for economic as well as strategic reasons, can be attained with the major
rehabilitation efforts undertaken or planned in ONATRA and SNCZ and suppor-
ted by international aid agencies. A similar rate of increase is assumed
for import traffic on the VN, especially since increased containerization
of cargo reduces transit time. These projections also reflect the increas-
ing capacity constraints on alternative southern export routes where some
disruption may occur in future years.  The reopening of the Lobito route
coulk somewhat affect this development but its impact orn the VN traffic is
likely to be limited. Actual reopening of this route is highly dependent
upon an improved political situation in the region and would in any case
require heavy investments for rehabilitation. More importantly, only part
of its transport capacity would be available to Zairian traffic; this would
be completely utilized in transporting Zairian manganese exports and traf-
fic diverted from the more costly southern route.
(b) Traffic Forecasts
4.08       Traffic forecasts are shown in Annex 4.01 to 4.03 and summarized
in Table 4.1 as follows:
Table 4.1 Traffic Forecasts
1985        1990         1995        2000
Matadi (000 Tons)
Except Petroleum Products    1,365         1,570        1,950       2,330
Petroleum Products              728          715         850          980
Boma  (000 Tons)                   96           84           73          72
River Transport  (000 Tons)    1,073         1,306        1,679       2,022
Traffic would increase on average moderately at Matadi (+3.5%
yearly) and somewhat faster on the river network (+4.3% yearly), mainly
because the share of forestry products and mineral exports is higher in the
latter etse. Traffic at Boma would, on the contrary, decrease by about 2%
each year as local timber reserves become exhausted and production is
phased out.
D. Economic Analysis
(a) Rggie des Voies Maritimes
4.09      The 'with" and "without" Project Cases:  if the project is imple-
mented, a depth of 28 feet would become available in the navigation channel
at least ten months per year instead of an unreliable average of 24 feet,
if only minimum improvements are made to current conditions; in addition,



- 38 -
the security of navigation would be higher.   As a result, larger ships
would be calling at Matadl and Bomi  and the average load per ship would
increase considerably. The expected number and types of ships to serve
Matadi and Bona and their average load in the "with' and 'without" project
cases are detailed tn Annexes 4.04 to 4.07. In brief, the main differences
are the following:  The total number of container and polyvalent ships
serving Matadi/Bona would be reduced from 68 and 130 to 50 and 101, res-
pectively, in 1995, and from 76 and 160 to 56 and 124, respectively, in
2000.  The average load per wheat bulk carrier would increase from 9,600
tons to 13,600 tons. The average amount of petroleum products unloaded at
Noanda and carried up river by barge would be reduced from 13,400 tons to
5,400 tons.  In addition, ships would gain, on the average, 4 hours per
round-trip because of the possibility of navigating at night on about two-
thirds of the channel. These changes would reduce substantially the cost
of maritime transport to and from Zaire.
4.10       Main asaugtions:  Not all project investments have been consi-
dered in the economic analysis since certain investments are necessary to
maintain a channel of 24 feet depth and an acceptable situation for naviga-
tion aids and pilotage.   The two main items excluded from Project costs
are the rehabilitation of the buoy tender 'Zaire" and the excavator dredge,
for which technical alternatives were analyzed and a least-cost solution
was found. The total cost of the items excluded from the economic analysis
is US$ 3.8 million (in December 1985 terms) or 24% of the base cost of
RVM's project component. The economic analysis is carried over a period of
20 years, a conservative estimate of service life for most project items.
Components that have a shorter service life have been replaced as appro-
priate, and in all necessary cases, residual values have been included.
All costs and benefits are expressed in December 1985 terms and are net of
taxes. The rate of exchange was US$ - Z 55. No conversion factors have
been used.   Detailed data for the caleulation of benefits are in Annex
4.08.
4.11       The cost and benefit streams of RVM's project component are in
Annex 4.09. The resulting base case economic rate of return (ERR) is about
33% which shows that this component is highly justified. Three sensitivity
scenarios have also been analyzed: (i) if project implementation is slower
than expected by about two years, the ERR decreases to about 28Z; (ii) if
the productivity of RVM does not increase as expected and the depth avail-
able in the channel is only 26 feet on average ten months per year, the ERR
decreases to about 16%; (iII) if traffic increases by only half of the pro-
jected growth rate, the ERR decreases to about 26%. These results are anal-
yzed in paras. 4.19 and 4.20 below.
4.12      During project preparation and appraisal, analyses were also car-
ried out to ensure that the Project allows RVM to reach an optimum level of
activity.   It was found in particular that the ERR on the marginal costs
required to reach a higher water depth (30 feet) or to permit night naviga-
tion in the entire channel with the same water depth (28 feet) would only
be on the order of 5% and 10% respectively.  In the first case, the ERR is
low essentially because the Project target water depth is the minimum depth
that would allow Matadi to benefit fully from the technological develop-
ments in shipping on the West African coast and that an increased depth



- 39 -
would not bring more technological change.  In the case of night naviga-
tion, the low ERR i8 a consequence of the meandering nature of the naviga-
tion channel.  If its lay-out were to become less difficult in the future,
as was the case several times in the past, night navigation In the entire
channel might become an economically justified objective.
(b) Regie des Voles Fluviales
4.13      The "with" and "without" protect cases:  If the project is imple-
mented, there would be about 7.5 buoy tenders available full time instead
of only about 3.0 to maintain navigation channels on the Zaire and Kasai
rivers and their main affluents.  All difficult passes, particularly the
dangerous rocky passes of the Kasai, would be adequately marked, with navi-
gational aids suitable for night navigation.   Hydrographic surveys, the
basis for channel maintenance work and updating of charts, would also ihr
prove significantly in volume and quality. As a result, the average turn
around time per convoy using the Zaire and Kasai rivers and their affluents
would be reduced by about 77 hours and 106 hours respectively from 1992
on. In addition grounding accidents would become exceptional. These est-
imates are based on an analysis of the 1984 operations of the river fleet
and correspond to about 10-15X and 202 of the average time of a round-trip
on the Zaire and Kasai rivers, respectively.   The main consequences are
that the costs of operating river convoys and of financing the stock of
goods in transit on the river network (mineral exports in particular) would
be much reduced.
4.14       Main assumptions:  Some project investments have been excluded
from the economic analysis mainly because they would be necessary to main-
tain a minimum level of service in the 'without project' case. The total
cost of these items is US$ 1.7 million (in December 1985 terms), about 9%
of the base cost of RVF's Project component. The economic analysis is car-
ried out over a period of 15 years, the estimated service life of most Pro-
ject items.   Whenever necessary, residual values have been taken into
account. No conversion factors have been used. Date for the calculation
of economic benefits are in Annex 4.11.
4.15       The cost and benefit streams of RVF's Project component are in
Annex 4.12. The resulting base case ERR is about 19% which shows that the
component is well justified. This ERR is lower than in most rehabilitation
projects because (i) favorable assumptions have been made on the possibi-
lity of maintaining old craft in operation in the 'without project' case;
(ii) benefits would take longer than usual to materialize; and (iii) indir-
ect benefits, such as the improvements in management and control of the
crews that would become possible without numerous navigation incidents,
have not been taken into account.  Three sensitivity scea.arios have also
been analyzed:  (i) if Project implementation is slower than expected by
about two years, the ERR decreases to about 18%; (ii) if the increase in
RVF's productivity is lower than expected by 25% the ERR decreases to about
14X; if the increase in traffic is only half of the projected growth rate,
the ERR decreases to about 15%. These results are analyzed in paras. 4.19
and 4.20 below.
4.16      As for RiK, analyses were carried out during Project preparation
and appraisal to ensure that the capacity given to RVF by the Project would



- 40 -
be at about the economic optmum. ERR's on separate investment packages
required for various sub-sections of the Zaire and Kasai rivers were found
satisfactory.   On the vontrary, returns on the investments required to
provide full maintenance of the affluents of the Zaire and Kasai rivers,
the Lualaba river, and the Tanganyika Lake were found very low or
negative. Only a minimum presence of RVF on these navigation routes with
very low traffic density would therefore be justified; it should be limited
to infrequent checks, surveys and maintenance of navigation aids in the
most difficult areas.
4.17       The combined ERR for the entire Project (weighted average of the
ERRs, for the RVM and RVF components) is about 25S. The total investment
on which this applies, as defined in paras. 4.10 and 4.14, accounts for 84%
of total project cost.
E. Risks
4.18      The main quantifiable risks to the above rates of return are that
(i) project implementation would last longer than expected; (ii) the pro-
ductivity of RVF and RVM would not reach target levels; and (iiI) traffic
would not increase as projected. These risks are discussed below.
4.19       Delays in implementation or an unsatisfactory increase in pro-
ductivity would mainly result from inadequate management and organization
of RVM and RVF or from inadequate local funding in the case of RVF. Meas-
ures are included in the Project in order to limit these risks.  Project
implementation units would be created under terms of reference and with
staff acceptable to IDA (para. 3.53). RVM would adjust its organizational
structure to assure continuity of management at Boma (pars. 2.11). Compre-
hensive training programs would be implemented (paras. 2.14 and 2.34) and
technical assistance would help both Regies in project implementation,
management of operations and reorganization of key areas.   In addition,
cperational indicators have been defined, which will be continuously moni-
tored through quarterly progress reports, with an annual review of 1easures
to be taken to improve performance (para. 3.54).  Local funding is also
likely to remain a serious constraint for RVF. The Project Agreement would
include covenants to ensure that RVF's financial resources would be regu-
larly increased in real terms. The sensitivity analyses (paras. 4.11 and
4.15) show that, if project implementation is delayed or the productivity
of RVM and RVF does not increase as expected, the ERRs are still accept-
able.
4.20       Traffic may not increase as projected fcr a variety of reasons,
including the deterioration of economic conditions and the stagnation of
timber production and traffic on the VN. Economic management has improved
subr_.antially in recent years, however, and Zaire's Government is committed
to a continued adjustment process. Estimates of timber production were con-
servative and far below Government's obJective (2 million Tons in the early
1990s) and the market share that Zaire is generally believed to be able to
gain. The expected increase in mineral traffic on the VN is attainable if
the objectives of current rehabilitation efforts at ONATRA and SNCZ are
met. Mineral traffic on the VN during the last four months of 1985 was
already above the 1990 forecast* The sensitivity analysec  (paras. 4.11 and
4.15) show that, if traffic increases by only half the projected growth
rates, the ERRs are still acceptable.



- 41 _
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
kA. Past Perforwmance
5.01     From  the  financial viewpoint,   RVM   and  RVF  performed  very
differently in the past. RVM achieved excellent results, which the Project
would help to maintain.   RVF's  performance, on the contrary, deteriorated
until very recently. As shown below, the Project would help restore RVF to
a sound financial position.
(a) R;Zie des Voies Maritimes
5.02     RVM's Income  Statements  for  1980-84  are  shown  in Annex 5.01;
Balance Sheets, in Annex 5.02; Funds Statements, in Annex 5.03; and Ratio
Analysis  in Annex  5.04.       Table  5.1,  below,  shows  RVM's  Financial
Highlights.
Table 5.1 - RVK's Financial HithliRhts
1980      1981      1982      1983       1984
--------  unaudited -audited
(million Z's)
Revenues                    14        36        68        247       512
Working Expenses            11        24        42         69       274
cash Flow                    3        12        26        178       238
Working Capital              8        18        40        194       291
Net Fixed Assets            38        32        28         74       367
Total Assets                47        51        69        295       668
Equity Capital              46        50        68       268        658
Traffic (tbousand tons) 1,743      1,867     1,829     2,016      2,110
Annual Revenue Increase      -      157X       892      263Z       107%
Working Ratio              792       67Z       622        282       54X
3.03     The above table shows  that  RVM was  able to improve its already
good profitability and financial condition in a highly inflationary
environment during a period of moderate traffic growth. The main reason is
that RVM bills its customers in foreign exchange, while it pays staff and
suppliers in local currency. Therefore, as the saire currency depreciated,
RVM benefited from the combined  effect  of  a high automatic adjustment of
tariffs in local currency  equivalent  and relattvely slower cost increases
due to the differential between local inflation and currency depreciation.
For example, the 1983 devaluation of the zaire by 802 brought about a
dramatic improvement of RVM's working ratio from 621 in 1982 to 28% in 1983
reflecting a 2632  revenue  increase  to  Z247 million  in  contrast to an
increase of only 642 in working expenses to Z69 million. Results for 1984,
the second best year for the period under review, may still reflect in part
the favorable effects of the devaluation but it can be expected that the
current monetary policies of Zaire will bring about more stable financial
perfonce.



- 42 -
5.04    Although RVH's financial performance  has  been and is expected to
continue to be good, accounting and financial management system end
controls are still unsatisfactory.  -Wain weaknesses were diagnosed by IDA-
financed consultants In 1904 (para. 2.10) and RVN has started to implement
their recomiendations, particularly regarding its accounting system and the
organization of Its financial department. The Project's institutional
development components &Im to pursue these actions through tbh provision of
training for RYE staff and technical assistance and to put in place
adequate financial and accounting procedures and controls by the ent of
1987 (para. 5.15). The 1984 audit was the first In RVM's recent history.
Th. auditors qualified their report because they could not verify RYX's
opening inventory and they disagreed with the presentation of certain
transactions with   the  Ministry   of  Finance   and RVM'  supp iers.
Nevertheloss, the auditors confirmed RVM's basic financial soundnes and
performed the sorely needed revaluation of fixed assets.
(b) R6aie des Voies Fluviales
5.05     In contrast to RVYE  RVF  bills  river  operators in zaires and has
been unable to pass on to them inflationary cost increases as fast as it
has Incurred them. RYF's Income  Statements for 1980-84 are given In AgM
3.05 Balance Sheets, in Annex 5.06; Funds Statements, in Annex 5.07; and
Ratio Analysis, in Annex 5.08.    Table  5.2, below, shows RVF's Fingacal
Highlights.
Table 5.2 - RVF's Financial Hithlights
1980      1981      1982      1983      1984
-----------unaudited ------            audited
(million Z's)
Revenues                    7        19        26        42        111
Working Expenses            3         7        15        37        112
Cash Flow (Deficit)         4        12        11         5        (1)
Working Capital             1         5        16        25         19
Net Fixed Assets           11        11        12        38        97
Total Assets               17        29        41        74        128
Equity Capital             12        16        28        63        116
Traffic (thousand tons) 1,158     1,136      1,142    1,148     1,024
Annual Revenue Increase     -      1712       37Z       621       1642
Working Ratio             432       372       582       882       1012
5.06     Table 5.2 shows  that  RVF's  profitability between 1980 and 1984
deteriorated steadily while traffic stagnated. As the working ratio shows,
in 1980 RVF earned more than two saires for each zaire it spent. In 1984
it earned slightly  less  than  it  spent.    The earning deterioration and
collection problems with some customers need to be corrected to prevent a
liquidity squeeze which could affect operations adversely. Lower inflation
and increases in revenues in  real terms  should enable RVF to reverse the



- 43 -
negative  earning  trend  and  gradually  restore  profitability,  but this
process is expected to take time (para 5.13).
5.07     Had RVF been able  to  increase  its  average revenues at the eame
rate as RVK, RVF's profitability would have remained satisfactory. To
Illustrate the adverse impact of inflation on RVF's profitability and to
support the revenue increase recommended below (pars. 5.13), an analysis of
RVF'. profitability was carried out.   Table  5.3 shows that RVF would have
kept its working ratio at or below 452 between 1980 sand 1984, if it had
aebieved annual earning increases similar to those of RVM. Details of this
analysis are given in Annex 5.09.
Table 5.3 - RYF's Profitability Analysis
9_80      1981      1982       183       1984
Annual Revenue Increase      -      157Z       89S       2632      1072
Revenuea (million Z's)       7        18        34        123       255
Operating Result (mil. Z's) 4         11        19         86       143
Working Ratio              43%       392       442        302       441
5.08     RVF's external audit  of  the  1984  accounts  was the first since
1978. The main qualification of the audit report related to the absence of
prior years' audits.    The  auditors  also  commented  on  the need to add
provisions for contingencies estimated at  about  Z2 million.  As RVW, RVF
had its financial organization and management reviewed in 1984 by IDA-
financed consultants (para. 2.32).   Their recommendations, which have been
reviewed by IDA and found acceptable, include the establishment of an
analytical   cost   accounting   system,   improving   financial  controls,
reorganizing the Finance Department, and training of staff. RVF, which has
recently recruited a new financial director, has begun to implement these
recommendations and created for example an internal audit unit. Two staff
years of technical assistance and training of 13 staff in accounting,
financial management and data processing are included in the Project to
complete these tasks.
B. Financial Proiections
(a) Assumptions
5.09     The assumptions used  for projecting  the financial statements ol
RVM and RVF are given in Annex 5.10. Essentially, these projections are
cost based and reflect past performance, improvements in staff productivity
and utilization of equipment expected to result from Project investments,
and the projected rate of inflation (202 p.a.). Revenues were calculated
to enable RVM and RYF to generate a reasonable profit to service debt and
meet investment and working capital requirements. Project investments were
added to RYM's  and  RYV's  assets.    New  and  existing fixed assets were
revalued each year and the added value credited to equity capital. Debt
drawdown, amortization, interest and fees reflect the project financing
plan (para 3.51) and proposed onlending terms.



- 44 -
(b) Regie des Voles Maritimes
5.10     RVN's pro-forma Income Statements for 1985-95 are set out in Annex
5.11j Balance Sheets, in Annex 5.12; Funds Statements, in Annex 5.13; and
Ratio Analysis, in Annex 5.14.   Table  5.4, below shows a summary of RVM's
financial projections.
Table 5.4 - RVM's Summary Financial Proiections
1985  1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
audited-----------------projected-------------
(million V's)
Revenues                   727   868    767    976  1,224  1,514  1,840
Working Expenses           316   414    508    657    815  1,018  1,203
Depreciation                87   185    142    170    222    265    356
Net Operating Result       324   269    117    149    187    231    281
Working Capital            451   588    336    402    483    568    648
Net Fixed Assets           348   332    436    718  1,176  1,745  2,375
Total Assets               812 1,119  1,370  1,729  2,346  3,217  4,293
Equity Capital             660   199  1,082  1,245  1,449  1,763  2,225
Traffic (thousand tons) 2,189 2,224  2,295  2,332  2,369  2,470  2,571
Annual Revenue increase   41%   20%   -12%    28%    25%    24Z    22%
Working Ratio              43%   48%    662    67S    67%    67%    65%
Operating Ratio            55%   69%    85%    85%    85%    85%    85X
Debt to Equity              02    02     52    12%    25%    28%    30%
5.11     Table 5.4 shows that RVM  would continue to perform satisfactorily
during the Project period.    Liquidity  is  projected  to remain high with
working capital about equal to one year of operating income. Profitability
would remain strong as the working ratio would stay below 702. RYM's debt
burden would increase to an acceptable level during the Project period.
The Debt to Equity ratio is projected to peak at 30% in 1991 and gradually
taper off as debt is repaid and earnings are accumulated. Earnings are
projected to be more than sufficient to service debt and create a provision
for foreign exchange losses. Most importantly, the projections demonstrate
that RVM can achieve good financial performance without increasing in rwal
terms the cost of its services to users.   As shown in Table 5.4, while RVM
maintains a healthy financial position, its revenues could decrease in
1987, through a reduction in user fees, and would only need to increase
slightly more than inf'..tion from 1988 on.
(b) Regie des Votes Fluviales
5.12     RVF's pro-forma Income Statements for 1985-95 are set out in Annex
5.15; Balance Sheets, in Annex 5.16; Funds Statements, in Annex 5.17; and
Ratio Analysis, in Annex 5.18.   Table  5.5, on the following page, shows a
summary of RVF's financial projections.
5.13     Table 5.5 takes  account  of  the  considerable  Increase in RVF's
revenues in 1986,  which  Government  achieved  by:    (i) raising the fees



- 45 -
charged to ONATRA to the same level as the private sector's (they were
about 121 lower before); and (ii) providing about Z 99 million out of the
general budget to RVF mainly through the creation of a special river tax on
-diesel oil. These me&Aures will result in a substantial improvement of
RW'*s financial position at the end of 1986. The projections show,
however, that additional increases in revenues in real terms would still be
necessary from 1987 on to restore RVF's profitability and permit it to
maintain a healthy financial  position.    Given  the expected inflation of
202, revenues would need to increase each year between 2% and 20? (on an
average 102) in  real  terms  during  the  1987-91  period.   This could be
achieved through parallel adjustments in the levels of the user fees and
the river tax on diesel oil.   As  shown by the projections, RYF would then
be able to service its debt, provide for its investments, maintain au
adequate liquidity and create a provision for foreign exchange losses.
From 1992 on, RVF would also be able to maintain a satisfactory financial
position with revenues constant in real terms.
Table 5.5 - RVF's Summary Financial Pro1ections
1985  1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
audited ---projected --
(million Z's)
Revenues                   148   273    334    480    653    844  1,099
Working Expenses           130   211    269    331    410    507    615
Depreciation               113   107    124    149    178    214    257
Net Operating Result      (95)  (45)   (59)       0      65    123    227
Working Capital             47    85      57      76    107    149       S.
Net Fixed Assets         1,424 1,602  1,820  2,081  2,395  2,772  3,224
Total Assets             1,498 1,720  2,077  2,636  3,048  4,196  4,429
Equity Capital           1,471 1,711  2,015  2,475  2,683  3,522 -3,439
Traffic (thousand tons) 1,073 1,113  1,164  1,217  1,272  1,306  1,390
Annual Revenue Increase   25Z   841    22%    44%    35%    292    30?
Working Ratio              88?   77%    81%    69Z    63%    602    56%
Operating Ratio           164%  116%   120%   100%    90%    852    80%
Debt to Equity              0%    0%      2%     6%    12%    192    28%
C.  Financial Strategy
5.14     To achieve the Project's  overall  development objectives, RVM and
RYF should meet the financial performance targets set out above. The
Project's strategy for achieving those  financial targets consists of three
essential elements: (i) strengthening RVM's and RVF's financial management;
(ii)  maintaining   RVM's   profitability;   and   (iii)   improving  RVF's
profitability by gradually increasing rea'. revenues.
5.15     RYM's management  needs  better  and  faster financial information
particularly  to  make   decisions   affecting   pricing,  investments  and
liquidity. At negotiations, RVM agreed that, by December 31, 1987, it
would: (i) put into place a system of cost accounting; and (ii) complete
the reorganization of its general accounting system so as to be able to
produce from such date montly financial statements together with critical



-46-
analyses of budget implementation and cash requirenments. The analytical
cost accounting system v7uld establish a separate Cost center for each of
RVN'. principal actviLtiest hydrographic work, dredging, pilotage and
operation of the coaet,l station.  In ,order to provide managers with
reliable and timely information and'to achieve tangible results In a
relatively short'time, the system should remain simple and financial and
accounting staff'should be trained promptly to use it.  In addition, BVM
ne"ds to strengthen its control systems and to reorganize its internal
auditing practices. At negotiations, RVM also agreed that, by December 31,
1987, it would put Into place systematic procedures for internal audits to
evaluate the effectiveness of rud compliance with internal controls.
5.16     The first priority ob ective for RYF Is to restore profit-ability.
The financial projections (para 5.13) show that satisfactory profitability
can be achieved through signifizt.nt revenue increases in real terms. To
improve its financial management endt in particular, furnish to Government
the data that It needs to set the le&ul of its fuel tax, RVF should
implement rapidly the recommendations of the study financed under Credit
1335-ZR. At negotiations, RVF agreed that: (i) it vould put in place a
system of cost accounting by December 31, 1987 and (i1) it would complete
the reorganization of its general accounting system so as to be able to
produce quarterly financial statements from December 31, 1987, on and
montly finencial statements together with critical analysis of budget
implementation and cash requirements from December 31, 1988, on.
5.17     In order to assist the Government and the Bank to monitor
financial- performance and adherence to the Project's financial strategy
outlined above, the following financial covenants have also been agreed:
Rie des Voies Maritime.
(i)   The operating ratio would not exceed 852 in 1987 and
thereafter, after including a depreciation charge calculated
on revalued assets;
(ii)    no payments would be made to Government on account of
dividends or other retribution on capital (except debt service
or payment for services received) without the Bank's consent
if any such payment should cause cash and other liquid assets
to fall below the amount of working expenses for the preceding
six months;
(iiI)  the Debt to Equity ratio would not exceed 45S.
R"ale 4eg Voies Fluvia.es
(i)  The operating ratio, after including a depreciation charge
calculated on fixed assets revalued annually, would not
exceed 1202 in 1987, 1002 in 1988, 902 in 1989, 85a in 1990
And 802 in 1991 and thereafter;
Uii) The total amount of receivables would not exceed at any time
sixty five days of billing;
(iii)   Debt Service Coverage would not fall below 1.5:1.
The financial projections shmw that, with the agreed operating ratios, RYM
and RVF would build liquid assets over their liquidity needs. This is
acceptable. These Assets. which are shown as medium-term deposits in both
R4g81' balance  Uheets, would enable RVU and RVF to repay their debts to
4overnment ahead of schedule.



- 47 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01       The following items were discussed and agreed upon during nego-
tiations:
(1) R1M and ONATRA would carry out, before June 30, 1988, a stu-
dy of the impact of their tariff policies on the mix of
ships serving Matadi and Boma and of their consequences on
the total cost of maritime transport for Zaire; Government
and RVN would promptly thereafter discuss the results of the
study with IDA and implement the mutually agreed recommenda-
tions that concern RVM (pars. 2.06);
(ii)  RVK and RYF would produce by March 1st, each year, beginning
in 1987, five-year rolling planse of all their investments,
Startittg with the current year, as well as reviews of imple-
mentation of previous year's plans; the content and schedule
of these plans would be based on criteria acceptable to IDA
and on realistic financial projections including a reason-
able forecast of available local and external funds; RVM and
RVF would also consult the Association before undertaking
any investment that is not In their investment plans (par-
as. 2.21 and 2.39);
(Iii) RVM and RVP would maintain Project Implementation Units and
Project Managers to head these units under terms of refer-
ence acceptable to IDA; Project Managers' experience and
qualifications and terms of employment would be acceptable
to IDA;
(iv) Performance indicators and 1987 targets (para. 3.54);
(v) RVM and RVF would submit, for IDA's approval, by November 30
of each year, starting in 1987, targets for their perforr-
ance indicators for the following year; RVM and RVF would
prepare and submit for IDA's review by February 28 of each
year, starting in 1988, analyses of their performance
against agreed targets for the previous year, together with
a list of measures they intend to take to improve performr
ance (para. 3.54);
(vi) RVK and R1W would have their anuual accounts and financial
statements, including project-related statements of expendi-
tures and Special Accounts audited each year during the pro-
ject period by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; the
audit report would be furnished to IDA no later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year; the audit report
would Include a report of compliance with financial cove-
nants; (para. 3.64);



- 48 -
(vii)  RYM and RVF would prepare quarterly progress reports of a
format and content aeceptable to IDA; the reports would be
submitted to IDA no -later than two months after the end of
each quarter (para. 3.65);
(viii)  RYM and RVF would prepare project completion reports in a
form acceptable to IDA no later than six months after the
closing date of the project (para. 3.65);
(ix) RVO would, by December 31, 1987, (a) put into place a sys-
tem of cost accounting; (b) complete the reorganization of
its general accounting system so as to be able to produce
from such date monthly financial statements together with
critical analyses of budget implementation and cash require-
ments; and (c) put in place systematic procedures for inter-
nal audits to evaluate the effectiveness of and compliance
with internal controls (para 5.15);
(x) RVF would (a) put into place a system of cost accounting by
December 31, 1987; and (b) complete the reorganization of
its general accounting system so as to produce quarterly
financial statements from December 31, 1987, on and monthly
financial statements together with critical analyses of bud-
get implementation and cash requirements from December 31,
1988, on (para. 5.16);
(xi) RVM would take measures (including tariff increases if re-
quired) so that its operating ratio, for each year starting
with 1987, does not exceed 85Z, after including a deprecia-
tion charge calculated on revalued assets (para. 5.17);
(xii) RVM would not make any payments to Government on account of
dividends or other retribution on capital (except debt serv-
ice or payment for services received) without the Bank's
consent if any such payment should cause cash and other
liquid assets to fall below the amount of working expenses
for the preceding six months (para. 5.17);
(xiii) RVY4 would maintain a debt to equity ratio lower than 45X
(para. 5.17).
(xiv) Government and RVF would take measures (including tariff in-
creases and an increase in the tax on fuel products allocat-
ed to RVF if required) so that RVF's operating ratio, after
Including a depreciation charge calculated on fixed assets
revalued annually, does not exceed 120X in 1987, 1002 in
1988, 90X In 1989, 852 in 1990 and 802 in 1991 and there-
after (para. 5.17);
(xv) RVK would take all necessary steps so that its total amount
of receivables not exceed at any time sixty five days of
billing (para. 5.17);



- 49 -
(xvi)  RVF'  debt service coverage would not fall below 1. 5:1
(para. 5.17).
(xvii)  RVM and RVF would eubmit, no later than June 30, 1987, for
fDA's approval draft programs for the training outside Zaire
of each staff participating in their respective training
programs (paras. 3.24 and 3.48).
6.02      The following items would be conditions of effectiveness:
1)  RYV'a Board and MTC would approve the creation of a position
of principal director located In Boma and the nomination of
a person whose qualifications and experience are acceptable
to IDA (para. 2.11);
(ii) RVM and RW would nominate project managers whose experience
and qualifications and terms of employment would be accept-
able to IDA (para. 3.53);
(Iii) Government would formalize co-financing agreements with AGCD
for its participation in the project (para. 3.51);
(iv)  Governaent and RVM and RVF would sign subsidiary loan agree-
ments acceptable to IDA (para. 3.51);



ZAIRE
NAVIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RVM's Organization Chart
IGENERAL MANAGER 
GENERAL SERVICES
DIRECTORTE J
ADMINISTRATION         FINANCES            OPERATIONS                  SHIPYARD
DIRECTORATE          DIRECTORATE         DIRECTORATE                 DIRECTORATE
q  PERSONNEL |   4 ACCOUNTING            DREDGING AND             MAiNTENANCE            PUBLIC RELATIONS
NAVIGATION AIDS
PRFKOCUREMENT      _   TREASURY          r-               v      _    ENGINES              GENERAL SERVICES
PILOTAGE                  .
GENERAL                                                            ELECTRO-             INTERNAL AUDITING |
SERVICES                                 NHYDROGRAPHY              MECANICS
COASTAL STATION



- 51 -
AN= 2.02
p4p 1 of 2
ZA
NAVIQATIQ1 Uawuwr RV
SLW APIAL HOW
RWM's Trsinin  Progam, 19861989
A. IN-       Y TRADI                       1986       1987       1988        1989       Total
A-           Daimae a t
Wrt P . ~~~~1   1                                                            11}
M*ort Qtoieres 4aalaBt                               1   1                              1   I
C~m~ut1ax&Uat Gil  (IDa. hvocssing)   I   I                                          I   I
_We o hef                   .             1   2      4   8      4   8                   9  18
P    aIurst a Ihit CihL                   1   1                                         1   1
Ma}hdUrAitOdlef                           1   1      I   1       1   1      1   1       I   1
-eu             a Gilef                   1   3                                         1   3
lm%t Uhdt Qd&f                                       1   2                              1   2
Tax 0fallcton Wdt                         I   I                                         I   I
InvoAc  SectI                             1   2                                         1   2
4nalytl A.~citirtg lhit                              1   3                              1   3
1ai t3ectum*wdalist                                  2   2                              2   2
5  10      6  12      1   1      12  23
Fluatler                 ~                5  10                                         5  10
9se *1NOW 11ir                           10  20      2   4                             12  24
Electridan                                         10  30                             10  30
1my mesd Motor                            I   2      1   2      1   2      1   2       4   8
DIesel Mbor                                          7  21      8  24                  15  45
Ahto D  c1uni                                        2   4      2   4      2   4       6  12
1nlht Rgin S   wAalist                               2   2      2   2                  4   4
leylaai n1se SpecIaist                                          2   2      2   2       4   4
WeOi   apdairmu                                                 1   2                   1   2
Ato Mectrician                            2   4      2   4      2   4                  6  12
Air (mdiioeg                                         1   3     1   3                  2   6
dlbg MElactrican                                     1   2      1   2      1   2       3   6
Wrir   Spe* alist                                    1   3                              1   3
Malimc (Siaft aligmat)                    2   6                            2   6       4  12
lia SpecialIs                                        2   4                 2   4       4   8
Fitter                                    2   4                 2   4                  4   8
LderIkeger lRotQ(hlf                      1   2      1   2      1   2      2   4       5  10
1wiger Rlot Qdef                          2   6      2   6      1   3      1   3       6  18
lhdfic me4rm o                            1   2      1   2      1   2      1   2       4   8
-1 W6rd ackmn1c                           1   3      1   3                             2   6
1ker Elcian                                         10  30    10  30                  20  60
ahyUnderPLlot Gief                                   1   3      1   3                  2   6
Plot (2m1hris Officer)                    2   6          6           6          6      2  24
LaIchPallt                               10  20    10  20    10  20                   30  60
Saetor                                   10  20    10  20                             20  40
Wdro1l4al 4erator                        12  24      8  16      4   8                 24  48
lad &aryor                                           3   9      3   9                  6   18
Soil J-l-st                                          2   6                 2   6       4   12
- g   I9 - -N --% - -
MIME: N  Aber of .qloyees
Wit  umo tlu



ANWt 2.02
P1e 2 of 2
B. OVERSEAS IRAINlC                         1986        1987       1988        1989       M8AL
~~~~~~~~~~WW                          -NK-       -N i1;      N MM        -N- aN 
Shpyard Wbntenne Qdef                      1   3                                          1  3
frpyazd  -entmn  &gixeer                                                      1   3       1   3
Lectrwty unit (Ief                                     1    4                             1   4
Padio Pgineer                                                     1   4                   1   4
FAine Uhit Chief                           I   3                                          1   3
larw Usit ode                                                     1  3                    1  3
FCSvmmft  unit ada                                     1   3                              1   3
Flmttig Craft SVervisor                                1   6                              1   6
e Wrall'hchIiUit Qdef                                  1   3                              1   3
FvgIm DIvisim  Chef                                               1  3                    1  3
fim Specialist                                         1   3                              1   3
Dredgig Wit Odef                                       1   4                              1   4
JD brP Pljot adef                          1   2       1   2      2   4       1   2       5  10
ledgwe rd lOief                            1   2       1   2      1   2       1   2       4   8
&iyirg Unit Oiief                                      1   3                              1   3
&vyi  Briga& Qetef                                                1   2                   1   2
-iying Ierator                                                                1   2       1   2
pilot                                                  1  12      1  12       1  12       3  36
Radio Officer                              2   4       1   2      2   4                   5  10
Coastal Unit
Operatios Uiit Odef                                    1   1                              1   1
Mairtenance Uhit (Cief                     1   3                                          1   3
Syladis 4pcialist                          1   2                                          1   2
Hyd          DIvisi    ef                  1   3                                          1   3
1*vdrogral Specialtat                      1   2                                          1   2
Hydr qajW UIlt Qti                         1   2                                          1   2
Topgrvpy Unit OLef                                    1   2                              1   2
Design hlut (b                             1   3                                          1   3
Sdhml tolev Secialist                      1   3                                          1   3
Personrel 11vision Chlef                               1   3                              1   3
koWmtivg hit Qiief                                                1   2                   1   2
tdit Ilviason Chief                                               1   2                   1   2
M[nistmtion Divislm  Qilef                 1   2                                          1   2
FiP e  Upartit QOief                                   1   2                              1   2
Operatio-w Dprtt8 Chief                                           1   2                   1   2
S2pjgard Depwrtnt (ief                                 1   2                              i   2
21sitn   Diviaiai   ef                                1   6                              1   6
Trianig Depty iaef                        _   _      _            1   6                   1   6
Ibtal                   14  34    17  60    14  46         5  21       50 161
tN: N - maner of edoyee
?fM - ma/uSft



- 53 -
ANNEX 2.03
Page 1 of 3
ZAIr!.
NAVIGATION IMPROMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1WM Operations-
(a) Htydrographic Surveys
1.        Through the entire length of the river, but particularly in the
meandering zone, RVM must carry out continually hydrographic surveys. At
present-all this work is done using traditional sextant positioning and
rather outdated echo-sounding equipment mounted in very old and slow
launches.  Maintenance of the souinders, plotting and chart work is carried
carried out by RVM's staff in very indequate buildings and workshops. The
replacement of these buildings is now starting.
2.        In view of the enormity of the hydrographic survey workload
(surveys are made everyday because of the fast flowing, meandering and
siltation patterns of the river), it is desirable that RVM install a radio
positioning system to rapidly and accurately locate the survey launches.
This system can be linked to the echo-sounders and the total information
transmitted ashore where a computer reduces the soundings to datum and
plots them on charts. By this means surveys can be carried out much faster
and with more accuracy thus enabling the existing crews to cover a much
larger section of the river than at present. This system would be provided
under the proposed Project. The staff of RVM are quite well trained in
their field and would have little difficulty in adapting to new
technology. The maintenance of the new equipment would require a training
program and probably an initial period of contract maintenance by the
manufacturer at the outset.
(b) Dredging
3.        A very important aspect of RVM's operations concerns the
continuous need for skilled management of the dredging operations not only
from the point of view of productivity and utilization but from the
hydraulic considerations of the regime of the river. The central length of
the river contains a very wide zone through which the main deeper channel
meanders freely. It is a daily task of RVM to monitor the movement of this
channel and to inform the dredging fleet where to operate so as to maintain
a navigation channel of adequate depth at all times. In each year there
are two rainy seasons and two dry seasons each of which creates different
depths, velocities and rates of siltation.
4.        Maintaining the navigation channel is a difficult and never
ending task.  R1W has received since 1967 almost continnous assistance from
the "Laboratoire de Recherches Hydrauliques' (IRH) located at Borgerhout
(Belgium) and financed through Belgian aid. Until recently a hydraulic
model of the wide zone of the river was maintained at the laboratory but
this has now been dismantled. Nevertheless the LRH has a very extensive
knowledge of the river and its continued assistance to RVM is essential.
LRB plans to re-start reduced scale model studies in the near future as a
means to find better ways to influence future river behaviour and minimize



- 54 -
ANNEX 2.03
Fage 2- or 3
dredging. Also the consultants carrying out the dredging study have worked
closely with the LDRH in making their reco_mendations for the future
operation of the fleet.
5.        RVM aims to maintain a minimum dredged depth of 28 feet through
the wide section of the river. The entire length of the channel does not
have to be dredged, only certain well defined sections known as "sills:'
At present, about five sills are being dredged with the object of creating
a bottom channel width of 150 a. The 28-feet depth aim is very difficult
to achieve and, in the lowest water level periods of the year, the
available depth is several feet less '(i.e. 26 feet or even 24 feet). By
increasing the dredging capacity through better produetivity and dredge
utilization it is hoped to increase the channel depth on a year round
basis.
6.        RVM presently has a fleet of four self propelled trailing suction
dredges all in working order and reasonably well maintained and operated.
Their holding capacities vary from 1,300 to 1,500 cu.m. They also have a
stationary suction dredger of 800 #-u.m. capacity. A crucial problem of
lack of spare parts has been partially resolved in recent months through
purchases from the builders but an adequate stock of parts needs to be
established and continuously replenished. Most of the dredges require
repair work to iLstrumentation and masuring systems which would improve
their productivity. The utilization of the dredging fleet is the major
problem. On average the dredgers are only dredging for about 50X or less
of the available daylight hours - a very low figure considering the value
of the investment. RVM must take measures to improve this and steps are
already being taken within the context of the available equipment and
vessels to make some short term improvements. In the medium term dredge
utilization will be improved by using supply boats for crew changes and
provisioning barges for fuel and water supplies. Once the electronic
positioning system described above comes into operation it will also be
possible for the dredges to operate more efficiently and at night. Another
important change that R1M will have to introduce through training and
technical assistance is to cause the dredges to work at higher speeds since
at present the engines are not developing their full power and are running
too slowly giving rise to excessive wear and poor productivity. Some
changes on the dredge head detsign may also be required to effect this. In
addition, more efficient use could be made of the stationary suction
dredges by discharging into 750 c.m. bottom dumping barges. An additional
task of RVW Is to maintain the depths alongside the berths in the ports of
Boma and Matadi. At present they do not have a suitable pontoon clam shell
dredge available.
(c) Navigatlon Aids
7.        Most of the buoys, lights, beacons, and ranges are old and
although well maintained are in need of replacement and modernization.
RVl's workshops are able to maintairn the gas (acetylene) lights quite well
and the gas plant and cylinder filling station function adequately; but the
electrical navigation aids give more maintenance problems. To introduce
night navigat'on on parts of the river - one of the aims of the project -



- 55 -
ANNEX 2.03
page 3 0° 3
will imply the modernisation of many of the present aids, the maintenance
workshops and the purchase of new equipment and spares. For short term
urgent improvements, RVM is currently buying stocks of batteries and buoys
and manufacturing sinkers and steel buoys. The present buoy tender vessel
is very old and needs to be rehabilitated in the medium term.
(d) filotage
8.        The present team of pilots is a mix of expatriates and Zairians
with the expatriates being provided through Belgian aid. The numbers of
pilots are sufficient and RVM trains new pilots overseas also with Belgian
assistance. At present, with only daylight navigation, the problem of
having to transport pilots arises as a consequence of the ship 'bunchingw
that occurs.  The road between Banana (the At'lntic ocean outlet) and Boma
Is very poor and manageable only by four-wheel drive vehicles in all
weather. The distance Is about 60 miles. Thus the pilots tend to use fast
launches since this is the best means of transport. two new launches were
provided under a Bank project (Cr. 255-ZR) in 1982, and the rehabilitation
of older ones is included in the present Project. Once a radio positioning
system is introduced on the river, it may be possible to provide portable
consoles which would be taken on board the transitting vessels by the
pilots to assist them in navigating vessels through the more difficult
dredged sections. A new sea-going launch is also provided under the
project to replace an older unit.
(e) Ship Repair Facilities and Workshops
9.        RVM needs to have adequate repair facilities to m.intain all of
its extensive fleet of vessels and dredges and to provide services for the
maintenance and construction of the navigation aids. An important item of
equipment is a floating dock which although old was recently lengthened and
rehabilitated under a US AID program and now functions well. This dock can
handle all of the RVM dredging fleet and is also used for private clients
when space is available. Unfort;inately, the dock operates lying on anchors
parallel to but some 50m distant from the shoreline. RYM needs to connect
the dock to the shore in a more permanent manner not only for ease of
access but for the transport of equipmnnt and spare parts.  he workshops
ashore are well equipped but need extension repair and rehabilitation -
some of which is now being done. It is certain that RVM will have to make
major improvements in the staffing and equipping of its electrical and
electronic workshops to enable them to adequately maintain their present
equipment and the more sophisticated equipment to be provided in the
future. RBM also needs to carry out some civil works to rehabilitate and
improve the existing "fitting out quay" which was partly built under an
earlier Bank project. This quay is used for carrying out repairs and
mintenance afloat mainly for the dredging fleet.



- 56 - 
AN,E 2.04
. .~z&
MVGATION'  PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAJ- REPORT
Criteria for the hnalnis of Investment Prolects
1.       RVM and RVF should undertake a specific technical and economic analysis
for any investment or program of complementary investments (called below
"project") which estimated total cost is higher than US$500,000 equivalent (in
constant 1986 terms). Project justification-should be based on sound technical
and economic principles as normally used in the appraisal of transport projects.
The guidelines below should in particular be followed:
2.       Technical Alternativess  for each project, RUM and RVF will elaborate
and study alternative ways of achieving the same objectives, for example through
different technologies or different implementation schedules. The impact of
these alternatives on each agency's maintenance and operating costs over time
will be fully assessed. Whenever appropriate, the ways and measo to achieve
lesser objectives with a reduced cost will also be analyzed.
3.       Cost Estimates: preliminary engineering will be carried out and,
whenever appropriate, price quotations from several sources will be obtained, so
that cost estimates are, to the extent possible, within a 15S margin of
uncertainty.
4.       Benefits:  they will generally consist of savings in transport costs
resulting directly from the project. Their value will be based on carefully
studied assumptions and, whenever possible, real cases in similar economic and
geographic circumstances. To the extent possible, historical records will be
used to justify the assumed changes in the characteristics of the navigation
channels and the consequent need for intervention (mainly dredging and river
marking).
5.       Traffic:  reasonable traffic projections will be established on the
basis of a careful assessment (in volume and composition) of present traffic and
of a rate of growth justified, in general, by well supported estimates of Zaire
economic development and, in particular, by such considerations as the
development of economic activities in the zone of Influence of the navigation
channels or a demonstrated increase In the share of water transport at the
expense of other transport modes.
6.       Econcm_ic Rate of Return (ERR):  an ERR will be calculated for each
project. The ERR will compare the proposed project with the best available
alternative project. An optimal economic solution will be sought and projects
with an ERR below 152 will not be accepted. In each case a sensitivity analysis
will also be performed to ascertain the effect on the ERR of changes in the
value of the main -parameters, especially the project's cost estimates and
implementation schedule, the traffic forecasts, and transport cost savings. In
circumstances when a project is part of a-more comprehensive operation with a
good economic justification, RVM and RVF may only demonstrate that the selected
technical solutions achieve project objectives at least cost.



-57-
ANNEX 2.05
ZAIRE
NAVIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
List and Navigable Len_ath of Zaire's Main Rivers I/
Direct Access to Kinshasa                        Km
Zaire 2/                              1,740
Kasai                                   600
Itimbiri                                120
Mongala                                 344
Lulonga                                 125
Ruki                                    440
H 'Fimi                                 166
Kwilu                                   329
Sankuru
Other
Lualaba 3/                              620
I/ Only main rfiers with a year-round depth equal to or higher
than one meter are included. The Oubangul and Kwango have
been excluded because of their shallowness during the dry
seasons.
2/ Kinshasa to Kisangani.
3/ Kindu to Ubundu. Because of the rapids upstream of Kisangani,
this section is of limited use.
Source: RVF, Appraisal Mission, 1985.



AMNEX 2.06
zCU
WAVIGATION
STAFF APPAISA  8RPORT
Breakdown of River fre$ldt Traffie. 1984 1/
Downstream                                        Tons
Peanuts                                            3,247
Palx Kernels                                     25,199
Pain Oil                                         42,709
Cotton                                             3,408
Forestry Products                                139,863
Coffee                                            16,270
Cocoa                                               944
Rubber                                            12,166
Maixe                                             19,076
Cassava                                           16,058
Rim                                              12,356
Mineral  xports                                  243,646
Other                                            16,718
Sub-total                        551,662
Upstreai
Petroleum Products                              214,157
other 2/                                        257 962
Sub-total                        4728TW
Total                          1,023,781
1/ An underestimate since It is likely that pert of the trafflc
by private operators Is not recorded.
2/ Breakdown Is not avallable. About 60,000 Tos represent
Inputs of spares parts, supplie ad equipment for GECAHINMS.
Other main elements are food products (flour, salt, sugar and
beverages), construction aterills (cment, stone) and
imanufactured products (textles , chemcals).



59-
ASX   2.07
ZAII.
3&VIG&TION INWROWHNT PROJECT
STAFF APPIAISAL REPOT
River Freight Traffic: Allocation__q Origin or Datlnation, 1984
Origin/Destination          Uptb OAtr e                           Total
(To")        ~(Ton)             (YTons
Zaire River                  95*444             173,347            268,791
Zaire effluents Il           27,436              51,694             79,130
of which:
Itlabiri                  5,761              8,878              14,639
Hongala                  14,066             14,368              28,454
Lulonga                   1,507             15,193              16,700
Ruki                      3,059             11.9              14,898
OubanWi                   3,043              19,39S              4,438
Kasai River                 327,446            268,518             595,964
Kmaai affluents 2/           21,793              58,104             79,897
M'Fisi                    3,382             23,800              27,182
Kwilu                    13,726             31,303             45,029
Sankuru                   2,920              2,069               4,989
Kwango                    1,765                932               2,697
Total:       472,119            551,662          1,023,791
I/ North of Kvuut, the cofluent between the Zaire and Eal Rivers.
2/ East of Rwuut.
Source:  BCEGM Projets d'Investissemnts de la RVP, 1,8s.



60'-
ANNEX 2.08
ZAIRE
NAVIGATION IMPROVW4ENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
River Freiget TraffLc: Shares of ONATRA and Private Operators, 1975-1984 1,
Private
ONATRA        Operators         Total
1975
Tonnage ('000 T.)                   1,091            177           1,267
1                                  86              14             100
1981/82
Tonnage ('000 T.)                     767            369           1,136
X                                  68              32             100
1983
Tonnage ('000 T.)                    773             375           1,148
1                                  67              33             100
i984
Tonnage ('000 T.)                    672             352           1,024
2                                  66              34             100
1/  Takes only Into account traffic to and from Kinshasa.
Source:  Study of Private Sector in Transport - BCEOM/GET
Mission Estimates.



L.AIRE
NAVIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRUASAL REPORT
RVP's Organization Chart
|GENERAL MANAGER|
| (P.D.G.)     l
-                ~~~~~GENERAL SERVICES
DIRECTORATE
ADMINISTRATION l        PINANCES            HYDROGRAPHY                  TECHNICAL
DIRECTORATE           D DIRECTORATE        DIRECTORATE                 DIRECTORATE
dPERSONNEL |U:NG                          NAVIGATION AIDS              I N TENANCEG
SOCIAL               TREASURY              STUDIES AND               E                         INTERNAL AUDITING
SERVICES                                   SPECIAL WORKS
ELECTRO-                       PLANNING
INSPECTION              MECHANICS
PRzOCUREMENT|



-62 -
A        2.10
TAlK
nanm umainw mEucr
STAf AFRM N
A. DI-       IMUEW               11       1987               1989      1990    mmAL
WNf I0 RM   Wf  I mm N                   mm N         NM
a  X               7  21              8  24   23  69
boylu  *41slit                                     8  24                        8  24
Dwedgh7 Spsdalst                         3   9                                  3   9
SeLlo?s                        4   8    8  16    8  16    8  16                28  56
Low              6 18                                            6  18
Dlesel Engtm                  13 26    1  2        2  4     1   2     6  12  23 46
Mactro-modwaim                           3   9                                 3   9
&ip lzludi                    1   3    1   3    1   3                         3   9
C    rabt                                1   3    1   3                         2   6
Electrlc Moar                  2   6               1   3                        3   9
Mr  t5mtzW                     1   3    1   3                                   2   6
n&itral Elmoctty                                  3   9                        3   9
KLectvrcmi                     5  15               2   6              5   15   12  36
1atmiD                         2   4                                            2   4
IashdxgW3   6    3   6    3   6                                                9  18
I81UDg                         2   4                                  2   4    4   8
Sheta Ha                                 2   4                                 2   4
Auto ottold.s                  2   4              8  16    8  16    8  16   26  52
1eldiig                        7  14               1   2    1   2              9  18
P1udia                                   2   4    2   4   10  2D               15  28
,4ludirg                                 1   3                                 1   3
IiuvAxda1 Vmg1*                          3   9                                 3   9
P1~ & ~~
Acooatl%                       2   2    2   2    1   1                         5   5
FlPme                                    2   4    1   2                        3   6
Stod Ksedz_                              1   2                                 1   2
lima _Pz1t                     1   6               1   6                       2  12
leksowdlh 1    _a              1-  1    1   1                                  2   2
seretaries                    _    7    7_ 7           8              88   3838
Ind             67 151   4287   5  14   31 64   37  79  240 515
NM1: 1 - uadu d aqmsa
M4 - 



63 -
AI 2.10
liZd 2 ;-
D_._________                 19       17       1SO     1989    1990    Tad
-~~r  ir~ ih  r~   w  N r eN 
111twat                     1  2   2  4   1  2                          4  8
1Dte  _nu1r                 1  6              1  6                      2  12
_d~aid (c~mSmt1an)                  I1  3                               1  3
1  6                               1  6
TV                                            1  3                      1   3
1  6                               1  6
yhotaus_t           .1  3                                               1  3
IY&dVo                               1  3   1  3   1  3                 3  9
xadn-l--                   - _   1  3 --                   1  3
a1                2  8    6  22   5  17   2  6               15 53
MOM: N -  r   atla""
V/f -   ,ua



- 64 -
ANNEX 2.11
Page 1 of 2
ZAIRE
NAVIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RVF Operations
(a) Channel Markings and Navigational Aids.
1.        Although this work is being regularly well-carried out,
considerable improvements are required. Many of the buoytenders are old
and/or in poor condition, but two relatively new ones which the appraisal
mission had the opportunity to visit, and which were financed by a previous
IDA credit, were also in inappropriate condition. There is a need for more
buoys and lights and for many of the fixed marks to be rebuilt or
relocated. Although there are training programs for crews and technicians,
these need to be substantially intensified and enlarged. In addition to
the buoytenders, other floating craft such as pontoon cranes and launches
are required to inspect, contract and repair navigation aids.
Additionally, it is essential to start a maintenance program aboard the
buoytenders, which spend several months at a time away from the shipyard
and repair shops.
(b) Hydrographic Surveys.
2.        At present the surveys are carried out using conventional
echo-sounders and positioning by sextant or theodolite and the results
plotted either on the buoytender carrying out the survey or in the Kinshasa
offices. Many of the echo-sounders are not suitable for the very low
depths (1.30 m) and the plotting conditions are unacceptable. A major
problem is the time lapse between the survey and the availability to the
river users of revised charts. New sounders, suitable office
accommodations, a working electronic workshop and a training program, are
essential for the adequate functioning of RVF's surveys.
(c) Civil Works.
3.        One of the major problems facing RVF at present is the dangerous
condition of the rvcky passes on the Kasai River where there were more
groundings in 1983 than ever before. Although the river water levels were
at times exceptionally low, there is ample evidence indicating the passes
have loose rocks which need to be removed. A project financed through
Belgian aid to assist RVF in improving these passes has just started.
Another project to be financed through USAID is to investigate the best
method of improving the navigation through the zones of the Kasai known as
'pool sablonneux' where the problem of the rock pinnacles and shelves
occur. Lack of suitable equipment for this type of work is hampering RVF's
efforts coupled with a need for additional technical expertise and
training.



- 65 -
ANNEX 2.11
Page 2 of 2
- (d) Ship Repair and Workshops.
4.        RYF's main base of operations at Ndolo, Kinshasa, includes
(i) a slipway capable of accomodating all of its vessels; (ii) the
principal offices for the support services, hydrographic surveys and
hydrometry; (iii) stores, electronic and mechanical workshops. The entire
installation is in poor condition. There is a continuous and very serious
problem of lack of spare parts and of small tools.
(e) Provisions and Stores.
5.        There is serious shortage of spare parts for all of RVF's vessels
and equipment. The whole of the storage and procurement system needs to be
overhauled and re-stocked and a training program in procurement and
inventory procedures is required.



-66-
AM      3.01
ZAIM
SW AP*ISAL mrW
-UUmXY of Tedh$eal AssItae 1,
p e~~Ysr
1987  8B' -tal ''9
A. RVM2/                                          -         a    -          -
- Fhoject "n.er                           12  12                     24
- SpecialIlt in stock mwisekt and
spare p    rPs mnueiit                     12  12                24
- Pad1O-positioning specalia               6   6                     12
- bst  n       tariffspeciast              6   6                     12
- Floancial Ianaga   t/Internal Audit
specialst                              6   6                     12
- fraiisWpedaliat                          12  12   4                28
Short Term Missions
-  dpoitio *d                                   4   4   4   4        16
-4Ikru   3/                                3   3   3   3   3         15
- As needed                                     3   4   4   3        14
Sub-total Ri                                        157
B. RVF
!g% Term
- So hydrgrapbmrs (field wrk)             16  16                     32
- mcIz  tools speciist                     6   6                     12
- Ptoject Hnger                           12  12  12                 36
- *vIgatin aids expert                    12  12  12  12  12         60
-  peciaist in stock mimaget              12  12  12                 36
- iipyarddirector                         12  12  12  12             48
- Fi1naca specialist                      12  12                     24
- franir  Secialist                       12                         12
ShwtTermMission
-    lWdropher                             2   2   2   2   2         10
- frainz   .specia1st                           3   3   3   3        12
-AS i1ed                                        3   3   3   3        12
Sub-total RVF
Total RVM and 1W                                    451
1/ inclwdIWn  trainig and nmipmr plan        specialists.
2/ (ngoii lo1-tem progras of assistmce by Be2lgii crrnhz  pilatW  and
hytdnrory are not indluled in this otherwise cayreIhive pram.
31 Mtly lUaison with .R laboratory uork.



*) ~  67               ~                     ANNEX 3.02
ZAIR
NAVGATION IWROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFf APPRAISAL REPORtT
DETAILD COST  ETAIS  END 198 PRICES)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FOREIGN
REGIE DES VOIES VARTMES                    LOCAL FOREIGN   TOTAL    LOCAL fOREIGN    TOTAL AS X OF
-MILION ZAIRES- ----US S TlHOSADS-    TOTAL
INCREAS  IN HYROGRAPRIC SUMY CAPABILITY
Radio positioning system                     6.7    15.8    10.1          18      269      282     96.4x
Survey lounch                                1.0    28.8    24.8          17     409      426    00.0%
Equipmnt tor rehb. o.  8 launches            6.0      8.      0.          0       106      108   100.0%
On. "al#l lsunch                       -    9.2       5.8      6.0        4       102     18      98.2%
Equipment for rebab. of one lounch          6.7       1.1      1.9       1s       20        33    60.6%
Long rang instruents                         6.6    1.00    10.8 B               1EB      1"    108.0%
28 tide recrdere, installed                 18.4      9.0    28.6        284     1in       894    40.6%
One fast launch                              0.2      6.6     8.6         4       102     18     96.2%
Rehab. and lnetrumentation for I launch      0.6      4.2      6.0       14        74      88    84.12
Catmaran for hydrometric studies             06.     16.2    1C.2         a      268      268   100.0%
Laboratory material,                        6.0       1.2      1.2        6       21        21   100.0%
3 hydrometeorologica I sttion                0.0      1.2      1.2        a       21        21   100.0%
Copute., plotter  softwre,    p wlpher.     0.0      6.0      W.6         6      100     le    108.0%
SUBTOTAL HYDROGRAPHY     17.1   1066.   122.0        299    1842    2141       8e.e%
IMPROVEMENTS TO PILOTAGE
Seagoing pilot launch                        2.5    16.6    16.2         48       277      820    88.6%
Rehab. of 8 river pilot launch"              2.9      4.7      7.6       60       82       132      2. 1X
Fast river launch                            6.0     9.1       9.1        0       16S      1oo   100.0X
SBTOTAL PILOTAGE       6.8    29.6    84.9         9a      519      612     84.8%
IMPROVEMENTS TO NAVIGATION AIDS
Reheb. buoy tender Zaire                    16.2    24.1    42.8        819      428      745    57.2%
Buoy tnder / supply vesl combination         2.5    08.8    00.7         48      1022     1066    96.0X
Bouys' part  Vd materials                   14.8    56.0    76.8        251      988     1234    79.7%
Buoys asembly A repair yard                 16.2    17.0    82.1        260      298      564    52.8%
Rehab. of 8 launches                         2.1      8.6     5.0        87       62       99    82.6%
Inspection launch                           4.2    17.0    21.2          74      298      872    80.1%
SUBTOTAL NAVIATION AIDS      66.4   175.9   282.8        990    8669    4079    75.7%
IMPROVEMENTS TO SHIPARD
Access walkway to drydock                    8.0      2.6     6.6        C8       48       90    44.8%
RehabiIlt.tlon of two olipwsys               8.0     8.0      9.1        68      100      159    68.7x
Repair. to mooring berths                    8.7      2.2      5.9       64       82       08    83.8%
Drydock crane                               2.6      7.9    10.8         48      188      181    78.2%
Miscellaneous tools and mchInes             0.6      9.7      9.7         a      170      170    100.OX
Spare parts stock                           2.6    60.8    60.7          48     1022     1085     98.0X
SUBTOTAL SHIPYARD     14.6    66.5   101.1        250    1511      170f7    85.5
IMPROVEMENTS IN DREDGIN OPERATIONS
Instrumentation aboard tho drodge           2.5    16.5    21.0          44      824       88     88.0%
Stationery dredging ability                 4.5    75.8    79.6          79    1821      1408     94.4%
Sliding door*                               9.1    15.2    24.8         100      260      428     82.4%
Sma l craft                                 0.0       .6 8.0              0       84       64   100.0%
Excavator dredge                            7.8    96.5   162.6         127     16811    178      92.9X
SUBTOTAL DREDGIN      28.4   206.1   281.5        410     8S0      4048    89.9X
CONSULTING SERVICES
Hydrography and navigatlonal aIde            2.4    10.0    19..         42      291      838     87.40
Dredglng                                     1.9    12.4    14.8         84      217      261    86.6%
RYM and Matadi Port tariffs                 0.8      2.7      8.6 0               40       68    90.6%
Gotoechnical Investigation                  16.2    15.2    16.8        208      208      582    60.0X
Reduced scale model                         8.0    27.8      8.8         a8      479    652       90.0%
SUBTOTAL CONSULTIN SERVICES      22.8    74.2    97.6        46      1861     1701    76.5%
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Long term technical assistance              5.5    51.9    67.8          96      905     1081     90.4%
Short term technical ssastsnce              2.7    ao.#    82.6          48      527      575    91.7%
SUBTOTAL TECHNICAL ASSISSTNCE     6.2    61.9    90.1         144     1482     1576    90.9%
TRAINING
Training assistance                         2.6    14.7    17.2          48      256      298    85.6%
Overseas training                           0.0    27.8    27.8           0      479      479   100.0X
Local training                              4.0      0.0      4.0        70        0       TO      0.0%
Training aids                               0.8      7.8      7.6         6      128     13      96.2X
SUBTOTAL TRAINING      0.6    49.8    66.1        116      8B2      080    68.0%
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                        164.8   310.9   966.5        2710    14192    18082     84.0%
Physical contingncy provision               18.4    66.9    72.8        202     1089      1281    84.0%
Price contingency provision                187.7   707.8   9060.       6S"      8649     4287    B8.1%
TOTAL DIWESTMT PR AM COm          86.7  1687.1  1942.         830    16906    -sOO    84.4%
Differences of one unit are due to rounding.



- 68 -
ANEX 8.08
NAVIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATE (END 1986 PRICES)
~~~--~o~~~ ~~~- ----- - ~FOREIGN
REGIE DES VOIES fLUVIALES                   LOCAL FOREIGN   TOTAL    LOCAL FOREIGN   TOTAL  AS % OF
----MILLION ZAIRES----- ----     US S THOUSANDS -         TOTAL
Civil workst shipyard                       8.9      1.8      8.7      .121      SI      162      20.4
Rehabilitation of of-fices and butidings    16.8     4.2    21.1       802       76      878      20.1
Small computers and softwaro                0.2      0.7      0.9         a       12      16      80.0
____  _  ______  _  _______ __________________________- _________
SUBTOTAL GENERAL SERVICES    2S.9      8.7    80.6        426      119     645      21.-
INCREASE IN HYDROGRAPHIC SURVEY CAPABILITY
Pr,cis;on hydrographi c instruments         0.2    10.2    10.4          8      179      182      98.4
Radloounications system                     0.6      7.9      0.7        14     1S3      162      90.8
Hydrographle survwy launch          -      13.0    89.1    52.2        227      682      90e      75.1
SUBTOTAL HYDROGRAPHIC SURVEYS    14.9    57.2    71.2        244      999    1242       80.4
…  _____  _______  ___  ____ _ _____________-_-_________
MEANS FOR SPECIAL STUDIES AND WORKS
Flood and low water forocasting            15.1      0.0    1S.1       265        0      286       0.0
Study of Kasa) rock passs                   6.2      0.0      5.2       91        O       91       0.0
Study of Kasai sand passe                   8.9    29.4    29.4          O      61S      g15    100.0
Photograimetry of the Knasa                 1.0    12.1    18.9         Si      212      243      87.2
Rehab. of pormanent navigaotin aids        B2.8      1.8    84.t        578      81      888       5.1
Self powered clamshell dredge              18.5    41.9    56.5        243      742      985      76.S
SUBTOTAL SPECIAL STUDIES    60.4    86.1   168.6        1298    1500    2705       55.5
INCREASE IN CAPABILITY TO INSTALL AND
MAINTAIN NAVIGATION AIDS
Inspection craft                           17.4    62.2    69.8        808      908    1211       75.0
Buoy tender                                16.5    49.2    04.8        272      884    1138       78.1
Fast launch (Tanganika)                     0.0      0.0      8.0        9      1O6      106    100.0
SBTOTAL NAVIGATION AIDS    82.9   107.5   140.4          575    1878    2458       78.8
IMPROVEMENTS TO SHIPYARD
Rebuilding of stocks (parts and mats.)     10.5    52.7    68.2        182      908    1091       83.2
Rehabilitation of shop *quipment            0.3    82.9    88.2          8      577      6Os      99.0
Shipyard mobile e4uipment                   0.9    11.2    12.1         15      197      212      92.9
Sllpway crane                               5.2    81.1      6.8       91      545      sa6      86.7
SUBTOTAL SHIPYARD IMPROVEMENTS    16 9    127.9   144.8       294    2227    2522        88.3
REHABILITATION OF EXISTING CRAFT
Buoy tenders                              56.7    98.6   149.6         964    165      2686      82.8
srqea                                       7.4      9.1    18.4       129      169      288      56.2
Oroo i                                     84.5    53.6    66.0        606      939    1544       80.8
Pushers, launches and other                15.8    28.5    44.0        278    S50        772      84.8
~~~~~~~~~- - - - - -- -- - -- - -- _-- --- _-                
SUBTOTAL REHABILITATION EXIST. CRAFT      118.2   164.?   297.9        1992    3248    5239       82.0
…                   ------ -…-   -     -  - -------- ---------
CONSULTING SERVICES
Engineering and tender documents            0.9    15.6    16.4         1s      272      287      94.8
Supervision of work                         5.2    14.0    19.2         91      242      883      72.7
- -   -  ---   ------ ------  -  -   ---- --- ; ---   ---------
SUBTOTAL CONSULTING SERVICES     6.1    29.5    85.6         100     514      620      82.9
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
United States AID                           0.0    82.8    82.8          0      578      676    100.0
Belgium Cooperation                         O.9   168.1   138.1          0     2422    2422    100.0
Othor sources                               6.8    16.7    21.0         91      242      833      72.7
SUBTOTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE     5.8   168.8   191.9         91    8240    8331        97.8
TRAININ
Training specialist                         e.g      6.0      6.0        0      196      196    100.0
Ovorseas training                           0.0    11.5    11.5          0      201      201    100.0
Local training                             19.6      0.9    19.6       188        0      183       0.o
Tra ining  ids                              9.0      8.1      8.1        a       63       58    100.0
SUBTOTAL TRAINING    19.5    29.- 81.1            188      860     548      66.3
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                        291.2   8056.  1097.0       5117    14965   19290       73.4
Physical contingency provision             25.2    68.5    88.7         496    1041    1589       87.8
28 X approx. prlce contingency provision   269.4   772.8  1081.7      1086    3674    4759        77.2
________-  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _____________________W ----_______- -
TOTAL INVESTWENT PROGRAM COST   N6.8   1638.6  2212.4        8700   18808   26498       73.7
Differences of one unit *re due to rounding.



69
AM- 3.04
WPR
I4VWIAThi DVFVNW MD=F~
SOW  -PVA  WQIM
Pi~jectIuplaun Stche dus~le - !!Ol des Voles Maritimes
(Calendar Year)
.         .             ~~~~~~~19116   1967   lS8S   l9B9  199D   1991   1992   1993
} 2131 1121314 1 2 _3_141;1213141 2 314 112 _31 5  2131   213141
Raio poeduiadg syst_ 
Survey lauch aid _   __. ip
E1Alment for rehab. of 3 lamch_s
omul launch
SquIpment for rhab. of o s lamch
Log rage instrtn_ ts
Tide racodidm eswim.nt:
26 tide recorders, installed
Cho fast launch
l'zetyand sedimnmtolyequ gppsit
Relih, and tnrlattmitatnm for I la_m_h
Q" mfor hA=Mrc stulies___    _____
Caqnters, plotter, softre, periper.
DTD~~ K PILWrAM
Seagois, pilot launch
ahb. of 3 plot latmcI_s
Fast river lamuch
DBE1JAUS ITO f1IW%V= AIDS
elisha  bly tarder Zaire
BJDy tender/stpply vsel mihni_ation
liys parts ard m__sterials
&iys assembly and repair yard
Rehab., of 3 laiw                         - - -
Iaptiolaunch
Acews mlkway to drydo                                    - 
aelisob, of ti_ a pmy1
Repair to moaring berfth
D*01ock cawe
Maeleneow  tools al id}e uud_    __ lil 
sare prt stoII
DfUT1m  IN DOM=II OWLE&nm
Intruasttion aba  the dredges
yationery dredgirg, split-barges
Sl1din  doors
SMI inspection craft
Eaator dredge
03imxm stvicm
Hbdvx,W*Wi and iaigainal aids
Geotechdcnl hneTigtin
RaZdSI scAle .del
TFDUNCAL h                                         LIWOW=
1ar term teciical assistance
Shaft term ctedmiad assistance
Traing assisance
Oas  training
r .tI 9 i - me      I.ll.l.LI    I X
Part tinle



'U                      IIh             liII
'1,           ,,                                          Sulj  
~~~y--  *- j;gjg  [Iii          lii
W-- l    -  g    S~~



-71 
ANWEX 3.06
Page 1 of 3
ZAIRE
NAVIGATION RMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Terms of Reference for Prolect Managers 1I
1.       (This section is to be filled by the Regie, giving a short
dbecription of the investment program, a description of the R;giets
rs%ponsibilities and organization, a statement of probable co-financiers
and any other pertinent information to have a minimum understanding of the
bUckggound of the investment program).
The                   Role
1.       The basic role of the Project Manager (PM) is to plan, organize,
evaluate, direct, control and lead the investment program implementation
from inception to its completion. In order to achieve these objectives,
the PM's primary responsibilities ares
-   To implement the investment program within the technical, cost
or sebeduled specifications and with the resources available;
-   To alert the higher management at any time it appears the
technical, cost or schedule objectives will not be met;
-   To make, or cause to be made, the required decisions to assure
that the investment program objectives will be met;
- To recommend changes or alternative solutions if the
investment program objectives cannot be achieved or
contractual obligations permit;
- To serve as the primary point of contact for the investment
program with the consultants, contractors, suppliers,
financing organizations and top and middle level management;
-   To coordtnate the work of the various consultants,
contractors, suppliers, and the internal departments of the
organization for performance of required tasks to
specifications and within time and cost limits;
1I These are the terms of reference for RVM's Project Manager. Those of
RVF are slightly different.



- 72 -
ANNEX 3.06
Psg" 2 of 3
- To meet the reporting and procedural requirements of the
International and local financing agencies participating in
the investment program to assure a smooth flow of funds.
3.       The PM position will be in the Project Implementation Unit,
reporting directly to the General Manager (PDG).
Detailed Job Description
4.       The following list of tasks and specific responsibilities is
neither exhaustive nor fully comrrehensive, but it reflects the nature of
the specific responsibilities of the PM.
5.       (a) General:
- Rapidly and efficiently start up the investment program.
-  Assure rapid and efficient delivery of documents, materials
and services required by consultants, suppliers, contractors
and internal departments for acceptance and use vithin
contractual obligations.
-   Convey to all concerned a full understanding of their role,
the investment program requirements, and their expected
contributions.
-   In collaboration with responsible managers, consultants,
suppliers and contractors, elaborate detailed investment
program objectives, strategies, budgets and schedules.
- Follow up the adherence and deviations respect the plans,
budget and schedules.
-   Identify causes of deviations, and initiate actions to correct
deficiencies or deviations from plan.
-  Resolve conflicts, or reach the highest level required to
resolve these.
-  Maintain cognizance over all Investment program related
contacts and day-to-day liaison with all functional investment
program contributors.
-  Make or ensure required decisions at successively higher
organizational levels to achieve investment program
objectives.
- Keep current investment program status information and report
it to the interested authorized parties.
6.       (b) Contractual administrations
-   Identify all areas of exposure of existing and potential
contracts, and act appropriately to alert management to
eliminate or minimize such exposure.
-   Prepare and send all correspondence on contractual matters.
-   Participate in contract negotiations.
-   Identify and keep track of all open contractual commitments to
and by the Regie.
- Advise external and internal organizations of their
contractual commitments.



- 73 -
ANNEX 3.06
*             Pae 3 of 3
-   Prepare historical or position papers on any contvactual or
technical spact of the program, for use in contract
negotiations or litigation.
7.       (c) Protect, Plann_ngX  Control. Reporting. Evaluation Ind
Directingt
Perform or supervise the performance of all investment program
plananng, controlling, reporting, evaluation and direction
functions, as appropriate to the scope of eacn investment
program component.
Conduct frequent, regular investment program evaluation and
review meetings to identify current and future problems and
initiate actions for their resolution.
Prepare end submit monthly progress direutly to the PDG and
Involved financ al institutions.
Supervise the investment program control staff.
8.       (d) Engineering. Purchasing and Subcontracting:
Insure the engineers, consultants, contractors and suppliers
fulfil their obligations for delivering, on time and within
cost estimates, drawings, specifications and other required
tender documents, meeting the specifications of the Reg'e.
In cooperation with the consultants, suppliers and other
departments, define and establish schedules and budgets
applicable to their investment program contribution work.
Coordinate engineering and other support required by the
consultants, contractors or suppliers.
Establish investment program priorities.
Establish and periodically report all the funds whieh are
available for utilization on the investment program.
9.       (e) Financials
Prepare all documents and follow all necessary procedures of
IDA and other investment program co-financiers to assure a
smooth and predictable flow of funds.
Recomend for approval or rejection all change orders and
proposals to the R"gie.
Review for payment all consultant, contractor, supplier and
engineer invoices.
Monitor all payments to suppliers, engineers, consultants, and
contractors, keeping a current investment program summary of
expenses, compatible with financing agreements.
10.      (f) Administrative:
Define the organisation of, and control and supervise the
Project Implementation Unit.
Trnsfer, In the possible measure, skills and technology to
permit future investment programs self management by the
fl;gie.



MM 3.07
.srAAXO INIIUT 11030
ODerationsi Ok ectives J1
A. Raie, de Ed". Esritu                            M7         122 A1
(a) Azount of dring  (3 000'ayr) V/    4,660            6.500
(b) Availability to work of the dredges (2)      50        as
(c) Ntuber of buoys repaired or replaced
(unitslye.r)                                16         36
(4) Total length of bydrogrephic profiloe
(WmYe)                                   6,000     15,000
(S) l0..Mth channel depth (feet)                23.5      26
(f) Pilotage caused shp delay.
(.hip-boulr.Iy)                          3,000      1,000
(t) UtiUsftio  of dredge  (2) aI                 32.5      65
B. R;Lo des Thl. J1ViAles
(a) Length of river regularly provided
With nvigatio  ai  (iR)                  1,795      3,500
(b) Length of rlver Inspected (tnlyear)       1,170      7500
(c)  enth of river coveredby buoy tendrs
at work (wlyr)                          12,620    27,"0
(d) Availability to work o' te buoy
tender, (2)                                 s0         75
(a) Utilization of the buy tenders (2)           40        60
(f) Surfac* covered :py bydrographic
surveso  (helyear)                         160        800
(g) Number of water lreel recorders
maintained (unitslyear)                      0         60
(h) RW camed delay. in average travel
tim  (2)                                     5          2
(i) Average delay In shipyard's work (2)        2S          0
'I  For the oat part tbhre are no statistics of pet performne.
VI The avrag between- 1974 ad 1983  a 4,900.
31   The average In 1984 wa about 402 (as equipmet wa in bettor
condition).
Al  1987 targets ware agreed at negotiation. (althoug  By an  RE may
sdjust certain vu  before November 30, 196). 1992 target, a
Indicative.



75 -
Ag 3.01
-M m-
Prolect Fiacin Plai
Loal , 
Retie des Votes Marlti0es
Operational Iprovemts         2.8    0.6   0.0   13.8   17.2
Studies & Technical Assitance 0.6    1.5   0.0    1.9    4.0
Trainin g                      -0           10.01   1t4
Subtotal                  3.5    2.1   0.0   16.8   22.4
R;aie des Voles Pluviale
Operational Improvemts        5.5    4.2   0.7    9.S   19.9
Studies & Technical Assistance 0.2    3.0   0.7    1.0    4.9
Training                      0.2    0.I    X               L 0
Subtotal                  5.9    7.3   1.5   10.8   25.5
Total                   9.4            j,    27-6   47.9
Differences of one unit are due to rounding.



NVIMMEN DHRMEM PmmaT
SmW APILMEO EF
Matadi Port: Aamal         Traffic, 198D-4 Actusb,
1985 Estlm3 , 1990-2000 ProLecti     /
Et8  ( '000 Tos)          1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1990    1995    2000
MU*Ieals                197      274      269     248      244     275      350     400      400
euttuve Prdtcts          107     103      88       80       96      95      105     135      170
LogO                     40       33      41       54      87       80      150     300      450
son vow                  15       15      20       19      27       30       50     100      150
Other                    34       32      40       33      22       25       30      40       50
Sub-Total           393        7 45   458     434    7476    T5C      - i5   197    1,-220
(Conta1xeridzd)     (143)   (124)   (152)   (192)   (198)   (225)   (350)   (580)   (670)
s ('000 Tons)
Wheat                    179     154      130     158      136     160      185     215      250
General cargo           477      493     529      630      720     700      700     760      860
Sub-Total            656     67-   -69       -78-8     M       860 685 78975 8          1 1 fi
(0btaiznerized)      (98)   (123)   (142)   (172)   (225)   (225)   (290)   (390)   (450)
Total              1,049   1,104   1,117   1,222   1,332   1,365   1,570   1,950   2,330
(Cbn-tajdnrized)     (241)   (247)   (294)   (364)   (423)   (450)   (640)   (970) (1,120)
(Inber 79EU)      (20,200) (21,400) (24,800) (26,500) (33,900) (36,000) (45,000) (65,000) (75,000)
Petroleum Prouts
('(OCO tns) 2/         615      682      638      735     703      728     715      850     980
1/ Mwvemen4 of empty containers asd local traffic excluied.
V Ihrnugh the ngo-&AV terumnal, south of 3tajdi.
Scurce: COtIR&, S(FReME Cxdultants, Nassion estimates, 1985.



ZAnw.
NkVIGALM DnrWM  W
SrAFF APMIS JS REF
Bow Port, kRwal FVre*it Traffic, 198-84 Atuals, 1985  stimtes, 1990-200 Projecti
198D     1981      1982     1983      1984     1985      1990     1995      2000
aided      (O0D Tos)          63        64        59       46        60       78        56       52        48
Unloaded   ('OOOTos)           16       17        15       13        15       18        18       21        24
Totl  ('000 Tns)          79        81       74        59       75        96       84        73        72
Source: OXIA, Missomn Fetlmates, 1985.
Ul 
;



-78-
ANNEX 4.03
ZAIRE
NAVIGATION IHPIO       PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Rliver Freight Traffic, 1984 Actuals. 1985 Estimates,
--9992000 Projectlons
1984     1985      1990     1995     2000
Downstream (000 Tons)
Minerals Rxports             244      275       350      400      400
Agriculture Products         151      150       187      233      290
Forestry Products            140      150      200       400      600
other                         17       18        20       24       28
Sub-Tote)l           53T32              757    1,057    T~TI
upstrem (000 Tons)
Petroleum Products           214      220      249       282      319
Other                        258      260      301       340      385
Sub-Total         4-5i   -              549      622       704
Total               1,024    1,073    1,306    1,679    2,022
-          -               _
Source: Study of Private Sector in Transport, BCEON/GET, 1985;
Projet d'Investisseusnts de la RVF, Justification Economique,
BCBON, 1985; Mission Estimates.



-~-
- -tV m
1      2      3       4      5       6      7       8
______ _______    _   O          - -
X _  Aipslo4 1,000 to 1l40) U                           100            100             67   15
Castaii  dd  (_n-iIrect) 80D W
1,40 WU
1   carls                                      145                     45             3.0   15
%b emit d.                                       15      45    243    403              4.8   84
R~Iy,a1ui b duips (~-dSxeet)                     2D    25    343    570               11.4   5D
QCmt1am1 wp ddpe              48                   182    23D              1.1  200
ihaba    eswrls                          112                           112             9.3   12
71     Z.0   28
y Oilam I to 10 bl O do fA1d mmdk:
1: ~m
2.*1Lop
3:  1b ug  l     pbp
6:    P eroa  ptAut
7:  Arqsa - dlperX pia
8:  lier of bip per pw
9:  Merap load pwr  sp in an act (for kh s 4.05, 4.06, 4.07)                                                      I
10. Rber of sbip per yew (for Amwsi   4.05, 4.06, 4.07)
Note: huego lous per ship boa bow adjusted to boe a ratmt mwer of Ships.



NAVIGAI DgWWIT E1wT
SfTM APPRAMSA FM=K
Shippit Traffic, 1990 Poecttons 11
dy     §LpsE                          Iuort and Exort Vom                              Traf
Witbout        With
1      2       3      4       5       6      7       8       9     10
-   ---     --TOMn s   ------    To            me   Tom   iter
Caxtwr Ships 1,000 to 1,400Ti3U                          158            158               7.5   21       7.5   21
Coptainr ddpe (seul-dtrect) 800 1EU                      288            288              12.0   24      12.0   24
1,400 1EU
kg  curIers                                       56                     56               3.7   15       3.7   15
Polyalent sl4ps                                   43      76    214    333                4.8   70       6.2   54
Pblyvalent duis (seul-irect)                      51    115    334    500                11.1   45      14.7   34
Genvitiow  azmgo bdps                      55                    12)    175               1.0  170       1.0  170
Wa bflk carTiers                          130                            130              9.3   14      13.0   10
lTakers                                                                         715      25.5   28      25.5   28
1/ See Ana 4.4.



ZAIRE
NVICGN R*R%YMENr PWUr
STAFF APMASAL HU
Shipp1zx Traffic, 1995 Projectiorts 1/
Type of Ship                                 bIW)rt aKd &;port VolunEs                  ShipId , Traf fic
Without         With
tjec          1froect-
1      2       3       4       5       6        7       8       9      10
-------- o-    ----Tos   mr   Tor Nmer
Caitaile sbips 1,000 to 1,400 TJ                            222             222               7.9   28        7.9   28
Cnta~er ships (wni-dfrec) 800 IEU                                                          11.4   40
1,400                      Ii   455            455                              20.7    22
Log  cwriers                                        106                     106               3.8   28        3.8   28
Iblyvaleit ships                                     93     116    170    379                 4.7   80        6.1   62
Polyvalent ships (semi-direct)                      101     174    294      569              11.4   50       14.6   39
Qmxuentiol cargo ships                       65                      74     139               1.0  137        1.0  137
Wheat WA carriers                           150                             150               9.4   16        12.5   12
Tankers                                                                             850      25.7   33       25.     33
1/ See MAr2e 4.4.
0



ZAIR
NkVI nTIQI Df1EW P*IW
Sh14W1zX Trfic, 2000 grojectiam 1/
Of Me-                       ft~~~~~iiort and E,iort VolimisSI1  Traffic
Proec         project,
1      2       3       4       5      6       7       8       9      10
Cataier sldps 1,000 to 1,40D TE                           243             243               7.6   32       7.6   32 
Contdn  *Aps (suL-dIect) 800 7D                                                            11.3   44
1,400 Im                       496        J   496                              D,7   24
InB  cariers                                       149                    149               3.9   38       3.9   38
f11ynIent aMp.                                     145    127    198    470                 4.8   98       6,2   76
Poiyvalait ddp  (sui-dlre)                         156     190    358    704               11.4   62       14.7   48
X wsnt1am1caqo, 1dps                        75                     89    164                1.2  132       1.2  132
1--bsIk an1lr                              175                            175               9.2   19       13.5   13
T 8*=                                                                             98D      25.8   38      25.8   38
Y  se i    4.4.



-83-
ANNEK  4.08
ZAIR
NAVIGATION Ii OWNVXENT PROJECT
STAllAPPRAISAL REPORT
_ h's Project Component
-Main Assumptions for the Calculation of Economic Benefits
A. Comarison of 'with project" and "without project" cases
(a)  Container she:
-. multiport" service: ona day saved per ship per
round-trip because a stop in Pointe-Noire for lightering
ls avoided.
-semi-direct" service: from 1991 on, total traffic will
be handled by 1400 TEU ships (3 in 1995) instead of 800
TEU ships (5 in 1995), with an average of 601 of their
load for Zaire.
(b) Polyvalent ships:
The characteristics of traffic on the West African
coast are not modified by the project. As larger
loads are taken to Matadil/oma, some ships no longer
need to come to Matadi/Boma. The savings per ship
are 3 days for "multiport' service and 13 days for
"seml-direct" service*  The total number of days
saved is 180 in 1990, 186 in 1,95, and 234 in 2000.
- (c) Wheat Bulk Carriers
The type of ship does not change (20,000 DIT), but the
average load per ship increaes from 9600 Tons to 13,600
Tons. As a result, the total cost of transport
decreases from US$ 39.4/Ton to US$ 32.5/Ton.
(d) Tankers
T-he type of ship does not change (30,000 DWT), but only
5,400 Tons per ship, instead of 13,400 Tons, are unloaded
at Noanda and transported by barge to Ango Ango. The
average saving per shipload is US$ 60,000.
B. Share of Benefits to be Allocated to Zaire
(a) Container shi-Ds
5=  since the share of CMZ is expected to remain very
limited.
(b) Polyvslent ships
70X as CMZ is expected to retain 40X of the traffic.
(c) Wheat Bulk Carriers
100Xas total operating costs of each trip are paid by
Zaire.
C.  Dd l Cost of Sh&s
USS
(a)  Container ships         800 TEU         21,0
1000 TEU        23,600
1400 TEU        26,600
(b)  Polyvalent shlps                        15,100
(c)  Wheat Bulk Carriers                     11,100
(4) Tankers                                  15,200



-84-
W    4.09
NAMA~TIc1 MRUMM WV
SEW ARMML ERN
RVM's Project Ccuipft
C-osts       Benits Stream  1,
year                                 P t  oect BeCfots      Net B,,fits
Additional Water IMpth N4gh
FsO                    to 28 fe 
1987          70           -           -           -            -70
1988         157          15           -           --172
1989         172          30           -           -           -202
1990         158          47          30           -           -175
1991          91          62          93            -           60
1992          44          62         358          31            276
1993          30          62         489           31           428
1994          11          62         495          32            454
1995           -          62         501           32           471
1996           -          62         511           33           482
199'           -          62         522          34            494
1998          12          62         532                        493
1999          12          62         543           35           504
2000          12          62         581           36           543
2001           -          62         586           37           561
2002           -          62         591           38           533
2003          17          62         596           39           556
2004          18          62         601           40           561
2005          17          62         606           41           568
2006           -          62         611           41           590
2007           -          62         616           42           596
2008           -          62         617           43           598
2009        -101          62         617           43           699
1/ In milLi} of Daerber 1985 zalres.



- 85 -
ANNEX 4.10
ZAIRE
NAVIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Number of Convoys on the River Network, 1985 Estimates,
1990-2000 Projections
1985          1990           2000
Zaire River and Affluents
-  ONATRA                              70             90            150
-  Oil companies                       12             14            22
-  Other private sector               110            158           306
Kasai River and Affluents
-  ONATRA                             163            171           243
-  Oil companies                       43             51            75
-  Other private sector                35             50            85
Source: BCEOM/GET.



-86-
ANNDX 4.11
ZUUg
NAVIGATION TMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
R 's Project o        t
Main Assmptions for the Calculation of Economic Benefits
A. Comparison of "With Project" and "Without Project' Cases
(a) Roars lost in 1984 per round trSIp:
Zaire River    Kassi River
Malebo Pool                7               7
Rocky passes              10              30
Other stops               54              38
Slower navigation          6               2
(b) Weighted  erage loss if project is not implemted:
Zaire Rlver               77 Hours
Kasai River              106 Hours
The weights take into account the number of available buoy tenders In the
"with project" and "without project" cases and the share of totsl traffic
going through the difficult river sections.
B. Daily Cost of Convoys
000 saires
ONATRA                                   130
Oil companies                            130
Other private sectors                     50
C.  Value of goods in transit on river network
1985            1990           2000
…--- 1Billion zaires          -
Zaire River               10.0            11.9             17.4
Xasal River               29.2            31.2             40.5



- 87 -
ANNEX 4.12
ZAIRE
NAVIGATION IMfPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RVF's 'roject Component
Costs and Benefits Streaas I/
Year             Project Costs           Project Benefits   Net Benefits
Captal       Additional
Operating
1987            80               -                                -80
1988           179               -                               -179
1989           239               8                 -             -247
990            248              17                42             -223
1991           129              28               146              -11
1992            60              39               221              122
1993            40              43               271              188
1994            20              43              280               217
1995             -              49               291              242
1996             -              43               301              258
1997             -              43               312              269
1998             -              43               325              282
1999             -              43               336              293
2000             -              49               350              301
2001             -              43               362              319
2002             -              43               375              332
2003             -              43               388              345
2004          -176              43               401              534
1/ In million of December 1985 zaires.



- 88 -
Annex 6.01
ZAIRE
NAVIOATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
REGIE DES VOIES MARITIMES
Incom Statements
(million Z'a)
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
----unaudited------  audited
Revenues                         14     88    a8    247    612
Working Expense                  11     24     42      69    274
Operating Result                     12     26    178    238
Depreciation                      2     10      7       8    18
NOt Operating Result            1      2     19    170    100
Interest Expense
Non-cash Provisions
Net Income                      1      2     19    170    100
= = = == ==



9-   E              -
lADm
NAVIGATION  WrOVM f PROJECT
REGI tS 01   OlE  ARITIES
19to 1961 1982 1988 1984
-uanaudltod-- audited
Curren AeAsta                   9     19    42   221    I0l
Net Fixed IAst8        *              a2    26      74    867
Total ASest                  47     S1     70    296    6
Carrnt LiabiItties              1      1      1     27     10
Long term debt
Equity Capital                 4      s6     69    266  -56
Liabilities and Equity         47     51    70   295   68
_       -       -       



90 -
NAVIGATION wvinwm pnUJK
111M US vol MR11Z1111
FM Sul   dS                                       S."mmst
Iw  zu       tos  zoes   UNs
Nettiweme                    2    12 to        in
.preel.tl.a           2    1 W            5i  Su
DIAA~~E" 0£ m                           b 
Eqlty                                2      S    21    to
Fin|a.1                          2  t            ft   E 
$Dur.e  ofFu                8    ^214    2    37    52
Ver&lS capital              N2A   i         9 2s 1n     a
investmm,t                  N A      4      a    U4   431
WAlellto otf pfu          NA      14    3    257   52
_m - _ - 



91                                     AmeY  5.04
-9
NAVIGATION  IROVEMEN  PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPRT
It-i. ds Vol.. Moritime
Rateo Antlyci.
109"    1981    1982    1088    1064
- - -Unaudfttd- audited
Operation.
Mlartime Trafle (tkeeaa  to.)           1,748    1,0867   1,329   2,016    2,119
Amufti Rewoan basrosm                             1573      093    2683    197
Profitabl ity
Worknq Rtlo                               783      67X      82X     283      64X
Operating Ratlo                           9ax      94X      72%     81X      s8e
Working Capital (mlli. Z'o)               a       16       41     194      21
Curret Ratl,                             9.6    10.6    42.0       8.2    10.1
Capital izatlo.t
Debt to Squity                             as       as      0%       83       eX
Debt Sevi.C.vmWa                          -e        ex      ex       ex       ex



- 92 -
Annex 5.60
ZAIRE
NAVIOATO4 IM MENT PROJECT
REQIE DES VOlES FLUIALES
Income Statoetnt.
(mlIIIon VS)
1988   1981   12   1983   1984
------unnud it.d------- audited
Revenues                         7     19     28     42    111
Working Expeon.                  8      7     1S     87    112
Operating Result               4     12     11      6      (1)
Depreciation                     0      1      1       2     11
Not Operating Result           4     11     18      8    (12)
interest Expense
eon-cash Provisions
Net Income                     4     11     18      8    (12)
=3 _ _ =P



93 -
Annex C.90
ZAIRE
UAYI"TIOt4 IWROV!MENt PROJECT
RECKE DES MOiES FLRUIALES
e.,se. Shee"
(aititon  Z'u)
1980  1981  1982  1983  1984
-unsudited- -  audited
Current Aeet                    6     is    29    8e    a1
Not Ftixd As_*                I1    11    12    a8    97
Tot I Aseto                  17    29    41    74   128
= = =5 _ = 
Current Lsbil it).              a     1s    1a    11    12
Long term debt
Equity Capital                 12     16    28    as    116
Lieblitte  and Equity         17    29    41    74   128
:=      -        = ~



-94,-
Aeiz 5.91
zAm
NAVIGTION    mom  POtJC
KE    CEO VO2ES PUULES
Fupe Steta
1980  1001  1002  S19 1zo
NsbZ tne                       4    11    1s             1
Depreciati                            1      1     2      1
Ceah aeratlon                4    12    11       5     (1)
Debt                                  0      0 9   9
Equity                               (7)    2    81    05
Flinaing                           (7)    2    82   6E
urc. of Funds                4      5    18    87    64
Worin Capitl                 N A      4    X1      9     (6)
inveatmen                    N A      1     2    2       i
Appilatlon of Funm         N A      6    18      ?    6
-              - _  _  _



- 9S -                                         Annex 5.08
2Am
WAOATMN   VIov _TRO,ECT
ST APPWPAVSAL6 RtEPORT
Ibt- de Votes Flvwlal.
Ratio Analyst*
163      131      132      138       06
lo               U       _ t io    li
-  -~-- UnVdlttd-  audited
Opeoilon
River Traff to (thousad tons)             1.166    1,186    1,142    1,148    1,1l4
Annuel RIeave  Inor_ce                               171X      675      625       6a4
Prof itebl I ty
Working Ralo                                 45       85       563      685     1X
Operating Ratio                              4.       425      65X      on     l5
Liquidity
Working Capital (t tIIle t'.)                 1        5       16       25      1i
Current Ratio                               1.2      1.4      2.2      8.8      2.
Capitol iation
Debt to Equity                                                  as a1  3          ox
Debt Servlce Covrg                                                        a       o



- 96 -                                         AAnnex 5.09
ZAIRE
AVIATION IWRVENENrT PROECT
STAFF APPRASAL IEPORT
Regi- dm Votle Pluwlatee
Profttabili ty nalwyt.
i98    oton      1w,    ion        1i4
-       -     Unsmd ittd- audited
Assumption
Annual Revenue Increase                     -      175X    89X       2"6      197X
Operations
Revenues (million 2'-)                      7       18       34    1i         26S
Workitng Expense (milIIon 2's)              8        7       is       87      112
Operatina Result (milIon 2')               4       11       19       #6      148
Prof itab I ity
Working Ratto                              48X      so       44X      55       44X
Operating Ratio                            485      44X      475      825      48X



-97
Annex 5.10
Page 1 of 6
NAVIGATION  MPRI   PRQJECT
STAFF  PR AL  RPORT
Assumptions Used in Financial Pro lections
A. _
Inflation. International and local inflation rates used in the
financial projections are shown below:
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990  Thereafter
International     7.21    6.8S    6.81    7.02    7.11    4.01
Local            20.02   20.01   20.01   20.01   20.02   20.01
B. REVENUES
(a)RV: RVM's total revenues are calculated as the ratio of operating
expenses to operating ratio with an operating ratio of .85 from 1987 on.
(b)RYFt RVF's total revenues are calculated as the ratio of operating
expenses to operating ratio with operating ratios of 1.20 in 1987, 1.0 in
1,988, 0.9 in 1989, 0.85 in 1990, and 0.80 from 1991 on.
C. OPERATING EZPENSES
(a) RV
(i) Salaries
Salaries have been adjusted by taking into consideration the
projected inflation and an increare of 2Z annually in real terms.
(it) Fuel and Enerty
This account represents the cost of diesel fuel, gasoline,
lubricants, water and electricity. The cost of each item has been
established as follows:
I. Diesel Fuel
The August 1985 diesel fuel price (Z 2611) has been multiplied by
the local inflation rates for the following years. The consumptions (in
thousand liters) are as follows:



- 98 -
Ane5.10
Page 2 of 6
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
and after
Marking and
Pilotage         350      350     450     590     620      600     570
Dredging         3,150   3,902   4,293   4,683   4,509   4,509   4,509
- Marking and Pilotase:  The following equipment has been
taken into consideration:  old equipment renovated, buoy tender Zaire,
motor-boats, new equipment and cars. For each item, an annual quantity of
diesel oil has boon established by consultants and reviewed by the
appraisal mission.  Resavlting total is shown above.
- Dredgings Power in HP has been established for five
dredgers and other auxiliary engines by consultants and-half of the power
has been considered as effectively used. Out of annual working hours of
4,380, an effective rate of operations has been given (40X for 1987, 502
for 1988, 552 for 1989, 60% for 1990 and 652 thereafter). The estimate of
diesel consumption has been made on the basis of 0.18 liters per HP/hour.
Resulting total of diesel consumption for dredging is shown above.
1I. Gasoline
- Gasoline consumption for marking and pilotage operations
has been based on,an effective utilization rate of 502 of total engine
power, an effective number of 1,000 annual working hours and a consumption
of 0.4 liters per HP/hour.
- For dredging operations, the following provision has been
made (in million Zaires):
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
and after
2.0     2.5     2.5     3.0     4.0      5.0     6.0
III. Lubricants
- Marking and Pilotate.  Lubricant costs have been
estimated at 82 of the diesel fuel cost.
- Dredging. Lubricant costs have been estimated at 101 of
diesel fuel cost.
IV. Water.
- Water has been estimated as equal to 21 of diesel fuel
cost for marking and pilotage operations.
V. Electricity
- MHrking and Pilota&e.  Installed power in KW has been
established for buildings, air conditioning and the telecnmunmications



-99 -
AA A"S.10
Poge 3 of 6
station and multipliod by an *ffective number of 1,500 working hours
annually.  R"ult In KWlhour has ben converted into HPIhour on the b"is
of 1 HP - 736 W sad by * plce of US$ 0.3,916 por liter and 0.24 liter per
HPlhour and by the correponding yearses rate of exchange.
- Dredging.  Installed pomer has been estimeted for the
workshop, stores an4 office. Annual worklng hours hove been established
at 1,500.  Tho resiltiug quantity in KW/hous was converted Into HP/hour.
Cost has then been made on the basis of US$ 0.3,916 per liter and a
consumption of 0.24 liter per HPfhour.
(lit) Materials and Maintenance
I. Marking and PilotaMe. Annual materials and maintenanee
Coats have been estimated at 102 of the rehabilitation cost of the
equipment.
II. Dredgina. Annual materials and maintenance costs have
been estimated at 82 of dredgets' value.
(iv)   General sad Administrative Expenses relfect the cost
inherent In volume of operations, and have been projected by taking 1985
value adjusted for local inflation for the following years.
(v)   Provision for Bsd Debt has been estimated at 22 of total
operating expenses.
(vi)   Depreciation has been calculated at 3.31 of revalued gross
fixed assets in service.
(vii) Provision for Fgreian Exchanea Losses represents the annual
revaluation of foreign exchange denominated debts.
(b) RVF
(i)   Salaries
Salaries have been adjusted by taking into consideration
the projected local Inflation and an increase of 22 annually in real terms.
(li) Fuel sad Enersv
I. Diesel Fuel. The August 1985 price for diesel fuel (Z
2611) has been multiplied by -he local inflation rates for the following
years. These prices have then boen multiplied by the following diesel fuel
consumption. as determined by consultants and revised by the appraisal
mission (in million liters)i
1987     1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
and aftel
1,260   1,414   1,587   1,782   2,000   2,000   2,000



- 100 -
Annex 5.10
Pago 4 of 6
II. Lubricant costs have been estimated at 10% of the diesel
fuel cost.
II1. Energy and Water costs have been estimated at about Z 50
thousands a month by end of June 1985, and were then projected by applying
the local inflation rate for following years.
(lii) Materials and Maintenance expenses cover the cost of
materials needed for operationa and repairs and hava been estimated by
consultants on the basis of RVF's rehabilitation program and revised by the
appraisal mission.
(iv) General an Administrative Expenses refloct the cost inherent
in volume of operations, and have been projected by taking the 1985 value
adjusted for local inflation for the following years.
(v) Provision for Bad Debt has been estimated at about 42 of total
operating expenses.
(vi) Depreciation has been calculated at 3.32 of revalued gross
fixed assets in service.
(vii) Provision for Foreign Exchange Losses represents the annual
revaluation of foreign exchange denominated debts.
D. BALANCE SHEETS
(a) Fixed Assets
Fixed assets are calculated as follows: (i) Capital expenditures
are annualized cost estimates in US dollars multiplied by the corresponding
annual rate of exchange. They are entered in 'works in progress" and
revalued by local inflation rates until the year of their transfer to
"assets in service'; (1i) Fixed assets In service were revalued by the
auditors of RVM and RVF as of December 31, 1985. From then on, fixed
assets including works in progress transfezred to fixed aeeets in service
during the implementation period, are revalued annually to reflect
projected price escalation rates.
(b) Working Capital
Working capital has been projected taking into account billing
collection and payment experience and estimated requirements for prudent
liquidity management:
(i) Current Assets
I. RVM
- Cash has been projected at the level required by
operations which was established as about three months
of working expenses.



-101-
AnneA 5.10
Page 5 of 6
- Receivables have been projected as equsl to the
following months of revenues.
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
- and after
3.1     2.7     2.5     2.3      2.1     2.1
- Inventories have been projected as equal to the following
months of materials and maintenance costs:
1987     1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
and after
6.0     7.0     8.0'    8.0      8.0     8.0
II RVF
- Cash has been projected as about half a month working
expenses.
- Receivables have been established as 45 days of estimated
revenues coming from tariffs.
- Inventories have been projected as equal to the following
months of materials and maintenance costs:
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
and after
7.0     8.0    10.0    12.0    12.0    12.0
(1i) Current Liabilities.  Payables are projected at the equivalent
of 2 months fuel and energy and materials and maintenance, and one month
general and administrative expenses. Current maturities of long-term debts
are those of the proposed IDA Credit and AGCD loans in accordance with the
on-lending terms.
(c) Lont-Term Debts. Long-term debts include the following credits and
loans:
Loan     Interest Conmit   Loan        Grace      Disb.
Amount   Rate     Fee       Period     Period     Start
RVM:
IDA Credit       16.8     9.5%      0.75%    16 years   6 years    1987
RVF
IDA Credit       10.8     9.5Z        -      16 years   6 years    1987
AGCD Loan        2.0       9.52       -      16 years   5 years    1986
(Notes The IDA Credit on-lending rate was later on adjusted to 9.12.  AGCD
may decide  to channel the above funds to RY? through a grant rather than a
loan.)



- 102 -
An:=x 510
Page 6 of 6
(d) Th Euito 18 composed as followst
(i) for RYF, equity Includes Initial capital, contributions from
government, the legal reserve, retained earning., two foreign
grants; one from ACD for US$5.3 million and another one -from
USAID for US$1.5 million and revaluation reserve.
(ii)  for RVM, equity ineludes the same accounts as above,  xcept
that there is one foreign grant from AGCD for US$2.1 million.



- 103 -
8WR
NAVXSTZW BMFVBOET PROJECT
STAFF APPRAM&L  RW
Reis des Vaies Hnritlu.
Pro-for Incom  Statt_tn
(wit I ion Z'-)
1988     1986     198?    198       1969    t190      1991     1992    199S      19e4     100S
md.     set - -Prr -d -   ---------------- Poetj------- ---- -------
uWor mee                                        721      G68      762       7     1,219  I,.W       2.mW    2.212    2,708    8,280    8.947
eth, A.wegnue.                                    S        a        a        4        a        6        7        9       11       18       1S
'ft1  novena"                                 727      as8      MT6      976    1,224    1,514    1.6W0    2.01    2.714    8,271    8,962
Wo*bog btpn.e.
Slaries,                                        101      144      176      218      262      320      390      476      SlO      706      664
Fuil a BEei                                       -       I1      140      201      267      854      418      494      SW0      70C     8a0
Reterlale a N.inte_nes                          184       S8       76      101      116      140      186      187      224      269      828
Gm. & Admin. Expeses                             $1    101       108      12S      149      178      218      287      So0      869      443
edDatt                                            -        -       18       17       21       26       81       Se       46       88       67
Total Woruing Expes                           816      414      808      687      18S    1,018    1,208    1,482    1.748    2.109    2,647
Op+erting Rftlt                               411      4E4      289      819      409      496      637      769      966    1,162    1.41t
Depreciation                                     67      i88      142      170    292        26t      8S       42?      882      66a      611
We Operating feult                            824      269      11'      149      187      281      261      342      414      499      604
Int*res Ewpene                                    -        -       11       20       41       78      1lS     i18       192      206      214
Other We-Oper.ting Chroeg                        68        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Extrwrdlnry Wite-offe                           170        -        -                                   -        -             -        -
Inoan   Before Fgn Exqh. La"                   91      269      106      129      146      186      16       la       m2       291      So0
Frilap Exclange Lem                               -        -        -       10       27       61      128      204      267      294      310
Dividends                                        18       7S       7S      100        9       7S       20        -        -        -       6S
Nstom u a    oneit)  a d194                                      81       19 L0  22                  28      (21)     (48) (r 1S
Olff.reee oi on  uit *re du e 6.round ing.



-104 -
Annen 5.12
YAM
NAVIATI DP*W6~  840JaT
STAF A     4RAIL RI
RleO de Veole lhritleee
Pro-fore Snlance Sheet
(l Ilion Z'.)
1i.     i1M    t1967 w   196    869 1990    1691    iAu            igq     1n4    1iUw
, .    "%. ------------------+"1------ --------------------------
A85E75
Fixed Aseta
Oro" Piwed Asmo*                           2,918   J.5A2   4.2N    8.165   6.7061   8,04   10.777  12,918   10.744  20.0#i  24.870
Accmlated Depreciation                      2,570   8.210   3.9,6   4,816    5,946   7.267   8.825   10.729   M8AS   3.645  19.20D
Nat Fixed Aete                              846      an2     a18     29       760     010   1,952   2.2,    8,690   4,250   5,861
orks inF Ptor.ae                                -              12S     429      416     98       428     06       IO       80      250
Total Fijed Aeto                            348     882      48      716   1.176   1.745   2.878   3,040   *.80    4,60   5.611
itldi, Tore 0epeit'                            -       55    s82       847      60e       4   1.184   1.829   1.86    2.829   2,751
__----- ----_-
Currantt Aseeta
Cah                                          14       160      140     160      224     279      882     402      468      89      718
Receivable.                                  229      215      204     226      260     296      820    a8        486     867      691
1nventori v                                   41       S7      8s8       9      77       98      104     125      149      179     215
Total Currat Assete                         464     432  SS2         464      861    6o        764     928   1.        1.35    1,619
Total Astt                                 812   1.119   1870   1,729   2.,48   8.217   4.298   8,411   s.647   8,314   9,981
_ v---__----- -
IlABILITIES
Equity Capital
Capital                                        5        S       5        8       8        a       5        a        a       S        8
Reer,ve                                      192      192      192     192      192     192      192     192      192      192     192
04wt. Contribution.                           75       75      75       75      75       75       75      75       75      75       75
AOC Crant                                      -        -       9       25      8        9o      136     162      1       1S6      189
Rovatuation Reterv.                          405      444     617      766   1.049   1.447   2.009   2,778   3,72   5.068   6.6
Retained Earnings                            125      816     547      86      866      406     431      406      881     856      878
Total f4uity Capital                       7e9   1.062    1,245   1.449   1.765   2.225   2,646    ,613   4,6          5.8S8   7.489
Ltng-Ter Debt
IDA Credit (onlant from Govt.)                 -        -      79      206     468      794   1,106   1.091       969     957      622
Provision for Foreign Exchange                 -        -          -    10       7       96     221      425      692     96   1,296
Total Long-tara Debt                         0        0       79     216      505     892   1.827    1.516    L.61    1.94    1,918
Current Liebilit!e*
Paxybl.s                                     1t        87      48       62      78      100      118     144      166      199     289
MA Current naturitiea                          -        - -     -        -       -        -       -      216      252     290      8SS
- - --    -- ---   -- ---   -- ---   --- -     _-- --- _ - - - -- --- _      __      _
Total Current Liabilities                    18      87       48      62       78     10o      1tS     862      418      489     574
Total hiabiitiea                           612   1.119    1.870    1.729   2.838   5,217   4.298   5,491   6,647    8,814   9.961
---------- - -----
Differaonce of cn unit arm du. to roundtng.



,"    o ^ ...... x _ _ ` CHAO .,  S UDAN  wj           ... t        CENT
N  WOIHA        D    9        U       btwCT*
°"^'tti-> // AsRCANi ReP $>  O ,~~"~ 3ANGUI
OS9 -> t tU:~~~'JASOA w t- 
*°    4..g*l -. fl         F-*th  .       tW t  S
. _,      ZAIR1(    -eZlRf
,TAN ZANIA
-   '   aNG  ^  r fi 4.  '
_         1;l   1"~~~~L o'I^->    'w    f
. vi ~~PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC t
ANGO -AOF THE CONGO
I                             st9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wg
BR A Z Z AV, LL
A N  G *                                  ,
i' ~~~~~~~~~~o
,   B            A          S~~ POLS 1PUBI
etwS~ ~~O                         C  sd  ooGOf8#
NOA
I                             Z         I        'R
i. 4 t9O'                                      National  Roo 00
TRNPRATIOJNE
RZ   -    PoZA, Roods
t >,2z   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~onAP Earth/Gravel Roods
_Roilroods
--                    ARt         A,rf-elds
.                    <  4  ~~~~~~~~Rovers, ffi Ports
ORegion Caplt9s
Regldon Boundeies
-   .l*ternot,onol Bovndories
k0  \~~~



IBRO 16564R2
sITRA    RCAN REPUBLtC                                                     S U D A N
BUA 
d'   L. ALA                                     HAUT-ZAIRE| - 
;v<,wS,,5W ~~..          .                   C'9  ;_X
JAUGANY 98
)so  -A,.         5    ,¢o      st\ W                   KfVU         f  RWANDA 
x , v / i ~~~~~~KAS     RlENTAL,                                       B URUNDI)
< <;1 < V4rsgO¢ A s1T A L
( rD H ><_v+. .~~~~~~K                                             TANZANIA
i  t           2 Ayr ~~SHABA           & 
'WORK                    S4               <                        /
.e                              2        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z A .V 6 l A
N         AN GOL A                       -^           '      _
>       ~ZAMBIA                ;       i
JANUARY 1986



