CREDIT NUMBER 1761 ZR
RVF Project Agreement
(Navigation Improvement Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
REGIE DES VOIES FLUVIALES
Dated                           /6  , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1761 ZR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               o        (6  , 1987, between
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
the REGIE DES VOIES FLUVIALES (RVF).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the Republic of Zaire (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-two million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 22,900,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that RVF
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and RVF, (the RVF Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment), part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to RVF on the
terms and conditions set forth in the RVF Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment; and
WHEREAS RVF, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. RVF declares its commitment to the objec-
tives of Part B of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry


﻿-2-
out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be pro-
vided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for Part B of the Project.
Section 2.02. RVF, on behalf of the Borrower, pursuant to
Section 2.09 of the Development Credit Agreement shall open and
maintain in dollars the RVF Special Account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement. Deposits into
and payments out of the RVF Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. RVF shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the General Condi-
tions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisi-
tion, respectively) in respect of the RVF Project Agreement and
Part B of the Project.
Section 2.05. RVF shall perform all its obligations under
the RVF Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, RVF shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the RVF Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision there-
of.
Section 2.06. (a) RVF shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the pro-
gress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the RVF Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) RVF shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of Part B of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by RVF of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the RVF Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. For purposes of carrying out Part B of the
Project, RVF shall: (i) maintain a Project Implementation Unit
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; and (ii)
appoint and maintain a Project Manager to head said Project
Implementation Unit, with experience, qualifications and terms of
employment satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.08. For purposes of carrying out Part B 7 (b) of
the Project, RVF shall, not later than June 30, 1987, furnish to
the Association for its approval a draft training program for
each staff member participating in overseas training.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of RVF
Section 3.01. RVF shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative and financial
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. RVF shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property and, from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and administrative practices.
Section 3.03. RVF shall take out and maintain with responsi-
ble insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. RVF shall: (i) not later than November 30 in
each Fiscal Year beginning November 30, 1987, furnish to the
Association a list of targets to be achieved by RVF during the
following Fiscal Year measured against technical and operational
performance indicators; and (ii) not later than February 28 in
each Fiscal Year beginning February 28, 1987, submit to the
Association a review of RVF's performance against such targets
during the past Fiscal Year and, on the basis of such review,
take all necessary measures to improve such performance.
Section 3.05. (a) RVF shall: (i) not later than March 1 in
each Fiscal Year, furnish to the Association for comment (A) a


﻿-4-
five-year rolling Investment Plan covering all projected invest-
ments for such period based on realistic financial projections
including a reasonable forecast of available funds from local and
external sources and on economic criteria acceptable to the
Association and (B) an analysis of the implementation of the
previous years's Plan; and (ii) introduce such changes in such
Plan as may be appropriate following its review by the Associa-
tion and an exchange of views between the Association and RVF.
(b) RVF shall exchange views with the Association on any
proposal for an additional investment, prior to making any
commitment in respect thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) RVF shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) RVF shall:
(i) have its accounts and financial statements (ba-
lance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements), including the RVF Special
Account operated on behalf of the Borrower,
audited for each Fiscal Year in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such Year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such Year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿-5-
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account or payments out of the RVF Special
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
RVF shall:
(i) retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
ciation has received the audit report for the
Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the RVF Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(ii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iii) ensure that such accounts and records be included
in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the reports thereof con-
tain, inl respect of such separate accounts, a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
the statements of expenditures submitted during
the Fiscal Year in question, as well as the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related applications for withdrawals from the
credit account.
Section 4.02.(a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, RVF shall, from time to time, take all such measures with-
in its powers (including, without limitation, measures and pro-
posals related to the adjustment of the structure and levels of
its tariffs) as shall be required to produce for each fiscal year
the following ratios of gross revenue from all sources to operat-
ing expenses: in 1987, 0.83, in 1988, 1.0, in 1989, 1.11, in
1990, 1.18 and in 1991 and thereafter, 1.25.
(b) Before the end of September in each fiscal year, RVF
shall, on the basis of forecasts to be prepared by RVF on a basis
satisfactory to the Association, review the adequacy of its
resources to meet the requirements set forth in the preceeding
paragraph (a) for the current and following fiscal year, and
shall furnish to the Association the results of such review upon
its completion.


﻿-6-
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i)  the term "gross revenue from all sources" means
the sum of revenue from all sources, including any
resources derived from the Borrower for RVF's
operations; and
(ii) "operating expenses" means the sum of all expenses
related to operations, including maintenance and
adminstration, depreciation calculated on revalued
fixed assets, revaluated at replacement cost and
all taxes and payments in lieu of taxes.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, RVF shall not incur any debt if after the incurrence of
such debt the internal cash generation of RVF for the twelve-
month period next preceding the incurrence of such debt would be
less than 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service require-
ment for any succeeding fiscal year on the debt of RVF. For the
purposes of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any indebtness of RVF matur-
ing by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt
or for the modification of its terms of payments, on the date and
to the extent it is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such
contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
has been entered into, but only to the extent that the guaranteed
debt is outstanding.
(c) The term "internal cash generation of "RVF" means gross
revenue of RFV from all sources, adjusted to take account of
RFV's tariffs in effect at the time of incurrence of debt even
though they were not in effect during the twelve-month period to
which such revenue relates, less all operating expenses of RFV,
including expenses accountable to administration, maintenance and
taxes (or payments in lieu of taxes), but before provision for
depreciation of assets and interest and other charges on debt.
(d) The term "debt service requirement" means the aggregate
amount of amorization (includind sinking fund payments, if any)
of, and interest and other charges on, debt.


﻿-7-
(e) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of the currency of the Borrower debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate exchange acceptable to the Associa-
tion.
Section 4.04. RVF shall: (i) put into place a system of
cost accounting by December 31, 1987; and (ii) complete the reor-
ganization of its general accounting system so as to produce from
such date quarterly financial statements and, from December 31,
1988, monthly financial statements, together with critical
analyses of budget implementation and cash requirements.
Section 4.05. RVF shall take such steps as shall be neces-
sary to ensure that the total amount of its receivables not
exceed at any time sixty-five days of billings.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of RVF thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date sixteen years after the date of the RVF
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
RVF of this event.


﻿-8-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party-to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For RVF:
R6gie des Voies Fluviales
1 Avenue Lumpungu
B. P. 11697
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                   Telex:
RVF                               21409
Kinshasa


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of RVF or on behalf of the Borrower under the
Development Credit Agreement may be taken or executed by RVF's
Pr4sident-D6l4gu4f G6n6ral or such other person or persons as
RVF shall designate in writing and RVF shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Etern and Southern Africa
REGIE DES VOIES FLUVIALES
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
RVF Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (7)
through (11) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to $250,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the RVF Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the RVF Special Account shall be made exclusively for eli-
gible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the RVF Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to reple-
nish the RVF Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by RVF for a
deposit or deposits which add up to the Authorized Allocation,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Credit Account and deposit in the RVF Special Account such
amount or amounts as RVF shall have requested.
(b) RVF shall furnish to the Association requests for
replenishment of the RVF Special Account at such intervals and in
such minimum amounts as the Association shall specify. On the
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the RVF Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the RVF Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the


﻿- 11 -
RVF Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by RVF out of the RVF Special Account
RVF shall furnish to the Association, in support of each applica-
tion for replenishment furnished under paragraph 3 (b) above or
upon request of the Association, such documents and other evi-
dence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing that
such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the RVF Special Account shall
be made by the Association when either of the following situa-
tions first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by RVF directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to Part B of the
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eli-
gible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to RVF. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
RVF Special Account as of the date of such notice will be uti-
lized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the RVF Special Account (i) was made for


﻿- 12 -
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evi-
dence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule,     RVF
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the RVF Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the RVF Special Account
shall be made until RVF has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the RVF Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
RVF shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Contracts for goods to be financed under the Credit,
including those for the furnishing or rehabilitation of vessels,
shall be procured only on the basis of lists approved by the
Association.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works may be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with the
applicable procedures of the Borrower.
2.   Items or groups of items estimated to cost, after grouping
in lots, less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $500,000
without prior approval of the Association, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guide-
lines, in accordance with paragraph 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.   Proprietary spare parts, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed $500,000 without the prior approval of the Association,
may be procured through negotiation, as described in paragraph
3.5 of the Guidelines.
4.   Rehabilitation of vessels and equipment may be carried out
by force account.
Part C.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 14 -
(a) With respect to each contract for goods and works esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out
of the RVF Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the RVF Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the RVF Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association 'ursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Associscion as part of
the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 3 or 4 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit AccGlnt on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
rtaled in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist RVF in carrying out its operations and
carrying out Part B of the Project, RVF shall employ consultants
whose qualifications,, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such con-
sultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


