OFFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1761 ZR
Development Credit Agreement
(Navigation Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated            cZ4*C,-         , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1761 ZR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       /Jc     A     7<       , 1987, between
the REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association),
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)  the Project will be carried out by Regie des Voies
Maritimes (RVM) and Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF), with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make availai,le to RVM and RVF the proceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(C)  the Borrower has obtained from the United States of
America,   through  its   Agency  for   International  Development
(USAID), under an agreement, dated July 30, 1984 a grant in an
amount of one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000)
to assist in financing Part B of the Project;
(D)  the Borrower intends to obtain from the Kingdom of
Belgium through its Administration Generale de la Cooperation et
du Developpement (AGCD), a participation in the financing of the
Project evaluated at about 459 million Belgian francs; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and Li the
Project Agreements of even date herewith between the Association
and RVM and RFV, respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General. Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following mean-
ings:
(a) "RVM" means the R&gie des Voies Maritimes, a commercial
and industrial public enterprise responsible for maritime naviga-
tion in the lower Zaire river, established and operating under
the Borrower's Ordonnance-Loi No. 71-003 of January 26, 1971, Law
No. 78-002 of January 6, 1978, and Ordonnance-Loi No. 78-198 of
May 5, 1978, promulgating RVM's By-laws, as each may be modified
to the date of this Agreement;
(b) "RVF" means the R6gie des Voies Fluviales, a commercial
and industrial public enterprise responsible for the local
navigation network, established an operating under the Bor-
rower's Ordonnance-Loi No. 71-004 of January 26, 1971, Law No.
78-002 of January 6, 1978, and Ordonnance-Loi No. 78-199 of May
5, 1978, promulgating RVF's By-laws, as each may be modified to
the date of this Agreement.
(c)  "RVM Project Agreement" and "RVF Project Agreement"
mean, respectively, the agreement between the Association and RVM
and the agreement between the Association and RVF, each of even
date herewith, as either may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
such agreements;
(d) "RVM Subsidiary Loan Agreement" and "RVF Subsidiary
Loan Agreement" mean, respectively, either of the agreements to
be entered into between the Borrower and RVM and the Borrower and
RVF pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as either may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all sche-
dules and agreements supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments;
(e) "Special Account" means either of the accounts referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(f)  "Project   Preparation  Advance"   means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated July 2, 1985, and
January 6, 1986, between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-two million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 22,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Pursuant to Section 2.09 below, the Borrower shall, for
the purposes of the Project, cause RVM and RVF each to open and
maintain in dollars a special account (hereafter referred to as
the RVM Special Account and the RVF Special Account, respective-
ly), in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the RVM
Special Account and the RVF Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the RVM Project
Agreement and the RVF Project Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.


﻿-4-
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March I and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing March 1, 1997, and ending September 1,
2036; each installment to and including the installment payable
on September 1, 2006, shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. RVM, for Part A of the Project, and RVF, for
Part B thereof, are designated as representatives of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provision of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause RVM to carry out Part A of the Project and


﻿-5-
RVF to carry out Par.t B of the Project and each to perform, in
accordance with the provisions of the RVM Project Agreement and
of the RVF Project Agreement, all of the other obligations of RVM
and RVF therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable RVM and
RVF to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Credit:
(i) relend to RVM the amount of such proceeds allocated to and
withdrawn under Categories 1 to 6 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment; and (ii) relend to RVF the amount of such proceeds allo-
cated to and withdrawn under Categories 7 to 12 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, in each case under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and RVM and RVF and under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Asso-
ciation including a term of sixteen (16) years including six (6)
years of grace, interest at the rate of 8.8% per annum, a com-
mitment fee of 0.75% on the principal amount of the subsidiary
loans not withdrawn from time to time and with the exchange risk
assumed by RVM and RVF.
(c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the inter-
ests of the Borrower and of the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive either Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision there-
of.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the RVM Project
Agreement and to the RVF Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06
and 9.07 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports and
maintenance, respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project


﻿-6-
shall be carried out by RVM and, in respect of Part B of the
Project, shall be carried out by RVF, pursuant to Section 2.04 of
the RVM Project Agreement and of the RVF Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limiting the provisions of Sec-
tion 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall take or cause to
be taken all action required on its part to enable RVM and RVF to
carry out their respective obligations under Sections 3.04, 3.06,
4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 of the RVM Project Agreement and under Sec-
tions 3.05, 4.02, 4.03 and 4.05 of the RVF Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) RVM or RVF shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the RVM Project Agreement or the RVF Project
Agreement, respectively.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that RVM or
RVF will be able to perform its obligations under the RVM Project
Agreement or the RVF Project Agreement.
(c) any of the legislation referred to in Section 1.02 (h)
or (i) of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of RVM or RVF to perform any of their res-
pective obligations under the RVM Project Agreement or the RVF
Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of RVM or RVF or for the suspension of either of their oper-
ations.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the


﻿-7-
Borrower, RVM or RVF for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor; and
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement; and (B) ade-
quate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) any   event   specified   in  paragraphs  (c),   (d)  or
(e) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as    addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on
behalf of the Borrower, RVF and RVM;
(b) RVM has created in Boma the position of Senior Director
and has nominated to such position a person whose qualifications
and experience are acceptable to the Association; and


﻿-8-
(c) the Project Managers referred to in Section 2.07 (ii)
of the RVM Project Agreement and of the RVF Project Agreement
have been appointed; and
(d) the agreements providing for financial assistance to
the Project by the Kingdom of Belgium have been signed.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
(a)  that the RVM Project Agreement and the RVF Project
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by RVM and   RVF,
respectively, and are legally binding upon RVM and RVF, res-
pectively, in accordance with their terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and RVM and RVF, res-
pectively, and are legally binding upon the Borrower, RVM and
RVF, respectively, in accordance with their terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.01 (c), (d) and
(e) of this Agreement shall cease on the date on which the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date sixteen
(16) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Commissioner of State of the Borrower responsible
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-9-
For the Borrower:
Departement des Finances,
Budget et Portefeuille
Botte Postale No. 12997
Kinshasa 1
R6publique du Zaire
Cable address:                       Telex:
DPTFIN                              21161
Kinshasa, Gombe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By
Au orized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
/V/
By
Regional Vice President
ern and Southern Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
RVM - Part A
of the Project:
(1) Civil works                 750,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
20% of local ex-
penditures
(2) Vessels                   4,900,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
50% of local
expenditures
(3)  Spare parts, sup-        4,000,000         100% of foreign
plies, materials                           expenditures,
and equipment other                        80% of local
than vessels                               expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(4)  Consultants'             1,500,000         100% of foreign
services                                   expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(5) Training                    900,000         100%
(6) Unallocated for           1,300,000
Part A of the
Project


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
RVF - Part B
of the Project:
(7) Civil works                 150,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
20% of local ex-
penditures
(8) Vessels                   2,400,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
50% of local
expenditures
(9)  Spare parts, sup-        4,100,000         100% of foreign
plies, materials                           expenditures,
and equipment other                        80% of local
than vessels                               expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(10) Consultants'               850,000         100% of foreign
services                                   expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(11) Training                   250,000         100%
(12) Unallocated for            900,000
Part B of the
Project
(13) Refunding of               900,000         Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL              22,900,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   If the amount allocated to Category (13) is in excess of the
amount due under Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the excess
will be reallocated to Categories (6) and (12) in the ratio of 70
to 30, respectively.
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
strengthening its communications in the maritime and river trans-
port sub-sectors by: (i) rehabilitating and modernizing existing
infrastructure equipment and facilities at RVM and RVF; and (ii)
strengthening the administration, operation, and management of
RVM and RVF.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   RVM
1.   Increasing Hydrographic Survey Capacities through the acqui-
sition and putting into service or rehabilitaion of:
(a) bathymetric survey equipment;
(b) topcgraphic survey equipment;
(c) tide-recording equipment;
(d) hydrometry and sedimentology equipment;
(e) data processing equipment; and
(f) about six launches and one catamaran-type vessel.
2.   Increasing the Pilotage Capacities
(a) acquisition, and commissioning of a seagoing pilot
launch and a fast transfer launch; and
(b) rehabilitation of three pilot launches.
3.   Increasing  Installation   and  Maintenance  Capacities  for
Navigation Aids:
(a) establishment of a buoy maintenance yard;
(b) acquisition of new buoys and supplies, and equipment
for manufacturing and maintenance of buoys;


﻿- 15 -
(c) rehabilitati.n of the buoy tender "Zaire", acquisition
and commissioning of a buoy tender/supply boat and a maintenance
launch, and rehabilitation of about three launches.
4.   Rehabilitation of the Shipyard:
(a) construction of pile supported walkways to provide
access to the dry-dock;
(b) rehabilitation of two slipways for small craft and the
mooring berth utilizei by the dredges;
(c) reconstitution of the stock of spare parts and mate-
rials inventory for the dredges, small craft and other equipment;
and
(d) acquisition of tools and machine tools.
5.   Strengthening of the Dredging Operations:
(a) installation of instrumentation aboard the dredges such
as instantenous recorders, void g.ges, concentration gages, echo-
sounders, flow velocities and positioning systems;
(b) conversion of a mobile dredge into a stationery dredge
and rehabilitation of the sliding-door mechanisms on two dredges;
(c) acquisition of two used split-bottomed barges, a small
launch and a barge-mounted hydraulic excavator.
6.   Studies:
(a) carrying out a geotechnical study, including borings,
soundings and geotechnical interpretations (including establish-
ment of scale models); and
(b) carrying out scale-model studies on sediment trans-
port and supply to the meandering zone and on the dredging and
possible evolutions of the navigable channel;
(c) strengthening RVM's management, including its procure-
ment, financial and navigation operations; and
(d) carrying out of an analysis of maritime transport to
Zaire and the economic impact of RVM and ONATRA's tariff poli-
cies.


﻿- 16 -
7.   Training:
(a) strengthening of RVM's manpower planning capacity
training division, provision of on-the--job training to its staff
and preparation of training programs;
(b) provision of overseas training in management, dredging,
hydrography, navigation aids, pilotage and shipyard operations to
about 50 RVM employees;
(c) provision of training courses in local institutions or
at RVIM to about 250 RVM employees; and
(d) acquisition for the foregoing of vehicles and didactic
and audio-visual materials.
Part B:   RVF
1.   Strengthening of General Services:
(a) Rehabilitation of pier-walls, slope protection, mooring
rings, slipway and sewer and electrical lines serving offices and
buildings; construction of rolling surfaces for mobile cranes;
(b) reconstruction of about 1,500 m2 of office buildings
and rehabilitation of existing ones; and
(c) acquisition and installation of small computers, soft-
ware and related equipment.
2.   Increasing Hydrographic Survey Capacities:
acquisition of:
(a) precision hydrographic instruments;
(b) about 28 long distance radios and four telex units; and
(c) an equipped fast survey launch.
3.   Special Studies and Works:
(a) installation of worker level recorders and provision of
supplies and equipment for flood and low water forecasting;


﻿- 17 -
(b) detailed surveying of the Kasai River rock passes and,
where needed, reconstruction of markings and dredging;
(c) first phase of a study of the Kasai River sand passes;
(d) aerial survey of the entire Kasai River;
(e) rehabilitation of permanent navigation aids; and
(f) acquisition and commissioning of a floating crane.
4.   Increasing  Installation   and  Maintenance  Capacities  for
Navigation Aids:
Acquisition and commissioning of one inspection craft, one
buoy tender and a fast launch.
5.   Rehabilitation of the Shipyard:
(a) rehabilitation of workshop equipment and reconstitution
of spare parts stocks; and
(b) acquisition of shipyard mobile equipment, some small
vehicles and a crane.
6.   Rehabilitation of Existing Craft:
including about 10 buoy tenders, three clamshell barges,
six small pushers, two dredges, six launches and one floating
crane.
7.   Training:
(a) strengthening RVF manpower planning and organization of
RVF's training division, provision of on-the-job training to its
staff and preparation of training programs;
(b) provision of overseas training in management, hydro-
graphy, navigation aids and shipyard operations to aproximately
15 RVF employees;
(c) provision of training in local institutions or at RVF
of RVF employees as needed; and


﻿- 18 -
(d) acquisition for the foregoing of a vehicle and of
audio-visual equipment and other training aids.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1993.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


