 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14618

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/30/2015

               Country: India
             Project ID: P071033                                                  Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Karnataka                     Project Costs (US$M):                124.97              140.04
                         Community-based
                         Tank Management
                         Project
  L/C Number:            C3635; L4872                 Loan/Credit (US$M):                   98.90                 114.17
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural        Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Development
           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                                04/25/2002
                                                                 Closing Date:             01/31/2009        01/31/2012
          Sector(s):       Irrigation and drainage (60%); Sub-national government administration (15%); General
                           agriculture fishing and forestry sector (10%); Other social services (10%); Law and justice
                           (5%)
          Theme(s):        Water resource management (25% - P); Rural services and infrastructure (25% - P);
                           Improving labor markets (24% - P); Participation and civic engagement (13% - S);
                           Decentralization (13% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Ebru Karamete              Soniya Carvalho        Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The objectives stated in the Development Credit Agreement (p. 16) is : " to assist the Government of Karnataka in
improving rural livelihoods and reducing poverty by developing and strengthening community-based approaches to
improving and managing selected Tank Systems."

Project Appraisal Document statement of objectives is (p. 1): "to improve rural livelihoods and reduce poverty by
developing and strengthening community-based approaches to improving and managing selected tank systems."

Both objectives state the same outcomes in slightly different ways. The Review assesses the achievement of
objectives as stated in the Development Credit Agreement.

An additional financing loan of US$ 32 million was included in September 25 2007 in order to scale up project
activities. A couple of changes to the outcome indicators were made in terms of greater involvement (85%) of
marginalized users, and an increase in projected agricultural output; inclusion of income increase target (50 %
increase) for the landless tank users as well as increase in tank numbers (the original tank number target was
increased from 2,000, to 3710). There was no change to the Project Development Objective (PDO).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
 1. Establishing an Enabling and Environment for Tank Development (Appraisal Estimate : US$ 18.04 million,
Actual: US$ 25.31 million).
There were two sub-components;
(a) Policy, Planning and Legal Environment. Key aspects were the preparation of legislation (Community-Based
Integrated Tank Management Act); preparation of a long term strategy for community based tank management;
development of decision support system for watershed management in the context of tanks; and preparation of a
possible follow-on project.

(b) Project Management. Activities included: a GIS - based information system for the project area and state; a
monitoring and learning system; two mid-term reviews; technical support services and studies related to tank systems;
functional state and district offices for implementing agencies; and incremental staff costs.

2. Strengthening Community Developmen t (Appraisal Estimate : US$ 32.97 million, Actual: US$ 13.41 million).

(ai) Human and Institutional Resource Development. Funds would be provided for contracting 5 anchor NGOs and
about 55 Cluster Facilitation Teams to act as implementing agents; and for providing the necessary capacity building
for these agents who would have primary responsibility for project implementation at the grass roots level.

(b) Safeguard and Gender Action Plans. Under this sub-component a number of plans would be prepared (a) Tribal
Development Plans to protect the interest of Scheduled Tribes, Castes and Vulnerable Groups (b) Resettlement
Plans for encroachers who would be displaced by the project, (c) Environmental Management Plans with measures to
mitigate against potential negative impacts and to enhance positive impacts.

(c) Planning and Management Support to Tank User Groups. These funds were to cover the costs incurred by Tank
User Groups (TUG) associated with the preparation of Integrated Tank Development Plans (ITDGs) .

(d) Communications. The project was to finance communications and information infrastructurecapacity building and
training, and strategy development.

3.   Undertaking Tank Improvement (Appraisal Estimate : US$ 111.76 million, Actual: US$ 101.32 million).

(i) Tank Civil Works Improvement. This, the largest sub-component of the project, aimed to improve tank storage
capacity, to rehabilitate tank physical structure and infrastructure, and to reduce siltation by stabilizing drainage lines
to the tank, and to improve water distribution and irrigation systems in the tank command area. Civil works for the
original target of 2,000 tanks were increased to 3,925 tanks. The sub-component also contained provision for
financing Tank User Groups and Communities' administration and management costs.

(ii) Agriculture & Horticulture Development. This was to be achieved by increasing farmer knowledge through on farm
demonstrations. (crop production and on-farm water management) on a cluster of 20-30 tanks. Demonstrations were
to be designed and supervised by staff from the Agricultural University & Krishi Vigyan Kendra. There was also to be a
range of technical training for farmers and other tank users. Training was to have been provided by staff from local
universities and line agencies, and would be given to staff of the implementing agencies and progressive farmers.
Training would use the farmer field school approach together with study tours.

(iii) Technical Assistance for Other Income Generation. Training was to be provided for tank users without farmland.
Subjects identified included fisheries, livestock, and forestry. Training was to be provided by the Department of
Fisheries and the University of Agricultural Science.

(iv) Technology Development. The aim of this sub-component was to test, develop and pilot improved systems of
irrigation, and crop production in the state.


 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  Project Costs:
Total costs increased from the appraisal estimate of US$ 124.97 million to US$ 193.24 million because additional
financing was added to the project to enable expansion to new districts with additional beneficiaries. Revised cost at
project closing was, US$ 140.04 million.
Financing:
The original IDA Loan was US$98.90 million and no IBRD loan was planned at apprasial. After the Indian Ocean
tsunami, total project funds of SDR 16.58 million (US$ 25 million) were transferred to the post-tsunami rehabilitation
in April 2005 [US$ 2.9 million was from IDA funds]. Additional financing of US$ 32.00 million equivalent was added
from IDA and US$ 32.00 million from IBRD funds on Sept 25, 2007. By project closing, US$ 91.87 million had been
disbursed from IDA funds and US $ 22.29 million from IBRD funds. Prior to closure of the project, US$ 35 million was
cancelled from IDA funds and US$ 9.71 million was left undisbursed. The reason for that is there were still some
remaining works to be done for 1,761 tanks by project closing and no extension was granted to complete the works,
and also exchange rate variation between US$ and SDR resulted in some savings.

Borrower Contribution :
The Borrower contribution was lower than that anticipated at appraisal. It was expected that the Borrower would
provide US$ 30.34 million. The actual contribution was US$25.88 million. The ICR did not report on the reasons for
lower than expected borrower contribution.
Dates:
On September 25, 2007, at the time of approval of additional financing, the original closing date of January 31, 2009
was extended to January 31, 2012 to enable implementation of of the Additional Financing.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Substantial.

The project development objective is, on balance, substantially relevant to country priorities and sector strategies
although it is broad and overly ambitious, a point that is taken up below under Relevance of Design. The Project
development objectives were relevant to the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (FY 08-12), as the CAS's first
Pillar-achieving rapid and inclusive growth, set the objective of improving agricultural productivity, rural connectivity,
and rural livelihoods in states and regions supported by WB operations. The CAS described the country conditions
around water issues as (p. 15): "A massive concentration of people compounded with high poverty rates and a
monsoonal climate creates susceptibility to hydrological shocks as well as potential for the productive development of
water resources.....Cross-cutting priority reforms where activities are already underway include: decentralized and
participatory service delivery mechanisms, with a particular focus on improving customer/user service, enhancing
accountability and transparency, and extending service to the poor."

The state of Karnataka has the second largest arid zone in India after Rajasthan, and a large proportion of the
population is dependent on highly variable rainfalls and arid zone water harvesting systems. The ICR reported that (p.
14) in the state there are approximately 20,000 small tanks, which mainly provide irrigation to areas between a few to
several hundred hectares, and also supply water for livestock and household uses. Due to lack of funds these tanks
have suffered from sporadic civil works activities and little maintenance. The project was thus conceived, and
approved in 2002, to build on policy changes formulated by the State around 2000, such as recognition of water user
groups, including multi-stakeholder tank user groups (TUGs), and greater decentralization of resource management.
The State also established in 2000 a flexible and semi-autonomous support institution, water management
improvements society, and also moved toward the gradual devolution of rights of user groups to collect water charges
for maintenance.




b. Relevance of Design:
Modest.

The design had shortcomings. The project had a broad and overly ambitious objective which did not adequately
reflect the fact that it played a partial role in improving rural livelihoods. Particularly the part on reducing poverty,
thorough improving and selecting tank systems was quite unrealistic. Project components, provided technical
assistance to tank users groups on tank management and demonstrations on agriculture and horticulture
development as well as rehabilitation of tank physical structure and infrastructure, and to reduce siltation by
stabilizing drainage lines to the tank, and to improve water distribution and irrigation systems in the tank command
area. However, it was overly optimistic to expect a significant improvement in agricultural yields and production
resulting from project investments that would lead to substantial improvements in income as well as reductions in
poverty levels. Another issue with design was that it required a phased approach: the poverty reduction sub-objective
required targeting disadvantaged areas and communities; however the community based approach necessitated
testing the approach first in areas where the environment (climate, local leadership, local commitment) was likely to
lead to more successful outcomes and then expanding the model to more challenging localities and communities.
Such a phased approach could not be followed.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  The objective of, "improving rural livelihoods and reducing poverty by developing and strengthening
community-based approaches to improving and managing selected tank systems".

Outputs:
Project outputs served both objectives. The outputs are summarized as follows:
  Long-term institutional strategy and development plan for the implementation of community-based and
     demand-driven tank management was prepared but the report's recommendations did not reflect project
     experience and Tank User Group and JSYS experience, and alternative structures were recommended by the
     report.
  In terms of decision support system for planning, operation and management of water resources various
     information systems were put in place. However these were never integrated in a manner as to provide
     watershed/catchment based planning.
  A web-accessible GIS system was established for the project, which became operational only in the later stages
     of the project.
  In total 3,126 TUGs have been registered with a total membership of 1,162,000 of whom 50 % are women.
  3,710 tanks out of the revised total of 3,925 have been taken up for project implementation for civil works.
     However at closure only 1,640 tanks, less than 50 % of the revised target number had been handed over to
     TUGs as rehabilitated. The rest is being completed by government funds. The ICR provided no quantitative
     information on the quality of rehabilitation work undertaken on the 1610 tanks that have been handed over or of
     the extent of works required to complete rehabilitation on the balance of tanks. The IA was based on a sample of
     only 200 tanks. The IA reports that some 50 % of beneficiaries sampled consider the quality of rehabilitation to
     have been ‘average’. This suggests that there were shortcomings in the principal project intervention, but these
     have not been addressed in the ICR analysis.
  Tank rehabilitation works : 58 million cubic meter of silt was removed, majority of which was placed on farm lands
     to increase crop yields. Over 7.5 million cubic meter of bund strengthening and several sluices were fixed to
     address water cause. (No targets were set on these) Field channels have been cleared. The water levels
     increased in surronding wells by 506 feet despite an increase of pumping.
  9,882 ha and 35,233 farmers were covered via 1,337 demonstrations on water management and farming
     systems and various crops, and achievement was below targets on area (14,545 ha planned) and number of
     demonstrations (1,343 planned demonstrations).
  Farmer field schools covered 88,000 farmers and 20 different crops.
  147,000 soil samples were collected and analyzed. Soil fertility maps were prepared and distributed to tank user
     groups.
  Workshops served 15,749 people and 194 study tours served 9,700 participants.
  In terms of income generating activities, 99,453 beneficiaries were selected in total (30-100 beneficiaries from
     each tank depending on tank command area) with preference on families below poverty line, landless people,
     female landowners and widowed or divorced people, who received a loan of Rupees 2,000 , including kitchen
     gardens with no interest and 1 year duration.

Intermediate Outcomes :

 Improving and managing selected tank systems . At closure, during the 10 years of project implementation, it is
reported in the ICR that in total 3,126 TUGs have been registered with a total membership of 1,162,000 of whom 50 %
are women and covering 3,710 tanks (This was lower than the revised target of 3,925 tanks). A major problem
reported was the lack of experience of TUGs and other implementing agencies and contractors in executing tank
rehabilitation works. Considerable doubt is reported in the ICR over the sustainability of the TUGs, as they do not
appear to be able to raise sufficient income to cover cost of future tank repair and maintenance (page 35).

The final outcomes were intended to be self-financing TUGs & TUCs able to maintain rehabilitated tanks in future
without government or project support. While TUGS & TUCs were established for all project tanks, their performance
in terms of contribution to rehabilitation works was mixed. They are reported to have kept good records of
expenditure, but most were unable to provide sufficient labor from members for physical works, and few are reported
to be active following the handover of rehabilitated tanks. Indeed, Impact Assessment reports that the TUGs & TUCs
becoming self-financing after the handover of rehabilitated tanks has not materialised and many TUCs have ceased
operations. In the 200 tanks surveyed, none of the committees were functioning. Furthermore more than 85 % of the
TUGs report that their anticipated income is insufficient to manage tanks after handover. All reported that they need
further financial and technical support. O&M activities were particularly difficult in drier areas where it is even more
challenging to collect water charges. O&M mechanism for further technical assistance and finance is needed
particularly for drier areas, however, this has not been developed.

The ICR also reported that (p. 40), despite the fact that the project was about water management and use of water
there were no water management specialists on the project, at any level, and water management at the tank level was
poorly understood, and little practical guidance was given to TUG management and water users on alternative
approaches to water management. This is also linked to sustainability of O&M efforts as limited water management
service by TUGs mean the water users will not be willing to contribute to the costs of maintaining the service.


Meaningful participation of traditionally marginalized tank users . An impact study of TUG membership indicates that
some 30% of members come from Scheduled Caste and Tribes and half of the members are women. However at the
time of the Additional Financing it was envisaged that 85 % of beneficiaries would come from marginalized
communities. The ICR points out that the AF documentation does not accurately define 'marginalized' (p. 70) making
it difficult to know whether marginalized groups were in fact assisted.

Institutional Sustainability . The project design called for the use of a new independent society JSYS to act as the
nodal agency for community-based tank management interventions under the project. Technical staff was to be
transferred to JSYS from existing line agencies responsible for irrigation, such as the Water Resources Department
that has responsibility for tanks with a command area of more than 40 ha, and the departments of Horticulture and
Agriculture. It was envisaged that JSYS would have sole responsibility for tanks within the project area of 40 ha.
Panchayat Raj Institutions (PRIs) would retain responsibility for tank systems of less than 40ha command. A study
was to have been undertaken to determine the respective roles of JSYS and PRIs, as it was recognized that the
formation of JSYS had the potential for conflict and duplication of responsibilities. Furthermore, in contrast to the
changes that have taken place in the approach to tank development and management adopted by JSYS, the
approach adopted by the State Minor Irrigation Department (MID) does not appear to have changed significantly over
the project period. Based on the work carried out by the MID under the government funded Repair Renovation
Restoration (national program), tank rehabilitation and repair lessons from the JSYS approach have not been
adopted, with the MID focusing on physical works only, with little, if any engagement with tank user groups or tanks
users. This is mainly because of lack of resources and staff. This points to deeper institutional issues with regards to
irrigation and tank management. The status of JSYS was not clear at project closing in terms of longer term support to
tank user groups (ICR p. 35).

Adoption of technologies by farmers . The 2012 Impact Assessment study reported on adoption of various
technologies, but the ICR note that (p. 74) this was particularly difficult to measure as there are many external
influences, such as numerous government subsidy schemes promoting similar technologies. However, the results
showed that while some technologies were well received by the project (i.e. seed treatment), others were already
widespread (i.e. farm yard manure) and a lack of a suitable indicator specifically for chemical fertilizers shows no
impact of the project. Overall the adoption rates for water management was mixed, the ICR reported that at least 37%
of farmers had adopted improved water saving techniques (alternate furrow, border check, broad beds and alternative
wetting and drying) all of which provide significant water productivity increases over the traditional field to field
irrigation. However, the target of at least 60 % of farmers practiced double cropping and improved farming practices,
was not achieved.

Outcome:

(i) Improving rural livelihoods , rated substantial.

 Agricultural production (productivity and area) in the tank system. At appraisal targets were set for an increase in
overall agricultural production from 2,000 improved tanks of 75,000 tons per annum. This was expected to come
largely from a 40 % increase in paddy production as a result of increased water availability. The ICR provided some
evidence on increased agricultural production for the rehabilitated tank users compared to the control group but the
project failed to meet the targets on completing the tank rehabilitation works.

A study conducted in November 2011 by JSYS of completed and handed over 115 tanks (covering different
agro-climatic zones) compared results for 2010-2011 cropping season and 2005-2006 as the baseline period. An
overall increase of 19.79% with regard to actually irrigated area was detected (less than the 25 % increase target) and
GPS tracking and satellite images as well as focus-group discussion with the command area farmers have been used
to estimate the pre-rehabilitation irrigated area. It was also estimated that there was 44.83 % increase in available
water volume and 20.88 % increase in per ha water availability.

An impact assessment (IA) commissioned by the main implementing agency (JSYS) at closure was undertaken by
the Centre for Management and Social Research, Hyderabad on 200 project tanks and 30 control non-project tanks in
January 2012. It suggested that increase in irrigated area by project participants were 15 % more than the control
group. Also, the assessment found that total production increased by 47 % on average compared to the control group
with 12 % (35 % incremental increase over control group, meeting the target of 35 % production increase for at least
50 % of the farmers).

However the data is not disaggregated, and does not quantify productivity and production gains according to the
number of farmers or the area on which such gains were achieved. Furthermore, only 42 % of the target number of
tanks were rehabilitated by closure (only 1,640 tanks against the revised target of 3.925 tanks). Therefore, although %
increases on production and productivity were achieved for the command areas of the rehabilitated tanks, the project
significantly failed to meet the targets on completion of tank rehabilitation works.

 In addition to an increase in crop production an extra 7500 tons of fish was anticipated by year five. This activity was
unsuccessful with an achievement of only 9% of the target output reported in the ICR. To some considerable extent
this shortfall in production increases can be attributed to the delays reported in the ICR associated with implementing
rehabilitation works.

It is important to note that the ICR did not provide any information on the distributional efficiency of water, since in
water scarce environments it is key to detect the effects water availability between the head end water users and the
tail end users. However, the ICR reported that (p. 41), "A more comprehensive indicator was needed to measure a
reduction in the quantity of water abstracted given the improvements in distribution efficiency, scheduling, level of
control over water, on-farm application, and water management. Further work is required to measure water
abstraction against water demand based on crop type, area and irrigation requirements". It was also stated that the
potential negative effects of the increased number of borewells on groundwater availability as a response to increased
recharge was also not assessed.

Household Incomes of direct stakeholders. The target was 'at least 50 % of the farmers increase income by 25 %
over the baseline". The target was achieved, at closure the ICR indicates, that incremental farm income increase was
33 % (net income increase by 76 % compared to 42 % increase for control group). Again the income increase were for
the tank users of the rehabilitated tanks and the project failed to meet the overall target for the tank rehabilitation, by
the time the project closed. However, the project team subsequently informed IEG that the remaining works were
completed by the government resources and handed over to tank user groups.

In terms of landless tank users the target of 'at least 75 % of landless tank users increased their income by 50% over
the baseline via income generation activities' was not met. Incremental income increase for those benefited from
income generation activity beneficiaries was 15 % (56 % by beneficiaries against 41 % for control group). However,
there was no specific monitoring of landless beneficiaries by the project.

(ii) Reducing poverty, rated modest.

The ICR did not include outcome indicators to monitor poverty levels. Also no monitoring of poor or landless
households was undertaken. The ICR only provided some estimations on poverty related outcomes without giving the
details of the assumptions, therefore the rating of achievement of this objective is assessed as modest.. It was
reported that (p. 31), based on the Impact Assessment 2012 results, average farm financial income, at constant 2012
prices, increased by Rs. 8,015 per year for an average holding size of 0.75 ha, which is sufficient to lift at least one
member of the farm household above the poverty line based on the Indian Planning Commission estimates for rural
Karnataka for 2004/05, updated for constant 2012 prices using inflation index. The ICR also estimated that about 70%
of the project beneficiary farmers were resource poor marginal farm holders. In terms of directly benefited population
in the project farm families, about 14% of them, namely 149,730 rural poor potentially benefited by the poverty
alleviation impact due to increased farm income.


 5. Efficiency:
  Modest
At appraisal the project had an internal economic rate of return, inclusive of all project costs of 17.6 %, with most
benefits attributed to increased agricultural production. Calculated financial internal rates of return ranged from 12-26
% depending upon tank command areas, with farm incomes expected to rise 13-64 %. In total (PAD and AF), it was
estimated that improved irrigation would take place on 132,829 ha and that the average yield of paddy, the main crop,
would increase by 11-45 % and other cereals, oilseeds and pulse by 9-35%. Net income from fisheries was expected
to rise by over 100%.

 At closure the total improved area was 141,312 ha an increase of 6% over the original target. However, crop yield
improvements were much less than anticipated for paddy (yields averaged only 50% of targets) and oilseeds,
although other cereals and pulses exceeded targets. The ERR estimated at the time of closure in the ICR on the
same basis as that calculated at appraisal for the project at full development is 17%, reflecting the increased area
commanded, but lower than anticipated paddy, oilseed, and fish production. The PAD and AF calculated net Present
Value at Rupees 3.0 billion & Rupees 2.4 billion respectively. The ICR however calculates the NPV significantly
lower at 1.1.

Despite some cost over-runs, the project could only finish less than 50 percent of tanks. In addition, serious delays
were associated with both implementation and realization of benefits. Less than half of projected expenditure had
taken place by year nine, with the balance being spent in the last two years of the project implementation period. The
result of these delays was a considerable delay in the flow of benefits. The PAD & AF assumed full potential benefits
would flow in years 3 and 6 respectively, whilst in practice it now seems that 50% benefits will not flow until year 11,
and full benefits only in year 15, which is 5 years after project closed. Also, given that difficulties that are reported
with the financing of TUGs after handover it seems probable that over the years the production potential of some
tanks may actually decrease as a result of poor maintenance. If this is the case the economic rate of return may well
not be as high as estimated in the ICR.

Furthermore a considerable amount of project expenditure was for project management, legislative developments,
and human resource development. Given the delays in project implementation it would seem that neither of these
investments have provided value for money. Overall, given that most of the project funds had been spent at closure,
and the benefit streams have been seriously delayed and may never be fully achieved, the efficiency of fund utilization
is assessed as Modest.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                     17.6%                                    100%

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                      17%                                     100%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   There were moderate shortcomings in the achievement of outcomes. The relevance of objectives was substantial
but relevance of design is modest due to broad and overly ambitious objective of poverty reduction that was not
closely linked to the project components. Achievement of the objective-improving livelihoods- is rated substantial
based on the evidence that agricultural yields and incomes increased for the project beneficiaries due to the project
and although more than 50 % of planned tanks were left unfinished during the duration of the project; they were
completed in six months after the project closed. The achievement of the objective-reducing poverty- is rated modest
due to lack of evidence on this outcome. Project efficiency was also modest, due to significant delays in
implementation and, therefore, the flow of benefits; as well as cost over-runs.


 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   There are significant financial, social and institutional risks associated with the development outcome. In the first
place is a risk that following project closure there will be insufficient financial resources available to complete full
rehabilitation of the target number of tanks. It is reported that the Government of Kanataka has committed Rupees
1200 million to complete tank rehabilitation subsequent to project closure. There is no indication of whether this is
sufficient to complete outstanding works. It is reported that works have been completed partially or totally on 1,829
tanks, of which 1610, have been handed over and initiated on the balance of 1881 tanks to make up a total of 3,710
tanks. The extent of partial completion and initiation is not explicit, but the amount of money committed by the GoK is
only sufficient to undertake full rehabilitation on 800 tanks at an average cost of Rs.1.5 million per tank. Given
problems with delays in implementation in the past it would seem likely that insufficient funds have been committed for
full completion of all outstanding works.

The main social risk is the reported failure of most TUGs to be sustainable. In general after the handover of
rehabilitated tanks few Tank User Committees were still operational and most TUGs report financial problems, with
less than 25% of members paying their membership fees. Without this income, TUGs will not be able to undertake
tank operation and maintenance operations in future. The failure of members pay their fees is attributed to the failure
of the project to result in significant increases in crop production and farmer income. It is not clear whether this was
due to internal project shortfalls in farmer training, or exogenous factors, such as falling commodity prices or inflation
of input prices that have discouraged farmers for intensifying production.

The principal institutional risks relate to uncertain associated with the future of the nodal implementation agency the
JSYS. Although it is reported in the ICR to have functioned well in the last two years of the project, and played a
valuable role in project implementation the ICR indicates that there is uncertainty about its future now that the project
has closed. A proposal had been submitted to the Executive Committee of the Board of JSYS calling for the JSYS to
continue supporting TUGs established under the project, together with suggested changes to the Panchayath Raj Act
rather than a new Irrigation Act. However it does not seem as if JSYS will have an expanded state-wide role in future
as anticipated at appraisal, and that responsibility for tank repair and maintenance will revert to more traditional PRIs
and farmer organisations. Given all these risks to the overall risk to the Project Development Objective is considered
to be Significant.


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The preparation was over a lengthy period of time (21 months) and identified the need to improve the
institutional arrangements for assisting communities improve tank operation and the need for supporting
legislative changes.

The project objectives were strategically relevant in that in addition to addressing issues of rural poverty, gender
and disadvantaged social groups; it addressed specific national and state policies for Water Management, linked
to policies of decentralisation and the transfer of responsibility for asset management, including water, to users.
There were only very minor environmental aspects associated with the project. However the design under
assessed the risks associated with institutional and legislative reform. In particular the risks and difficulties
associated with establishing and making effective a new agency (JSYS) as the nodal agency for implementation
were not fully factored into the design. The design was partly based on discussions with NGOs believed to have
experience of community-based tank operation. In the event however it transpired that few of these NGOs actually
had sufficient practical experience of community-based tank operation. It also under assessed the risks
associated with post project sustainability of TUGs, assessing this as Moderate even though earlier attempts at
facilitating similar user groups had experienced serious difficulties. A World Bank Quality Assessment of lending
Portfolio (QALP) in 2010 rated the quality at design as Moderately Unsatisfactory. This was attributed to an
optimistic assessment of start-up rates, an underassessment of the capacity requirements, specifically a shortage
of qualified field engineers, and a failure to fully appreciate the difficulties of institutional and policy changes called
for. The ICR review considered that the improvement in project performance in the last years of the project
indicate that the design was in fact better than the QALP assessment, and considered that the QAG was
satisfactory. Overall, however, the extent of outstanding works at closure, despite the improvements in
implementation mean that the preparation did not fully facilitate a project that had a high chance of achieving its
development outcomes.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                         Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    There were several shortcomings with quality of supervision. The ICR reports that due to unstable leadership
and shortage of supervision team some tanks were handed over to TUGs prematurely at the time of the Additional
Financing in order to demonstrate sufficient progress to justify the AF. Furthermore the AF called for very
ambitious new targets in terms of tank numbers to be rehabilitated despite the slow progress previously. There
was also, limited attention for setting up funding mechanisms for O&M efforts. There were several weaknesses of
the M&E framework and M&E implementation that needed attention; however the ICR did not provide any
information on why the project team did not try address this point. Nevertheless there is clear evidence from the
ICR review that the supervision missions did help address a number of critical issues during implementation,
notably trying to ensure that the quality of civil works was sound, and impressing upon the government of the need
to address issues such as the sustainability of the JSYS.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                  Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:
 a. Government Performance:
    Government ownership and commitment was reported to be high during project preparation and at appraisal,
but was weak during the critical early years of the project. There was also a notable failure of the government to
enact legislation that had been called for in the project design. The Tank irrigation act which has been drafted is
yet to be approved which will broadly address rights of TUGs, as well as on water charges. Serious staffing
problems in the nodal implementation agency is also reported. Initial delays are also attributed to the government
not being ready for implementation, and in particular a failure of JSYS to recruit sufficiently qualified field
engineers, as the salaries offered were too low. Major implementation issues were not resolved until the last two
years of the project when nearly 50 % of project funds were disbursed. The project has served as guideline for
national program Repair Renovation and Restoration and other state projects, and while the concept has been
welcomed the government position on the institutionalization and scaling-up of the community based tank
management model, and of JSYS and its respective roles with Minor Irrigation Department, have been left
hanging. Although, transition arrangements following closure have been made in the form of additional state
government funding to complete tank rehabilitation, longer term transitional arrangements, in particular the future
of JSYS remains uncertain.

   Government Performance Rating                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    Implementation arrangements were innovative and complex as described earlier, and implementation was
generally poor until the final years of the project. This is attributed partly to staffing problems, notably low salaries
and initially a failure to recruit and retain a competent Executive Director. There were also problems associated
with the JSYS being in effect only a financial intermediary that relied on NGOs/CFTs to undertake civil works
procured by TUGs, and problems finding suitably experienced NGO and Cluster Facilitation Teams. This was
resolved in the second half of the project by JSYS bringing engineering support and civil works in house leaving
CFTs to take care of social issues. This gave it better control of financial resources as well as better management
control, but was contrary to the spirit of its original concept under which it was supposed to be an intermediary not
an executing agency itself. To a large extent the shortcomings of the implementing agencies can be attributed to
poor support from the GoK rather than their own performance and in the circumstances their performance is
considered to be Moderately Satisfactory.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   M&E design intended to have four components: (i) performance tracking – to measure inputs, outputs and
outcomes; (ii) institutional tracking – for organizational learning and performance enhancement (for JYSYS units and
TUGs); (iii) Internal learning – developing project processes; and (iv) evaluation – to
measure project impacts and outcomes.

There were some shortcomings of the M&E framework in terms of adequacy of outcome indicators and their linkages
to the project development objective. There were no outcome indicators to measure poverty reduction sub-objective.
Later on, with the additional financing, the indicators such as: 'Tank User Groups covering at least 85 % of traditionally
marginalized tank users..' and 'At least 75% of landless tank users increased their income by 50 % of the baseline..."
was included. However, it was 'marginalized users' were not defined. Also, no specific indicator monitored the actual
poverty level reduction. Furthermore, data collection formats and systems did not reflect the data needs of the M&E
framework.



 b. M&E Implementation:
   According to the ICR a consultant organisation was retained by JSYS to help develop an M & L system, but Bank
missions in 2007 & 2008 found significant problems with the M & L system. Some of the problems found was: poor
and disorganized collection, processing and reporting of project data; failure to report and present data in a format
useful for JSYS management and staff. The JSYS failed to appoint a suitably qualified and experienced M&E
specialist. Two different M&E/MIS systems were established, one for the original project and one post Additional
Financing. An online MIS system was developed later on but problems persisted in terms of unified data entry. Two
independent M&E studies were undertaken in 2006-7 and 2011 to assess project achievements and make
recommendations for changes in procedures.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   Following the first M&E study a number of procedural changes were introduced including an increase in tank size to
above 20ha, and changes to some civil works specifications and simplification of bidding processes. Overall the M&E
quality rating is Modest as there were significant shortcomings in the system design implementation and utilization.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
This was a category ‘B’ project as categorised by the Bank’s safeguard policies for Environmental Assessment
(OP4.01), Pest Management (OP4.09), Cultural Property (OP11.03), Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.20), Involuntary
Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) and Safety in Dams (OP 4.37 & BP4.37).

Environment. The ICR reports (p. 23) that although a formal Environmental Management Plan was not prepared the
environmental management measures identified in the Environmental & Social Assessment (SEA) were followed.
However, the ICR did not specifically report on safeguard compliance, i.e. provided any ratings from relevant
safeguard assessments during implementation. Specifically, the Integrated Tank Development Plans for each tank
were based on a comprehensive participatory rural appraisal that included awareness of the need for foreshore
plantation in tank catchment areas, silt removal and re-utilization. The ICR reports that 80% of silt has been spread by
farmers on their fields and that this has improved soil structure

Pest Management. Pest management considerations were address through training in Integrated Pest Management
(IPM) with aim of reducing the use of chemical pesticides. Farmers received demonstration training on the use of IPM
and it is reported that there has been some uptake by farmers. Integrated Nutrition Management has demonstrated
the benefits from using compost made from worms (vermiculture) and the control of weeds in paddy by the use of
covering crops.

Indigenous peoples. The ICR reports that some 30 % of TUG members were from scheduled Caste or Tribes,
significantly more than the population as a whole.

Safety in Dams. While no specific dam safety measures are reported, it is reported that all the required tests for
mechanical characteristics of soils and compaction quality were undertaken regularly, and that no defects were found
in completed works.

Social Safeguards: The ICR reports( p. 23) that final evaluation of the social aspects of the project found the
participatory approach helped considerably to navigate the politically delicate situation of encroachers in tank bed
areas, and resulted in the voluntary relocation of 7,803 encroachers.


 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management: Supervision missions rated financial management as only moderately satisfactory in the early
years until 2007. Thereafter for two years financial management was assessed as only moderately unsatisfactory due
to the failure to appoint internal auditors and problems with account reconciliation. From 2010 things improved and in
2011 the FM rating was considered satisfactory, as reconciliation was carried out by the project (ICR p. 24). In the last
18 months, the project worked well in the FM area and consistently undertook the agreed actions. In view of the large
numbers of advances and the number of entities involved in this operation, the FM risk was maintained as
'Substantial' throughout the project life, despite all mitigating measures put in place.

 Procurement: This is reported to have mirrored overall Financial Management in that in the early years it was
moderately satisfactory moving to moderately unsatisfactory at the mid stage but improving in the later stages when
effective JSYS management was in place. The key element of procurement was the hiring by communities of CFTs &
NGOs and topographic surveyors and contractors to do tank rehabilitation work. This proved problematic and it was
difficult to assess progress of actual works, especially when TUGs hired their own members as contractors. In the
second phase of the project certified contractors were hired to undertake civil works and things improved. There were
also changes to the procurement process which simplified and streamlined things.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:




12. Ratings:                             ICR               IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory           Moderately             The relevance of objectives is
                                                      Satisfactory           substantial but relevance of design is
                                                                             modest due to broad and overly
                                                                             ambitious sub-objective of poverty
                                                                             reduction that was not closely linked to
                                                                             the project components. Achievement
                                                                             of the objective-improving livelihoods- is
                                                                             rated substantial based on the evidence
                                                                             that agricultural yields and incomes
                                                                             increased for the project beneficiaries
                                                                             due to the project and although more
                                                                             than 50 % of planned tanks were left
                                                                             unfinished during the duration of the
                                                                             project; they were completed in six
                                                                             months after the project closed. The
                                                                             achievement of the objective-reducing
                                                                             poverty- is rated modest due to lack of
                                                                             evidence on this outcome. Project
                                                                             efficiency is also modest, due to
                                                                             significant delays in implementation,
                                                                             and, therefore, the flow of benefits, as
                                                                             well as cost over-run.
           Risk to Development Moderate               Significant            There are considerable social, financial
                      Outcome:                                               and institutional risks to achieving the
                                                                             project outcome. There is limited
                                                                             evidence that rehabilitation of all tanks
                                                                             will be completed to a satisfactory
                                                                             standard or that TUGs established
                                                                             under the project will be able to
                                                                             organise or finance future repair and
                                                                             maintenance operations.
            Bank Performance: Satisfactory            Moderately             Weaknesses in both Quality at Entry
                                                      Satisfactory           and in Bank Supervision were under
                                                                             estimated by the ICR. In particular with
                                                                             hindsight it is clear that the AF in 2007
                                                                             was not correctly assessed, especially
                                                                             funding mechanisms for O&M efforts
                                                                             were lacking.
         Borrower Performance : Satisfactory          Moderately             Failure of GoK to address problems in a
                                                      Satisfactory           timely manner, and enact supporting
                                                                             legislation, as well as shorfall in
                                                                             counterpart funds and FM weaknesses
                                                                             during implementation.

                 Quality of ICR:                      Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the
relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1, 2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as
appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The main lessons drawn by the ICR are as follows:


1.   Managing common property resources is highly challenging. The evidence from the project indicates that it
     might have been better to focus on developing and testing community-based models of tank management in
     locations where the environment (climate, local leadership, community homogeneity) was conducive before
     up-scaling up to more challenging areas and communities.

2.   New institutional mechanisms need time and strong commitment to become effective. The nodal
     implementing agency, JSYS, only became effective half-way through the project when it received full backing
     from the state government, and when it had established effective working relationships with other concerned
     and responsible line agencies.

3.   Integrating tank management with agriculture is critical. This requires practical and sustained linkage and
     coordination between TUG farmers, and support agencies be they state departments, universities or other
     agencies.

4.   Monitoring , Learning and Evaluation systems need to be integrated . Information systems should be strictly
     functional and related to stakeholder needs, and require strong management support and commitment.

5.   Management, operation and maintenance (O&M) – the managing of the tanks - needs to take a much more
     central stage from much earlier . The project experience showed that more thought out systems, detailed
     planning, capacity building and basic institutional support, and more importantly policy such as for water
     charges, and associated resource mobilization – should be designed into the project. O&M plans need to be
     developed including TUG's O&M expense estimation and full required costs for the systems’ adequate
     maintenance, irrigation scheduling and related subjects. Continuous monitoring and technical assistance in
     TUGs operations is essential for at least two irrigation seasons after the handing over of the systems.

6.   Greater focus on water management support services is needed particularly for sustainability of O &M efforts.
     The project did not have a water management specialists at any level and water management at the tank level
     was poorly understood, and little practical guidance was given to TUG management and water users on
     alternative approaches to water management. Good water management – linked to crop planning - is central to
     service delivery and thus in turn to fee collection. The water users would contribute to the costs of maintaining
     the service only if they received adequate service on water management.

7.   It is important to monitor reduction in the quantity of water abstracted given the improvements in distribution
     efficiency, scheduling, level of control over water , on-farm application, and water management . In water
     scarce environments, this is an important factor when more water is made available by head end water users
     to users in the tail end. Further work is required to measure water abstraction against water demand based on
     crop type, area, and irrigation requirements.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No

Why? In order to verify project outcomes particularly for the tank rehabilitation works completed after the project
was closed.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is extensive, provides results and implementation challenges, and it incorporates the findings of an
independent Impact Assessment (IA) undertaken at the end of the project. Also, the lessons section is quite
comprehensive. However, there are also the following shortcomings: (i) Production increases reported by the ICR are
not crop and area specific; (ii) There is limited and inconsistent information on the sustainability of investments,
institutions and quality of construction work; (iii) Economic analysis does not consider the fact that due to the risk of
limited O&M efforts after project closing, there may be deterioration in tank rehabilitation works and therefore
reduction in future benefit streams; (iv) The ICR did not report on the reasons for lower than expected borrower
contribution; (v) There was lack of explicit statement in the ICR on safeguard compliance.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
