CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1574 KO
Guarantee Agreement
(Third KDB Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 21, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1574 KO
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Korea Development Bank (hereinafter called
the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan
in various currencies equivalent to one hundred and ten million
dollars ($110,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such
loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule (2) to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the


﻿-2-
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as
set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying
out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be
provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the
Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating
or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express
provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made
with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political
or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿-3-
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister, Economic Plannir- Board of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the uuarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Minister, Economic Planning Board
Republic of Korea
Seoul, Korea
Cable address:
EPB
Seoul
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By /s/ Nam Duck Woo
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister
Economic Planning Board
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Robert S. McNamara
President


﻿FOR IMMEDIATE'RELEAc,[
World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20433, U.S.A. *Telephone: (202) 393-6360
BANK NEWS RELEASE NO. 78/95                                May 25, 1978
$110 MILLION LOAN TO KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK
The World Bank has approved a loan of $110 million to the Korea
Development Bank (KDB). The loan will help finance the foreign exchange
requirements of industrial subprojects to be supported by the development
finance company over the next two years.
Established in 1954, KDB has become the largest source of industri-
al finance in the Republic of Korea, lending mainly to relatively large to
large enterprises in both the public and private sectors. KDB now pro-
vides industry with the full range of financial and technical services
typically made available by a development bank. These include medium- and
long-term loans for equipment, and working capital financing, in both
domestic and foreign currencies; guarantees; equity participations; foreign
exchange transactions; and technical assistance to client companies.
KDB exerts a considerable impact on the Korean economy because
of the diversity of its activities and magnitude of its operations. As
of September 30, 1977, KDB had outstanding loans to 45 public and about
515 private enterprises.
The $110 million loan will be the third from the World Bank to KDB.
About $10 million of the loan will be made available to KDB's subsidiary,
the Korea Industrial Leasing Corporation, by way of subloans to finance
small- and medium-scale leasing projects.
The World Bank loan will have the guarantee of the Government of
Korea and carry interest at 7.5% per annum.
As is usual with World Bank loans to development finance companies,
the proposed loan will have a flexible amortization schedule, reflecting
substantially the aggregate of the repayment schedules of the individual
subloans. The loan is expected to be repaid in 17 years, including 3 years
of grace.
NOTE: Money figures are expressed in U.S. dollar equivalents.


