CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1574 KO
Loan Agreement
(Third KDB Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK
Dated June 21, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1574 KO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK (hereinafter called the Borrower), a
statutory body established and operating under the laws of the
Republic of Korea (hereinafter called the Guarantor).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "KILC" means the Korea Industrial Leasing Company
Ltd., a subsidiary of the Borrower established and operating
pursuant to the Leasing Industry Promotion Law No. 2664 dated
December 31, 1973, as amended, or any successor thereto.
(b) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan"
means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(c) "Investment" means an investment, other than a sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of
the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(d) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which
it proposes to make or has made an investment.


﻿- 2 -
(e) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment. In the case of KILC,
"Investment Project" means the leasing by KILC to other Investment
Enterprises of machinery, equipment or other property acquired
with the proceeds of a sub-loan.
(f) "W" and "Won" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(g) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(h) "Act" means the Korea Development Bank Act of the Guar-
antor dated December 30, 1953, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
(i) "Decree" means the Enforcement Decree of the Korea
Development Bank Act, enacted on January 18, 1954 by Presidential
Decree No. 858, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(j) "By-laws" means the By-l-,s of the Korea Development
Bank dated February 16, 1954, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
(k) "Operating Manuals" means the Operating Manuals of
the Korea Development Bank, dated April 1, 1954, as amended to the
date of this Agreement.
(1) "Share-holding Act" means the Korea Development Bank
Share-holding Act, dated August 4, 1969, as amended to the date of
this Agreement.
(m) "Enforcement Decree No. 1" means the Enforcement Decree
of the Korea Development Bank Share-holding Act, enacted on
October 6, 1969, by Presidential Decree No. 4100, as amended to
the date of this Agreement.
(n) "Special Act" means the Special Measures Act Governing
Overdue Loans of Banking Institutions, dated August 3, 1966, as
amended to the date of this Agreement.
(o) "Enforcement Decree No. 2" means the Enforcement Decree
of the Special Measures Act Governing Overdue Loans of Banking
Institutions, enacted on August 12, 1966, by Presidential Decree
No. 2702, as amended to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
(p)  "R.C. Decree" means the Readjustment Corporation Decree
enacted on February 20, 1962, by Cabinet Decree No. 459, as
amended to the date of this Agreement.
(q)   "Policy Statement" means the statement of lending and
investments policy approved by the Board of Executive Directors of
the Borrower on April 4, 1975, as the same may be amended from
time to time.
(r)  "Corporation" means the Readjustment Corporation estab-
lished pursuant to Article 53 (iii) of the Act.
(s) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority
of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest
is owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one
or more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries, provided, however, that for the purposes
of Sections 3.05, 4.03 and 4.06 of this Agreement "subsidiary"
shall be deemed to mean only the Corporation or KILC.
(t)   "Guarantee Release Arrangement" means the arrangement
entered into by the Guarantor on March 31, 1975 with respect to
the potential risks arising as a result of KDB's issuance of
direct or indirect external repayment guarantees on foreign loans
to Government-Invested Enterprises and Designated Enterprises, as
such terms are defined in the said Guarantee Release Arrangement.
(u)  "Second Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement dated
December 23, 1976, as the same may be amended from time to time,
entered into between the Bank and the Borrower in connection with
the Second KDB Project.
(v)  "Second Guarantee Agreement" means the guarantee agree-
ment dated December 23, 1976, as the same may be amended from time
to time, entered into between the Guarantor and the Bank in
connection with the Second KDB Project. And
(w)   "Prior Loan" means the loan made by the Bank to the
Borrower either under the Second Loan Agreement or under the loan
agreement dated March 31, 1975, entered into between the Bank and
the Borrower in connection with the First KDB Project.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred and ten million dollars ($110,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, for amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a sub-loan or
investment to finance (i) 100% of the reasonable foreign-currency
cost of directly imported goods and services required for the
Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the
Loan Account is requested or (ii) 60% (representing the estimated
foreign exchange component) of the reasonable cost of the same
items when locally procured; provided, however, that: (A) no
withdrawal shall be made in respect of a sub-loan or investment
unless (i) the sub-loan or investment shall. have been approved by
the Bank, or (ii) the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for
which the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan
Account; and (B) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, sub-
loans made to KILC in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement shall not exceed in the aggregate $10,000,000
equivalent.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $2,500,000 equiva-
lent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of
any Prior Loan for such Investment Project.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures
before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures by an
Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the
Bank's approval or in respect of an investment if such expendi-
tures shall have been made more than ninety days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such sub-loan
or investment the application and information required by Section
2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in respect of a free-limit sub-
loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank


﻿- 5 -
shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the
request and information required by Section 2.03 (b) of this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a
free-limit sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Proj-
ect, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including
the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment
to the Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the invest-
ment; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before December 31, 1980.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.


﻿-6-
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the
schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect of investments,
which have been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the
Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this Agreement and (ii) take
into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the
General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under
Section 2.09 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due
hereunder shall be made on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Such amendments of said Schedule 1 shall include amendments to
the table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each
investment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace,
and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i)
shall not extend beyond 15 years, including a grace period of 3
years, from the date of approval by the Bank of such sub-loan or
investment, or in the case of a free-limit sub-loan, of authoriza-
tion by the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in
respect thereof, and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal
semiannual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and
interest or approximately equal semfnnnual, or more frequent,
payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an invest-
ment or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or
otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower
shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the
next following interest payment date, together with the premiums
specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment
thereof under Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the amount with-
drawn from the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan or invest-
ment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.


﻿- 7 -
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the
maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding
to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of
the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of, and (ii) in the case of
an investment, pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the
Loan reflecting amounts to be repaid on account of such invest-
ment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
in the Republic of Korea as will contribute to the economic
and social development of the country. The Project consists in
the financing of specific development projects through loans to
and investments in enterprises in the Republic of Korea in fur-
therance of the corporate purposes of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Act, the Decree, the Operating Manuals
and the Policy Statement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will
be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Bank and the Borrower, including, in the case of any sub-loan and
to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any
investment, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Invest-
ment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased


﻿-8-
at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and
spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and (2)
such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying
out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly
with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request,
such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable
in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to
replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as
the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or
terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to
perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the
Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the sub-loans
and investments.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions in agreements under which-funds have been lent or otherwise
put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor or its
agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.


﻿-9-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause each of its subsid-
iaries to observe and perform the obligations of the Borrower
hereunder to the extent to which such obligations shall or can be
applicable thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon
such subsidiary.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project and of each Investment
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later
than five months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt,
such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any
subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at


﻿- 10 -
no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transac-
tions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of
such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than
five times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or
any subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement and any
Prior Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the amount of
the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has beer
entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding;


﻿- 11 -
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Won debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes
of servicing such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsid-
iaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries, excluding: (i) any debt owed by the Borrower to
any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any
other subsidiary, and (ii) any debts guaranteed by the Borrower
pursuant to the Act, the Decree or the Guarantee Release Arrange-
ment; tnd
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired
paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any subidiary
or of any subsidiary in the Borrower or any other subidiary.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including Won) used in its lending and
borrowing operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Borrower and its subsidiaries,
and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's represen-
tatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank;
Amendment to the Second Loan Agreement
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the prit.ipal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Act, the Decree,
the By-laws, the Operating Manuals, the Share-holding Act, the
Enforcement Decree No. 1, the Special Act, the Enforcement Decree
No. 2 or the R.C. Decree which would materially and adversely
affect the operations or the financial condition of the Borrower
or KILC;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Policy Statement
without the Bank's consent;
(d) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower or KILC; and
(e) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial condition
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel
or the carrying out of the Project;
(f) a default shall have occurred in the performance of
any obligation or undertaking on the part of the Borrower or the
Guarantor under the Guarantee Release Arrangement; and
(g) the Borrower or the Guarantor shall have failed to
perform any obligation under the Second Loan Agreement or the
Second Guarantee Agreement (other than the obligation to make any
payment required thereunder).
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:


﻿- 13 -
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
or paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agree-
ment shall occur;
(b) the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (f) or paragraph (g)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower and the Guarantor.
Section 5.03. Schedule 2 (Modifications of the General
Conditions) to the Second Loan Agreement shall be amended by
adding a new paragraph 3 which shall read as follows:
"(3) Section 6.02 (c) is amended to read as follows:
"The Borrower or the Guarantor shall have failed
to perform any other obligation under the Loan Agreement
or the Guarantee Agreement, or under the loan agreement
dated June 21, 1978 between the Bank and the Borrower or
under the guarantee agreement of even date therewith
between the Guarantor and the Bank."
Paragraph (3) of the said Schedule 2 to the Second Loan Agreement
shall be renumbered as paragraph (4).
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date of September 19, 1978 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Con-
ditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 14-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Korea Development Bank
140-1, 2-ga Namdaemun-ro
Choong-gu
Seoul, Korea
Cable address:                       Telex:
KODEVELBANK                         KODBANK K 27463
Seoul
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Robert S. McNamara
President
KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK
By /s/ Nam Duck Woo
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister
Economic Planning Board


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)**
December 15, 1981                              2,200,000
June 15, 1982                                  2,300,000
December 15, 1982                              2,400,000
June 15, 1983                                  2,500,000
December 15, 1983                              2,600,000
June 15, 1984                                  2,700,000
December 15, 1984                              2,800,000
June 15, 1985                                  2,900,000
December 15, 1985                              3,150,000
June 15, 1986                                  3,250,000
December 15, 1986                              3,300,000
June 15, 1987                                  3,400,000
December 15, 1987                              3,550,000
June 15, 1988                                  3,650,000
December 15, 1988                              3,800,000
June 15, 1989                                  3,900,000
December 15, 1989                              4,100,000
June 15, 1990                                  4,300,000
December 15, 1990                              4,400,000
June 15, 1991                                  4,600,000
December 15, 1991                              4,800,000
June 15, 1992                                  5,000,000
December 15, 1992                              5,200,000
June 15, 1993                                  5,400,000
December 15, 1993                              5,600,000
June 15, 1994                                  5,800,000
December 15, 1994                              6,100,000
June 15, 1995                                  6,300,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
** To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.30%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             2.65%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.85%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen years
before maturity                             6.60%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.50%


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of Sec-
tion 3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of
the Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied,
or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall
remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to
Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank
may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of the
Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Sub-loans made to KILC
The proceeds of the sub-loans made to KILC under Section 2.02
(a) (B) of this Agreement shall be used by KILC for the purposes
of entering into lease agreements with Investment Enterpriser
whose total assets shall not exceed W600,000,000 or for Invest-
ment Projects which shall involve the creation of jobs the esti-
mated unit cost of which shall not exceed the equivalent of
$15,000. The lessees shall bear the foreign exchange risk of the
sub-loans made to KILC.


