Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4321-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US $121.5 MILLION
TO
FOUR YUGOSLAV ROAD ORGANIZATIONS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
May 12, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Dinar (Din)
Currency Unit 1/          Calendar Year 1985 2/     January 1986 2/
US$1                     Dinar 270.777             Dinar 312.81
Dinar 1                  US$0.0037                 US$0.0032
Dinar 1,000,000          US$3,693                  US$3,197
Exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report: July 1985
US$1                         Dinar 280
Dinar 1                      US$0.0036
Dinar 1,000,000              US$3,571
YUGOSLAVIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL           =  Basic Organization of Associated Labor
COI            =  Self-Management Community of Interest
CRO            =  Council of Republican and Provincial Road
Organizations
CYR            =  Community of Yugoslav Railways
EIB            =  European Investment Bank
ERR            =  Economic Rate of Return
FARP           =  Federal Association of Republican and
Provincial Road Organizati1ns
FCTC           =  Federal Committee for Transport and
Communications
LDR            =  Less Developed Republics
LTPES          =  Long-Term Program of Economic Stabilization
MDR            =  More Developed Republics
RO             =  Road Organization
RTO            =  Railway Transport Organization
SDK            =  Social Accounting Service
TYH            =  Trans-Yugoslav Highway
1/ The dinar has not been maintained within announced margins since July 12,
1982. Its parity is reviewed frequently to ensure maintenance of
external competitiveness.
2/ Period average.



FOR OMICI4L USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrowers:          Four Road Organizations (ROs) in the Socialist Republics
of Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia, and Bosnia-Herzegovina.
The Federal Association of Republican and Provincial Road
Organizations (FARP) would also be a party to the Loan
Agreement as coordinator for the administration of the
loan, and as the executing agency for the technical
assistance component. The loan would be apportioned
among the four borrowers according to an agreed
allocation as follows: Slovenia $25.5 million; Croatia
$33.4 million; Serbia $36.5 million; and Bosnia-
Herzegovina $26.1 million.
Guarantor:          Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Amount:             $121.5 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayable in 15 years, including three years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project Objectives
and Description:    The proposed project comprises a four-year time slice
(1986-1989) of the investment plans of the four
participating ROs. The project is aimed at assisting the
implementation of highway development programs initiated
under previous Bank projects and to extend
institution-building efforts throughout the country. The
project's main emphasis will be on upgrading sections of
the Trans-Yugoslav Highway (TYH) which carry heavy
international traffic as well as Yugoslavia's
inter-regional traffic, rehabilitating existing
infrastructure, and improving maintenance. It will
consolidate institution-building efforts with particular
reference to investment and maintenance planning, road
user charges, and inter-Republican coordination. The
loan will also finance the preparation of nationwide
programs for road and bridge rehabilitation and
maintenance, as well as staff training programs and
equipment for road organizations.
L This document ha a resntied distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance 
of their official dutiea Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- {i -
Benefits and Risks: As the major transport route between Western Earope, the
Balkan area and the Middle East, improvements to the TYR
will have a far-reaching impact beyond the borders of
Yugoslavia. The main quantifiable benefits will be in
the form of savings in transport costs accruing to road
users. Transport costs savings on international traffic
will ultimately accrue to Yugoslavia in various forms,
including revenue collected through transit agreements.
Improved maintenance operations will provide savings to
the Republican Governments, through more cost-effective
procedures and by avoiding roads reconstruction. In
addition, the ROs will benefit from better investment
planning, improved financial discipline, and stronger
inter-Republican coordination. Although shortcomings in
providing local funds in a timely manner could delay
project implementation, the investment programs have been
tailored to available financial resources and annual
reviews of the investment programs and financing
arrangements would allow determination of measures to
remedy any problems in local funding. Moreover, the
agreement of the Federal Government to index road user
charges for inflation, and of the Republican Governments
to the investment programs and financing plans, including
the allocation of road user charges to road expenditures,
should minimize the risk of shortfalls in local funds.



- iii -
Estimated Total Road Expenditures (1986-1989) 11
US$ Million
Local     ForeiRn      Total
Ongoing Investments                                 37.9        25.3        63.2
New Investments                                     246.4      219.4       465.8
Maintenance                                        417.3         -         417.3
Equipment                                             -          1.6         1.6
Technical Assistance/Training                         0.6        0.5         1.1
Administration                                       30.8        -          30.8
Debt Servicing                                      63.5       339.2       402.7
Subtotal                           796.5       586.0    1,382.5
Contingencies
Physical                                         28.5        24.5        53.0
Price                                           129.7        94.3       224.0
TOTAL 2/                           954.7       704.8    1,659.5
Financing Plan:
USS million        Percent
Sources of Funds
Road User Charges (Fuel tax)                       859.5            51.8
Communities                                        258.9            15.6
Bank Loan                                          121.5              7.3
Tolls                                              134.0              8.1
Tax on Foreign Vehicles                            122.9              7.4
Vehicle Registration Fees                           95.4              5.7
Local Bank Credits                                  30.5              1.8
Foreign Credits                                     29.3              1.8
FF LDR 3/                                            7.5             0.5
Total Financing Plan                        1,659.5           100.0
1/ Total planned expenditures for four participating republics; base costs at
July 1985 prices.
21 Including duties and taxes, estimated at $300 million.
3/ Federal Fund for Less-Developed Republics.



- iv -
Bank Participation
The Bank loan would be disbursed against the following items:
US$ Million
Total Cost      Bank Loan
TYR Sections (including the Maribor By-pass)    118.5            47.4
Rehabilitation and Betterment Program            129.0           64.5
By-passes (Pirot and Bela Palanka)                17.8            7.3
Technical Assistance                               1.1            0.7
Equipment                                          1.6            1.6
268.0          121.5
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank's Fiscal Year           FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91
Annual                      14.0    37.0    37.9    28.7      3.9
Cumulative                  14.0    51.0    88.9   117.6   121.5
Economic Rate of Return:    Average 20 percent for the Bank financed items.
Staff Appraisal Report:     Yugoslavia:  A Highway Sector Project (Report
No. 4917-YU), dated April 24, 1986.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO FOUR YUGOSLAV ROAD ORGANIZATIONS
WIT7 THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to four Yugoslav Road Organizations in the Socialist Republics of Slovenia,
Croatia, Serbia, and Bosnia-Herzegovina (the Borrowers), with the guarantee
of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, for the equivalent of
US$121.5 million; to help finance a highway sector project. The Federal
Association of Republican and Provincial Road Organizations would also be a
party to the Loan Agreement as coordinator for the administration of the loan
and as executing agency for the technical assistance component. The loan
would have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Report entitled "Yugoslavia: Adjustment Policies and Development
Perspective (No. 3954-YU) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
November 2, 1982. A report of an economic mission which visited Yugoslavia
in November 1985 is under preparation. This section reflects its principal
findings. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
The Stabilization Effort
3.        During the 1960s and 1970s Yugoslavia's economy grew rapidly,
averaging about 6Z per year. However, the economy's ability to adjust to
external shocks was reduced by rigidities and distortions induced by
imnobility of capital and labor, negative real interest rates, an
increasingly overvalued Dinar, highly protected domestic industries and loose
credit policies. Yl!goslavia initially absorbed the second oil price shock
through additional borrowing and managed thereby to cushion its effects in
the short run. This resulted in a rapidly increasing foreign debt. External
debt doubled between 1978-81, reaching almost $20 billion. With the
subsequent increases in world interest rates and the recession in OECD
countries, the servicing of the debt became a substantially heavier burden.
In turn, the events in Latin America and in Poland created a reluctance in
international capital markets to provide additional funds. As a result, the
balance of payments constraint became critical.
4.        Following the balance of payments crisis of the early 1980s,
Yugoslavia adopted a stabilization program supported by IMF standbys, and



- 2 -
later by a Bank SAL and by. debt restructuring agreements with Governments and
commercial banks. Restrictive demand management policies were used to bring
the economy's external accounts into balance. The real effective exchange
rate was depreciated by 352 between September 1982 and June 1984 and since
then the nominal exchange rate has been adjusted regularly to keep the real
effective exchange rate nearly constant. These policies and a more
centralized foreign exchange allocation mechanism were successful in bringing
the current account of the balance of payments from a deficit of $3.7 billion
in 1979 to a surplus of $0.8 billion in 1985 ($370 million with the
convertible currency area).
5.        Economic growth decelerated sharply.  The economy stagnated between
1980-83, grew by 2S in 1984 and slowed again to about a 0.5% growth rate in
1985. Despite this slowdown, social sector employment increased on average
by 2.4Z per year at the cost of declines in labor productivity. Investment
and imports were severely cut through the restriction of aggregate demand and
through the administrative allocation of foreign exchange. Gross capital
formation in 1985 was 63Z lower than in 1980. Import levels in 1985 were
about 201 below their 1980 level. To some extent the declines in investment
and imports were adjustments to unsustainably high levels in the 1970s but
the continuation of these trends will have long term effects on the economy's
potential to grow and compete in world markets. Export trends have been
erratic with some improvement following the devaluation in 1983.
6.        Inflationary pressures have accelerated and remain intense.
Inflation was 53Z in 1984 and about 801 in 1985. Prices rose faster than
nominal wages after 1980, resulting in a decline in real wages per worker in
the social sector of about one-third (the social sector accounts for
approximately 851 of Gross Social Product). Real incomes per household have,
however, more than kept pace with inflation because of increases in
employment, interest income and windfall foreign exchange gains (para. 7).
7.        Inflation has been caused by a combination of cost push and demand
pull factors. On the cost side, the efforts of the authorities to permit
prices to reflect market forces (para. 9) have put upward pressure on the
price level. So have the cumulative effects of the increases in nominal
interest rates and the substantial depreciation of the Dinar. On the demand
side, monetary policy has been less restrictive than intended. In addition,
devaluations have generated windfall gains to holders of foreign currency
deposits (enterprises and households), allowing them to cushion the effects
of other controls on demand. Ultimately, the persistence of inflation must
be ascribed to inadequate financial discipline at the enterprise and bank
level, which allows enterprises to hold and finance high levels of
inventories in the face of flagging consumer demand. Moreover, severe
restrictions on imports have contributed to maintain inflationary pressures
through reduced competition.
Structural Adjustment
8.        In addition to stabilization measures, steps towards longer-term
structural reform have been initiated, in line with the Government's 1983
Long-Term Program of Economic Stabilization (LTPES). The thrust of the LTPES



- 3 -
is to increase efficiency in resource allocation within the context of
Yugoslavia's system of worker self-management.
9.       Prices of most goods and services were freed from administrative
control in early 1985 and horizontal price collusion was proscribed. Prices
of energy, transport and postal and telecommunication services remain
controlled, but the objective is to adjust them gradually to reflect
opportunity costs. Interest rates on term deposits have increased
substantially and reached 73 percent on April 1, 1986. Average lending rates
remain negative in real terms.
10.      Legislation was passed restricting income payments by loss-making
enterprises, limiting their access to subsidies and requiring that such
enterprises either undertake rehabilitation programs or close down.
11.      Other measures require investors and creditors to undertake
feasibility studies based on common criteria before funding new investment
projects. A new planning law tries to improve coordination of investments by
requiring that nationwide sectoral investment programs be drawn up for power,
railways and telecommunications.
12.      Recent reforms to the banking system increase minimum capital
requirements, define the limited liability of the shareholder enterprises,
require the build-up of reserves and encourage banks to operate across
Republic boundaries.
13.      A new foreign exchange allocation system, introduced in January
1986, eliminated the right of enterprises to retain foreign exchange and hold
foreign exchange accounts. Foreign exchange earnings are fully surrendered
to the banking system and are used to finance, in order of priority, debt
service obligations and imports. The ultimate objective is the establishment
of a free foreign exchange market and a convertible Dinar.
14.      A new foreign exchange credit law established strict conditions 'or
Yugoslav enterprises to borrow foreign exchange, including the requirement
that all borrowers must henceforth assume the full foreign exchange risk.
15.      Most of these measures are recent and are still in the early stages
of implementation. None of the sectoral investment programs (joint
development programs) have been finalized. While a new foreign trade law
calls for the progressive liberalization of trade, the pertinent transitional
measures subject most import categories to a tight system of administrative
allocations.
16.      At this stage, the evidence suggests the structural transformation
experienced by the Yugoslav economy in the 1980s has been limited. Export
trends have been erratic. Higher domestic interest rates, the passing of the
foreign exchange risk to borrowers, and the general shortage of local
resources have led to a more selective approach to investment. However,
there is no clear evidence that the structure of investment better reflects
the needs of the economy. Indeed the very high level of inventories points



- 4 -
to a large share of savings being tied to stock accumulation and raises
questions on the efficiency of overall resource use.
17.     The resolution of these issues is critical to the success of
Yugoslavia's new five-year plan (1986-90). The Government and the Bank are
actively discussing measures to deal with these problems in the context of
the preparation of a possible second SAL.
Medium-Term Prospects
18.     The plan assumes that the reforms adopted in 1984 and 1985, which
cover the main areas of activity identified by the LTPES (para. 8), will be
successfully implemented. The macroeconomic framework of the 1986-90 plan is
based on 41 annual growth of output, with the industrial and agricultural
sectors growing by 4.61 and 5.41, respectively. Exports would grow by 6% per
annum while imports would grow at 5% per year. The plan projections suggest
these trends would allow a cumulative current account surplus of $6 billion
and a ZZ annual growth in social sector employment, mainly in labor intensive
activities.
19.     The overall macroeconomic targets of the plan, particularly the
current account surpluses, are ambitious. Achieving these growth targets
would require quick and determined implementation of measures that will
promote the efficient restructuring of the economy. It also requires
effective implementation of measures to control inflation so that growth is
maintained on a sound basis. However, under the assumption of decline in oil
prices and interest rates and increased exports of about 4.51 per year, a
cumulative current account surplus of close to $3 billion is possible. With
a factor productivity growth of 1.5%, the economy should be able to grow
annually at a rate of about 3Z up to 1990, somewhat lower than the plan's
targets.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
20.     At the end of 1985, Yugoslavia's external debt was estimated to be
$20.2 billion, of which $18.8 billion was in convertible currencies. Of the
total convertible currency debt, medium- and long-term debt was about $17.8
billion, and short-term debt amounted to about $990 million. In 1985, the
total debt service ratio was about 34 Z. Before rescheduling, debt service
payments payable in convertible currencies were about 43 % of convertible
currency export earnings. The convertible debt service burden drops to 27%
when the rescheduled maturities are excluded (para. 21).
21.     Yugoslavia has negotiated debt restructuring packages with its
creditors since 1983. The debt relief exercises up to May 15, 1986 have been
under the umbrella of IMF standby programs. In December 1985, Yugoslavia and
the commercial banks reached an agreement for a multi-year rescheduling
arrangement to cover the original maturities of loans contracted before
January 1983 falling due between 1985 and 1988. The agreement with
coumercial banks is also linked to enhanced monitoring by the IMF. In April
1986, Government creditors initialled an agreement to reschedule 85% of the
original maturities of loans contracted prior to December 1982 falling due



- 5 -
between May 16, 1986 and May 15, 1987 and agreed to zonsider further
rescheduling of this debt up to the end of March 1988.
22.      While there is recognition of Yugoslavia's efforts to maintain its
external liquidity, the international commercial banks have been cautious
abouiS substantially increasing their exposure. However, clear progress in
implementing appropriate policy reforms would lead international commercial
banks to renew lending to Yugoslavia, including, possibly, cofinancing with
the Bank.
23.      While Yugoslavia's liquidity situation may remain difficult in the
near-term, the aggregate and the convertible currency debt service ratios are
expected to be in the 251 to 301 range by the end of this decade and then
gradually decline.  Given the country's strengthened balance of payments
position, the improved external debt repayment profile and the Government's
stated willingness to implement stabilization policies, Yugoslavia should be
able to manage this debt service payment while returning to a sustainable
growth path. Consequently, Yugoslavia is considered creditworthy for
additional Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
24.      The proposed loan would be the ninety-first loan made to Yugoslavia
by the Bank, bringing the total to about $4,429.5 million, net of
cancellations. Approximately 28S ($1,227.6 million) of the total has been
for 22 loans for the transport sector: 12 for highways, 8 for railways, and 2
for ports (paras. 39-40). The proposed loan would represent the 23rd loan to
the sector and the 13th for the highway subsector. In view of the important
potential contribution of agriculture to exports and import substitution and
in view of the considerable scope for imprnved yields in primary production,
Bank lending also focused on the agriculture sector for which 21 loans
totalling about $1,177.7 million (272 of the total) have been made. Thirteen
loans, totalling about $786.8 million (181), were made for the energy sector,
of which eight were for power projects, and one loan each for a natural gas
and an oil pipeline; in June 1985, the Executive Directors approved three
loans totalling $92.5 million for the First Petroleum Sector Project.
Twenty-one loans, amounting to about $532.0 million (12% of the total) have
also been made for industry. Other loans made to Yugoslavia include six for
water supply and sewerage; two multipurpose loans; two for tourism and one
each for air pollution control, telecommunications, and structural adjustment.
25.      Due to a shortage of local funds, Yugoslavia's disbursement
performance deteriorated somewhat in 1921. Following subsequent
implementation reviews of the whole loan portfolio with borrowers, project
execution accelerated. To further expedite the utilization of Bank loan
proceeds as well as to-allow for increased Bank financial participation,
disbursement percentages were increased under the Bank's Special Action
Program (SAP), for the following projects: Metohija I Multipurpose (Loan



1.360-YU), Tenth and Eleventh Highway (Loans 1678-YU and 1819-YU
respectively), Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation-Port of Bar (Loan
1768-YU), Morava II (Loan 1951-YU), and Serbia Regional development (Loan
2307-YU). In the case of the latter two projects and under the Middle
Neretva Hydropower Supplemental Loan (Loan 1561-1-YU), revolving funds were
also established. In addition to SAL, other SAP lending to Yugoslavia
includes a supplemental loan for the Middle Neretva Project (Loan 1561-1-YU)
and the Fm84 Fertilizer Sector Loan. Yugoslavia's disbursement performance
now compares favorably with Bank-wide averages. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of March 31, 1986.
26.     Bank lending since 1983 has sought to support the Government's
structural adjustment program (LTPES) and its efforts to promote exports and
improve the efficiency of investment. The Bank has concentrated its lending
operations in areas where its institutional and policy coordination impact is
expected to be greatest. Accordingly, a shift to more program and sector
operations, including the FY83 Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) (Loan
2326-YU), has occurred to help consolidate and strengthen policy and
institutional changes critical to Yugoslavia's long-term structural
development, wbile at the same time assisting the Government to overcome its
immediate foreign exchange needs.  Sector operations included the FY84 Third
Power Transmission Project (Loan 2338-YU) and Fertilizer Sector Loan (Loan
2410-YU), and the FY85 Petroleum Sector Project (Loans 2595-YU to 2597-YU).
The proposed Highway Sector Project is another such operation. Although
multi-republic sector operations are consistent with Yugoslavia's priorities,
their implementation has faced serious delays resulting from the need to
ensure inter-regional consensus.
27.     Future Bank lending would continue to support Yugoslavia in its
macroeconomic objectives of increased economic growth, improved debt
management, and reduced inflation. The Bank, through the SAL process in
particular, is emphasizing the continuing need for a reform program in the
areas of trade liberalization and foreign exchange allocation, efficiency of
investment allocation, and financial discipline. Bank support envisaged for
industry would focus on export development, industrial restructuring in
selected sub-sectors, energy conservation, and technology development. In
energy, Bank lending strategy would focus on the development of indigenous
resources, promotion of joint development programs on least-cost basis among
the republics and provinces, economic pricing, and increasing the efficiency
of energy use and supply. Lending for transport, mainly roads and railways,
would be through sector projects geared to promote better coordination among
the republics and provinces, investment planning, to provide for improved
resource allocation including pricing policy, and to strengthen
inter-regional and inter-modal integration. In agriculture, lending would
focus on primary production and the rehabilitation of agroindustries.
28.     A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. The Bank will
continue to explore cofinancing possibilities in order to attract additional
sources of credit, recognizing, however, the commercial market constraints
that Yugoslavia faces. Until this problem is overcome, the Bank is likely to
remain one of the principal sources of long-term external capital.



29.     Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank in 1985 amounted to about 10.7% of its
total debt outstanding. In light of the planned reduction in Yugoslavia's
total debt outstanding and the limited access to international capital
markets Yugoslavia is expected to have during the 1980s, the share of debt
owed to the Bank will most likely rise up to 181. The extent of the increase
will depend on the speed with which Yugoslavia is able to implement reforms
and regain normal access to the international capital markets. Service on
Bank loans as a proportion of total debt service (includes debt service on
short-term debt) was 7.51 in 1985 and is projected to rise gradually by the
end of the decade to about 12.71.
30.      IFC started its involvement in Yugoslavia in 1970.  Since then, it
has made 20 investments in the country and, as of March 31, 1986, its
portfolio amounted to $534.0 million gross and $273.3 million net of
participation and repayments. The basic objectives of IFC in Yugoslavia are
to: (a) assist priority subsectors in industry and natural resources
development; (b) encourage foreign investment on a joint venture basis;
(c) foster technological transfers; and (d) mobilize other financial
resources in addition to IFC's own funds.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport System
31.     Yugoslavia's distinctive geographical features have determined the
shape of its transport infrastructure, with the principal road and rail links
following the fertile Sava and Danube flood plains on a northwest to
southeast alignment. In contrast, the southern mountains and the coastal
Karst plateau present a major barrier to overland transport, and improvements
to transport infrastructure in these areas have been difficult and costly.
The main northwest-southeast road - the Trans-Yugoslav Highway (TYR) - and
rail links also serve major volumes of international traffic, including
transit traffic between Europe and the Middle East. Rapid increases in
transit traffic through Yugoslavia are now expected following the accession
of Greece to the European Economic Community. Other key routes serve traffic
between Northern and Central Europe and the Mediterranean coastal areas (Map
IBRD No. 17933R). A major objective of Yugoslavia's transport sector
development in recent years has been the opening up of the LDRs to strengthen
their integration with the rest of the country and accelerate their economic
development.
32.     Yugoslavia has an extensive and diversified transport system of
which roads and railways are the backbone. The transport network comprises
about 130,000 km of roads, including 48,000 km of primary and main regional
roads, 9,400 km of rail lines, 7 main ports, 15 airports (of which 10 handle
international flights) and a sizeable network of inland waterways, the main
one being the Danube. The road and rail network is administered by
independent transport authorities in each of the eight republics and
provinces which make up the Yugoslav Federation. In recent years, oil and
gas pipelines have been added to the transport system. In line with the
rapid growth of the economy, both freight and passenger traffic increased at
an average annual rate of about 5.5% during the 1970s. In this period, road



transport's share of total traffic increased steadily to about 90S of
passenger traffic and 65S of freight traffic. However, since 1980 Yugoslavia
has experienced a considerable slow-down in the economy and total freight and
passenger traffic has recently been increasing by only about 2S per year.
For road transport during the period 1980-1983, freight traffic stagnated
while passenger traffic increased by about 22 per year. This stagnation in
road traffic reflects the shortages and rationing of fuel for road transport
which have been experienced during that period. However, data for 1984
indicate that road traffic increased by as much as 101 over 1983. With the
lifting of fuel rationing at the end of 1984, road traffic is expected to
continue to show modest increases.
33.     A gradual growth recovery is likely during the 1986-90 plan.
According to the Plan, growth for the plan period is estimated at about 4S.
While in general, road traffic volumes in 1983/84 on the primary routes were
about 101 below 1980 levels, it is now anticipated that road traffic volumes
will return to their former level over the next two years. In line with the
expected improvement in the economy, it is anticipated that road traffic
would increase at about 41 per year up to 1990.
Transport Policy. Planning and Coordination
34.     Since the mid-1960s, the gradual transfer of authority to the
republican/provincial transport agencies, which increased the number of
policy-making bodies, has tended to hamper the coordinated development of the
sector as well as the provision of rational and cost effective transport
services. Because of these limitations, the Bank has encouraged and
supported the establishment or strengthening of planning and coordinating
institutions in the transport sector. Notable among these are the Federal
Committee for Transport and Connmnications (FCTC), the Council of Republican
and Provincial Roads Organizations (CR0), and the Community of Yugoslav
Railways (CYR). The Bank also encouraged the preparation of a long-term
master plan study for TYR which provided a basis for overall coordination and
for several Bank-financed highway projects. To further improve coordination
in the highway subsector, in 1983 the Road Organizations (ROs) established
the Federal Association of Republican and Provincial Road Organizations
(FARF), which has responsibilities for overall planning and monitoring of
developments related to road infrastructure.
35.      In late 1976, with a view to creating the necessary conditions for
integrated development of transport, the Federation, the Republics and the
Autonomous Provinces mutually agreed to establish a long-term transport
policy for the country. Considerable progress has been made and a number of
Social Agreements on the various aspects of future transport policy have been
concluded. A basic policy in the sector provides for a free choice among the
users of transport facilities according to cost-based tariffs, using
appropriate input prices. While the policy objectives are sound and are
supported by the Bank, the recent economic difficulties brought a tendency to
over-emphasize the development of the railways, primarily on the grounds of
savings in energy costs, which could lead to uneconomic distortions in the
allocation of traffic. These issues are currently being discussed with the
Federal Government and the Railway Transport Organizations (RTOs) as part of



two ongoing railway projects and the preparation of a possible seventh
railways project.
36.           Despite lower growth forecasts, continued investments are
required in the transport sector to alleviate bottlenecks in the main road
and rail networks and there is now an increasing need to strengthen the
existing infrastructure. Emphasis is being given to improvements of key
links in the primary road network, with the highest priority allocated to
continued improvements along the TYH, where traffic volumes range from 12,000
to 20,000 vehicles per day. Modernization and rehabilitation of trunk
railway routes is also of high priority, particularly the Trans-Yugoslav
trunk line. Attention is also paid to completing the primary road network in
the less-developed regions and to establishing routine rehabilitation
programs for the existing network. Such investments are providing the
necessary support for the development of the domestic market and help further
the country's own integration and its links with the rest of Europe.
Bank Role in the Sector
37.     Over the past 20 vsars, the Bank has had an active role in
developing the transport system through loans for expansion of capacity in
highways, railways, and ports. This assistance has provided support for
growth in industry and agriculture, for regional development and for export
expansion. In addition to improving overall coordination (para. 35),
Bank-assisted transport projects have also done much to institutionalize the
basic administrative functions of planning, project preparation and
implementation. Bank highway projects have helped introduce complex planning
and design capabilities for multi-lane, controlled access highways, as well
as strengthen the institutional framework in terms of vehicle weight control,
maintenance practices, and improved road safety. Bank assistance has been
particularly effective in highways where an overall investment planning
approach was introduced in five ROs through the Tenth Highway Project. The
proposed project would extend this approach to other areas of the country and
would consolidate past institution-building efforts. A similar approach was
introduced in railway planning and is currently being brought to full
development in the four RTOs under the Sixth Railway Project (Sarajevo,
Belgrade, Novi Sad, Skopje). Except for the Port of Bar project and an
associated Earthquake Rehabilitation loan, the Bank has only a limited
presence in the ports sector. An ongoing ports master plan study is intended
to improve coordination in port development and utilization at the national
level.
38.     Since the mid-1970s, Bank-financed projects have paid increasing
attention to pricing and fiscal aspects in the transport sector, such as road
user charges, railway costing and tariffs and port charges. The Bank has
sponsored two major studies-a Rail Cost Study and a Road User Charges
Study--with the aim of fostering intermodal efficiency as well as a more
economic utilization of transport facilities. The recommendations of the
Rail Cost Study are now being implemented on a trial basis in one RTO, while
the ongoing Sixth Railway Project provides for a detailed program of rail
tariff increases designed to eliminate compensation payments to the railways



- 10 -
in the next seven years. In the highway subsector, the findings of the Road
User Charges Study are currently being used by the Federal Government in
establishing appropriate levels of road user charges and allocations of
revenue. A third study, covering the operation of toll systems on TYH, was
financed under the Eleventh Highway Project and provides guidelines for the
establishment of toll facilities and for the setting of rates which are now
being used by all ROs operating toll road facilities. In the ports
subsector, a tariff study, financed under the Port of Bar project, has been
undertaken.
39.     The Bank has made 22 loans for the Yugoslav transport sector,
totalling $1,227.6 million equivalent net of cancellations. These include 11
loans to the highway subsector totalling $628.9 million; an additional loan
of $21 million was made for rehabilitation following the 1979 earthquake in
Montenegro. The Project Completion Reports for the Sixth, Seventh, Eighth
and Ninth Highway Projects indicated that the projects were relatively
problem-free and completed according to schedule. They also highlighted the
fact that Bank lending has enabled the Yugoslav authorities to develop sound
planning and project preparation capabilities in the road subsector.
40.     Seven loans totalling $491.2 million have been made for the railway
subsector. Five of the projects have been completed successfully, while the
Kosovo Railway Project is due to be completed by end-1986. The Sixth Railway
Project is being implemented on schedule. An additional loan for $14 million
was made for reconstruction following the 1979 earthquake in Montenegro and
this project has now been completed. In the ports subsector, a loan of
$42.4 million was made for the expansion and operational improvement of the
Port of Bar in Montenegro. This project was nearing completion when the port
was severely damaged by the 1979 earthquake. Rehabilitation has now been
completed with a Bank loan of $30.1 million.
The Highway Subsector
41.     General.  From the mid-1950s, road transport began to expand
rapidly. The passenger car fleet increased at over 201 annually through
1980, while the number of heavy vehicles increased at about 9Z annually in
the same period. The total vehicle fleet is now estimated at 3.1 million
vehicles of which 801 are passenger cars.
42.     During the period from 1970 to 1980, the length of the paved network
doubled. The TYH system provides the backbone to Yugoslavia's highway
network and is a vital link between Western Europe, the Balkans and the
Middle East (Maps IBRD Nos. 17933R and 17934R). Although some 500 km of the
1,170 km of TYR have been improved over the past decade or are currently
under construction, it is estimated that a further 360 km would be justified
for upgrading to four-lane standards during the coming decade. Of these
sections, about 120 km will be improved during the period through 1989 with
financial assistance provided by two European Investment Bank (EIB) loans and
by the Bank under the proposed sector project. Beyond this program, a
further 240 km of critical TYH sections in Slovenia, Croatia and Vojvodina
would remain for improvement in the medium-term.



- 11 -
43.     Modernization of the network continues- to be a major priority for
the republics and provinces. In the more developed areas of the country, the
primary focus is on eliminating the major bottlenecks, particularly on TYR,
wbile in the less-developed areas the main focus is on upgrading and
modernization of the basic primary network. Maintenance has been generally
satisfactory, but has suffered recently because of budgetary constraints. As
mch of the paved network is still relatively recent, routine rehabilitation
programs have not been a major part of the road investment programs.
However, increasing attention is being paid to establishing rehabilitation
schemes in order to strengthen and preserve road infrastructure.
44.     Administration and Organization.  The Federal Committee for
Transport and Communications is responsible for common policy and regulatory
atters such as vehicle regulations and road user taxation, as well as for
the international aspects of highway administration and road transport. In
addition, overall coordination is provided by FARP which was established in
1983 to replace CR0 (para. 34), and whose responsibilities were broadened to
cover overall planning and monitoring of developments in the highway sector,
particularly investment and fInancial aspects.
45.     The eight Republican and Provincial ROs are responsible for
maintaining about 40,000 km of roads, representing all primary routes and
about 70S of regional roads. The remainder of the network is administered by
local committees which have special departments for this purpose. The ROs
are established as Self-Management Communities of Interest (COI) and are
governed by representatives of various groups with an interest in roads, such
as transport companies, industrial enterprises, agricultural cooperatives,
professional and road user associations. Executive boards comprising about
40 people are responsible for day-to-day operations and also for the
preparation of highway investment and maintenance programs. Over the years,
the ROs have developed adequate capabilities for the preparation and
implementation of projects.
46.      Investments and Financing.  During the 1976-80 Plan, investments in
road infrastructure represented about one-half of total investments in the
transport sector. During this period, total expenditures on road
infrastructure, including debt servicing, averaged just under $1 billion
annually in 1985 prices, of which about 602 were allocated to new
investments. During the 1981-85 Plan, the ability of the road organizations
to fund a reasonable level of investments has declined; presently road
expenditures, including debt servicing, average about $600 million annually.
this situation has resulted from the fact that the highway authorities
now depend heavily on revenue from earmarked contributions, mainly a specific
road user charge which represents about one-third of the total taxes on
fuel. However, in recent years, the road user charge has not increased in
line with the price of fuel nor with the other taxes on fuel. Revenue from
the road user charge has therefore failed to keep pace with inflation at a
time when the road organizations have had to devote a larger part of
available funds to cover the higher debt service burden from foreign credits
following the depreciation of the dinar. Allowing, therefore, for higher
debt servicing, which has increased from about 15S of total expenditures



- 12 -
during the late-1970s to over 30Z in 1985, current allocations to investments
and maintenance on roads are at about half the level achieved during the
1976-80 Plan.
47.      In order to ensure adequate revenue for a minimum program of
expenditures on road infrastructure, a policy undertaking was given by the
Federal Government under SAL I for the periodic adjustment of the road user
charge for inflation as well as for the specific earmarking of the charge for
road expenditures alone. By the end of 1983, significant improvements in the
allocation of road user revenues occurred in most of the Republics/Provinces;
in early 1985, all revenue was being allocated to roads. In addition, the
level of road user charges was adjusted in May 1984 in accordance with the
SAL I undertaking, thus providing sufficient funds for the 1984 road
program. Further adjustments were made in August 1985 and January 1986 with
an additional adjustment to take place before the proposed loan becomes
effective. Periodic increases in road user charges and the allocation of
revenue will be examined during each annual review of the road programs
(para. 52).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.      The proposed project, identified in October 1981, was prepared by
the ROs with the assistance of Bank preparation missions in December 1982 and
in March 1983 and was appraised in October 1983 with post-appraisal taking
place in February 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington in November
1985. The Yugoslav Delegation was led by Mr. Petar Radenovic, Assistant
President of the Federal Committee for Transport and Communications. A Staff
Appraisal Report, "Yugoslavia: A Highway Sector Project No. "(4917-YU),
dated April 24, 1986, is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. The main features of the loan and project are given in the Loan
and Project Summary and the key events and special conditions in Annex III.
Maps showing the main European arterial routes passing through Yugoslavia
(IBRD Map No. 17933R) and the main Yugoslav road network and the roads
included under the Bank financed project (IBRD Map No. 17934R1) are also
attached.
Project Obiectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
49.      The main objectives of the project are to continue the Bank's long
term strategy to assist and foster sound, planned development of the highway
network to meet the needs of the economy, and to consolidate
institution-building and policy efforts in the sector with particular
reference to investment and maintenance planning, road user charges, and
inter-Republican coordination. The project will support a minimum investment
program in roads in four Republics: Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia and
Bosnia-Herzegovina. Specific objectives include the elimination of some of
the major bottlenecks in the primary highway network, particularly in the
Trans-Yugoslav Highway, as well as establishing road rehabilitation programs
in all of the participating Republics with a view to preserving the existing
infrastructure. In addition, and most importantly, the project will further



- 13 -
strengthen and consolidate investment and maintenance planning in highways at
a time when there is a severe shortage of funds and a need for improved
overall coordination of resource uses.
Project Description
50.     General.  The proposed project comprises a time-slice (1986-1989) of
the investment and maintenance programs in the four participating Republics.
In consultation with the Republican Government authorities, each RO has
prepared an investment and maintenance program for the period 1986-89 listing
individual project items, as well as financing plans supporting the proposed
expenditures. The four Republics would account for about 70% of the total
expenditures for roads in Yugoslavia during the 1986-89 period. Although
there are differences from one Republic to another in the content of the
programs, reflecting the varying needs throughout the country, the first
priority in all Republics is to provide adequate funds for road maintenance
activities. It is proposed to gradually improve the levels of both
maintenance and rehabilitation under the project, reaching acceptable targets
by 1988 or 1989, depending on the Republic considered. Current annual
maintenance levels, about $2,000 per km on average, should increase under the
project to about $3,500 per km (1985 prices). The estimated needs for
rehabilitation and maintenance of roads and bridges over the medium-term
period will be refined and updated during implementation of the project,
based on the findings of a nationwide rehabilitation and maintenance study
which will be financed under the project (para. 53).
51.     Description and Status of Preparation.  The investment programs are
well balanced and the individual components are justified. Bank-financed
items of the programs include improvement of 47 km of TYH sections including
a start on the TYH route between Ljubljana and Zagreb, and the continuation
of the TYH program in Croatia eastwards from Zagreb towards Belgrade
(Map IBRD No. 17934R1). The Bank-financed program in Slovenia also includes
the construction of the Maribor By-pass, located on the most important
international access route into Yugoslavia. In Serbia, the main focus will
be on rehabilitation of existing primary roads and on the construction of two
bypasses on the Nis-Sofia Highway, a branch of the TYH leading to Bulgaria,
Turkey and the Middle East. In the less-developed Republic of
Bosnia-Herzegovina, the main focus is on the rehabilitation of existing
primary routes as well as on the upgrading of gravel roads in the primary
network. A first-year program has been identified for all items under the
rehabilitation programs and will be ready for early tendering. Feasibility
studies on the sections to be improved during subsequent years will be
prepared ox a continuing basis according to a methodology and criteria which
were agreed during negotiations, and submitted to the Bank for approval. The
broad approach to be used for subproject preparation and economic evaluation
has already been agreed in the context of our past highway projects. The
detailed criteria are included as part of the action plan (para. 52). The
project will also finance high priority maintenance equipment for use on the
TYR and some items of office equipment for strengthening the administrative
and planning capacity of the ROs.



- 14 -
52.      Action Plan.  The investment programs and financing plans have been
defined for the period 1986-89 and an action plan has been established for
the project.  The proposed investment and financing plans, including targets
for road maintenance and rehabilitation, were discussed and confirmed at
negotiations. The respective Republican Governments have approved these
plans, including confirming the availability of adequate funds from road user
revenue. Detailed annual programs will be prepared taking into account the
experience and progress of subproject execution during the previous year and
incorporating improvements in operations and planning. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the action plan will be implemented as
agreed, including updating the investment and financing plans on an annual
basis. FABP will have a major role in implementing the action plan, in
coordinating the preparation of the nationwide study on road rehabilitation
and maintenance, and in liaising with relevant Federal Government authorities
on the need to adjust road user charges on an annual basis. As agreed during
negotiations, FARP will be adequately staffed for this purpose prior to loan
effectiveness.
53.      Technical Assistance and Training.  Consulting services would be
financed under the loan to assist the ROs in further developing and
strengthening road and bridge rehabilitation and maintenance activities
throughout the country. The preparation of a nationwide study would be
coordinated by FARP and would aim at strengthening appropriate information,
accounting, planning and programming systems for routine maintenance and
rehabilitation activities and emphasizing the continued economic importance
of such activities. Terms of reference for the study were discussed and
confirmed at negotiations. Foreign training and local seminars, with a
special emphasis on highway maintenance and rehabilitation, would also be
financed under the project.
Cost Estimates and Financing
54.      The total cost of road investment and maintenance programs of the
four republics during the period 1986-89 is estimated at $1,659.5 million,
with a foreign exchange component of $704.8 million. The total investment
cost includes taxes and duties estimated at $300 million. Proposed
investments under the programs are estimated at $676.2 million with a foreign
exchange cost of $314.0 million. Ongoing investments amount to $74.8 million
and are financed in part by the ongoing European Investment Bank-financed
Projects, while new investments are estimated at $601.4 million. Road
maintenance costs and other planned expenditures, including administration
and debt servicing, are estimated at $983.3 million. The foreign exchange
component of civil works was calculated on the assumption that local
contractors, as has been the trend, would be awarded the construction
contracts after international competitive bidding. A 10X physical
contingency allowance has been included on all investment items. Price
contingencies, also included, have been estimated assuming internAtional
inflation rates of 71 in 1986 and 1987, 7.5S in 1988, and 7.7S in 1989; and
local inflation rates of 30S in 1986, and 252 for each year from 1987 to
1989. In addition to local consulting services, manpower requirements for
technical assistance involve about 20 man-months of short-term, high level



- 15 -
foreign expertise. The total cost of technical assistance is estimated at
$0.6 million, with a foreign exchange cost of $0.3 million. The training
program comprises about 65 man-months of overseas training and a number of
local seminars for a total cost of $0.5 million. Equipment included in the
program amounts to $1.6 million.
55.      The total cost of Bank-financed items in the road programs for
1986-89 is estimated at $268.0 million, of which about $121.5 million is the
foreign exchange component to be financed by the proposed Bank loan. The
loan would be allocated in agreed proportions between the four Borrowers
(Republican Road Organizations) as follows: Slovenia $25.5 million; Croatia
$33.4 million; Serbia $36.5 million; and Bosnia-Herzegovina $26.1 million.
The Borrowers would bear the foreign exchange risk. The remainder of the
required financing, covering total planned expenditures on roads in the four
republics, will be met largely from earmarked revenue from road user charges,
as well as from contributions from communities, road tolls, taxes on foreign
vehicles, vehicle registration fees, the Federal Fund for Less-Developed
Republics, local bank credits and foreign credits. The cost estimates and
financing plans were discussed and confirmed during negotiations. In order
to provide adequate financing for the programs, the Federal Government has
agreed to adjust road user charges periodically but not less than once every
twelve months in the light of the undertakings given in the Letter of
Development Policy of May 1983 under SAL I. In addition, the investment
programs and financing plans have been approved by the Republican Government
authorities who also have agreed to allocate road user revenue to road
expenditures. Since these programs and plans were approved, actual inflation
as well as projected inflation have increased compared to that used in the
costs estimates. However, as the major sources of financing are in effect
linked to inflation (e.g. road user charge, tolls and vehicle registration
fees), variable inflation could at most have only a minor impact on financing
of the road programs. In any event, the Republican Governments would provide
additional resources as necessary to complete the programs (para. 52).
Accounting and Audit
56.      In Yugoslavia, a Community of Interest (COI), such as a Road
Organization (RO), must follow the accounting procedures prescribed by the
law. Major investments must be registered with and be audited by the Social
Accounting Service (SDK) and with sources of funds identified and earmarked
prior to starting any work. The form and timing of financial reports to be
submitted to the Bank, including audit reports by SDK of the RO's accounts
with financial statements, have been discussed and were confirmed during
negotiations.
Implementation
57.      The four ROs would be the borrowers under the proposed project and
would be responsible for the implementation of the civil works components.
The latter would be executed by contractors under the supervision of Yugoslav
consulting engineers and technical institutes which provided the detailed
engineering services for the project roads. To dates si-milar arrangements



- 16 -
under previous Bank-financed projects have worked out well and to the Bank's
satisfaction. FARP would act as fiscal representative, liaise between the
borrowers and the Bank, and coordinate withdrawal requests to the Bank. FARP
would also be responsible for coordinating procurement and implementing the
road maintenance and rehabilitation study. The project would be completed by
Deceuber 31, 1989, with the loan closing on December 31, 1990.
58.     The proposed project will be implemented in line with an overall
action plan involving annual updating of the investment programs and
financing plans and the preparation and submission of subprojects according
to agreed procedures and criteria (para. 52). Specific subprojects will be
prepared on a continuous basis to allow for timely executioa within the
proposed implementation schedule. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the technical and economic evaluations of subprojects will
be submitted to the Bank in summary form according to the agreed
methodology. It was also agreed during negotiations that road works will be
carried out according to agreed design standards.
Procurement and Disbursements
59.     Civil works and equipment contracts would be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank procurement
guidelines. Prequalification for civil works began in November 1985. The
first round of bidding will follow invitations which would be issued in May
1986, leading to contract awards to successful bidders expected in August
1986. Technical assistance would be provided by qualified and experienced
local firms assisted by short-term high-level foreign consultant expertise.
During negotiations it was agreed that all procurement of Bank-financed items
will be made according to Bank guidelines. All bidding and contract
documents will be subject to prior review by the Bank, as has been the case
under previous highway projects in Yugoslavia. Consultants will be employed
by FARP according to Bank guidelines.
60.     Disbursements for the Bank-financed links will cover 40Z of total
costs of major new construction and 50% of the total cost for rehabilitation
and betterment works, equivalent to the foreign exchange component of
construction costs. The Bank would finance 1002 of the foreign costs of
technical assistance and training and 801 of the cost of local seminars. The
foreign cost of equipment would be financed 1002 by the Bank. To facilitate
disbursements against the loan accounts, the Borrowers will establish special
accounts, based on estimated expenditures for four months, which will be
financed by the Bank. For contracts valued at less than $20,000 equivalent,
disbursements will be made on the basis of statements of expenditures. The
average disbursement profile for 21 transport projects in Yugoslavia is 6-1/2
years. However, the last six highway loans in Yugoslavia have been disbursed
over 4-5 years. Given the time slice nature of the proposed sector project,
including close monitoring by means of updating and submission of annual
programs, disbursements should closely follow the planned implementation
schedule. On this basis, disbursements for the proposed project have been
forecast over a 4-1/2 year period. The project would provide retroactive
financing for up to $100,000 for foreign consultants under the highway
maintenance study.



- 17 -
Environmental Impact
61.      The net effect of the proposed project on the environment is a
positive one. The roads sections are located mainly in areas of low
population density, while for those sections where bypasses are proposed,
reduction in noise and air pollution will result as long distance traffic
will be diverted from the urban areas.
Benefits and Risks
62.      Benefits.  One of the main benefits of the project will be to
relieve the mounting traffic congestion on several heavily-trafficked
sections of the TYH. In view of the inter-regional character of the TYH,
road improvement will benefit primarily long-distance traffic linking
Yugoslavia's main centers of population and economic activity. As such, the
main benefits of the TYH program will be in savings in transport costs which
will accrue to a wide variety of road users from all sectors of the economy
and from a wide range of income groups throughout the country. In addition,
as the major land transport route between Western Europe, the Balkan area and
the Middle East, improvements to the TYH will have a far-reaching impact
beyond the borders of Yugoslavia. However, the major part of international
commercial traffic on the TYH consists of Yugoslav exports and imports with
only about 5S accounted for by purely transit traffic. Hence, the inclusion
of transport cost savings of all traffic in the benefit calculation is
justified, as the cost savings of this transit traffic can be considered a
surrogate for other forms of benefits (transit fees, services, etc.) accruing
to Yugoslavia. Substantial benefits to road users on many important primary
and regional roads will also follow from the road rehabilitation and
betterment programs financed under the proposed loan. Many of these roads
link important urban centers as well as industrial and agricultu-ral areas and
some carry heavy volumes of foreign tourist traffic during the staawr
months. Recent variations in fuel prices do not materially influence the
economics of the project.
63.      In contributing in a significant manner to strengthening planning
for the whole highway sector in the participating republics, substantial
savings will accrue to the Republican authorities through improved investment
decisions and more cost effective road maintenance procedures. Through the
provision of technical assistance for the planning and programming of
rehabilitation and maintenance of the road network, the requirements for
costly reconstruction of the network in the longer term would be
substantially reduced. Foremost, attention under the project to such matters
of national importance as the level and allocation of road user charges to
provide adequate funding in the highway sector, as well as improved
inter-republican coordination, will benefit the country as a whole.
64.      Economic Rate of Return.  Individual ERRs for subprojects proposed
for Bank-financing under the sector project range from 14Z to 29% with an
overall average of 20Z. All components show acceptable first-year benefits
and are therefore justified on the basis of existing traffic levels. Even
under pessimistic assumptions such as a 0l increase in costs combined with a
10 decrease in benefits, almost all sections would continue to show
acceptable ERRs, above 12%.



- 18 -
65.      A conservative estimate of the overall ERR of the total road
investments and rehabilitation in the four republics planned during 1986-89
would be around 20S. In addition, the improved maintenance programs planned
by the ROs under the project will yield ERRs of at least 501. As maintenance
programs account for about one-third of total expenditures on roads, a
conservative estimate of the ERR for the investment and maintenance programs
as a whole would be in the range of 30S.
66.      Risks.  Availability of local funds could be a risk.  However, the
agreement of the Federal Government to index road user charges for inflation
and of the Republican Governments to the investment programs and financing
plans and the allocation of road user revenue to road expenditures, together
with the general scaling down of expenditures as a whole, should mitigate any
problems in local funding.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
67.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 12, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-19-                  A.NN1X I
Page 1 of 6
lUOetLVU ~         _- IOCL  DDSO   DZ 
imi (mm us. un )ntS  ^) A
DtS                      (NDIT UC    t)         ^).
CUIT       ~~~IlDlLt =1111            I L^L
low&        197dL  llSI 1                 WUIR               NISKT   Noma a
TOTAL                              235.4       25.3        a5s.3.
AIOIUELIU3L                        149.2       146.3       142.2
CU  MR cMrtu CUS)                        ..         ..       2970.0             2146.3                   1106L9
EIT COTEUE  US CWIYA
P0PuUT0.EDTaf. COU      UE i03)   13402.0    20371.0    22600.0
Dam  P0PULAtIO  (3 or 1OT;)         27.9        34.6        44.7               47.5                      70.7
POPULATO  PROISCTEON3
"UUOIN to *1 20 (IULL)                                    23.1
3ATIEIAU  POPULATION CHILL)                               30.0
POFMLTION WUII                                             1.3
POPUATION DUENSITY
PEE EQ. i.                        71.9        79.4        69.1               ".7                      140.3
P IEQ. M. AG1. LWm               123.3       139.3       159.3              148.9                     322.2
POPULTICI ASI STROCTUMS CE)
0-14 1T                          30.5        27.4        24.1               31.2                      21.3
15-4 TM                           33.1        30.7        67.0                1.3                      66a.
35 AND AMOV                        6.3         7.7         *.S                7.2                      12.0
FOPUA cTECE   miTm (C)
TOTAL                               1.2         1.0         0.9                1.4                      0.3
URBNl                              3.6         3.2         2.6                3.7                       1.3
cmUD I1  KATZ CPER T13US)           23.3         17.3       16.6               23.4                      13.5
CO03DEAOTh RATEt CPER 111003)        9.9         8.9         9.6                3.9                       6.9
aross E KODUCTION IATE                1.4        1.1         1.0                1.5                       0.9
FAULT PUNNIN
ACCWToUs  ANNUL (tINus)            ..
DUElS (Er OFKAMM  VOEN)            *3.0                   33.0.                                        71.1
IN5 or F1000 PEOD. PE CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       35.0        93.0       122.0              109.1                     Iu7.2
PM CATA SUPPLY OF
CALOUI Es or C O    uF  U sS)    116.0       131.0       14.o               13t.3                     132.9
NmOUs (c06    PRt 35)             39.0        93.0       105.0              2f.4                      11.0
or 1510  AIIL AND PUE            29.0        32.0        39.0f              34.5                    * 41.0
CiED CA   1-4) DEATN  mATE           3.4         5.4         2.0                4.7                       0.1
LIn SPEC?. AT SSIRT  (TEW)          62.9        67.5        ".9                 7.2                      75.5
INFANT NUT. EATE Cnt TROUS)         37.7        55.5        32.0               33.3                      9.;
ACCESS TO SAYE UATE (CPOF)
TrtaL                               ..        33.6 la    33.0 Ic             70.2
WEl                               42.         6 1  62A07  75.0 7             39.4 a
M                                  ..         12.3 Z      45.0               3 7.0                      ..
ACCESS TO EEA DISPOSAL
CE 1W POPOLATION)
TUTAL                              ..          ..         59.0        -      39.3
UAN                                ..          ..         77.0 7             35.9..
RUEAL                               .                     47.0  c            47.3
POPOLATIOC PE  PSICA              1620.0      1OCO.0       550.0             IU70A                      333.2
POP. E  USING P3R3                 630.0 Jf   410.0        230.0 la           769.3 15.8
POP. PEE OFSITAL 35
TOTAL                            200.0       330O        10C.U              323.3                     12.9
UnaUII                            90.0 4    100.0        100.0 Le           201.9                    143.2
anu.                             oo040.0 if   1300.0    1340.0 J           4519.7                     77*..
AONSSIONS PER KoSfTAL 11             .17.3                  13.2 /c            20.0                      17.1
AVERSE SIZE or W:ISENOLD
TOTAL                              *.0         3.8         3.3 
0U31                               3.3         3.2         3.3.
tURAL                              0.4         4.3         4.1 7.
AVERAGE NO. oF PERSONS/ROlr
TotA                               1.6         1.4
Ultnm                             31.7         1.1
RUL                                1.5         1.5
PERCENTAE OF U      5ELLIGS 11rTH ACT.
TOTAL                             54.5        67.9
o35                               92.7        98.4
RUREL                             36.3        30.1 



-20-                                                         ANNEX I
Page Zof 6
T AN* LK Z 
Y UGOULAVIA              l SOCIAL tINtCSOAltg DATA SHEET
TUCOSLAVIA                          REPEARNCV GROUPS (WIE0TEO AVERAG S) 
"DST                     (MOST RECVIT ESTDIATE) lb
19b HUCET                HiDuLt INCtI.            inDUSTRIAL
19U1t      197A!t  STZNATI.              zURO.              : r 6DWIS
ADJUStD ZNROLUKNT PATIOS
PRIKIE.  TOTAL                   111.0       106.0      101.0              101.9                    101.2
KALE                  113.0       101.0       101.0             104.2                    1U2.6
ivuLT                 104.0       104.0      100.0               97.5                    102.4
SECONlWY: TOTAL                   58.0       63.0        s2.0              57.5                      87.1
HALE                   63.u       6b.0        85.0               64.9                     80.3
FINAL&                 53.0   511.0           79.0               50.0                     84.1
VOCATIONAL CU OF S NMI)              ..        26.4        24.4               21.u                     18.4
PUPIL-'!3ACNER RATIO
PRDuW                             33.0       27.0        24.0              25.1                      16.7
SECONDILD                         13.0       22.0        18.0               19.1                     1 1.6
PASSNGER CAASITHOWSIAD POP           3.0       35.4        84.5 lb           54.2                     366.3
RADIO  lSCIIVERS/TOUSAID POP       84.9       165.9       218.6             170.7                    1093.2
TV RRCKMIRITRoUSAMD FM               1.4       88.3       209.8              149.3                    492.3
NEUSAPU ("DAILY CONUA
INTEREST ) CtIRCLATXON
'PR TEOUSAND POPUIATION            70.3       85.3       103.0 In            97.0                    320.4
CXUtA ASAL ATTENDAJCJ/CITA           7.1        4.2         3.5               2.7                       3.3
LARORM
TOTAL LAtR FORCE (TNOM)           8302.0     8838.0 1   9670.0/
,JIALZ (PERCNT)                  35.0        35.9        36.3              36.3                      36.2
OaICULTEM  (PERCENT)              63.0       51.0        29.0 4y 40.8                                 6.2
ItEUSTR (PncCrN)                  18.0       23.0        35.0  j           23.3                      37.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             45.1       43.4        42.4               43.1                     46.0
NALZ                              bO.0       56.6        54.3               55.1                     59.5
TRIALS                            30.9       30.6        30.0               31.4                     32.7
ECONIMC DEP lEC  RATIO              0.8         0.8         0.8               0.9                       0.7
31IIS iRtaETIOu
PECEST or FRnVATE INCM
RECEIVEnD n!
RIONIT 5S o0r UOutEIALDS          16.4 /k    15.1        13.1
NICST 20S 0F uD DU4xm             41.5 7ig    41 .4      3.                  ..                      43.1
LCUIST z20 or HUS'IOLUS            6.9 7ki    6.6 7F      6.6 7W            ..                        5.4
LOVES 401 or UOuSEIoLDS           19.0W      18.4 7!     18.7 7ii           ..                       16.4
ESTIVATED A   CSOLT POVERT' IlCOM
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPIA
'ul                                ........
ESTIMA       RELATVE PtVZ    VMCS
LEL CUSS PMt CAPTrA)
RUR                               ..          ..        530.0 I
ESTIMATED POP. BELW ABSOLUTE
POVEm   lNCO  LEVEL CZ)
UUI                                ..         .. -        .
RURAL                                                  ..
.UT AVAILABLE
1r APPUCALE
N o T e s
T The gramp *vares for sea  iudcector are popuUtioo-weighted arithmetic ma&.  Cbera  of couantries
g tbE indicator depends on aYaillity of date and 1s not uniform.
lb  Unles otbeiwnse noted. 'Data for 1960r refer to any year botg.en 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" b-ctuan
1969 and 1971; and datc for "Host Reat  etlmte" betwme  1981 ad 1983.
/c  1976; Id  1977; A  Parenrtag of ocospled dualinge vith pSped vater; /f 19b2; Ig 1980; A  1978; 1i
1979; M3Iscludlg dwrant wc ter. abroad; /k 1963; /I 1968.
JUNE, 1913



-21=                                                
- 21 -                           ~~~~~ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DumMONU oC SOCIAL INDWCATO
dc.bom   do     tim   o staedmi  dti anC           WU id  ditt t_ t  l  lt         dtW Tiw  d  jg tfia.u t
dasimgie of ummme _im  stufda th_ygd .ba' aaaJIntl*ces' mqrdkins b   1_ums. mbema_
w,upatimintin  far b-H4ll lle_uau Oi UmpIspop miu2e -Mldie 1mm No h Asi and ?dlj jd
oftimguui  map    mItartimtiadct. Sie ti mpofwewy.aastmmm.dapub_ ez tiaatlattp  dat ad'uet iunaut
TM   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
dim mm, ad ,dammpinup
AM  (doamd sq.kn.                                            CmsANAvAWa  (pr AsneeaJ-Number oflive births   the year
r_rod-Touul madhos amwmpurnng land mu and miami wam          per tasandd of mid-year populain 190.1970. ad 1963 dtaL
1960.1970 ad 1913 dam.                                       Cmh D_ Am f(p  rhintn-Nueber of deaths in th year
--u    f quliwtal are ue d temporrily or         Per thoud of mdl.w popm     190. 1970. and 1913 dat
p._u      fareopk                   d kitchen ard.. or to    Graw  epreA  hu-Axemp  umber of daughtrs t wman
lie filow. 1960.970 ad 1962 data                             wil bWui her mosnla rprdctv  peod if sh exei
present ap-4peCib frtiltyraw  suDy fve-yar aveagmes edi
GNP E  CAIA (I--GtNP pr capfetimams at current               in 1960. 197, and 1963.
muart pom. calculted by name cownerion method - Wmed         ___-                                         ne   a
Aek di 1994  mb 198 da                                                     Ar  S              _d m
~ All. (9143 betis)1963 data.barraccpenatw ol Zdavicus underauspinsaof nationzl
ENRGY               M1W         CAMTA-A          appo        fitily planmg program
co_mptn of commial phlm    enm    (co  and _ylg              A       F -L SM (WA'wd inI'-The peru_n-
petr_-. nna Vs ad hydro-. ulew and geothermal els.           MP ofmairied wames orchildbeasif  ag  wh an practicing or
tricity) in kiloems of oil equvalt per capta 1960. 1970. ad  whohfatctn f                          ontmp  
1962 d                                                      of dtchidbearing ag are useemly wans aged 15.49. atoh for
some cou1_P e _a"P  t Pi mrOp   i mesurd ror oter ap
POWLAIOpN AND YflAL SIrAT S                                  groupMP
T. lmMW M-Ihuiftm)-As of July l: 1960 1970.                 FOOOANDMUTAI n
and 1963 drAm
U,hin           (-                          --- _atofj-Ratio of                 _       _       _ fhzqfFWdhWd &'erCp(1MJ1- lND-Indezofper
Mar  g,' 1   (pcaw f sed)--tati, ofurba  to otot capita moda production at aDrood commodities. Production
populanoedizfnt ddimons of urban are as  a~ ffIa omitper-    encludes mada feed and seed for ericulture Food commoditie
ablty ordar among oonia1960.1970. md 1963 du                  cd  primay coeoditim (e.g sugecmw imened of suari
AWWb     Aksd                                                wh ahe edible And contm wariun (eg cofe ad te am
-p_for  m yew 2M-Th projeco or popuation rr 00              excudsd) they comptras came L. root crop. puse od seeds.
made for ac_ econmy s    a  Snrins wkth information on       ve0tablee. fus. m-mL eN an              been  veock. and
toel p_puam  by aP ad m  ferlity nas. morstaty raeL and      ivetck pm     Agpm_ pndouof Onch counr ts baud
intwrma l msrmn a th bar yea 1960 thear prmmas oa ntiolo  av erge prodan prie wseigh. 196165. 1970. and
was  o Pi    at five-es inetal on the bi  t of   riud        1982 datl
ampr  til hde popuato b            sionay.                   Pi.ca,ems4efcdmew( 'vw  190fhrmmJ-Compmz.
Sidon7pop llo.-b4o  in whiha- and sx            il wt mor.    ad frmt calorie oqtiv tn tfoodsupi avallabicoustry
afty m  bas not changd aow a log period. whil  spscift       per apit per dady. Availae    i comp e domesdic produc-
*frt iity    ban -smulsaneously remained at rla    e        tion. im     km export.and Chk       stack. Net supple
(ne rep_oducio   a-I). In such a populatin t  birth nusets  exde amLfd  see mds for m a acuri. quesm mod in
comnt and  pds to the dudea  rm  th ap stucre is alo        rood  _Prceng. and los  in diributo  Requime   w
constant, ad the growth ra  is zn  The stationay populat    esated by FAO basd on physiola neds forenoral actity
sia was estimated on the basis of th proctd    e     of     and helt          g nviomena temperoatu  body weht
d popublaon in th year 2000. uad t  ran of dedlin   fetilit   e andsdibutinofpopulatoLandalowing 10;   ror
gnm to rlannsatn lyaLd                                        at at household klav  16. 1970 and 1962 dati.
Ryedaslmu Mavmru-h tdo tendency for populaidon sow  to      A  Ctpws S      f h       farm pm dp1-Potca_          of
coma   beyond the as tht rephacementleved  fiity has b      percapta et supply of food per day. Net supply offood is define
acbiee  tha is. eve aftr the mA reproductton rw has read    as above Requirements tor All coue esabl    by USDA
uft. The       n  ofa popuation in the year t is mesurd a   provide for iinimum aowancesat 60 grai of total protn per
a ratio atte oima statny popultion to the popuat;i  in      day ad 2 grams af tami   aN  pulsepro_e. Of wbiec 10 -
the yer t. Sie do amumpun that fet ty remains at replac     shoudheani p  - in Thesestandard lower ththorof
meat lvlfomyertr o          1965dat                         75 gras of tot protei and, 23 puam or animal prei a an
k         D                                                 averg for the ward. propoaed by FAO in the Thib  Wd Food
Per sq.ka.-Mdyear popuaion per squa  kilometr (100 bsc-     StPPy. 1961.1970 ad 1962 dat
ut) of toalam  196Q 1970. ad 1963 data.                     Am CaIta hAeefo SW* hAms A    ami  -Ploke in supply
hrjqJ.r  aprcofrwd lAs-Computed as above for agricutural    of fooddeid frmamabdpulin gmsprdar 1961.6.
Ind ony. 1960 1970. and 1962 dam                             1970 an  1977dea.
-           Age S e- (puww_k-Children (0-14 years). wark-   CM/(Mm 14) Dhd Am rhs)-Number of deaths oa
ingap (15Myta).and retired (6S years and ve) as permtp     childre ad 1-4 years pw thousand  duk      c in dt  se ap
of md-er poplado  1961Q 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a Om yea Far mos devloi  counrie dt derived
Apf~euu*R.w (pura)-ami- al growth ratus of  from iabs 1960. 1970 and 19U3 dat.
toa mi     r p l    for 19504  1960-70. ad 1970413.         HEALTH
AV       Gumt Ra w    -               Atl growth mat        L*  zprcry a        h fjampE_.-Number oa yoera na mbt
f urban popuaton fa 195064. 196070 and 197063 daua          inmt wud fiv if prvailg pa os o   otlity for al people



-21 a-
t dt _timodofi wth winto ly     Wthbohi   Uk          AU.mi  Rolo . pi rwy. adswv-Total s_ud. M.
I. 1970 a 1U du9                                     fold in        s uw  divhde by nbrsw  nw of
-  MuMW&m    dim-Numbr oflu                                  t odW  h dieo 
befotereadig -year ofpp  b~maud be blithe la plvu
yar. 1 0  6A M                                          eo
Amo a S* wimw (pm     r'I.Ud  wM&^ Md    Amq  Cot 4pw uhnm  pq                        -ftueuur cam comn.
"Wel-.NuIH    opuk ( USed    fal           nmuhle       p  M ts CM  atg tIai eight pe_m esludem mbu&
acom to  & wow                                 Whomesud       meend _uuy heh
mameatod hal - _     b      _    - - u.k 5 thaI hE piUind  a  a   r,w      Iumm of e_vq
due pauu     Mn -  bn wsu pa ll lb-ala                         upmpm e ~ ~ ~   acuni  n  nyaswa
wleomemMb  - u         k   ame.I                                       In  e-,~~     emaie eblhd iseaYong.h
hauihaMdS                                                   Nko bm ---rauist  y  tb- dn fr or no_ad.m
a    l     w m    *              __                          puof_d  hllbe per tm m m    Um   md  T_
mussumbi*d0dis  wimembWIaomluan I yrn wm feduiO Tn-wa
lha-- bf- de   _ nof                               to 1!        PRt _w  m                      d TV
__ N-d Imsm          P____                                                                        suer.
s-Wm       a -ml  o p  pern   or -*          tt                                                    aw
diepumi may lui_ th_erl*^ couiu umig "                                    _ d   wothmir
_ _     -     _    .~~~~WMUNA   WN             A     WINCI
slalo  uume  or brn   an weamssamiby sur.    pdOiIIIPMm dK -p aihmi * mloiig paIm U..
ft ON_Moodi ml  d_ui g- t___ldu_g
=_W   a           -me Ibyam dmbe Of    dilt  nd _a                     and _ib  li
-:mie an  b-h p1"a19Um  .du  uis
p    ~  ~   ~  ~ u-ftpuietiu     lbnd Ldw     (E I smimnm ubi  aldu PEUiU I
cmi.      y! gbmb                                Ammbb tpli  mni  o      bm a I mIud  hof mm  h
hoUPItu1beb5~b~ni Pal_~med                           made. m  cing pem. 11a    rD. finsm
b *                           _     -    -... ubey a*m           e am   iu     l  0d1913 and_  _     ll  1963 dam.
Aug pihip*   wh-  am a Mrda i hoepcr a. ^  e                                                  ors
_ . . . _o,. m,_ _       g _ amtu mea-
-  pn-L abo
_~p    d  mk _   _  A mider or buiur my or    puin nf_ndpo mwlar
my no be ikmimplm dowie bymo the number pwped        t   13.9  anddm96        M a mm.dW  
aotoeldilb_lUlbrlW_                  __11_ivit rnmupbanm    md.n  bl.tue e
__                        mb). wf *w _  _uu   of mini. mh anio tom  paopuaiu. or_ 1
Auqe Am   Ef Aroma w Emw.uomI wbu. md m-             AmNM D           1d Bl-Raft of papu"a imier I. and
Aemup amber Of "HIGIN perr -  In all rban, and iwa   65 and owm to the washin up popultio (thou apd 1SW).
0cupied                       sy. Dudlaemii
umpNM i mmm  an inWph p F.mM.   MA-                    o=wWdfu mnu unmr4hm("6 m   gA
CsvauualdEupluhlemDiyli Ivnqeausu upeel        Amusting pmui w,pe orhoueali takedby iniorbwA
tap ofwni S mUL , andw   vu  dudllp impapetvey       bold Imme
A1mulwirilo 1W                                       The felIosliudmume an, vuuyappoumaze umamwue of povety
pmwy SA    - M   mob     ..f .. ..i. .taim  M..    hsh, and eheud ha IN,ud withamuderahie mauda.
m a         orseal apis bdm biy hal  pudotap of       u      I    utybe,Ln  afppn-wm
-upedw pbay  1.W Pupioiom  yWhie nmny gam .lu IN  d ee.i-Abolum povurny knowm leve is titbmwlsm  kWve
ouuie piba  ube  Wp he 6.11 yvwL othes do nuo. The    bmiow whh a mu1 ami wtndouiy adequat dial plu emuMta
dI~u   I mumy uaeau n psh    o ad duraton of mbodl    no4bfod iqnqrmuuu is nmot ulordbe
am re~ n te isue wu.for -o countrms iwd uniwual    ,6  ue   e.  ee   Me                  1wm
ehEh.. mpam inafui  p e     100 pun  SiSmm some             ' -    w huWvpovwaiy Inoe leelis oi.dbrd of
puh am bios or abew *A cimiys mmmdwi pammy-chod       mrap pwr copiea pnomal incmm or the cousy Uban leve as
'P                                                   derved rm_ the ma lv wit adpmmmt for higher coKn of
S        ,da ad"   m A    ad                                                        d abaw  lvns in ubn muL
inaaiu? edumba  Sb-   yer  m.  approvd paris  bxm'F  &i   -     absw Ahe.. Jbust ho  Lev (pw.
mazy b-cAm peaim wu nd.momi. or mache tranug  co         uu.umu"N-P ~e -ofpopuldamiseCubnanmirural
*mnia. for yalla  0,orn ml? ymnuofam oNma .    wbo am -*.ook  pooe
b    (prom4 qmwiy)-oaaa  imum.c                   CoupIme Aualb* aPd Dat ODivn.
i_d        orh_yu wh  ods                      co       Mu* and PniuDemm
indepuimly              iuormdspui-   on



- 22 -
u 4 of 6
VUAWA -  DC
Pialmu  23.0 ullinm  (mig-1u4)
0  A r,Lts iUb.M1 (1934)
AMUOL                           ~~~~~~~Aummal kmt Batas CC)
,uL11im~ 13* at                            Cat cmucin pda)
Tmiaa                  cmt pdma)           k__         _     _     _    _                     lwac.
1984          1981   1982   1!93    194    1985bl/  16    19B7   1U88   M119   1990
ams. domtic praIct a/      45,633          1.4    0.5   -1.3    2.0    0.5    2.5    2.4    2.9    3.4    3.5
*iuletmins                7,1%           2.8    7.    -1.0    2.2    4.5       5.3    1.5    1.5    1.4    1.3
bamettw                  22,5M           2.2   -1.1   -1.9    4.1    1.9    1.7    2.7    3.5    4.1    4.7
Savlw                    15,881          0.0    0.7   -0.3   -0.9    1.7    2.5    2.4    2.6    3.4    2.7
(xuudtlm                   2B,073        -1.7    0.5   -0.4   -0.6    1.0    3.8    4.1    2.0    2.4    3.0
Gkasu i   _vjsm            17,255         -0.5   -1.3   -5.9   -4.5   -3.2    2.9    3.9    5.0    4.7    4.4
RI -of GUs                 13,458         0.5  -11.5   -0.7   10.1    8.2    1.7    3.4    3.2    4.2    4.9
Iqu   of an                13.153        -10.8  -15.3   -5.6   -0.4    1.2    5.9    9.8    3.2    3.0    4.5
tow mdan.1 mvia            17,6%         -6.0   -0.6   -1.8    6.5    2.1    2.1    2.0    3.6    4.2    3.3
Gmdsflatw (1984 W9M)          1M.0       35.3   46.5   65.1  100.0  175.0
fthma raws                    152.8       35.0   50.3   92.8  152.8  270.2
gum of (MP at I   prim (z)                   1            mr     w h l 1'rme (C)
(at .w..t                                           (tat const   i)
1960   l970    1975   19B      985      1990            1960-70   9-75   9o   1980-85  1985-0
Das rtic Pdwt c/   1D0.0  1D0.0    100.0  lO0.0   100.0   100.0                 5.9      6.5     4.1      0.5      2.9
A1cu1tu                  22.5   16.1    13.8   11.1    13.9    i:.L                 3.3     2.9      2.0      1.3     2.0
Mubty                   42.2   37.4    44.3   40.5    40.7    35.1                 6.3      8.3      7.5     0.8      3.4
servic_                 29.0   38.1    33.1   35.8    30.0    34.6                 6.9      4.7      4.9     0.1      2.7
osutmi                    67.2   72.8    74.3   t6.7    68.6    67.5                 6.5      6.9     6.3    -0.2       3.0
i_:nu.at             36.5   32.3    33.5   31.1    30.1    3D.9                 4.7      5.5     5.4    -3.4      4.3
SG                 13.9   18.5    20.2   29.7    25.7    23.7                 10.2     6.7      5.2     0.       3.5
gS                 17.5   23.5    28.0   29.5    24.4    22.1                 9.8      6.7      5.0    -6.6      5.2
ntus   al aaizp      32.6   29.6    25.6   28.5    31A        31.5              5.3      6.2     3.2      0.3      3.1
AS Z of Or
90    1970    1975   L90    1395
KC 7ZmU
7IsEff 2ou-sa_            27.9   33.1    36.8   34.0    32.5
Tsai _.0itus              24.1   33.2    37.2   34.6    32.2
Sz~p1us (*) ar deficit  )  3.8   -0.1    -0.4   -0.6    40.3
1960-70 1970-75  1975-8D 1980D5  1985490
Gnwift rate CZ)            6.1    6.7      6.0    0.8      2.8
ow p  cqiia        ate     5.0    5.8      5.1    0.0      2.0
ian                        5.4    4.6      5.6   37.3      6.3
dasI  elasticity           1.7    1.0      1.2  -.3.2      1.8
a/ At i       a prica. DdJ figuw   is mc cucable with dim GP pw capita prem.  xwse tuig te Wold Umk Atlk    _.odo1o.
c  At  2pri; cpts we -Wmmmd at ft                 t ai will Mt add up to taa du. to  1aiuh of tit imlirec tim.
166911                                                                                                            mm rA



- 23 -
ARM I
PEp 5 of 6
nm;uA - UIWL llWE
Edutw    L   Mm: 23.0 -s94)
OW Per Cqda: t8*2,120 1(94)
-' Gn                                          Aumal OMd Iate (I)
uifon Mt at                                       C(at otant Wi)m) ut
indiamto                smuvt prices)                                                        -p_ta
(1984)         1981   1982    V83      1984  1985 bI   1986    1987    I988    1989    1990
10,557          4.5   -9.4      2.5    11.4     8.7     1.7      3.6     3.8     5.0     5.8
Primy c/                    1,90D        -17.5   -2.3    11.3    11.6   -3.0    -0.3    -3.3        8.3     6.0     3.0
N.uafactju.a d.             8,657         U.4   -9.8       0.2    11.3    11.3      2.0     4.9     2.9    4.8      6.3
1Kdi.,dia. UqiortU 12,108                  -12.3  -14.0   -4.7    -1.6       2.5      6.2     8.6    4.1      2.4     4.0
lmd                          670         -15.0  -14.9   -7.1   -25.7   -3.5   -7.9    -6.6          5.3     1.4    U.1
patrola el                  3,645         -9.4     0.3     5.8      7.5  -12.0      9.9    14.2     5.5   -0.3      4.1
lbddniy aid aqe it          2,615        -22.5   -19.2   -24.0   -n.7    16.0       5.8     7.3     3.3     4.2     3.5
Othem                       5,178         -7.3  -18.6      2.4    -0.1      6.7     6.2     8.2     3.6     3.4     3.3
PMs (1984 - 1m)
qi   price i;ue                1OD         1D      107     105     100      96       99     106     113     121     130
'IIt  price ;                  100          95      95      97     100      99      95       95     103     113     122
T1    of tdae ii               1OD         105.3   112.6   108.3   10      97      105     112     110     107     107
(kt oitim Of erduuiime 1uk  CZ)                               Jmrge Amin   em    )
Cat  ent prices)                                          (at c Dutait prices)
1960     1970     1975     1980     1985     1990             1960-70  1970-75  1975-8D  19-85  198540
aODt.                               100.0    100.0    I0.0    18.0    100.0    100.0                 8.1      5.7      2.9     2.7    4.0
Pria   c/                          49.6     29.4    19.5      21.5     16.4     16.3                -      -1.3      4.2     1.6    3.0
_inmfacea d/                       50.4     70.6    80.5      78.5     3.6     83.7                -       8.1      2.3     3.3    4.1
Iq-ta                               IOD1.    10.0    ID.0   1W.O    1OD.0    10D.0                   9.0      7.4      4.0     64      5.0
Fbod                                9.1      7.2      5.5      7.0      4.9      6.1                -       5.0      8.7  -14.1   -0.2
Petrel  e/                          5.4      4.8     12.3     23.6     28.3     24.7                -       8.2      8.7   -0.1      6.5
Mrdviy ii aqd pti                  36.8     33.2    33.9      28.1     23.8     27.5                -       9.4      1.8   -15.0     4.8
Odium                              48.7     54.8    48.3      41.3     43.0     41.7                -       6.0      2.6   -4.2    4.9
aume of   de wih              Sue of Tzrde with         Sue of nude wdi Cap             Sure of Trae with
TIzieaia1 C  mariea C)        Devapivim Ccmatim (2)         iplna Oil bqioter. (Z)    Cmtrafly Plmei ftwV  Cl)
1965   1970    1980    1985 e/ 1965   1970   1980  1985 e. 1965   1970   1980   1985 e/ 1965   1970   1980   1985 e/
DRmw mcru   TM
40.1   53.3    37.4    35.5    17.4   13.6    8.2    8.3   0.4    0.7    8.1    5.9    42.1   32.4   46.3   5.3
Priu"             61.0   70.2     -       -       9.1    8.2    -       -     0.2    0.2    -       -      29.7   214   24.C      -
lNMifm=um        j.0   41.9    25.0      -      23.8   17.2   18.0    -      0.6    1.0    4.0    -       51.6   39.9   53.0     -
1wrts              55.3   66.1    52.8    45.4    16.0   12.7    6.9    6.0   0.1    0.1   10.2   16.1    28.6   21.1   30.1   32.5
of Proyeted ymm at c-mt-  1S94 pre; for itr     ye. boe year pices are tae of die preeding yw.
b/ Pseiiay.
4 S=: 5-8
4  SnlC 3; ie-1udk ihbricata, c.   id elomrici*y.
April 30, 1986



hwm I
-24-                                                    P  6of 6
nMA  - wAUZ OF PABM, E1AL aM  AND Mr
(U3 mlll,u)
Pap1uIati     23.0 uLnim (uig94)
cm Per Cqpit:  15*2,120 (18)
bi;umtw                                                          ktAc ul                            Pjtd
1981     982    1983    l9K4    1985 a/ l986    1987    1988    1989    1990
MAK OF PANE=
zm of  au andeica                   17,157   15,2b4   14,715  15,217  15,781  16,464  1,792  19,323  21,421  23,664
oE *id- Midhudime  fo.b.               10,205   9,923   9,693  10,139  10,557  11,977   13,193  14,655  16,462  18,631
laortm of amdo ad                        18,103  15,868  14,50   14,778  14,984  15,664  16,979  18,723  2),821  23,064
of  :          1ch: Medmdia c.i.f.     14,528  12,751   U,825   11,909  12,108  13,675   14,847  15,458  15,827  16,458
oAret acamt bdaare                         -96    -62         211     439      797     am       813     600      600     (O0
r4it1 if Iwt)                             1,184    -38B    -266        95    -5'8   -400    -40D    -40D   -4a         -400
auSt in reseves                            -238   1,012       55    -534    -209    -400    -413    -20D        20D    -20D0
Tztar'utimA   eer'M bhi                   2,689   1,677   1,622   2,156   2,3(5   2,765   3,178   3,378   3,578   3,778
Of hiCh: G(ld (offal vaution)              78       78      78       78      78      78       78      78       78      78
Fhgerwa -_ a2u   iqmrtI                       1.8      1.3     1.3      1.8     1.9     2.1      2.2     2.2      2.1     2.0
- L DCAPIL AIND Mr
Goa.ndjuna  lIZ                           3,107   2,314   3,710   2,947   3,236
offici;a credits                          712      4n      493      429     775
Itilatmol1                             218     364      292     406     295
Iu                                 218      33D     292      406     295
Bilateml                              494      128     201       24     48D
Private creditors and .ma-wteed         2,395   1,813   3,217   2,518   2,461
3dzm1 debt
Debt  totallaing a1d
disbuse ci                           19,868  2D,016  20,516   20,232  2D,775
Debt svice df
inerie    p qy,e                        4OD8   4,0o6   4,529   5,065   5,251
Lumnt                                 1,987   2,049   1,688   1,837   1,834
:rtLzati                              2,021   1,957   2,841   3,228   3,417
Payaa t  Z eparto                          23.4    26.3    3D.8    33.3    33.3
AheCag  ierest rate m mm loms  (2) e/        12.5    14.0    10.6      9.5      9.5
Ah ge-  muitY of am lans (yeas)              11.7     9.4    10.5      6.3      8.5
a Fkelimy.
bI Ibclde. Vros fQii   "mu  of camarcial baru.
c/  Inludes showt-n debts.
/ Dbt svie e-luxs amrdiaimr and diteet an sort-tm debt wd                     cxadit extmm   by Yugoe1Aa.
1ublic aid pilicly  1gtmtd debts ilry.
1669H                                                                                                      EDU4 1
April 30, 1986



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
As of March 31. 1986
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS 1/
US$ Million
Amount (Less
Loan  Fiscal                                                   Cancellations
No.    Year      Borrower(s)             Purpose           Bank   Undisbursed
Fifty-six loans fully disbursed               2,249.4        -
916     1973  NAFTAGAS               Gas Pipeline              59.4        1.1
1561    1978  Elektroprivreda Bosnia Hydropower                73.0        2.5
1561-1  1984  Elektroprivreda Bosnia Mostar Suppl. Loan        61.0       36.1
1621    1979  Privredna Banka        Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo               Agric/Agroind.          55.0        2.7
1678    1979  Five Road Org.         Highways X               148.0        0.5
1756    1980  Zagrebacka Banka       Croatia Sava Drainage    51.0         6.3
1801    1980  Vojvodjanska Banka     Agric. Credit III         82.3       15.7
1819    1980  Four Road Org.         Highways XI              125.0       0.1
1909   1981  Kosovska Banka
Pristina             Industrial Credit V       50.0       8.1
1910   1981  Privredna Banka
Sarajevo             Industrial Credit V       30.0       0.5
1911   1981  Investiciona Banka
Titograd             Industrial Credit V       20.0        1.2
1912   1981  Stopanska Banka Skopje Industrial Credit V        10.0        0.03
1951    1981  Investbanka            Agr/Agroindustries        87.0       38.3
1977   1981  Pristina Railway Org.  Railways                   31.1       10.9
1993    1981  Kosovska Banka
Pristina             Agric/Agroindustries      90.0       59.7
2039    1982  Stopanska Banka Skopje Agriculture               55.0       25.4
2055    1982  Radna Org. Vodovod     Kosovo Water Supply       23.0       0.4
2132   1982  Privredna Banka
Sarajevo             Industrial Credit VI      33.0        9.8
2133    1982  Stovanska Banka Skopje Industrial Credit VI      33.0       10.9
2136    1982  Privredna Banka
Sarajevo             Agriculture Dev.          23.3       6.7
2161    1982  Privredna Banka        Drainage                  19.5        6.3
Sarajevo
2233    1983  Reg. Work Org. KOMPRED Tuzla Water Supply         6.5        1.4
I/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice
yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
US$ Million
Amount (Less
Loan     Fiscal                                                 Cancellations)
No.     Year     Borrower(s)              Purpose           Bank   Undisbursed
2306     1983 Kosovska Banka
Pristina              Kosovo Regional Devt.    79.0        67.7
2307     1983 Udruzena Beogradaka
Banka                 Serbia Regional Devt.   136.0        99.7
2336     1984 Four Railway Org.       Railways VI               110.0      64.4
2338     1984 Eight Power Org.        Power Transmission III  115.0       112.5
2339     1984 Kosovska Banka
Pristina              Industrial Credit VII    45.0        41.9
2340     1984 Investiciona Banka
Titograd              Industrial Credit VII    25.0        13.9
2410 /1  1984 Vojvodjanska Banka      Fertilizer Sector          90.0      90.0
2467 /2  1985 Investiciona Banka      Montenegro Reg'l Devt.   40.0        40.0
2527     1985 Elek. Boone I
Hercegovine           Visegrad Hydropower      12.5.0     109.1
2568 /1  1985 Privredna Banka
Sarajevo              Bosnia Forestry           35.0       35.0
2595 /3  1985 INA-NAFTAPLIN           First Petroleum Sector   55.0        55.0
2596 /3  1985 NAFTAGAS                First Petroleum Sector   35.0        35.0
2597 /3  1985 Privredna Banka
Sarajevo              First Petroleum Sector    2.5         2.5
Total (less cancellations)                     4,308.0
Of which:  Repaid                            1,096.9
Total Outstanding                              3,211.1
Amount Sold                           9.2
Of Which:  Repaid                   9.2       _
Total now held by the Bank                     3,211.1
Total undisbursed                                         1.011.2
/1 Not yet signed.
;2 The $40 million loan for the Montenegro Regional Development Project
subsequently became effective as of April 15, 1986.
/3 Not yet effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
B. STATEDOT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1986)
Fiscal                                   Type of           Amount in US$ million
Year              Oblipor               Business          Loan      Equity    Totai
1970    International Investment        Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia      Corporation    -            2.0       2.u
1970/   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat      Automotive
1980      S.p.A.                          Industry         12.4       0.6      13.0
1971/   Tovarna Automobilov in          Automotive
1980      Motoriev Maribor (TAM)          Industry
Klockner-Humboldt                                 9.2      0.9       10.1
Deutz A.G. (KED)
1972/   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler      Automotive
1980      Benz A.G.                       Industry         16.3       0.8      17.1
1972/78 Sava Semperit                   Tires              12.5       2.5      15.0
/80
1973    Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira    Pulp and Paper    70.9         -        70.9
1974    Zelezarna Jesenica/ARMCO        Special Steel      10.0       -        10.0
1974    Salonit Anhovo                  Cement Plant       10.0       -        10.0
1975    RMK Zenica                      Steel              50.0      -         50.0
1977    Frikom RO Industrija Smrnzute  Food and Food
Irane/Unilever                  Processing        4.0       2.4       6.4
1977    Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze    Pulp and Paper
Cazin                           Products         15.6       2.6      18.2
19.3    Soko-Mostar                     Hermetic
Compressors       7.0      -          7.0
1980    Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udruzena Banka                Tourism            21.0      -         21.0
1980    Radoje Dakic                    Machinery          18.7      -         18.7
1980    Eight Republican/Provincial    Small-Scale
Banks                           Enterprises      30.2      -         30.2
1982    Igalo                           Physical
Medicine
Center           14.1      -        14.1
1982    Industrija za automobilski      Motor Vehicles
Delovi I Traktori (Ruen Auto   Accessories       10.6      -         10.6
1983    LBZB                            Development
Finance         31.4       -        31.4
1985    INA-Naftaplin                   Chemicals &
Petrochem.      37.8       -        37.8
1985    Sour Energoinvest               Power Trans.
Line            14.3       -        14.3
1985    Iskra                           Telecommun.        24.1      -         24.1
1986    Ljubljanska Banka (LB)          Export Oriented
Projects        67.4       -        67.4
1986    Jugobanka                       Gen. Manufac.      34.7                34.7
Total Gross Commitments                           522.2    11.8       534.0
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                       255.5     5.2       260.7
Total commitments held by IFC                     266.7     6.6       273.3
Total undisbursed held by IFC                      54.0     0.8        54.8



- 28 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Supplemental Proiect Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare
the project.                         41 months
(October 1981-February 1985)
(b)  Project preparation agencies:        Road Organizations of Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Croatia, Serbia and
Slovenia.
Cc) First Bank mission to consider
project                            October 1981
Cd)  Appraisal mission departure:         October 1983
(e)  Negotiations completed               November 1985
(f)  Loan Effectiveness Planned           November 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Effectiveness
Adjustment of the road user charges in line with inflation during
the period from January 10, 1986 to the time of loan effectiveness
(para. 47).



- 29 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(b) Other
(i) Agreement on the methodology for evaluating road sections to be
submitted to the Bank for inclusion in later years of the program
(para. 51).
(ii) The Federal Association of Republican and Provincial Road
Organizations (FARP) will be responsible for project coordination
and the implementation of the road rehabilitation and maintenance
study and training program (para. 52).
(iii) Agreement by the Federal Government to periodically adjust road
user charges (para. 55).



IRRD 17933R
EUROPEAN TFANSPO T NETWORK
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  S 5
67~7
$4-,                                       0  EOkOSS SSdOddkEOSt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MI
4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARL18



_____________________________________________                                                                           _______                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~IBRD   17934R1
-- cJ.. 
A   U S.. TYR I~ A                   d   I........~i'
HIGHWAY~~~~~~~~~ SYTE                                                                     N G A                                                                       
= OlA   lr    R o u    n   e       d    r   a  r        H   i  y       S   r       V       ;       0       l   f      s      S       i  f       ;      =  0      0      0      - i   _  !  A      L     B                                                                                    A     N   I   A-
-,    ,..TnS d,cmss..,     .A*&A  ,,4  A,......,..,...  f_  ;t _.,., .,0   ~    }      
V Irln  NSours  A                                                                                                                                                                                  BU  LGAR.I_A-0_  _ _       *  W   n $  ;; 
+; ts~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *'-0' NV0 T\                                                                                                                                                                              N ts  



