Document of
The World Bank
FL9E LE
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4917-YU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
April 24, 1986
FILE LLrY
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Yugoslav Dinar (Din)
US$1  =  Din 280-~
Din 1      US$0.0036
Din I million  =  US$3,371
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
m = Metre (3.28 feet)
Km  =  Kilometer (0.62 miles)
Kg = Kilogramme (2.2 pounds)
ton  =  Metric tonne (2,205 pounds)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
COI       =      Self Management Community of Interest
CRO      =       Council of Republican and Provincial Road Organizations
CYR       =      Community of Yugoslav Railways
EIB      =       European Investment Bank
FARP      =      Federal Association of Republican and Provincial Road
Organizations
LDR              Less-Developed Region (Republic)
RO       =       Road Organization
RTO       =      Railway Transport Organization
SDK      =       Social Accounting Service
TYH      =       Trans-Yugoslav Highway
vpd       =      Vehicies per day
1/  The Yugoslav Dinar is floating; rate shown is for early ,uly L985.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers:
Four Road Organizations (ROs) in the Socialist Republics of
Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia, and Bosnia-Herzegovina. The Federal
Association of Republican and Provincial Road Organizations (FARP)
would also be a party to the Loan Agreement as coordinator for the
administration of the loan and as executing agency for the techni-
cal assistance component. The loan would be apportioned among the
four borrowers according to an agreed allocation as follows:
Slovenia $25.5 million; Croatia $33.4 million; Serbia $36.5 mil-
lion; and Bosnia-Herzegovina $26.1 million.
Guarantor:
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Amount:
$121.5 million.
Terms:
Amortization in 15 years, including a three-year grace period with
interest at standard variable interest rate.
Project Objectives
and Description:
The proposed project comprises a four-year slice (1986-1989) of the
investment plans of the four participating ROs. The sector project
is aimed at assisting the effective implementation of a number of
programs initiated under previous Bank projects and to extend the
Bank's institution-building efforts throughout the country. The
main objectives are: (i) to continue the long-term strategy to
assist and foster sound, planned development of the highway network
to meet the needs of the economy; and (ii) to consolidate
institution-building efforts with particular reference to invest-
ment and maintenance planning, road user charges, and
inter-Republican coordination. The main emphasis is on upgrading
heavily trafficked sections of the Trans-Yugoslav Highway (TYH),
rehabilitating existing infrastructure, and improving maintenance.
The loan will also finance the preparation of nationwide programs
for road rehabilitation and maintenance, as well as training pro-
grams and equipment for the road organizations.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
l/
Estimated Total Road Expenditures 1986-1989
------- US$ Million -------
Local     Foreign      Total
On-going Investments                                  37.9        25.3        63.2
New Investments                                       246.4      219.4       465.8
Maintenance                                          417.3         --        417.3
Technical Assistance/Training                          0.6         0.5         1.1
Equipment                                               --          1.6        1.6
Administration                                         30.8        --         30.8
Debt Servicing                                         63.5      339.2       402.7
Sub-Total                           796.5       586.0    1,382.5
Contingencies
Physical 2/                                        28.5        24.5        53.0
Price                                             129.7        94.3       224.0
Sub-Total                           158.2       118.8       277.0
TOTAL 3/                            954.7       704.8    1,659.5
Financing Plan
US$ million         Percent
Sources of Funds
Road User Charges (Fuel tax)                        859.5              51.8
Tolls                                                134.0              8.1
Vehicle Registration Fees                             95.4              5.7
Tax on Foreign Vehicles                              122.9              7.4
Communities                                          258.9             15.6
Fund for LDR 4/                                        7.5              0.5
Local Bank Credits                                    30.5              1.8
Foreign Credits                                       29.3              1.8
Bank Loan                                            121.5              7.3
1,659.5            100.0
1/ Total planned expenditures for four participating republics; base costs
at July 1985 prices.
2/ Physical contingencies of 10% included on investments; price contin-
gencies have been estimated assuming international inflation rates of zero
in 1985, 7% in 1986 and 1987, 7.5% in 1988 and 7.7% in 1989, and local
infla- tion rates of 60% in 1985, 30% in 1986 and 25% for each year 1987 to
1989.
3/ Including duties and taxes, estimated at $300 million.
4/ Less-Developed Republics



.i.i.
Blank Participation
The Bank loan would be disbursed against the following items:
US$ million
Total Cost     Bank Loan
TYH Sections lo                                  118.5          47.4
Rehabilitation and Betterment Program            129.0           64.5
By-Passes (Pirot and Bela Palanka)                17.8            7.3
Technical Assistance                               1.1             .7
Equipment                                          1.6            1.6
268.0         121.5
Estimated Disbursements
Fiscal Year                      FY87     FY88      FY89     FY90      FY91
Annual                         14.0     37.0      37.9       28.7      3.9
Cumulative                     14.0     51.0      88.9     117.6    121.5
Benefits and Risks
Road improvements under the project will provide substantial support
for growth in industry and agriculture, for regional development and
national integration, and for export expansion and tourism. Through
the improvement of three key sections of TYH in Slovenia and Croatia,
the economy of much of the country will benefit from reduced conges-
tion currently affecting long distance traffic linking many of
Yugoslavia's main centers of population and economic activity. In
addition, as the major transport route between Europe, the Balkan
area and the Middle East, improvements to TYH will have a
far-reaching impact beyond the borders of Yugoslavia. Road rehabili-
tation schemes and betterment programs financed under the project
will provide substantial benefits to road users on many primary and
regional routes, particularly in Serbia and in the lesser-developed
republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina. The main quantifiable benefits will
be in the form of savings in transport costs accruing to a wide
variety of road users from various sectors of the economy who encom-
pass a wide range of income groups throughout the country. Transport
costs savings on international traffic, the bulk of which partici-
pates in Yugoslavia's foreign trade, will ultimately accrue to
Yugoslavia in other forms, including revenue collected through
transit agreements. Improved maintenance operations to be introduced
under the sector project will provide substantial savings
1/ Including Maribor By-pass.



-iv-
to the Republican Governments, through more cost-effective procedures
and by avoiding the reconstruction of primary and regional roads. In
addition, the ROs will benefit from better investment planning,
improved financial discipline, and stronger inter-Republican coordi-
nation. All sub-projects show acceptable first-year benefits and are
free from any significant risk. Although shortcomings in providing
local funds in a timely manner could delay project implementation,
the investment programs have been closely tailored to available
financial resources and the annual reviews under the project should
mitigate any problems in local funding. Moreover, the agreement of
the Federal Government to index road user charges for inflation and
of the Republican Governments to the investment programs and financ-
ing plans, including the allocation of road user charges to road
expenditures, will minimize the risk of shortfalls in local funds.
Estimated Economic Return:
Average 20 percent for Bank-financed items.
Staff Appraisal Report
Yugoslavia: Highway Sector Project
(Report No. 4917-YU).



YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR                                                1
A.  The Transport System .I..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    I
B.  Recent Trends.   ..................                       2
C.  Sector Policy Issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
D.  Previous Projects  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    6
II. THE ROAD SUB-SECTOR                                                 7
A.  Road Network ....  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    7
B.  Road Transport . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
C.  Administration ....  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    8
D.  Planning and Engineering . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
E.  Investments and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
F.  Construction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
G.  Maintenance  . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .    12
H.    Training   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  13
I.  Traffic Safety . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
m. THE PROJECT                                                         15
A.    Background   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  15
B.  Project Objectives .....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   15
C.  Proposed Road Programs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
D.  Technical Assistance and Training  ... .       .  .  .  .    .   27
E.    Equipment  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  28
F.  Cost Estimates and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
G. Accounting and Audit .32
H. Implementation .32
I. Procurement .33
J.  Disbursements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
K.  Environmental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal mission to
Yugoslavia in October 1983 composed of Roy Knighton (Transport Economist),
J.C. McCombie (Financial Analyst), Witold Sikorski and Bob J. Sisson
(Highway Engineers), and Suzanne Morris (Research Assistant). A
Post-appraisal mission was in the field in February 1985 composed of
Roy Knighton, Erling Andresen (Highway Engineer) and Suzanne Morris.



- ii -
Page
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                          36
A.    General.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  36
B.  Main Benefits and Beneficiaries  . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
C.  Economic Evaluation  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   37
D.  Project Risks  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   38
V. RECOMMENDATIONS                                               40
Annexes
1.  Transport Projects Previously Financed by the Bank . . .  41
2.    Action  Plan.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  47
3.  Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation Studies:
Outline Terms of Reference . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  63
4.  Economic Evaluation  .........  ...  ...  ..   .   69
5.  Project Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . .  76
6. Related Documents and Data Available in the
Project  File   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  78
Charts
Federal Association of Republican and Provincial Road
Organizations: FARP  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  83
IBRD 17933R - Yugoslavia - European Transport Network
IBRD 17934R1 - Yugoslavia - Highway System



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
1.01     Yugoslavia has an extensive and diversified transport system of
which roads and railways are the backbone. The transport network comprises
about 130,000 km of roads, including 48,000 km of primary and main regional
roads, 9,400 km of rail lines, 7 main ports, 15 airports (of which 10 handle
international flights) and a sizeable network of inland waterways, the main
one being the Danube. The road and rail network is administered by indepen-
dent transport authorities in each of the eight republics and provinces which
make up the Yugoslav Federation. Yugoslavia's distinctive geographical
features have determined the shape of its transport infrastructure. The
main centers of population and economic activity are located in the
Sava/Danube Plain which extends in a general northwest to southeast align-
ment and provides the main corridor for road, rail and river transport.
Between the corridor and the Adriatic coast is a mountainous area where
improvements to transport infrastructure are difficult and costly. The
transport network historically has been and continues to be an important
crossroads for European traffic. In addition to linking the major areas of
economic activity within the country and providing an outlet for export com-
modities, the main northwest-southeast road and rail links also serve a
growing demand for international traffic between Western Europe, Greece and
the Middle East. Both road and rail links in the main transport corridor
carry substantial volumes of traffic at capacity levels. Other key routes
serve traffic between Northern and Central Europe and the Mediterranean
coastal areas (Map IBRD 17933R).
1.02     The Yugoslav authorities have long recognized the importance of the
transport sector in the growth of the economy and its importance in achiev-
ing balanced regional development. As a result, there is relatively free
entry into the transport market which functions without any significant pro-
blem. Although fuel for road transport was recently rationed, this restric-
tion was lifted at the end of 1984, when the foreign exchange position began
to ease. During the 1976-80 Plan, the sector accounted for about 15% of
total investment, although it has now declined to about 10% following severe
restrictions in investment funds. However, despite lower growth forecasts,
continued investments are required in the transport sector to alleviate
bottlenecks in the main road and rail networks and to strengthen the exist-
ing infrastructure. Emphasis is being given to improvements of key links in
the primary road network, including many sections of the Trans-Yugoslav
Highway (TYH), where traffic volumes range from 10,000 to 20,000 vehicles



- 2 -
per day. Attention is also paid to completing the primary road network in
the less-developed regions and to establishing routine rehabilitation pro-
grams for the existing network. Such investments are providing the neces-
sary support for the development of the domestic market and help further the
country's own integration and its integration with the rest of Europe. Over
the past 20 years, the Bank has had an active role in developing the trans-
port system through loans for expansion of capacity in highways, railways,
and ports and through assistance in institution building, particularly in
project preparation and in investment planning in roads and railways. Bank
assistance in the sector has provided support for growth in industry and
agriculture, for regional development and for export expansion.
B. Recent Trends
Traffic
1.03     In line with the rapid growth of the economy, both freight and pas-
senger traffic increased at an average annual rate of about 5.5% during the
1970s. Between 1970 and 1980, freight traffic (ton-km) on railways increased
by about 2.6% per year while rail passenger traffic stagnated. In contrast,
road freight traffic increased at 12% per year while road passenger traffic
increased at 8% per year during the same period. As a result, road trans-
port's share of total traffic has increased steadily to about 90% of passesn-
ger traffic and 65% of freight traffic. However, since 1980 Yugoslavia has
experienced a considerable slow-down in the economy, partly due to external
factors such as further increases in oil prices in 1979 and a slump in the
world economy, and partly due to domestic shocks such as high inflation
which has exceeded 50% since 1983. Between 1980 and 1983, total freight
traffic increased by just under 2% per year, rail freight traffic showing a
substantial increase of 3.7% per year, while demand for road freight traff-ic
has remained essentially stagnant. Total passenger traffic has also
increased by about 2% per year during 1980-83 with rail passenger traffic
growing at 3.7% per year while road passenger traffic increased by only 1.5%
per year. The stagnation of both freight and passenger traffic carried by
road and the corresponding increases in rail traffic reflect the shortages
and subsequent rationing of fuel for road transport which were experienced
during the period 1980-83 (para. 1.04). However, data for 1984 indicate
that transport demand has now picked up again, reflecting an improvement in
the economy. Growth has been mainly for freight and passenger traffic by
road, which showed increases of about 5% over 1983. Moreover, fuel ration-
ing was lifted at the end of 1984 and private car traffic is now increasing
for the first time since 1980.
1.04     During the recent 1981-85 mid-term plan, the economy has shown only
a slow improvement. However, the recently revised Bank macro-economic
projections foresee a gradual growth recovery through the remainder of the
1980s with an annual growth rate for the decade as a whole of about 3.5%.
Overall traffic growth during 1981-85 will probably range between 3 and 4%
per year in line with the lower economic growth. During this period, the
position of the railway has improved due to its crucial role as the main
carrier of bulk commodities needed by key industries. In addition, the



- 3 -
rationing of fuel used in road transport from October 1982 through
December 1984 restricted road transport, particularly travel by private
car. These restrictions followed the physical shortages of fuel which were
felt throughout 1982, the aim being to reduce gasoline consumption by 20%
and diesel fuel by some 10 to 15%. In general, current road traffic volumes
on the primary routes are about 10% below 1980 levels, traffic having begun
to pick up by 5 to 10% in 1984 on the primary routes. Now that fuel ration-
ing has been lifted, it is expected that the pent-up demand for road trans-
port will result in road traffic volumes returning to their former level
within the next two years. In line with the expected improvement in the
economy, it is anticipated that road traffic would increase at about 4% per
year through 1990, followed by a lower rate of about 3% in the longer term.
Investments and Financing
1.05     Investments in transport during the 1976-80 plan were estimated at
about 325 billion dinars (US$6.5 billion) in 1982 prices with about 55% for
road infrastructure and 30% for railways. Since 1980, the authorities have
encountered problems in ensuring a satisfactory balance of investment within
the sector and an adequate level of funding for the investment programs.
While under the 1981-85 plan, railways have maintained almost the same level
of investments in real terms as that achieved during 1976-80, investments
and maintenance on primary and regional roads fell to about one-half their
former level because of a shortage of funds. These restrictions on funds
for road infrastructure come at a time when there are still major bottle-
necks in the network and there is an increasing need for modernization,
rehabilitation, and more intensive maintenance of the existing roads and
bridges.
1.06     The issues of sectoral investment priorities and resource alloca-
tions clearly go beyond the confines of the transport sector alone. Such
issues are exacerbated by the general shortage of investment funds and
result in part from the increasing decentralization of planning procedures
in recent years and the difficulty in maintaining an overview of investment
matters for the country as a whole (para. 1.08). As a result of this situ-
ation, a mid-term review of the 1981-85 transport investment plan was under-
taken in 1983 and issues of pricing and fiscal policy were included in the
First Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) to Yugoslavia in the same year.
For the transport sector, this review was prepared in collaboration with the
Federal Committee for Transport and Communications. During the 1981-85
Plan, overall transport investment levels were reduced by about 30%. compared
with 1976-80, and by about 17% compared with the initial draft proposals.
As a comparison, the reduction in investment levels in other sectors of the
economy are averaging about 20% over levels achieved during the 1976-80
Plan. Of the total investment volume of about 225 billion dinars
(US$4.5 billion) in 1982 prices for the transport sector under the 1981-85
Plan, about 50% were for roads and 40% for railways. As part of the commit-
ments under SAL I on pricing and fiscal policy, the authorities agreed to
gradually increase railway tariffs in real terms with the aim of eliminating
compensation payments to the railway enterprises over about a seven-year
period and reducing distortions in transport demand (para. 1.09).



- 4 -
Similarly, with a view to supporting a high-priority program of investments
and maintenance in the highway sector, the authorities also agreed to index
for inflation the road user charge contained in the taxes on fuel and to
allocate the revenue specifically for road expenditures (paras. 2.13 through
2.15). Because of the comprehensive coverage provided by the SAL agreement,
transport pricing issues will continue to be addressed under the proposed
SAL II (FY87) operation. This will provide continuity in the general pric-
ing policy in the transport sector, and the SAL commitment will support
existing and planned covenants in railway and highway projects. In addition,
a countrywide review of transport sector investments will be undertaken by
the Bank during 1986 as part of SAL II. This review will address issues of
resource allocation in the transport sector and will provide a framework for
possible future lending in the sector in Yugoslavia.
1.07     In order to ensure an appropriate level and scope of improvements
in the transport sector, the authorities are pursuing an investment planning
approach under Bank-financed road and railway projects. In line with the
concept of financing time-slices of the republican road investment programs,
initiated under the Tenth Highway Project, the proposed project will further
develop and consolidate the investment planning approach to project prepara-
tion and implementation in the five participating republics. A similar
approach is being followed under the Sixth Railway Project, and the Kosovo
Railway Project. By ensuring, therefore, that the investment programs are
appropriately timed, are covered by appropriate financing plans, and are
within the absorptive capacity of the responsible authorities, project
lending is providing direct support for the structural adjustment process.
C. Sector Policy Issues
1.08     Since the mid-1960s, there has been a gradual transfer of authority
to the republican/provincial transport agencies, thereby increasing the
number of decision-making bodies and making transport planning and coordina-
tion more difficult (para. 1.06). In supporting transport infrastructure
development, the Bank has emphasized the need for improving coordination
between sub-sectors at regional and national levels as well as the need for
developing adequate institutions and an appropriate policy framework. At
the national level, the Bank has encouraged and supported the establishment
or strengthening of important planning and coordinating institutions.
Notable among these are the Federal Committee for Transport and Communica-
tions, which oversees the total transport picture in Yugoslavia, the Council
of Republican and Provincial Roads Organizations (CRO), which deals with
nationwide standardization of engineering and design criteria in the highway
sub-sector as well as other matters such as highway safety, and the Community
of Yugoslav Railways (CYR), which deals with overall issues of the railways.
In order to further improve overall coordination in the highway subsector,
the road organizations (ROs) established a new coordinating body in 1983,
known as the Federal Association of Republican and Provincial Road Organiza-
tions (FARP), which has even broader responsibilities for overall planning
and monitoring of developments related to road infrastructure and road
transport (para. 2.06). The project will support this initiative through an
action program which will be implemented under the project (paras. 3.45 and
3.46).



- 5 -
1.09     In addition to improved coordination at the Federal level,
Bank-assisted transport projects have done much to institutionalize, within
the republican transport agencies, the basic administrative functions of
planning, project preparation, and implementation. Through the provision of
appropriate on-the-job training, early highway projects focussed primarily
on establishing a sound capability for the economic and technical aspects of
project preparation while later projects introduced planning and design
capabilities for modern multi-lane, controlled access highways with grade
separations and interchanges (para. 2.08). These projects also strengthened
the institutional framework in terms of vehicle weight control, maintenance
practices, and improved road safety. More recently, in both the road and
rail sub-sectors, an overall investment planning approach has been intro-
duced which incorporates annual reviews and updating of investment plans on
a continuing basis (para. 2.09). Since the mid-1970s, Bank-financed pro-
jects have also paid attention to pricing and fiscal aspects in the trans-
port sector such as road user charges, railway costing and tariff matters,
and port charges. The Bank has sponsored two major studies--a Rail Cost
Study and a Road User Charges Study--with the aim of fostering intermodal
efficiency as well as a more economic utilization of transport facilities.
A rail costing system, based on the findings of the study, is currently
being introduced on a trial basis in one Railway Transport Organization
(RTO). At the same time, the on-going Sixth Railway Project provides for a
detailed program of rail tariff increases designed to eliminate compensation
payments to the railway enterprises over a seven-year period (para. 1.06).
In the highway sector, the findings of the road user charges study are cur-
rently being employed by the Government in establishing appropriate funding
levels for the road investment and maintenance programs. An action program
providing for specific adjustments in road user charges and the allocation
of road user revenue is included under the project, and general guidelines
for adjustments to these charges are provided for under the SAL I operation
(paras 2.15, 3.09 and 3.40). A third study, covering the operation of Toll
Systems on TYH, was financed under the Eleventh Highway Project and provides
guidelines for the establishment of toll facilities and for the setting of
toll rates. This innovative study has been reviewed and approved by the
Bank and the guidelines are being implemented by the ROs. In the ports
subsector, a tariff study was financed under the Port of Bar project and is
currently being completed (para. 1.13).
1.10     Because of the concern of the ROs to meet the increasing needs for
reasonable maintenance and regular rehabilitation of existing infrastruc-
ture, preliminary studies were conducted under SAL I on the adequacy of road
maintenance and rehabilitation activities (para. 1.06). The project will
continue with further detailed work in this area in order to establish
improved information, accounting and programming systems for road mainte-
nance and rehabilitation programs and to improve the cost-effectiveness of
road maintenance activities (para. 2.17 and 3.34). Together with improved
road maintenance operations, the main policy focus of the project is to fur-
ther strengthen investment planning and introduce financial discipline to
the highway subsector, at a time when there is a severe shortage of funds
and a need for improved overall coordination of resource use in the highway
sector.



- 6 -
D. Previous Projects
1.11     The Bank has made 22 loans for the Yugoslav transport sector, total-
ling US$1,227.6 million equivalent (Annex 1). These include eleven loans to
the highway subsector totalling US$628.9 million. An additional loan of
US$21 million was made for rehabilitation following the 1979 earthquake in
Montenegro. The main emphasis in highways has been on improvements of key
links in the primary road network, including many sections of TYH, the
country's principal transport artery. The Completion Reports for the
Seventh, Eighth and Ninth Highway Projects indicated that the projects were
relatively problem-free and completed according to schedule. They also high-
lighted the fact that Bank lending has enabled the Yugoslav authorities to
develop sound planning and project preparation capabilities in the road
sub-sector. Recently, through the Tenth Highway Project, highway lending in
the less-developed regions has been within a sector type of lending, an
approach which has provided greater flexibility in adjusting to the current
lower level of expenditures on roads. The subsequent Eleventh Highway Pro-
ject focussed entirely on improvements to TYH in Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia
and Vojvodina. The sector project would include four republics (Slovenia,
Croatia, Serbia, and Bosnia-Herzegovina) and would extend the sector lending
approach to all areas of the country. The project would continue to focus
on eliminating bottlenecks on TYH while at the same time providing assis-
tance in strengthening the existing network and completing the primary
network in some less-developed areas. The Bank is also participating in
improvements and maintenance of local roads as part of the Kosovo Regional
Development Project and the Montenegro Regional Development Project. A
combined Completion Report is currently being prepared for the Tenth and
Eleventh Highway Projects which covered the country as a whole, thereby pro-
viding an overview of developments in the highway sector during the past six
years.
1.12     Seven loans totalling $491.2 million have been made for the railway
subsector; six of these were for investment in modernization and one loan
was for the construction of the Belgrade-Bar line. An additional loan for
$14 million was made for reconstruction following the 1979 earthquake in
Montenegro.
1.13     In the ports sub-sector, a loan of US$42.4 million was made for the
Port of Bar in Montenegro. This project was nearing completion when the
port was severely damaged by the 1979 earthquake. Rehabilitation has now
been completed with a loan of US$30.1 million. A port tariff study,
financed under the Port of Bar Project, is currently being finalized. A
ports sub-sector survey has also been carried out with the Bank's encourage-
ment. The study was conducted by local consultants financed by the Yugoslav
Association of Seaports and has indicated priorities for future port develop-
ment in the country.



- 7 -
II. THE ROAD SUB-SECTOR
A. Road Network
2.01     Yugoslavia's road network comprises some 130,000 km of roads of
which about 48,000 km are primary and regional roads. Because of moun-
tainous terrain in much of the country, often combined with adverse climatic
conditions, improvements and maintenance of the road network, including
numerous bridges and structures, are often difficult and costly. During the
period from 1970 to 1980, the length of the paved network doubled and now
accounts for about 50% of the total network. Modernization of the network
continues to be a major priority for the republics and provinces. In the
more developed areas of the country, the primary focus is on eliminating the
major bottlenecks, particularly on TYH, while in the less-developed areas
the main focus is on upgrading and modernization of the basic primary
network. Maintenance has been generally satisfactory, but has suffered
recently because of budgetary constraints (para. 1.05). As much of the
paved network is still relatively recent, routine rehabilitation programs
have not been a major part of the road investment programs. However,
increasing attention is now being paid to establishing rehabilitation
schemes in order to strengthen and preserve the existing infrastructure. In
addition to providing assistance in the modernization of the primary net-
work, including major bottlenecks on TYH, the project includes an action
plan through which appropriate targets for road rehabilitation and main-
tenance will be achieved.
2.02     The TYH system provides the backbone to Yugoslavia's highway net-
work and is a vital link between Western Europe, the Balkans, and the Middle
East (Map IBRD 17933R). Although some 500 km of the 1,170 km of TYH have
been improved over the past decade or are currently under construction, it
is estimated that a further 360 km could be justified for upgrading to
four-lane standards during the coming decade. Of these sections, at least
120 km can be considered as immediate high priority investments. These
include a start on the critical TYH sections in Slovenia between Ljubljana
and Zagreb and the continuation of improvements in Croatia and Vojvodina
between Zagreb and Belgrade. The European Investment Bank's (EIB) Second
TYH Project, which became effective in 1983, is financing about 40 km of
these high priority sections while the sector project would finance a
further 47 km, mainly adjacent to the EIB sections, with implementation
from 1986 through 1989. An EIB Interim Loan, which became effective in
1984, is also providing financing for an additional 20 km of TYH in Croatia,
and the completion of the last major link in TYH in Serbia between Belgrade
and Nis. Some 240 km of critical TYH sections in Slovenia, Croatia and
Vojvodina would remain for improvement in the medium-term with implemen-
tation during the 1990s (Map IBRD 17934R1).
B. Road Transport
2.03     Road transport has developed rapidly over the past 20 years with
the passenger car fleet increasing at over 20% per year through 1980 while
the number of heavy vehicles has increased at about 9% per year. The total



-8-
vehicle fleet is now estimated at 3.1 million vehicles of which about 802
are passenger cars. Most of the increase in the vehicle fleet has been met
from domestic production. Although private car ownership rose steadily as
per capita income grew, motorization varies widely from one region to
another. For example, Slovenia, the most developed republic, has less than
6 inhabitants per car, while Kosovo, the least developed area, has about 100
inhabitants per car.
2.04     The trucking industry is well developed and highly competitive,
having benefited from a 12% annual growth rate during the 1970s. At pre-
sent, there are about 300 specialized transport enterprises each with about
60 trucks and buses. These enterprises carry about one-half of total road
freight traffic, the remainder being handled by own-account fleets operated
by commercial and industrial enterprises. Despite the recent slump in the
economy, the volume of commodities handled by road traffic has not fallen
significantly since 1980. In effect, the restrictions on fuel have had only
a marginal impact on the trucking industry, with traffic being handled by
slightly fewer movements at higher load factors.
2.05     Vehicle regulations in Yugoslavia are primarily safety-oriented and
focus on speed and load limitations. The maximum permitted axle loadings
are 10 tons on single axle and 16 tons on tandem axles for all primary and
regional roads. As the transport enterprises are well managed, truck over-
loading is not a problem in Yugoslavia. The recent rationing of fuel used
in road transport, which was lifted at the end of 1984 and mainly affected
the use of private cars, was considered to be a temporary measure to help
curb fuel consumption and provide savings in foreign exchange (para. 1.04).
C. Administration
2.06     Over the years, there has been increasing decentralization of the
responsibilities for highway administration which is now located firmly in
the eight Republics and Provinces. However, the Federal Committee for Trans-
port and Communications is responsible for common policy and regulatory
matters such as vehicle regulations and road user taxation, as well as the
international aspects of highway administration and road transport. In
addition, overall coordination is provided by FARP, which has now replaced
the former CRO (Chart 1). While the CRO was responsible mainly for nation-
wide standardization of engineering and design criteria, the responsibilities
of FARP are being broadened to cover overall planning and monitoring of
developments in the highway sector, particularly investment and financial
aspects (para. 1.08).
2.07     The eight Republican and Provincial ROs are responsible for about
40,000 km of roads, representing all primary routes and about 70% of
regional roads. The remainder of the network is administered by local
committees which have special departments for this purpose. The ROs are
established as Self-Management Communities of Interest (COI) and are
governed by representatives of various groups with an interest in roads,



-9-
such as transport companies, industrial enterprises, agricultural coopera-
tives, professional and road user associations. Executive boards comprising
about 40 people are responsible for day-to-day operations and also for the
preparation of highway investment and maintenance programs.
2.08     Through their long association with Bank-financed highway projects,
the ROs have developed adequate capabilities for the preparation and imple-
mentation of projects according to acceptable criteria and procedures. The
overall investment planning approach introduced under the Tenth Highway
Project served to strengthen planning procedures and introduce a more flexi-
ble approach to the selection of sub-projects according to changing needs
and resource availability (para. 2.10). The project would build on this
approach and extend it to all areas of the country.
D. Planning and En&ineering
2.09     Five-Year Highway Plans are prepared by the ROs and are coordinated
with the plans for other sectors by the Republican and Provincial Assemblies.
During the 1970s, there was no difficulty in implementing such plans, but as
financial resources have become scarcer, greater attention must now be given
to the selection of appropriate investments and to maintenance programs.
The current 1981-1985 Plan was subject to a substantial mid-term revision in
order to adjust the program to high rates of inflation and rapid devaluation
of the dinar vis-a-vis the US dollar, a factor which increased foreign debt
service and eroded the revenue of the ROs (para. 2.13). The investment
plans are now being reviewed and updated on an annual basis, taking into
account investment priorities and the availability of financial resources.
As a result, strict economic criteria are applied to all components of the
investment and maintenance programs. The borrowers' highway plans are dis-
cussed in Chapter III.
2.10     In order to strengthen investment planning in the roads sub-sector
and to provide greater flexibility in project implementation, the Bank
financed a Highway Sector Loan (Tenth Highway Project), which focussed on
five republics and provinces, namely Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro,
Macedonia, Vojvodina and Kosovo. Although financing specific sections of
TYH, implementation of the subsequent Eleventh Highway Project has extended
the broader investment planning concept to the republics of Slovenia, Croatia
and Serbia. In this way, the Bank has provided a total overview of develop-
ment in the highway sub-sector since the late 1970s.
2.11     Pre-investment studies of highway projects are generally commis-
sioned by the ROs from local engineering institutes, which are equivalent to
consulting firms. Feasibility studies are, from the Bank experience, satis-
factorily executed. The subsequent engineering design of the projects and
the supervision of their construction are usually carried out, also satis-
factorily, by the ROs, who may enlist the support of competent technical
institutes specialized in civil engineering, geology and soil investiga-
tions. Engineering design is in accordance with the design standards which
are satisfactory. The data used in the preparation of the project and
source material are listed in Annex 6.



- 10 -
E. Investments and Financing
2.12     During the 1976-80 Plan, expenditures on primary and regional roads
reached a total of 125 billion dinars in 1980 prices, or 1.3 billion dinars
(US$4.6 billion) in 1985 prices. About 60% of the total expenditures were
allocated to new investments, mainly for high-priority improvements to TYH
and for the elimination of major bottlenecks in the network. Expenditures
on rehabilitation work amounted to only 8% of total expenditures, equivalent
to about 21 billion dinars annually (US$75 million) in 1985 prices. Based
on an average cost of about $100,000 per kilometer, this would have allowed
for the rehabilitation of about 2% of the primary and regional road network
each year. While under normal circumstances this would represent only about
half the rehabilitation needs, the allocations may have been adequate during
the late 1970s as much of the network was still new at that time. About 11%
of the expenditures during 1976-80 were allocated to routine and periodi,c
maintenance, equivalent to annual allocations of about 30 billion dinars
(US$110 million) in 1985 prices. Average maintenance expenditures were
therefore 750,000 dinars per kilometer (US$2,700) in 1985 prices, which was
probably an adequate level. The remaining 21% of expenditures, about
270 billion dinars (US$960 million) in 1985 prices, were allocated to debt
servicing (15%) and administration (6%). During the subsequent 1981-85
Plan, expenditures on roads fell substantially to only 896 million dinars
(US$3.2 billion) in 1985 prices. When allowance is made for a higher debt
service burden during this period of over 30% of expenditures, actual expen-
ditures on the network have fallen to about half the level achieved during
the previous plan. Very little rehabilitation has been undertaken in recent
years, while maintenance costs have declined by about 30% to about 560,000
dinars per kilometer (US$2,000 in 1985 prices). This situation reflects an
increasing shortage of funds for roads which was felt from 1982 onwards.
2.13     Road expenditures are financed at the Republican and Provincial
levels from earmarked sources which include taxes on fuel, vehicle regis--
tration fees and road tolls, as well as from contributions made available by
community work organizations and through bank credits. The less-developed
areas also receive small amounts from the Federal Fund for Less-Developed
Regions (LDR). Community contributions are derived from the net income of
commercial work organizations. These organizations are required by law to
contribute part of their net income to road expenditures, the percentages
varying from one republic to another depending on specific needs as well as
the priority allocated to the roads sector. In addition, specific contri-
butions may also be made by communes for projects of special local interest.
From the beginning of the 1981-85 Plan, the ability of the road organiza--
tions to fund a reasonable level of investments declined. This situation
has resulted from the fact that community contributions to road expenditures
have decreased and the highway authorities now depend heavily on revenue
from the earmarked contributions, mainly a specific road user charge which
represents about one-third of the tax on fuel. However, in recent years,
the road user charge has not increased in line with the price of fuel nor
with the other taxes on fuel. Revenue from the road user charge has there-
fore failed to keep pace with inflation at a time when the authorities have
had to devote a larger part of available funds to cover the higher debt
service burden from foreign credits following depreciation of the dinar.



- 11 -
2.14     Revenue from the road user charge now represents about 50% of the
total funding for the highway sector. Additional funds from foreign and
local credits provide about 12%, contributions from communities about 15%,
and the remainder from vehicle registration fees, highway tolls and taxes on
foreign vehicles. At the present time, revenue from foreign vehicle entry
permits provides only a small contribution (about US$20 million in 1985) to
road expenditures. However, entry permits are currently restricted because
of congestion on TYH and the level of charges and total revenue from these
sources could increase substantially in the coming years.  The project would
contribute indirectly to an increase in revenues from these sources by eli-
minating some of the major bottlenecks in the TYH system (para. 4.02).
2.15     In order to ease the tight financial situation experienced by the
road organizations in 1981 and 1982, the Federal Government introduced a
major increase in the road user charge on fuel in July 1982.  However, sub-
sequent increases did not keep pace with inflation and the charge levied on
diesel fuel lagged behind that on gasoline. Moreover, despite the earmarked
nature of the additional revenue, the Republican Governments allocated much
of the increase to other sectors of the economy. In this way, the level and
structure of road user taxation became an important focus of the preparation
of SAL I in early 1983. Based on the updated findings of a Bank-financed
Road User Charge Study, it was found that when considered as a whole, taxes
on fuel and vehicle registration fees are set at realistic levels and total
revenue is adequate to cover road maintenance and a substantial part of new
investments. These fees and taxes are in fact set at levels comparable to
those in most Western European countries, or are even higher in the case of
heavy vehicles. The study also confirmed that no change is required in the
structure of road user taxation. In order, therefore, to ensure adequate
revenue for a minimum program of expenditures on road infrastructure, agree-
ment was reached with the Federal Government under SAL I for the periodic
indexing of the road user charge for inflation as well as the specific ear-
marking of the charge for road expenditures alone. These adjustments would
be made at the time of the regular fuel price increases which are necessary
to offset the effects of the depreciation of the Dinar against the US Dollar,
fuel prices generally being comparable to West European levels. As of the
end of 1984, all of the republics had reverted to the earmarking of a sub-
stantial part of the road user charge for road infrastructure. This is
considered to be a significant step in maintaining a reasonable road invest-
ment and maintenance program and as such will do much to ensure timely
implementation of the sector project. In addition, the road user charge was
adjusted in May 1984 by 3 dinars on both gasoline and diesel fuel, providing
about a 50% increase in revenue which was adequate to meet the 1984 pro-
grams. This adjustment was in line with the SAL agreement. A further
adjustment of about 20% was made in August 1985, but this was below what is
required to maintain a minimum program of road investments and maintenance.
In order to provide an adequate financing plan for the 1986 program, a
further adjustment of road user charges was made subsequent to negotiations,
with an additional adjustment to take place before loan effectiveness.
Subsequent adjustments will be made in accordance with project condition-
ality. A specific action program has been developed under the project in
order to provide for a periodic review of the level of road user charges and
for annual reviews of the investment programs and financing plans.



- 12 -
F. Construction
2.16     Road construction and improvement is normally executed by means of
unit-price contracts. As a rule, participation in bidding for
locally-financed projects is limited to the domestic contracting industry,
which is capable and highly competitive, and sufficiently aggressive to
continue winning contract awards outside Yugoslavia. Contracts for
Bank-financed projects, however, are awarded after international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank "Guidelines for Procurement"; such bid-
ding for past highway projects has resulted in the participation as a
joint-venture partner of one foreign contractor only, an indication of the
competitive edge the local industry has on its own ground. Quality of con-
struction work is generally of a high standard.
G. Maintenance
2.17     The ROs are responsible for the maintenance of primary and secon-
dary roads while local authorities and communes are responsible for local
roads. Road maintenance is carried out on the basis of yearly contracts
negotiated between the ROs and specialized road maintenance enterprises. At
the commune level, maintenance is generally carried out by commune work
organizations which include road maintenance units. The maintenance enter-
prises are deployed widely in each republic and province enabling, in
general, prompt and effective maintenance to be carried out. Maintenance on
upgraded sections of TYH is undertaken by toll authorities under the juris-
diction of the ROs. Because of the severity of recent winters, much of the
winter maintenance equipment has been subject to heavy wear and tear and
there is now a need for renewal of high priority items. The project will
provide financing for selected items of equipment.
2.18     Until 1980, the allocations for maintenance were generally adequate,
namely about US$3,000 equivalent per km for primary and secondary roads
ranging from US$14,000 per km for four-lane freeways (over 12,000-vpd), to
US$4,000 per km for primary roads (average traffic 4,500 vpd) and US$1,800
per km for secondary roads (average traffic 1,900 vpd). Average maintenance
expenditures for local roads up to 1980 were about US$1,300 per km. However,
the high inflation since 1980 has reduced the available funds, and alloca-
tions for maintenance have fallen substantially for all types of roads.
Actual expenditures during 1985 on the maintenance of primary and secondary
roads were about US$2,000 equivalent per km. Current proposals call for
increases in maintenance allocations with targets set at about $3,500 per km
for 1989 (July 1985 prices). In view of the present restrictions on funds,
which come at a time when much of the network requires routine rehabilita-
tion programs and improved levels of maintenance, the ROs have agreed to
prepare sound programs of maintenance and rehabilitation for roads and
bridges for the 1986-1990 Highway Development Plan. The preparation of
these programs is included in the project (para. 3.34).



- 13 -
H. Traning
2.19     Yugoslavia is a country with well-developed educational and voca-
tional training institutions. The highway sector is staffed with competent
professionals and technicians. There is, however, need to constantly update
the knowledge and skills of engineers and managers, particularly in special-
ized fields, and to provide economists with training in transport topics and
in the preparation of feasibility studies. Once trained,. Yugoslav personnel
put their skills to effective use, and adapt their system to appropriate
technologies and methods of analysis.
2.20     The Fifth Highway Project was the first to incorporate a training
element and this provision has also been included in later projects. In the
Fifth Highway Project, training was of two kinds: (i) short-term (up to
four months) fellowships and seminars abroad for engineers and economists;
and (ii) on-the-job counterpart training through consultants in the prepara-
tion of feasibility studies. In the Sixth Highway Project, training
included: (i) further fellowships abroad; and (ii) seminars and courses in
Yugoslavia including an innovative EDI-type course with simultaneous trans-
lation services in Serbo-Croatian and English languages. The Tenth and
Eleventh Highway Projects also included training components designed to
improve standards of management of the road network and traffic safety. In
October 1981, the CRO, with cooperation from the USA Institute of Transport
Engineers and the Bank, organized a four-day International Highway Safety
Conference attended largely by Yugoslav and foreign professionals. FARP,
which in 1983 took over from CRO coordination of the ROs' common activities,
has recently organized seminars in Yugoslavia as well as overseas study
tours for traffic engineers and for senior executives in highway management
and design. The training programs under the Tenth and Eleventh Highway
Projects extended through the end of 1985. The continuation of programs
beyond 1985 will be carried out with assistance provided under the project.
2.21     The impact of training has been considerable on the highway organi-
zations of Yugoslavia in developing their capabilities in preparing feasibi-
lity studies, traffic analyses, transport costing, and highway development
programs in general. They have acquired an adequate capability for the
preparation of detailed master plans for highway development and of updating
these plans on a regular basis.
L. Traffic Safety
2.22     The number of traffic accidents in Yugoslavia was, and still is,
relatively high, mainly because of rapid growth of the number of vehicles,
the growing number of new drivers, and the increase of foreign tourists and
transit traffic. For example, while the number of vehicles grew between
1960 and 1980 about 16 times, roads with modern pavement increased during
this period only 9 times. The number of new drivers grew in recent years by
about 200,000 a year while the number of motor vehicles entering Yugoslavia
reached 15 million a year.



- 14 -
2.23     During the period 1970 to 1980, the annual average loss of life in
traffic accidents was 4,600 persons, and 58,000 persons were injured. Fatal
accidents peaked to 5,500 in 1977 and 1978 and then lowered to 4,850 in
1980, and to about 4,300 in 1984. The accident rate is particularly acute
on unimproved two-lane sections of TYH. For example, in 1975, on a 94 km
section of TYH between Batocina and Nis, there were 248 accidents, 25 of
which had fatalities. The improvement of TYH to a four-lane divided highway
with controlled access will have some positive effect on reducing the acci-
dent rate, but may increase the severity of each accident. due to higher
travel speeds and a general unfamiliarity by the motoring public, the police
and engineers with the operation of a freeway with interchanges. To assist
the authorities in the transition from two-lane highway to freeway operation
and reduction of accidents, the Tenth and Eleventh Highway Projects included
highway safety programs comprising the following:
(i)    procurement of safety equipment necessary to ensure safe
operation of the facility and also equipment necessary to
carry out accident studies, analysis and monitoring;
(ii)   technical assistance in the areas of accident data collec-
tion, analysis, and in improving design standards; and
(iii)  training of personnel.
The impact of assistance provided in these projects is seen in the decrease
of fatal accidents. The Bank will continue to monitor the situation through
its supervision work.



- 15 -
m. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01     It was originally intended that the project constitute a follow-up
to the first sector loan in Yugoslavia (Tenth Highway Project) with support
for a three-year tranche of the highway master plan of four or five
Republics and Provinces which are also participants in the previous loan.
However, during subsequent discussions with the Federal Government, it was
agreed that priority should also be given to continued improvements on key
sections of TYH. The loan therefore became of primary interest to the
republics of Slovenia, Croatia, and Serbia which were also participants in
the Eleventh Highway Project. However, in view of the reduced levels of
investment in roads during the 1981-85 Plan as well as the continued
interest of the European Investment Bank (EIB) in TYH improvements, the
Federal Government asked that the Bank also give attention to other
high-priority roads and to rehabilitation programs as well as the completion
of the basic network in two of the less-developed republics, namely
Bosnia-Herzegovina and Montenegro. However, Montenegro subsequently
withdrew from the project after negotiations had been completed. An early
decision was taken on specific Bank and EIB participation in the TYH
program, agreement being reached at a July 1982 meeting in Luxembourg which
was attended by Federal Government representation. Following a delay in
negotiating the sector project, this agreement was subsequently modified in
1984 to allow EIB to finance the last high-priority section of TYH in Serbia,
the Bank program in this republic focussing on rehabilitation (paras. 3.25
and 3.26). In this way, the project evolved with relatively broad objec-
tives and provides a logical follow-up to both the Tenth and Eleventh
Highway Projects. As such, in two of the four participating republics,
namely those proposing improvements to TYH sections, the Bank's major
emphasis in the program was relatively clearly defined at the outset, while
in the other republics a program approach was adopted in order to provide
flexibility in the implementation of their betterment and rehabilitation
programs. However, in view of the shortages of funds and the need to improve
control over expenditures on roads, it was decided that an overall invest-
ment planning approach was required in all participating republics. This
approach would improve financial discipline and provide the necessary focus
on such issues as road user charges and cost-effective maintenance
operations.
B. Project Objectives
3.02     The project is directed at maintaining the Bank's presence in the
highway sector in order to promote and assist the effective implementation
of a number of programs initiated under previous projects, and to extend the
Bank's institution-building efforts in the highway sector throughout all
regions of the country. Specifically, the main objectives of the project
are two-fold:
(i)    to continue the long-term strategy to assist and foster
sound, planned development of the highway network to meet
the needs of the economy; and



- 16 -
(ii)   to consolidate institution-building efforts in the sector
with particular reference to investment and maintenance
planning, road user charges, and inter-Republican
coordination.
3.03     The project will support a minimum investment program in roads in
four republics--Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia, and Bosnia-Herzegovina--with
emphasis on upgrading heavily-trafficked sections in the TYH system, on
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and on improved maintenance
activities. In view of the current reduced levels of investment in roads,
the proposed project constitutes, together with EIB's TYH Projects, the bulk
of the planned investments in roads in the participating republics through
1989. The project will eliminate several major bottlenecks in the primary
highway network thereby reducing transport costs and facilitating commodity
and passenger traffic. As such, the project will provide direct support for
general economic development, regional integration and export growth. The
project comprises a time-slice of the road investment program of each Bor-
rower, with the main emphasis on removal of bottlenecks, rehabilitation and
completion of the basic network. In addition to improving connections
between the main centers of population and economic activity within
Yugoslavia, the upgrading of the TYH sections will facilitate international
transit traffic through the country. The TYH system is in fact the major
transport route between Western Europe, the Balkan area and the Middle East.
Moreover, with the accession of Greece to membership of the European Econo-
mic Community, Yugoslavia's importance as a transit country for land-based
traffic has further increased.
3.04     The project will also have an important institution-building
impact. In particular, the project emphasizes an investment planning
approach to highway development and maintenance, and the need for sound
financial planning. In addition, this approach increases the awareness of
the Republican authorities of the need to mobilize adequate funds for
high-priority road investment and maintenance programs, introduces discip-
line and flexibility in the selection of sub-projects, and provides
increased focus on sector policy issues such as road user charges, main-
tenance levels and coordination among the different regions of the country.
By ensuring an appropriate scope and content for the investment and main-
tenance programs, the project will provide direct support for the structural
adjustment process. As part of this approach, the project will finance the
preparation of a nationwide highway and bridge maintenance and rehabilita-
tion program for primary and regional roads. The maintenance program will
include appropriate information, accounting and programming systems for
routine maintenance and rehabilitation activities, and will emphasize the
continuing economic importance of road maintenance. The project will also
finance high-priority items of equipment required for winter maintenance on
upgraded sections of TYH and some items of office equipment for several ROs
in order to strengthen administration and planning of the road network.
Additionally, the project will support, through an action program, a
newly-created central coordinating body which will be responsible for over-
all planning in the highway subsector and monitoring of developments related
to road infrastructure and road transport.  Finally, the project will finance
a training program to support improved planning and implementation of high-
way programs.



- 17 -
C. Proposed Road Programs
3.05     The project has been prepared with the aim of providing better
overall control over total expenditures in the highway subsector and of
ensuring that the program is appropriately timed and meets the needs of the
economy. The proposed project will therefore finance a four-year time-slice
(1986-89) of the road investment and maintenance programs in the four parti-
cipating republics. In consultation with the Republican Government
authorities, each RO has prepared a detailed investment and maintenance
program for the period 1986-89 listing individual project items with base
costs estimated at July 1985 prices. Detailed financing plans have also
been prepared for the same period expressed in current prices.
3.06     During the 1976-80 Plan, total annual expenditures on roads averaged
about US$900 million with a maximum level of about US$1.1 billion being
reached in 1979. Since then, total expenditures have declined steadily while
the share of debt servicing has increased from only 15% of total expenditures
in 1976 to 40% in 1984. Total expenditures on roads are expected to average
about US$600 million annually during the period 1986-90 with debt servicing
continuing to account for up to 40% of the total in some republics. Allow-
ing for debt servicing, therefore, current and planned expenditures on the
road network have declined by about 50% over the levels achieved during the
1976-80 Plan. Of the planned expenditures on roads during 1986-89 for the
country as a whole, the four participating republics would account for over
70% of the total. Investment and maintenance levels in roads in the two
other republics (Macedonia and Montenegro) and two provinces (Vojvodina and
Kosovo) not included in the proposed project would be monitored during the
project by FARP (paras. 1.08 and 2.06). In addition, the four
non-participants would benefit from policy changes under the project which
would be implemented at the Federal level and the results of the road and
bridge maintenance study included in the project.
3.07     The content of the road programs reflects discussions between the
ROs and Bank missions during preparation of the sector project. In develop-
ing the investment and financing plans for the participating republics,
consideration has been given to meeting the minimum requirements for upgrad-
ing, rehabilitation and maintenance of the network, taking into account the
current level of road user revenues and the shortage of funds from other
sources. Although there are broad differences from one republic to another
in the content of the program, reflecting varying needs throughout the
country, the first priority in all republics is to provide adequate funds
for road maintenance and rehabilitation activities. While current levels
are considered to be minimal, it is proposed to gradually improve the levels
of both maintenance and rehabilitation under the project, reaching accept-
able targets by 1988 or 1989, depending on the republic considered. The
estimated needs for maintenance and rehabilitation are currently based on
generalized technical and economic criteria for the road network. These
estimates will be refined and updated based on the findings of the nation-
wide rehabilitation and maintenance study which will be financed under the
project (para. 3.34).



- 18 -
3.08     Considering the available funding levels and the needs of the net-
work, the programs are well balanced and the individual components of the
programs are well-justified (paras. 4.06 through 4.08). Following comple-
tion of on-going projects, the share of new construction projects within the
investment programs will decrease and attention will be given to improved
rehabilitation and maintenance. The main focus of the programs in Slovenia
and Croatia will be on eliminating some of the major bottlenecks in the TYH
system. In Serbia, where the immediate needs for TYH improvements have been
met under former Bank and EIB projects, emphasis is being placed on rehabi-
litation of the existing infrastructure. Similarly, the main focus in the
less-developed republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina is on the rehabilitation of
existing primary routes as well as on the upgrading of gravel roads in the
primary network.
3.09     A financing plan for each republic has been drawn up and sources of
funds have been identified for all planned expenditures. Revenue from the
road user charge contained in fuel prices will provide between 40% and 60%
of the total funds, depending on the republic considered, with an overall
average of about 50%. In developing estimates of road user revenue, it has
been assumed that, in line with commitments under the SAL I operation, the
road user charge would be indexed periodically for inflation and that road
user revenue would be allocated in full to road expenditures (para. 3.40).
Contributions from Republican Communities will provide between 4% and 22% of
the total, depending on specific needs in the different republics, with an
overall average of about 16%. Other sources of funds include vehicle regis-
tration fees, tolls, taxes on foreign vehicles, the fund for LDR and local
bank credits. Of the total foreign exchange cost of ongoing and new invest-
ments, estimated at about US$314 million, at least 80% is expected to be met
from: (a) the Bank loan; (b) on-going loans from EIB for improvements to
TYH; and (c) revenue from entry permits on foreign vehicles. The balance of
the foreign exchange cost, mainly of rehabilitation works, would be covered
by domestic sources.
3.10     Detailed road investment and maintenance plans for each partici-
pating republic as well as targets for rehabilitation and maintenance are
shown in Annex 2. A summary of the road programs and financing plans in
each participating republic and the Bank participation in the programs are
described below:
Slovenia
3.11     The Slovenian RO is responsible for a network consisting of 140 km
of expressways, mainly on the east-west route between Trieste, Ljubljana and
Maribor, 1,030 km of primary roads and 3,700 km of regional roads, of which
870 km are gravel surface. Traffic on 70% of primary roads exceeds
3,000 vpd, while on regional roads the volume of traffic is generally below
1,000 vpd. Pavement on all primary roads and about 65% of regional roads is
over 15 years old, and about one-third is in poor state. This is reflected
in current maintenance expenditures which are relatively high, namely on
average US$3,000 equivalent per km per year, with a planned increase to
US$4,900 (July 1985 prices) by 1989.  In order to maintain satisfactory



- 19 -
service conditions for the road network, the RO should carry out about
250 km of rehabilitation per year. Budgetary constraints allow for only
about 140 km per year until 1987, but it is planned to reach a satisfactory
level of rehabilitation by 1989 (Annex 2).
3.12     The TYH in Slovenia is about 200 km long and carries traffic volumes
in the range of 10,000 to 15,000 vpd. The Ninth Highway Project financed
construction of the Ljubljana Northern Bypass (Celvoska-Dolgi Most) and the
Eleventh Project, the 29 km Ljubljana-Naklo section leading towards the
Austrian border. The construction of this section should have been com-
pleted in 1982, but completion was delayed by more than two years due to
lack of local funds. The investment program continues to emphasize improve-
ments to TYH with priority allocated to the staged improvement of the road
between Ljubljana and Zagreb. Emphasis is also given to the construction of
the Maribor by-pass, a major bottleneck on the main international access
route into Yugoslavia (Map IBRD 17934R1). In collaboration with the
Austrian Government, the Slovenian authorities are also contemplating
construction of a 7.9 km tunnel under the Karawanken Mountain range linking
Slovenia with Austria. The Slovenian part of this project, for which a
separate financing plan is being established, is estimated at about
US$150 million. This pro- ject would link with the Tauern Autobahn and
would serve traffic volumes of about 8,000 vpd by the early 1990s, of which
about 95% would be passenger car traffic. EIB, which would participate in
financing the project, have estimated the ER at about 10%.
3.13     The investment and financing plans in current Dinars for the
Slovenian RO for the period 1986-89, excluding the Karawanken Tunnel, as
well as estimated expenditures in 1985, are shown in Table 3.1:



- 20 -
Table 3.1: Republic of Slovenia
Road Investment Program and Financing Plan
(Dinars million)
Total
1985     1986     1987      1988     1989     86-89
(a) Investment and
Maintenance Program
Investments                   11,500   18,652   24,234   26,932   34,311   104,129
Maintenance                    5,000    7,774   11,122   15,756   19,696    54,348
Administration                   600      953    1,211    1,514    1,892       5,570
Debt Servicing                 4,900    6,467    7,439    9,146   11,590    34,642
Total               22,000   33,846   44,006   53,348   67,489   198,689
Total US$ million              78.6    83.7     91.5      95.3    103.6     374.1
(b) Financing Plan
Road User Charge (Fuel Tax)   9,000   13,508   17,875   23,936   30,217    85,536
Tolls                          2,000    2,690    3,556    4,773    6,002    17,021
Vehicle Registration Fees      3,800    4,797    6,314    8,420   10,577    30,108
Tax on Foreign Vehicles          800      986    1,294    1,738    2,199      6,217
Communities                    4,000    6,130    8,080   10,894   13,665    38,769
Foreign Credits                2,400    5,735    6,887    3,587    4,829    21,038
Total                         22,000   33,846   44,006   53,348   67,489   198,689
Total US$ million              78.6     83.7     91.5      95.3    103.6    374.1
3.14       The Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange component of:
(i) a 12 km section of TYH between Smarje Sap and Visna Gora; (ii) the
6.8 km Maribor by-pass; and (iii) a slice (about 10%) of Slovenia's road
rehabilitation program. The loan participation in the Slovenian program is
shown in Table 3.2:
Table 3.2: Republic of Slovenia
Bank Participation in Road Program
Bank
Dinars million                US$ million         Participation
Roads            Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total    US$ million
Smarje Sap-Visna
Gora (TYH)     9,233    6,155    15,388   17.4    11.6        29.0       11.6
Maribor By-pass  6,155    4,103    10,258   13.2       8.8      22.0        8.8
Rehabilitation   2,518    2,518      5,036    4.5     4.5        9.0        4.5
TOTAL       17,906   12,776    30,682   35.1   24.9         60.0       24.9



- 21 -
3.15     The 12 km Smarje Sap-Visna Gora section of TYH represents the first
stage of improvement of the road between Ljubljana and Zagreb and connects
with the Ljubljana Southern By-Pass, presently financed by EIB under their
Second TYH Loan. The project improvement would involve the construction of
two additional traffic lanes and the reconstruction of the existing two-lane
limited access road. The project includes one grade-separated interchange,
which conforms to the guidelines of the Toll Study (para. 1.09). The 6.8 km
Maribor By-pass is located on a major international route, some 15 km south
of the end of the Austrian Pyhrn Autobahn. In view of the predominance of
transit and through traffic, a four-lane controlled-access alternative was
found to provide the optimum solution.
3.16     The feasibility studies of the Smarje Sap-Visna Gora section and
the Maribor Bypass were reviewed at various stages by Bank project staff.
Several alternatives and amendments were analyzed in connection with the
Maribor Bypass in order to improve traffic flows and increase the economic
return on investment and these were agreed with the Slovenian authorities.
The detailed engineering was carried out by Slovenian civil engineering
institutes and was completed during 1984. Sub-projects for inclusion under
the rehabilitation program would be prepared and submitted to the Bank
according to agreed procedures (para. 3.46).
Croatia
3.17     The RO of Croatia is responsible for 155 km of expressways (TYH),
4,500 km of other primary roads and 9,590 km of regional roads. About 75%
of the primary network supports a traffic density of 3,000 to 7,000 vpd.
Traffic on regional roads is generally in the range of 1,000 to 3,000 vpd.
Half of the road network in both categories is over 15 years old and 25% of
regional roads are gravel surface. A substantial program of rehabilitation,
involving between 300 and 400 km of roads per year, is necessary to preserve
the road network.
3.18     The RO of Croatia has placed high priority on the modernization of
TYH to four-lane expressway standards. The average daily traffic on the TYH
sections in Croatia is between 11,000 and 18,000 vpd, with over one-third
heavy traffic comprised of trucks, truck-trailers and buses. Under existing
road conditions, the high proportion of heavy commercial vehicles severely
impedes the smooth flow of traffic, lowering operating speeds and increasing
traffic hazards. Bank assistance in financing the TYH improvement began
under the Ninth Highway Project and was pursued under the Eleventh Project.
The Ninth Project section, Ivanja Reka-Popovaca (48.3 km), was completed in
1981, while the section Popovaca-Lipovljani (40 km) was improved under local
and EIB financing. The Eleventh Project section Lipovljani-Okucani (36 km)
extended the modernized highway to about 126 km from Zagreb. The construc-
tion of this last section, which connects at Okucani with the main route to
Bosnia-Herzegovina, was scheduled for completion by end-1982, but due to the
shortage of local funds, was not completed until mid-1985. The next road
section, Okucani-Prvca (7.5 km), is being financed by EIB, while the sector
project would extend TYH improvements a further 28.5 km to Luzani. In addi-
tion, beginning in 1988, EIB has agreed to assist in the construction of



- 22 -
another section of TYH between Luzani and Stupnik (15 km). With the com-
pletion of these works, just over half of TYH in Croatia will be improved
to modern expressway standards (Map IBRD 17934R1).
3.19       Road rehabilitation constitutes the balance of the Croatian road
investment program. This program provides for the rehabilitation of 140 km
of roads during 1986, increasing to 300 km in 1989. The latter would be an
acceptable target and could be expected to halt further deterioration of
the heavily-trafficked roads, provided adequate maintenance is ensured.
Annual expenditures for maintenance, which were adequate until 1980, have
been eroded gradually due to inflation and devaluation, to reach a current
low level of only US$1,400 equivalent per km. However, the RO investment
program for 1986-1989 includes substantial increases in maintenance alloca-
tions, reaching in 1989 about US$4,100 equivalent per km for primary roads
and $2,900 per km (July 1985 prices) for regional roads. This would allow
a satisfactory level of road maintenance (Annex 2).
3.20       The investment and financing plans in current Dinars for the
Croatian RO for the period 1986-89, as well as estimated expenditures for
1985, are shown in Table 3.3:
Table 3.3: Republic of Croatia
Road Investment Program and Financing Plan
(Dinars million)
Total
1985     1986      1987      1988     1989    1986-89
(a) Investment and
Maintenance Program
Investments                   15,600   18,692   24,742   33,587   46,573   123,594
Maintenance                    7,000   14,950   22,815   30,895   38,619   107,279
Administration                   650    1,495    1,901    2,377    2,971         8,744
Debt Servicing                 6,350   10,059   12,489   15,336   19,003    56,887
Total                  29,600   45,196   61,947   82,195  107,166   296,504
Total US$ million             105.7    111.9    128.9    146.8   164.6        552.2
(b) Financing Plan
Road User Charge (Fuel Tax) 16,200   25,612   33,625   45,709  57,894    162,840
Tolls                          1,400    2,854    5,730    7,985  10,398         26,967
Tax on Foreign Vehicles        1,300    2,718    3,701    5,157   6,714         18,290
Communities                    6,000   10,301   13,564   18,379  23,691         65,935
Foreign Credits                4,700    3,711    5,327    4,965   8,469         22,472
Total                  29,600   45,196   61,947   82,195  107,166   296,504
Total US$ million              105.7    111.9    128.9    146.8   164.6         552.2



- 23 -
3.21     In recent years, the Republican Government of Croatia allocated
only part of the revenue from the road user charge to road expenditures,
namely 85% of the revenue from gasoline and 75% of the revenue from diesel.
However, from 1985, the full road user charge revenue from gasoline and
diesel fuel is being allocated to primary and regional roads.
3.22     The Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange component of:
(i) the 28.5 km Prvca-Luzani sections as shown in Table 3.4; and (ii) a
slice (about 10%) of Croatia's road rehabilitation program.
Table 3.4: Republic of Croatia
Bank Participation in Road Program
Bank
Dinars million             US$ million           Participation
Local   Foreign   Total  Local   Foreign   Total   US$ million
Prvca-Luzani   22,111    14,741  36,853   40.5        27.0      67.5       27.0
Rehabilitation  3,150      3,150   6,299    5.7        5.7      11.3        5.7
Total        25,261    17,891  43,152   46.1        32.7      78.8       32.7
3.23     The Prvca-Luzani section includes a 6.5 km sub-section from Prvca
to Novo Gradiska and a 22.5 km section from Novo Gradiska to Luzani. The
6.5 km sub-section is part of a longer 14 km section between Okucani and
Novo Gradiska of which the 7.5 km sub-section is currently being financed by
EIB. The proposed improvement of the Prvca-Luzani sections includes the
reconstruction of the existing two-lane road and the addition of two new
traffic lanes, with interchanges and link roads at Novo Gradiska and Luzani.
In both cases, interchange designs conform with the guidelines established
by the Toll Study (para. 1.09).
3.24     The feasibility studies of the Prvca-Novo Gradiska and Novo
Gradiska-Luzani sections, as well as the preliminary plans and interchange
designs, have been reviewed and found satisfactory. The final engineering
design was completed in March 1984. The schedule of implementation provides
for procurement in early 1986 and construction completion in late 1989.
Sub-projects for inclusion under the rehabilitation program would be prepared
and submitted to the Bank according to agreed procedures (para. 3.46).
Serbia
3.25     The Serbian RO is responsible for the primary road network of
3,360 km which includes 260 km of limited access four-lane TYH and 3,100 km
of primary roads. The 8,580 km regional roads in Serbia are under the
jurisdiction of regional authorities, contrary to other republics and pro-
vinces, where regional roads are the responsibility of ROs. About 60% of
Serbian primary roads have a traffic volumes of over 3,000 vpd. Although
most primary roads are paved, about half of the pavement is over 15 years
old, which necessitates a rehabilitation program of about 150 to 200 km per



- 24 -
year. The investment program shown in Table 3.5 provides sufficient funds
for this purpose. Following the completion in 1985 of the last priority
section of TYH on the route between the Vojvodina Border and Nis, the RO's
priorities for the period 1986-89 are: (i) rehabilitation and betterment
of primary roads, including parts of TYH south of Nis leading towards
Macedonia and Greece; and (ii) construction of by-passes at Pirot and Bela
Palanka on the Nis-Sofia highway (Map IBRD 17934R1). Earlier, investment
proposals had also included major improvements to the Belgrade-Obrenovac
road in the vicinity of Umka on the Sava River, where there are severe
geotechnical problems related to a landslip area. However, this project
was subsequently excluded after a review of detailed feasibility studies.
Maintenance expenditures are planned to increase from a current low of
about US$2,500 per km to about US$6,000 per km (July 1985 prices) in 1989;
these are reasonable levels for the maintenance of the primary network
(Annex 2).
Table 3.5: Republic of Serbia
Road Investment Program and Financing Plan
(Dinars million)
Total
1985     1986      1987      1988     1989    1986-89
(a) Investment and
Maintenance Program
Investments                   15,160   12,145   19,040   27,582   34,000   92,768
Maintenance                    2,990    5,831    9,506   13,309   16,636   45,281
Administration                    90       127      171       214       267       779
Debt Servicing                15,310   22,869   24,691   32,573   41,304  121,437
Total           33,550   40,972   53,408   73,678   92,207  260,265
Total US$ million              119.8    101.4    111.0    131.6    141.6   485.6
(b) Financing Plan
Road User Charge (Fuel Tax) 12,450   21,055   27,685   39,025   49,878  137,643
Tolls                          2,400    4,393    5,838    8,143   10,101   28,475
Tax on Foreign Vehicles        1,900    4,390    5,840    8,218   10,482   28,930
Communities                      200    4,560    6,000    8,196   10,383   29,139
Credits
Local                        3,500    2,393    4,563    4,276    3,934   15,166
Foreign                      7,100    4,181    3,482    5,820    7,429   20,912
Sub-total Credits             10,600    6,574    8,045   10,096   11,363   35,078
Republican Intervention
Fund                        6,000         -         -         -         -         -
TOTAL                  33,550   40,972   53,408   73,678   92,207  260,265
Total US$ million              119.8    101.4    111.0    131.6    141.6  485.6



- 25 -
3.26      In addition to the regular sources of funds for road expenditures,
the Serbian Government has recently allocated funds for the completion of
the 22 km Cuprija-Tekija Section of TYH with EIB financing (para. 3.01).
The Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange component of (i) a slice of
Serbia's priority rehabilitation and betterment program up to the approxi-
mate limit of Dinars 12.7 billion base cost (July 1985 prices); (ii) the
8 km Pirot bypass; and (iii) the 5.5 km Bela Palanka bypass. The proposed
loan participation in the Serbia road program is shown in Table 3.6:
Table 3.6: Republic of Serbia
Proposed Bank Participation in Road Program
Bank
Dinars million             US$ million         Participation
Roads               Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    US$ million
Rehabilitation/
Betterment Program  14,978  14,978   29,955   28.6    28.6    57.1           28.6
Pirot Bypass           3,549   2,366    5,915    5.6       3.8      9.5        3.8
Bela Palanka Bypass   3,110   2,073    5,183    4.9        3.4     8.3         3.4
Total               21,637  19,417   41,053   39.1    35.8    74.8          35.8
3.27      The rehabilitation and betterment program includes the addition of
climbing lanes to short sections of the heavily-trafficked primary routes M5
between Paracin and Zajecar and M22 between Belgrade and Titograd which will
relieve severe traffic congestion in difficult hilly sections. The rehabili-
tation program will also provide for asphalt concrete overlays on two-lane
sections of TYH South of Nis and on key primary routes in central Serbia,
many of which feed into TYH (Map IBRD 17934R1). Engineering design for
those roads in the 1986 and part of the 1987 rehabilitation and betterment
program has been completed. Sub-projects proposed for Bank financing in
subsequent years will be reviewed according to agreed procedures and
criteria (para. 3.46).
3.28      The engineering design of the Pirot and Bela Palanka bypasses calls
for the construction in each case of a new two-lane facility bypassing the
urban area. Detailed studies of the two bypasses resulted in the replace-
ment of three grade-separated interchanges by at-grade intersections with
traffic lights and waiting lanes. One grade-separated interchange was
retained at the western end of the Bela Palanka bypass where the new facility
passes over the Nis-Sofia railway line.
Bosnia-Herzegovina
3.29      The RO of Bosnia-Herzegovina is responsible for 3,650 km of pri-
mary roads and 3,850 km of regional roads. About 23% of the network has
traffic volumes in excess of 3,000 vpd. Primary roads are 92% paved, while
only half of regional roads have modern pavement. About 20% of the pavement



- 26 -
is over 15 years old and requires rehabilitation, some roads need widening,
and traffic on some gravel roads justifies their early upgrading to bitumen
paved standard. Terrain is generally mountainous and the cost of road works
in Bosnia-Herzegovina is about twice the cost in other republics. Neverthe-
less, the RO has recently carried out a rehabilitation and betterment
program of about 100 km of roads per year. The road investment program was
supported in the period 1980-1984 by a loan of US$34.5 million under the
Tenth Highway Project and earlier, in the late 1970s, by the Sixth Highway
Project through construction and improvement of 150 km of roads. The ROs
1986-1989 program is drawn from the highway master plan prepared under the
Tenth Project and will be supported by the project, thus maintaining con-
tinuity in the road rehabilitation and betterment program.
3.30       Annual maintenance expenditures in Bosnia-Herzegovina in the
late 1970s averaged about US$3,500 equivalent per km. However, since 1981,
the budgetary allocations did not keep pace with inflation, and by 1985
expenditures had fallen to about US$2,100 per km. The RO is well aware of
the consequences of insufficient maintenance and has included in the invest-
ment plan a gradual increase in maintenance allocations (Annex 2).
3.31       The investment and financing plans in current Dinars for the
Bosnia-Herzegovina RO for the period 1986-89 as well as estimated expendi-
tures in 1985 are shown in Table 3.7. About 301 of the budget is devoted
to rehabilitation and minor betterment and about 401 to maintenance.
Table 3.7: Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina
Road Investment Program and Financing Plan
(Dinars million)
Total
1985     1986      1987     1988      1989    1985-89
(a) Investment and
Maintenance Program
Investments                   3,000    5,967    8,766   11,004   15,067   40,804
Maintenance                   5,400    8,357   11,122   15,448   19,309   54,236
Administration/Equipment         300      568       799    1,069    1,337    3,773
Debt Servicing                3,300    5,258    6,382    8,909   12,228   32,777
Total                       12,000   20,150   27,069   36,430   47,941   131,590
Total US$ million             42.8      49.9      56.3     65.1      73.6    244.9
(b) Financing Plan
Road User Charge (Fuel Tax)  6,700   11,506   15,413   20,792   27,066   74,777
Vehicle Registration Fees    2,500    3,192    4,309    5,839    7,625   20,965
Tax on Foreign Vehicles       1,700    1,974    2,645    3,552    4,607   12,778
Communities                     600       761    1,019    1,346    1,779    4,905
Fund for LDR                    500       669       862    1,118    1,397    4,046
Credits
Local                           -        99       167      279       445       990
Foreign                          -    1,949    2,654    3,504    5,022   13,129
Sub-total Credits                 -    2,048    2,821    3,783    5,467   14,119
Total                  12,000   20,150   27,069   36,430   47,941   131,590
Total US$ million             42.8      49.9       56.3     65.1      73.6    244.9



- 27 -
3.32       The Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange component of
priority roads selected from the program. The highest priority in the pro-
gram is given to the completion of key components of the highway master plan
which was initiated under the Tenth Highway Project. As such, the main
sub-projects are integral parts of the same routes included under the pre-
vious loan. The first part of the program would include a start on three
roads totalling about 70 km:  Blazuj-Bradina (30.3 km), Baraci-Mliniste
(19.9 km) and B. Kostajnica-B. Dubica (21.8 km).  The Blazuj-Bradina
sub-project would ensure continuity in a planned program of rehabilitation
and improvements to the main route between Sarajevo and the Adriatic Coast
while the other sub-projects involve the upgrading of gravel roads in the
primary network (Map IBRD 17934R1). Bank participation in the
Bosnia-Herzegovina program is shown in Table 3.8.
Table 3.8: Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina
Proposed Bank Participation in Road Program
Bank
Dinars million              US$ million          Participation
Roads           Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    US$ million
Blazuj-Bradina      2,615   2,615   5,230      5.9      5.9    11.8           5.9
Maslovare-Pribinic 2,088   2,088   4,176        3.4     3.4     6.9           3.4
Baraci-Mliniste    1,121   1,121   2,241       2.5      2.5     5.0           2.5
B. Kostajnica-B.
Dubica           1,475   1,475   2,951      3.3      3.3     6.6           3.3
Other sections      6,503   6,503   13,006   10.7    10.7    21.4            10.7
13,802  13,802  27,605   25.8    25.8    51.7            25.8
3.33       Detailed engineering has been completed for the four links shown
above.  Improvements to the Blazuj-Bradina trunk route include rehabilita-
tion of the existing road, minor realignments to improve geometry and avoid
major settlements, as well as the addition of climbing lanes over short,
difficult sections of the route. Each sub-section was analyzed separately
in terms of traffic capacity in order to provide an optimum program of
improvements. Except for minor realignment in an area of hilly terrain on
the Maslovare-Pribinic road, the upgrading of three gravel road sections to
paved standards is planned along the existing road alignments. Sub-projects
proposed for Bank financing in the subsequent years' programs will be
selected according to agreed procedures and criteria (para. 3.46).
D. Technical Assistance and Training
3.34       The project would provide for about 20 man-months of foreign con-
sulting services to assist the ROs in further developing and strengthening
road rehabilitation and maintenance activities and in preparing a bridge
rehabilitation program for primary and regional roads. The studies would be
coordinated by FARP and would be a nationwide effort covering all eight



- 28 -
ROs. The need for improved programming of road maintenance and rehabili-
tation of roads and bridges must be considered in the context of overall
sectoral planning and the restricted funds available for road expenditures
since 1980. These restrictions come at a time when there is an increasing
need to establish systematic rehabilitation programs and improved levels of
maintenance to preserve the existing network. The main aims of the studies,
therefore, will be to strengthen appropriate information, accounting, plan-
ning, and programming systems for routine maintenance and rehabilitation
services and to emphasize the continued economic importance of these activi-
ties. An initial study, based on existing inventory data, was started in
mid-1985 and would be largely completed by mid-1986 in order to provide an
input for the 1986-90 Plan. This study would establish a program of detailed
data collection and would provide the framework for further analysis under a
subsequent phase of more detailed studies. The project would provide retro-
active financing for foreign consultants under the initial study. Terms of
reference have been prepared for the studies (Annex 3) and have been dis-
cussed with FARP and the Federal Committee for Transport and Communications.
At negotiations, the overall scope and content of the terms of reference
were agreed and arrangements for implementation of the studies were
confirmed.
3.35     The project would finance about 65 man-months of foreign training
for the staff of FARP and the ROs, as well as technical staff from Highway
Engineering Institutes and highway maintenance enterprises working in associ-
ation with the ROs. The project would also finance a number of local semi-
nars with a special emphasis on highway maintenance and rehabilitation.
E. Equipment
3.36     The project would provide financing for high-priority winter main-
tenance equipment for use on the Trans-Yugoslav Highway. The project also
includes some items of office equipment for several ROs in order to
strengthen administration and planning of the road network. A list of
equipment and its allocation by borrower are shown in Annex 2, Table 11.
F. Cost Estimates and Financing
3.37     Basic cost estimates for the investment programs have been pre-
pared by the ROs in consultation with competent local consultants based on
recent cost experience with similar works. Cost estimates for all TYH
sections are based on detailed engineering as are the estimates for other
Bank-financed sections included under the first year of the project. These
costs provide a satisfactory basis for estimating the costs of the remainder
of the investment programs. The foreign cost of consulting services is based
on the use of short-term, high-level foreign expertise for the rehabilita-
tion and maintenance studies. The cost of overseas training is based on
man-month rates (US$3,500) including travel and per diem expenses. Equip-
ment costs are based on recent bidding experience for similar types of
equipment.



- 29 -
3.38     A 10% physical contingency has been added to the cost estimates for
road construction. Price contingencies have been estimated assuming local
price increases of 60% in 1985, 30% in 1986, and 25% in each year from 1987
to 1989, and international price increases of zero in 1985, 7% in 1986 and
1987, 7.5% in 1988 and 7.7% in 1989. The foreign exchange component of
civil works has been estimated assuming, as in earlier projects, that local
contractors would win the awards of construction contracts after inter-
national competitive bidding. This component is estimated to have increased
over the past two years from about 30% to the present 40% for major civil
works, reflecting the very rapid depreciation of the dinar exchange rate
which has far exceeded local inflation. For rehabilitation and betterment
works, the higher share of bitumen in work quantities justifies a higher
foreign component of 50%. During negotiations, the project cost estimates
were discussed and confirmed with the Borrowers.



- 30 -
Table 3.11; Cost Estimates and Bank Participation 1986-1989
1/
Dinars million                   US$ million                  Bank
Estimated Cost                  Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total    Participation
US$m
Slovenia
On-going Investments         9,767    6,510   16,277         20.8      13.9     34.7
New Investments             46,491   41,361   87,851        86.4      76.2    162.5           24.9
Maintenance and Other       61,793   32,767   94,561        115.3     61.6    176.9
118,051   80,638  19j,689       222.5    151.7    374.1            24.9
Croatia
On-going Investments         8,426    5,615   14,042         19.6      13.0     32.6
New Investments             59,432   50,122  109,552        106.7     90.1    196.8           32.7
Maintenance and Other    123,411   49,498  172,910          229.3      93.5    322.8
191,269  105,235  296,504       355.6    196.6    552.2            32.7
Serbia
On-going Investments         1,794    1,194    2,988          4.5       3.0       7.5
New Investments             47,228   42,551   89,779         85.7      77.9    163.6          35.8
Maintenance and Other       69,203   98,295  167,497        129.4    185.1    314.5
118,225  142,040  260,265       219.7    265.9    485.6            35.8
Bosnia-Herzegovina
On-going Investments             -         -         -          -         -         -
New Investments             20,402   20,402   40,804         38.0      37.8     75.8           25.8
Maintenance and Other       63,568   27,218   90,786        118.4      50.7    169.1
83,970   47,620  131,590       156.4      88.5    244.9           25.8
Technical Assistance/Training    316         268       584        0.6       0.5       1.1           0.7
Equipment                             -      856       856          -       1.6       1.6           1.6
316    1,124    1,440         0.6       2.1       2.7           2.3
TOTAL              511,831  376,657  888,488        954.7    704.8  1,659.5           121.5
1/  Cost estimates have been developed from July 1985 base costs.  Price contingencies, when basic
costs are expressed in US} equivalent, have been estimated assuming annual price increases of
zero for 1985, 7% for 1986 and 1987, 7.5% for 1988 and 7.7% for 1989; and when expressed in
Dinars, 60% for 1985, 30% for 1986, and 25% for each year from 1987 to 1989.



- 31 -
3.39       The cost estimates and Bank participation in the investment pro-
grams of the four republics are summarized in Table 3.11. The total cost of
the 1986-89 road investment and maintenance programs of the four republics
is estimated at US$1,659.5 million with a foreign exchange component of
US$704.8 million. Investments under the programs are estimated at US$676.2
million with a foreign exchange cost of US$314 million. On-going invest-
ments amount to US$74.8 million and are financed in part by the European
Investment Bank, while new investments are estimated at US$601.4 million.
Road maintenance costs and other planned expenditures, including administra-
tion and debt servicing, are estimated at US$983.3 million. The total cost
of Bank-financed items in the road program for 1986-89 is estimated at
US$268 million, of which US$121.3 million is the foreign exchange com-
ponent. The proposed Bank loan of US$121.5 million, would finance the
foreign component of the Bank-financed roads, the foreign cost of equipment
and technical assistance and 100% of the foreign cost and 80% of the local
cost of training. TYH sections would account for 44% of that portion of the
program in which the Bank will participate, rehabilitation and betterment
48% and the two bypasses 7%, with equipment, technical assistance and train-
ing accounting for the remainder. Table 3.12 summarizes the Bank-financed
program:
Table 3.12: Summary of Bank Participation in Road Programs
Dinars million              US$ million           Bank Loan
Roads               Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   US$ million
TYH Sections -'        37,500  24,999  62,499   71.1    47.4    118.5           47.4
Rehabilitation/
Betterment            34,448  34,448  68,896   64.5    64.5    129.0           64.5
By-passes (Pirot,
B. Palanka)            6,659   4,439  11,098   10.5       7.3      17.8         7.3
Technical Assistance/
Training               316      268     584    0.6      0.5       1.1         0.7
Equipment                   -      856     856       -     1.6       1.6         1.6
78,923   65,010 143,933  146.7   121.3    268.0        121.5
1/ Including Maribor By-Pass
3.40       The proposed Bank loan would cover about 42% of the foreign
exchange cost of new investments under the road programs. The remainder of
the required financing will be met mainly from domestic sources, as shown in
the detailed financing plans provided by each Borrower. The Federal Govern-
ment has agreed to make periodic adjustments to road user charges on both
gasoline and diesel fuel in order to assure adequate financing for road
investment and maintenance programs. The increases in road user charges
will be examined as part of each annual review of the program (para. 3.45).



- 32 -
The investment and financing plans, including the targets for road mainte-
nance and rehabilitation, were discussed and confirmed at negotiations. The
Republican Government authorities have recently approved these plans, and
have agreed to allocate road user revenues to their respective ROs in order
to provide adequate funds for road investments and maintenance. Since these
programs and plans were approved, actual inflation as well as projected
inflation have increased compared to that used in the costs estimates.
However, as the major sources of financing are in effect linked to inflation
(e.g. road user charge, tolls and vehicle registration fees), variable
inflation could at most have only a minor impact on financing of the road
programs. In any event, the Republican Governments would provide additional
resources as necessary to complete the programs.
G. Accounting and Audit
3.41     As a Community of Interest (COI), the form of each RO's accounts,
as with all Yugoslav enterprises, is prescribed by law. Accounting staff of
a typical COI total eight to ten, under a director, and are competent in
well-defined duties.
3.42     The system of accounting and financial work is arranged with due
care for separation of responsibilities for purposes of internal check and
control. A separate account is kept for each investment which is further
subdivided as necessary.  The account records the budgeted sum for the
investment and the total committed (by contracts) as well as expenditures.
All major investments, as those in the proposed Bank project, are required
to be registered with and audited by the Social Accounting Service (SDK) and
sources of funds must be identified and the funds assured before work may
commence. Information registered with SDK includes a detailed analysis of
the estimated cost. A main part of the audit function of SDK is to ensure
that funds are used only for purposes for which they are registered.
3.43     Agreement was reached during appraisal with each of the ROs regard-
ing the form and timing of financial reports to be rendered annually to the
Bank to give information required on project expenditures, financing resour-
ces and Bank loan disbursements. It was agreed also that arrangements would
be made with SDK by each RO for the audit of its annual accounting records
and for the submission to the Bank, within six months after the end of each
financial year, of SDK's audit report together with the annual financial
statements. These arrangements were discussed and confirmed at negotiations.
H. Implementation
3.44     The ROs of the four participating Republics are the Borrowers under
the project and are responsible for executing their respective construction
works. As in earlier projects, where such arrangements proved satisfactory,
supervision of the construction work will be exercised by the Yugoslav
consulting engineers and technical institutes which designed the project
roads. FARP will act as fiscal agent for the project and as liaison on
project-related matters between the Borrowers and the Bank, and will coordi-
nate requests for reimbursement/disbursement from the Bank. FARP will also
be responsible for liaising with the Federal Government on matters related
to road user charges and for overall coordination in the implementation of
the studies as well as for subsequent discussions on the findings of the



- 33 --
studies and the implementation of recommendations. In order to provide
these services, the technical department of FARP will hire a number of pro-
fessional staff on a permanent basis, including a transport economist and a
financial analyst. FARP is already staffed by a secretary (executive head),
a senior highway engineer and a traffic engineer. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that FARP would employ the balance of the professional staff
before loan effectiveness.
3.45     Annex 2 shows a general action plan for the project including:
(i) detailed investment programs and financing plans for each Borrower;
(ii) details of all road sections proposed for Bank-financing on which imple-
mentation would begin during the first year of the program; (iii) list of
equipment; (iv) procedures and criteria for the preparation and submission
of sub-projects for Bank review and approval; (v) proposed targets for rehab-
ilitation and maintenance for each Borrower; (vi) an action program for the
staffing and operation of FARP; and (vii) progress charts to be submitted to
the Bank in July and October of each year. Annex 5 summarizes the schedule
of implementation of the project, which would be completed by December 31,
1989, with the Loan Closing Date on December 31, 1990. The overall action
plan, the implementation schedule, the elements of the first-year program,
and the preparation and submission of programs for subsequent years were
discussed and confirmed during negotiations. Assurances were given that the
action program will be implemented as agreed and that the investment and
financing plans will be updated on an annual basis in consultation with FARP
and will be submitted in preliminary form by April 30 and in the final form
by September 30 for the following year, beginning in 1986. An assurance was
also given by the Federal Government that the road user charge would be
adjusted periodically in line with the undertaking under SAL I.
3.46     Specific road sections to be improved during subsequent years will
be prepared on a continuous basis in time for approval by the Bank and for
inclusion in the annual programs. The procedures and criteria used in the
preparation of sub-projects for inclusion in the investment plans are well
known to all Borrowers and have been followed during the implementation of
previous Bank projects.  Feasibility studies for sub-projects should be
reviewed by FARP prior to submission of summary sheets to the Bank. Such
information will be made available to the Bank by April 30 of each year
together with the preliminary updated investment and financing plans so that
the programs can be firmed up for the following year by September 30. The
criteria for Bank approval of sub-projects are that: (i) the quality of
preparation and analysis must be acceptable to the Bank; (ii) the Economic
Return (ER) of investment is at least equal to 122; and (iii) implementation
would not be started before the optimal year. During negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained that FARP will submit the summary data on individual
project road sections for the Bank's approval, according to the agreed pro-
cedures and criteria (Annex 2), before the ROs call for tenders. Assurances
were also obtained at negotiations that road works will be carried out
according to agreed design standards (Annex 2).
I. Procurement
3.47    Construction contracts based on unit prices will be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement" for all Bank-assisted sub-projects. Contracts will be of



- 34 -
such a size as to encourage the participation of foreign contractors, but
also allowing local firms to bid for one or more sections up to their pre-
qualified capacity. Contractors will be prequalified for the works. To
attract the interest of foreign bidders, embassies in Yugoslavia will receive
the prequalification notice which will be published in "Development Forum"
in November 1985. Bids for the first installment of contracts will be
invited around March 1986 leading to contract awards to the lowest evalu-
ated bidders in June 1986. All bidding and contract documents will be sub-
ject to prior review by the Bank, as has been the case under previous high-
way projects in Yugoslavia. Procurement of equipment will be under Interna-
tional Competitive Bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
3.48     The road maintenance and rehabilitation studies will be undertaken
by local consultants assisted by a limited amount of high-level foreign
expertise. The selection of the consultants will be made by FARP in accor-
dance with the Bank's Guidelines for consultants. An assurance was obtained
from the Borrowers at negotiations that all procurement of Bank-financed
items will be made according to Bank guidelines.
J. Disbursements
3.49     Disbursements under the proposed loan will cover 40% of total costs
of major new civil works and 50% of total costs of rehabilitation and bet-
terment on Bank-financed road sections in each of the four republics, equi-
valent to the foreign component of construction costs (para. 3.38). The
Bank would finance 100% of the foreign costs of both technical assistance
and training and 80% of the cost of local seminars. The project would
finance 100% of the foreign cost of equipment. The proposed loan does not
include any force account construction of road works. The project will pro-
vide retroactive financing for up to US$100,000 from December 1, 1985, for
foreign consultants under the highway maintenance study. To facilitate pay-
ments to contractors and suppliers and to expedite disbursements, a revolv-
ing fund would be established for each of the four Borrowers based on
anticipated four-month expenditures under the project. Additionally, the
use of statements of expenditure would be permitted to finance contracts
valued at less than US$20,000.
3.50     The disbursement schedule has been developed from the implementa-
tion schedule shown in Annex 5 and assumes the project would be effective by
June 30, 1986, and would be completed by December 31, 1989. Disbursements
on loans under the previous Sixth, Seventh, Eighth and Ninth Highway Pro-
jects have averaged only four years, a rapid rate of disbursement compared
to the average profile for 21 transport projects in Yugoslavia, which is
6-1/2 years. These highway projects were not affected by local funding
problems which subsequently slowed disbursements on the Tenth and Eleventh
Highway Projects. However, following the revision of the timetable of these
projects, disbursements proceeded generally in line with the revised imple-
mentation schedule, and covered 4-1/2 to 5 years. Given the time slice
nature of the sector project, including close monitoring by means of the
updating and submission of annual programs, disbursements should closely
follow the planned implementation schedule. On this basis, disbursements
under the project have been forecast over a 4-1/2 year period. The disburse-
ment schedule was discussed and confirmed at negotiations.



- 35 -
Table 3.13: Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year                       Cumulative Disbursements
and End of Quarter                          at End of Quarter
(US$m- Equivalent)
FY87
September 30, 1986                                 2.0
December 31, 1986                                  2.4
March 31, 1987                                     3.6
June 30, 1987                                     14.0
FY88
September 30, 1987                                27.0
December 31, 1987                                 31.0
March 31, 1988                                    36.4
June 30, 1988                                     51.0
FY89
September 30, 1988                                65.3
December 31, 1988                                 69.7
March 31, 1989                                    74.4
June 30, 1989                                     88.9
FY90
September 30, 1989                               102.7
December 31, 1989                                107.1
March 31, 1990                                   115.8
June 30, 1990                                    117.6
FY91
September 30, 1990                               120.8
December 31, 1990                                121.5
K. Environmental xnpact
3.51     There is little habitation along the alignment of the existing road
sections to which two additional lanes will be added. All other sections
involve improvements on existing alignments and there will be little need to
displace homes or agricultural land for right-of-way.
3.52     To the extent that traffic congestion along the project road sec-
tions will be obviated, reduction in noise and air pollution will result.
For the by-passes financed under the project, the diversion of long-distance
through traffic from the existing two-lane urban roads will considerably
reduce noise and air pollution for inhabitants in the urban areas.



- 36 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01     Highway master plans are available for the four participating
republics providing long-term guidelines for the development of the road
network as well as preliminary feasibility analyses for major road sec-
tions. In addition, detailed feasibility studies have been completed for a
substantial part of the road investment programs in the four republics
included in the project. These studies cover all major construction items
as well as part of the routine rehabilitation programs which constitute a
minimum requirement for the more heavily-trafficked routes. The investment
and maintenance programs are considered therefore to be appropriately
balanced and their general economic viability has been confirmed. In
addition, the project is designed to promote a systematic selection of
sub-projects under the later years of the investment plan and to provide for
adequate rehabilitation and maintenance programs.
B. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.02     One of the main aims of the project is to relieve the mounting
traffic congestion on several heavily-trafficked sections of TYH. The TYH
investments under the project will account for about 44% of that portion of
the investment programs in which the Bank will participate. Because of the
inter-regional character of TYH, road improvement will benefit primarily
long distance traffic linking Yugoslavia's main centers of population and
economic activity. In addition, as the major transport route between
Western Europe, the Balkan area and the Middle East, improvements to TYH
will facilitate international transit traffic and thus have a far-reaching
impact beyond the borders of Yugoslavia. Following the recent accession of
Greece to the European Economic Community, the international importance of
TYH has been greatly increased. However, because of traffic congestion,
permits for transit traffic are currently restricted by the Federal Govern-
ment and there is considerable potential for further growth in international
traffic. The main benefits of the TYH program will be in savings in trans-
port costs which will accrue directly to a wide variety of road users from
various sectors of the economy and from a range of income groups throughout
the country. The construction of bypasses will also provide substantial
benefits to urban areas. Because road transport enterprises in Yugoslavia
are highly competitive and well-managed, the transport cost savings would be
passed on to producers and consumers. Similarly, benefits for international
traffic will ultimately accrue to Yugoslavia in the form of revenue collected
through transit traffic agreements authorized by the Federal Government and
partly through the participation of international traffic in Yugoslavia's
foreign trade (para. 2.14). As the bulk of international traffic on TYH
carries the country's exports and imports, the inclusion of transport cost
savings as a surrogate for other more indirect benefits is justified.
Finally, although transport cost savings for pure transit traffic may not be
recuperated entirely through transit fees, this traffic represents less than



- 37 -
5% of total commercial traffic and its exclusion would not affect the
viability of the sections considered. The provision of specialized
maintenance equipment for TYH will ensure adequate traffic service during
periods of severe winter weather and reduce costly delays to traffic.
4.03     The road rehabilitation and betterment programs financed under the
project will provide substantial benefits to road users on many
heavily-trafficked primary and regional routes, linking important urban
centers as well as industrial and agricultural areas. Several of the roads
included in the rehabilitation programs are also part of routes which carry
heavy volumes of international tourist traffic during the summer months.
The upgrading of gravel roads in Bosnia-Herzegovina will close many of the
gaps in the primary road network and help improve integration of
lesser-developed areas with the rest of the country. The main benefits of
the rehabilitation program will be in reduced transport costs which follow
from improved driving surfaces as well as avoided stepped-up maintenance
costs which would otherwise be necessary to maintain existing roads in ser-
viceable condition. Benefits from minor betterment programs, such as the
upgrading of gravel roads and improvements to geometric design and traffic
capacity at clearly-identifiable bottlenecks, will provide respectively
savings in the form of reduced transport and maintenance costs and reduced
traffic congestion.
4.04     As a whole, the Bank-financed road sections under the investment
programs will yield annual savings in foreign exchange of at least US$40 mil-
lion in the form of avoided expenditures on fuel and other vehicle operating
cost items. In addition, taking into account the role of roads in foreign
trade and tourism, improvements to TYH and other key primary routes are
expected to provide even greater contributions to the country's foreign
exchange earnings.
4.05     The project will also contribute in a significant manner to improve-
ments in investment planning, as well as providing attention to such issues
as road user charges, maintenance planning and inter-Republican coordination.
Through implementation of action plans and provision of technical assistance
covering improved rehabilitation and maintenance of the road network through-
out the country, substantial savings will accrue to the Republican authori-
ties in the form of avoided reconstruction of primary roads. These savings
will ultimately benefit the general population by increasing the financial
resources available for other purposes.
C. Economic Evaluation
4.06     In developing the investment programs, all major components were
evaluated by the ROs and projects were ranked, taking into account available
financial resources.   Several alternative solutions were evaluated for
individual components of the plans proposed for Bank financing. These
include such alternatives as reconstructing the existing road, construction
of a road on a new alignment, stage construction of four-lane facilities and
detailed analysis of interchange and intersection designs. ERs have been
estimated for all sub-projects planned for Bank-financing during the first



- 38 -
year of the project, as well as for many items planned in subsequent years.
Project costs are based on substantially completed detailed engineering for
most road sections, and include costs of right-of-way, engineering and
supervision. The ERs are based on estimated savings in vehicle operating
costs, travel time costs and maintenance expenditures, taking into account
ta.-spezari trafftce  evels -and projected traffic growth.  As a result of the
pent-up demand for travel during the recent period of fuel shortages and
subsequent rationing, it can be expected that traffic levels would return to
their 1980/81 levels prior to the earliest opening year (1987) for most
sections under the project. Following the lifting of fuel rationing at the
end of 1984, it is assumed that traffic will continue to increase by about
5% in 1985, followed by 4% per year through 1990, falling again to 3% in the
longer term. These modest rates are in line with the forecast growth of the
economy.
4.07     Specific alternatives analyzed during sub-project preparation and
the economic evaluation of road sections proposed for Bank-financing are
discussed in Annex 4. The TYH sections show ERs ranging from 15% and 18%
with an average of 17%. The other sections show ERs ranging from 14% to
29%, with the highest ERs being found in the rehabilitation of paved roads
and the upgrading of gravel roads in the primary network. All sections
yield acceptable first-year benefits in excess of 10%. The overall ER for
the proposed Bank-financed sub-projects is estimated at about 20%. Even
under pessimistic assumptions such as a 10% increase in costs combined with
a 10% decrease in benefits, almost all sections show acceptable ERs above
12% with the exception of the Pirot and Bela Palanka bypasses in Serbia. As
implementation of these projects is not planned before 1988, their viability
would be reviewed again at a later date based on updated costs and benefits.
4.08     Under the sector project, the Bank will be participating in about
45% of planned new investments (excluding maintenance) during the period
1986-89. About one-quarter of the total investments in Slovenia, Croatia
and Serbia are accounted for by on-going projects, primarily EIB loans for
TYH. Of the total investments planned in the four republics during 1986-89,
Bank- or EIB-financed items as a whole represent over half of the total, the
remainder of the programs being mainly rehabilitation and minor betterment
schemes. A conservative estimate of ERs of the on-going Bank and EIB invest-
ments would be around 20%. Similarly, the rehabilitation components would
provide ERs of at least 20%. In addition, the improved maintenance programs
planned by the ROs under the project will yield substantially higher ERs,
probably on the order of 50%. As maintenance programs account for about
one-third of total expenditures on roads, a conservative estimate of the ER
of the investment and maintenance programs as a whole would be in the range
of 30%. Recent variations in fuel prices do not materially influence the
economics of the project.
D. Project Risks
4.09     The main risk in the implementation of the project relates to the
availability of local funds. Should local funds fall below the program
requirements, there is a risk that the investments might be delayed and
substantial benefits to the economy foregone. However, the programs have



- 39 -
been closely tailored to available financial resources and the annual
reviews under the project of both the investment and financing plans should
mitigate any problems in local funding. In the event that local funds were
restricted, it is expected that the Bank-financed sub-projects would receive
the highest priority thus ensuring their timely completion.



- 40 -
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on various issues
referred to in the report, including the following matters of particular
significance:
(i)      The Federal Government will periodically increase the road
user charge contained in fuel prices, consistent with the
undertaking in the Letter of Development Policy, dated
May 23, 1983, relating to SAL I (Loan 2326-YU) (para. 3.40);
(ii)      The Borrowers accounts will be audited by SDK and submitted
to the Bank with financial statements within six months of
the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.43);
(iii)      The project will be implemented in line with an overall
action plan with the investment programs and financing plans
being updated on an annual basis beginning 1986 (para. 3.45);
(iv)      The staffing and operation of FARP will be in line with the
action plan (para. 3.45); and
(v)      The procedures and criteria for selecting sub-projects in
later years of the project were agreed and the results of
each evaluation will be submitted to the Bank in summary
form (para. 3.46).
5.02     The following will be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
loan:
(i)      Adjustment by the Federal Government of road user charges
from the level in effect at January 10, 1986 (effectiveness
of fuel price increase published in Official Gazette No. 1
of January 10, 1986), to a level in line with the movement
in the producer price index for industrial products at the
date of effectiveness (para. 3.40);
(ii)      Evidence of authorization by Republican authorities approv-
ing the investment programs and financing plans (para. 3.40);
and
(iii)      Employment by FARP of the balance of the staff as defined in
the action plan (para. 3.44).
5.04     Based on the above agreements, the project is suitable for a loan
of US$121.5 million to the Road Organizations of Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia,
and Bosnia-Herzegovina.



- 41 -
AMNEX I
Page 1 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Transport Projects Previously Financed by the Bank
Previous Projects
1.       So far, the Bank has lent US$1,227.6 million in total to the
transport sector, including US$628.9 million for eleven highway projects,
US$491.2 million for seven railway projects, US$42.4 million for the Bar Port
Project, and US$65.1 million for earthquake rehabilitation assistance for
restoring damaged roads, railways, and a port in SR Montenegro.
Highway Projects
2.       The First Highway Project (Loan 344-YU), US$35 million) in 1963
financed the completion of the coastal section of the Adriatic Highway
(422 km) and parts of the Belgrade-Nis road (174 km).  The Second Highway
Project (Loan 485-YU, US$10 million), financed in 1967, was for the improve-
ment of 367 km of roads connecting the Zagreb-Belgrade highway via Sarajevo
and Tuzla with the Adriatic highway. Both projects were completed within the
original cost estimates and agreed time schedules. The Third Highway Project
(Loan 608-YU, US$30 million), financed in 1969, comprised about 120 km of
roads in Croatia, Macedonia and Slovenia, and was completed in August 1974
with a 20-month delay, primarily due to delays in completing an access road,
but which did not impede the operation of the main highway. This project had
an 8% cost overrun because of inflation and foreign exchange adjustments.
The Fourth Highway Project (Loan 678-YU, US$40 million) was financed in 1970
for the construction of about 220 km of roads in Bosnia Herzegovina, Kosovo,
Montenegro, Serbia and Vojvodina. Because of expropriation problems in the
section of Bosnia-Herzegovina, the project was completed in December 1975
with an 18-month delay. There was a 12% cost overrun due to inflation and
foreign exchange adjustments. The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 751-YU,
US$35 million) became effective 8 months late in 1973 due to Government
administrative delays. The project comprised 153 km of roads in Kosovo,
Macedonia and Slovenia, procurement of US$1.7 million worth of engineering
equipment, consultant's services and a staff training component to improve
highway planning and project preparation. The engineering equipment has been
delivered and the consultant's services were completed satisfactorily. The
staff training component was delayed because of difficulties encountered



- 42 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
in securing training of candidates in the head office of foreign consul-
tants and in foreign institutes and because of language problems (insuf-
ficient candidates proficient in English). Consequently, a restricted
program was adopted. Because of the delay in training, the project was
completed by the end of 1977, involving a delay of about 15 months. This
project had an 8% cost overrun because of the combined effect of inflation
and foreign adjustments. The loan for the Sixth Highway Project
(Loan 990-YU, US$30 million) was made in May 1974 and became effective
six weeks later than estimated in December 1974. The project financed
six road sections in Bosnia-Herzegovina, totalling 150 km, the training
of transportation economists and road engineers and US$1.1 million worth
of engineering and laboratory equipment. The loan for the Seventh High-
way Project (Loan 1143-YU, US$40 million) was made in Jtily 1975 and
became effective in March 1976. The project comprised about 90 km of
road construction in Slovenia, Serbia and Montenegro, and US$0.1 million
worth of technical assistance to improve preparation of highway feasibi-
lity studies and to provide a related training program. The project was
completed by the end of 1979. The Eighth Highway Project (Loan 1377-YU,
US$56 million) was made in April 1977 and became effective in September
1977. The project comprised about 130 km of roads in Serbia, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Kosovo, studies by consultants of road user
charges and rail costs and technical assistance for the preparation of a
highway master plan for Kosovo. All road work is completed and the loan
closed March 1981. Both the Seventh and Eighth Highway Projects focused
on improving section of the Trans-Yugoslav Highway (TYH), which was to
become the primary objective of later projects, while at the same time
promoting regional development by improving selected regional roads in
lesser-developed areas. The Ninth Highway Project (Loan 1535-YU,
US$80 million) was made in April 1978 and became effective in August
1978. The project comprised construction of four highly congested
sections of TYH in Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia, totalling about 86 km,
and the procurement of equipment for maintenance and for monitoring
loadings of vehicles using the primary highway network, including TYH.
All road work was completed by January 1982 and the final delivery of
highway maintenance equipment and weighing scales was made in
December 1982. The loan for the Tenth Highway Project (Loan 1678-YU,
US$148 million) was made in April 1979 and became effective in
August 1979. It comprised the first phase (a three-year tranche from
mid-1979 to mid-1982) of the 1979-85 highway sector programs of five
participating Republics and Provinces. Although progress was variable
among the borrowers, most construction contracts suffered delays of one
to two years due to a shortage of local funds. Construction was essen-
tially completed by mid-1984, but the loan closing date was postponed to
June 30, 1985, to allow for completion of the training component and
procurement of equipment. The project also included an updating of the
Road User Charges Study, financed under the Eighth Highway Project.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
The loan for the Eleventh Highway project (Loan 1819-YU, US$125 million)
was made in April 1980 and became effective in August 1980. It comprises
construction of six sections of the Trans-Yugoslav Highway (TYH) with
controlled access facility in four Republics and Provinces, totalling
about 164 km, and the procurement of highway maintenance and road moni-
toring equipment, technical assistance, a highway safety program and the
preparation of a Toll Study. Although execution was delayed by up to two
years because of the shortage of local funds, most construction items
were completed by the revised loan closing date of June 30, 1985. Con-
struction work in Vojvodina was completed during the latter part of 1985
and all disbursements completed. Because of the severe shortage of local
funds, both the Tenth and Eleventh Highway Projects were included under
the Bank's Special Action Program in mid-1983. A combined Completion
Report for the Tenth and Eleventh Highway Projects is now being prepared,
covering the country as a whole and providing an overview of the develop-
ment of the highway sector. Construction work for nine highway projects
has been satisfactorily carried out according to the original schedules.
Delays in execution of works on the last two highway projects reflect
constraints in the overall financial situation in Yugoslavia since 1981.
Port of Bar Project
3.       The Loan (Loan 1060-YU, US$42 million) was made in November 1974
to finance port development and related railway facilities. The loan
became effective on June 13, 1975. All works have been completed and the
loan was closed in December 1981. A draft Completion Report was issued
in June 1985 following completion of earthquake rehabilitation (see
para. 4). The PCR indicated that despite the delays in the development
of traffic following the 1979 earthquake, the project represents a sig-
nificant contribution to the economic development of southern and eastern
Yugoslavia. However, the port is somewhat over-designed for present traf-
fic levels and as a result the ER is marginal.
Earthquake Rehabilitations (Transport Facilities)
4.       The Montenegro Rehabilitation Project for Earthquake Damage,
Roads (Loan 1759-YU, US$21 million) was made in September 1979 and became
effective in December 1979. The project was completed on schedule at the
end of 1982 and the loan has been fully disbursed. The Montenegro Rehabi-
litation Project for Earthquake Damage, Ports (Loan 1768-YU, US$30 mil-
lion) was made in November 1979 and became effective in April 1980.
Civil works were completed in 1983. Procurement of equipment was delayed
with final delivery during mid-1984. An amount of US$15 million was
deleted from the loan and the closing date was extended to June 30, 1984.
The Montenegro Rehabilitation Project for Earthquake Damage, Railways
(Loan 1769-YU, US$ 14 million) was made in November 1979 and became
effective in April 1980. It comprised repair and restoration of railway



44
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
facilities damaged by the earthquake and the expansion of railway yards
at Bar and Titograd. Most of the works have been completed. Delay on
some parts have been due to the fact that much more time than anticipated
has been necessary for design and geological works, while the need for
work under traffic has also hampered progress. The project was completed
by the end of 1984 and a remaining balance of US$4.9 million was cancelled
in May 1985.
Railways
5.       The First Railway Loan was made in 1963 (Loan 316-YU, US$35 mil-
lion) to finance the conversion of the 195 km Sarajevo-Ploce line to
standard gauge, with electric traction and modern signaling and telecom-
munications. The project was substantially completed and put into opera-
tion in 1970, with a delay of four years.
6.       The Second Railway Loan (Loan 395-YU, US$70 million) was made in
1964 to help finance the modernization of 1,509 km of main lines tra-
versing Yugoslavia from the Austrian and Italian borders to the Greek
border. It included electrification, signaling, telecommunications, and
six key marshalling yards. This project ran into major difficulties
because after the 1965 political and economic reforms the railways'
internal funds fell substantially below expectations, but also because of
deficiencies in project planning and preparation which resulted in an
underestimate of quantities and of time needed for completion of such an
extensive project. With hindsight, this was much too ambitious a project
in relation to the railways' resources. The Bank loan was fully dis-
bursed in 1972; the project was refinanced from the Fourth Railway Loan
(paras. 9 and 10 of this Annex) and was completed in 1981 at a total cost
of about US$410 million, over twice the original cost estimate in US$
terms.
7.       The Third Railway Loan made in 1968 (Loan 531-YU, US$50 million)
helped to finance construction of 370 km of the Belgrade-Bar line, with
electrification, signaling and telecommunications for the entire 475-km
line. This was a project of great technical complexity involving the
construction of over 300 tunnels and several major bridges; these civil
works were undertaken satisfactorily by local contractors. Completion
was originally scheduled for 1973 but geotechnical and other construction
difficulties delayed the opening of the line till 1976, and the project
was completed in December 1978. Technical problems and inflation aggra-
vated by delays raised the cost of the project in US dollar terms to
US$422 million.
8.       Because of problems on the second project, the Bank, in agree-
ment with the Yugoslav authorities, undertook a comprehensive study of
the railways with the assistance of consultants. This prepared the
ground for the Fourth Railway Project (Loan 1026-YU, US$93 million),



- 45
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
agreed in 1974, under which the Bank's loan was allocated to the comple-
tion of the 1964 Modernization Program and to "Related Investments"
needed to maximize its benefits, all to be completed by the end of 1976.
However, in contrast with earlier projects which consisted only of invest-
ments to which the Bank loan had been allocated, the fourth project was
defined as the totality of the railways' investments in 1974-76, whose
cost was estimated at US$1,138 million; the Bank loan thus amounted to
about 8% of project cost. Agreement was reached on measures to resolve
the railways' financial problems, principally by tariff increases. An
important feature of the project was the preparation of comprehensive
Action Plans which, given Yugoslavia's decentralized system, were
designed to contribute to a common understanding of objectives and res-
ponsibility by all concerned.
9.       Only about two-thirds of project investments were executed by
the end of 1976; however, they were reasonably balanced to maximize
system effects, and the remainder were included in the 1976-80 Investment
Plan. Execution of Bank-financed "Related Investments" was substantially
better (about three quarters), and the electrification of the main line
traversing Yugoslavia from the Austrian and Italian borders to the Greek
border was completed under the 1964 Modernization Program. Works were
completed satisfactorily in mid-1981 and the loan was closed on
June 30, 1981.
10.      The Fifth Railway Loan (Loan 1534-YU, US$100 million) was made
in April 1978; it became effective in September 1978. The project con-
sists of a three-year (1978-80) portion of the eight railways' investment
plans 1976-80. Its principal objective was to improve further the effi-
ciency and the competitive position of the railways by 1,285 km of track
overhaul or, reconstruction of 93 km of route conversion from single to
double track, electrification of 314 km, equipping of 53 km with modern
signaling, installation of automatic block on 434 km, technical assist-
ance and staff training. Execution of the project was on schedule for
about 90X. Track overhaul and especially reconstruction of some line
sections were delayed due to administrative and financial difficulties,
the latter beginn:ing in 1980. The Bank-financed items of the investment
plans 1976-80 were completed in mid-1982, while the non-Bank financed
projects were completed by the end of 1982. Track maintenance machines
have been delivered. The project period was extended by one year and
closed on June 30, 1983.
11.      The Kosovo Railways Loan (Loan 1977-YU, US$34 million) was made
in May 1981 and became effective in November 1981. The project comprises
the 1981-83 slice of the railways investment plan 1981-85. Its principal
objective is helping improve the operating capacity and efficiency of the
rail network in Kosovo, which is the weakest part in the Yugoslav railway
system.  The mairt components are reconstruction of Kosovo Junction, sig-
naling and telecommunication on the line Lesak-Djeneral Jankovic, procure-
ment of rolling stock and training and technical assistance to improve



- 46 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
management and freight operations. Progress of works on the major parts
of the project suffered delays of seven to nine months for various
reasons. The obstacles have been resolved and final preparations for
execution are completed. Works were to commence in September 1982 and
are scheduled to be completed by the end of 1984. The closing date has
now been extended to December 31, 1985, to permit final disbursements
under the loan.
12.      The Sixth Railway Loan (Loan 2336-YU, US$110 million) was made
in October 1983 and consists of a slice of the 1983-86 core investment
plans of four Railway Transport Organizations (Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Macedonia, Serbia and Vojvodina). The project aims at strengthening the
four RTOs by improving productivity, quality of service, investment and
operational planning, and by putting the railways on a path to financial
viability through tariff revenues. The project includes track overhaul,
procurement of traction and rolling stock, modern signalling and tele-
communications, electrification, integrated transport facilities and
training and technical assistance. The project is now substantially com-
pleted although additional items in the investment programs have recently
been approved for Bank-financing under the loan.



- 47 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Action Plan
Introduction
1.   Under sector lending, the Bank accepts that it is neither possible
nor necessary for each sub-project to be analyzed in detail at
appraisal. Instead, agreement has been reached on an overall invest-
ment program for each Borrower and procedures and criteria have been
established for the periodic updating of these programs during project
implementation, as well as the submission of sub-projects for Bank
review and approval.   This annex describes the overall investment
programs and financing plans agreed with each Borrower, including
details of the first-year action plan, proposed targets for road
rehabilitation and maintenance, requirement for annual adjustments to
road user charges (specific tax on fuel), procedures for sub-project
preparation and review, and a plan for the staffing and operation of
FARP.
Investment Planning and Monitoring
2.   The detailed investment and maintenance programs and supporting
financing plans for each of the four Borrowers are shown in Tables 1
through 4. Each investment plan shows the details of proposed Bank-
financed items, including estimated base costs in July 1985 prices and
the proposed phasing of the works over the project implementation
period. Physical and price contingencies have been estimated in the
usual manner in order to arrive at total needs expressed in current
prices. All items on which implementation would begin in the first 18
months of the program have been subjected to detailed feasibility
studies. Details of the first year program of road rehabilitation in
Serbia are shown separately in Table 5.
3.   The investment and financing plans will be updated on an annual
basis taking into account actual implementation of sub-projects,
detailed cost estimates for proposed new sub-projects, and the availa-
bility of financial resources. The updated plans would be prepared and
submitted to the Bank in preliminary form by April 30 and in final form
by September 30, such as to allow sufficient time for comment and
changes prior to implementation during the subsequent year. Such
detailed reviews will take place during 1986, 1987 and 1988. The
annual reviews will take into account the findings and recommendations
of the highway maintenance and rehabilitation study which are expected
to become available in mid-1986. The individual Borrowers will be
responsible for updating the programs with overall coordination in
terms of methodology and presentation being provided by FARP. In
particular, FARP would be responsible for liaising with the relevant
Federal authorities on the need to adjust road user charges in order to
provide adequate funding levels for the proposed programs.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
4.   In collaboration with the individual Borrowers, FARP will be
responsible for reporting on:
(i)       the status of fuel prices, road user charges and the
allocation of these charges;
(ii)      status of Bank-financed sub-projects in terms of costs
incurred and estimated costs-to-complete;
(iii)     actual expenditures on an annual basis for all road
investment and maintenance items;
(iv)      proposed update of the investment and maintenance
program;
(v)       forecast of financial resources necessary for the
remainder of the project implementation period; and
(vi)      specific adjustments required, such as increases in road
user taxation or additional contributions from the
communities in order to meet planned expenditures during
the subsequent period of program implementation.
5.   A suggested progess chart for reporting progress on Bank-financed
sub-projects is shown in Table 6.   FARP would furnish to the Bank
progress charts in July and October of each year.
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Targets
6.   The agreed investment and maintenance programs are designed to
gradually re-establish maintenance operations to improved levels and to
provide a routine program of rehabilitation for the more heavily
trafficked routes. The programs have been set up based on generalized
technical and traffic data for each of the Borrower's networks (Table
7). Optimum maintenance levels would gradually be reached under the
project with annual expenditures reflecting varying levels of traffic
and ranging from about US$3,000 per kilometer in Bosnia-Herzegovina to US$6,000
per kilometer in Serbia (July 1985 prices). For the rehabilitation
programs, it is assumed that all roads with traffic excess of 3,000 vpd
would be rehabilitated about every ten years or so, beginning with
those roads which are currently in poor condition. The overall targets
are shown in Table 8.
7.   In order to focus attention on the performance of highway
maintenance and rehabilitation, each Borrower will prepare, as part of
the annual plan updates, a report containing information on maintenance
and rehabilitation activities performed in the previous year and on the
activities to be carried out in the year in progress. The data will be
coordinated by FARP, discussed with the Federal Committee for Transport
and Communications, and furnished to the Bank. The report should
include information on:



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
(i)       condition of the network administered by each Borrower
divided by pavement and surface type;
(ii)      average maintenance cost/km in current prices for the
various pavement categories and traffic ranges; and
(iii)     annual data (km, cost/km) for pavement overlays,
surface treatments, routine maintenance, including
maintenance of bridges and drainage structures, and
reshaping and replenishment of gravel roads*
8.   The preparation of the detailed annual maintenance programs will
take into account the findings and recommendations of the road
maintenance and rehabilitation studies. The outline terms of reference
for these studies have been agreed with the Bank.
Road User Charges
9.   FARP would periodically analyze the level and structure of road
user charges in consultation with the road organizations and would make
proposals to the Federal authorities for an adjustment in the charges
at least once every twelve months to provide adequate funds for the
priority programs of road investments and maintenance. Pursuant to the
provisions of the Letter of Development Policy dated May 25, 1983, such
adjustment in the charges would be at least in line with the movement
of the producer price index for industrial products.
Sub-Project Review
10. The procedures and criteria used in the preparation of
sub-projects for inclusion in the investment plans are well known to
all Borrowers and have been followed during the implementation of
previous Bank projects. The economic evaluations should be conducted
at varying levels of detail depending upon project scope and degree of
certainty of project viability. The broad approach to be used in the
economic evaluation is described in Annex 4. FARP would be responsible
for summarizing the technical and economic information in the form of a
basic data sheet which would include information on the rationale of
the proposed works, design standards, alternatives considered, project
costs, the results of the economic evaluation and proposed tendering
schedule. An example basic data sheet is shown in Table 9.
11. The Bank would study the summary evaluations and confirm
eligibility based on the following criteria:
(i)       the quality of preparation and analysis must be
acceptable to the Bank:
(ii)      the ER of the investment is at least equal to 12%; and
(iii)     the implementation would not be started before the
optimal year.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
Design Standards
12. The road works would be carried out according to the design
standards shown in Table 10.
Equipment
13. The project will finance snow removal equipment for the
Trans-Yugoslav Highway as well as office equipment for two road
organizations. A tentative list of equipment is shown in Table 11.
Procurement of equipment would be coordinated by FARP.
Training
14.  FARP will prepare a detailed training program for staff from FARP,
the road organizations, engineering institutes and maintenance
enterprises.  The program will include training abroad as well as local
seminars with particular emphasis on highway and bridge maintenance and
rehabilitation.
Staffing and Operation of FARP
15. The Federal Association of Republican and Provincial Road
Organizations of Yugoslavia (FARP) was established in Belgrade in
January 1983 and replaces the former Council of Republican and
Provincial Road Organization which was located in Llubl;ana. FARP
consists of an assembly of 32 delegates comprising 16 delegates from
the road oarganizations (two from each) and 16 delegates from road user
groups. The role of Chairman and Deputy Chairman revolves among the
eight road organizations. FARP also includes a technical department
which is headed by a Secretary.
Staffing
16. The staffing of the technical department of FARP will be
completed during the first half of 1986 and will include, in addition
to appropriate support staff and equipment, the following professional
staff with at least five years' experience in their relevant fields.
(i)       a transport economist with experience in the area of
highway economi-cs and traffic;
(ii)      a traffic engineer with design experience in freeways,
interchanges and toll systems;
(iii)     a highway engineer with relevant experience in road
construction and maintenance; and
(iv)      a financial analyst with experience in contract
administration and the preparation and updating of
investment and financing plans.



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
17. The FARP operating budget, which is funded by contributions from
the member road organizations, would include provisions for the
periodic appointment of consultants, as required for specific
assignments, as well as for the commissioning of special studies in the
highway field.
Operations
18. FARP will be responsible for the overall coordination of matters
related to highways in Yugoslavia with special emphasis on the primary
road network.   Specific responsibilities will include:
(i)       a coordinating role in planning for primary routes;
(ii)      review of annual and medium-term investment and
maintenance plans prepared by the individual road
organizations;.
(iii)     collection of data on investments and maintenance and
continuous monitoring of developments in these areas;
(iv)      analysis of road user charges and level of
infrastructure costs covered by revenue from such
charges;
(v)       identification of principal financial resources in the
construction of primary and regional routes;
(vi)      guidance in distribution of revenue accruing from fees
levied on foreign vehicles;
(vii)     application and revision of uniform design standards in
the construction and maintenance of roads and all
related structures;
(viii)    application and periodic review of uniform standards and
pricing for highway toll systems;
(ix)      application of uniform standards related to improved
highway safety;
(x)       primary responsibility for the review of findings from
nationwide studies related to the highway sector (e.g.,
maintenance studies, analysis of road user charges, toll
system analysis) including the implementation of
recommendations from such studies;
(xi)      implementation of improved methodologies for technical
and economic analysis of highway projects; and
(xii)     acting as fiscal agent for the disbursement and
repayment of foreign credits and maintaining detailed
records of expenditures on projects partly financed by
foreign sources.



- 52 -
AMNEX 2
Table I
YU0OSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Investment Progra and Financing Plans
Republic of Slovenia
Foreign Exchange
1986-89-----
Total     Total                Asount
1985    1986    1987    1988   1989   1986-89    1986-89         S   US$ million
........ ....... .......................... ...................................... ........   ........ ..............
_ ________-- - Din Million ------------------    - US$. -
(a) Investment Program and Expenses
A. ORGOING INVESTIENTS
1. Eleventh Highway Project (TYK)      2,500         -       -       -
2. E18 II Ljualiana South ByPass       2,500     3,227   3,227   1,615       -  8,069       28.8         40     11.5
Sub-Total 0O116 IVESTMENTS                5,OOO    3,227   3,227   1,165        -  8.069       28.8                11.5
Physical Contingencies                    -        323    323    161         -    807        2.9                 1.2
Price Contingencies                       -      1,755   3,201   2,445       -  7,401        3.0                 1.2
Sub-Total INCLUOING CONTINGENCIES         5,OOO     5,305   6,751   4,221       -  16,277      34.7                13.9
B. PROPOSED FOR BANK LOAN
1. Smrje Sap-Visno 8ora (TYH)             -      1,600   1,600   1,600   1.600   6,400      22.8         40      9.1
2. Maribor by-pass                        -      1,818   2,599     701       -   5,118      18.3         40      7.3
3. Rehabilitation                                  364    392    615    615   1.886          7.1         SO      3.6
Sub-Total PROPOSED FOR 8AhK LOAe             -      3,782   4,591   2,916   2,215  13,504      48.2                20.0
Physical Contingencies                    -        378    459    292    221   1,350          4.8                 2.0
Price Contingencies                       -      2.056   4,554   4,414   4,803  15,827       7.0                 2.9
Sub-Total INCLUOING CONTINENCIES            -      6,217   9.604   7,622   7,239  30,682      60.0                24.9
C. OTHER INVESTIENTS
1. Rehabilitation                      s,oo0    3,272   3.528   5.535   5.535  17,870       63.8         50    31.9
2. Other Costs                         1,500     1,068    238    238  2,748  4,290          15.3         50      7.7
Sub-Total OTHER INVESTMENTS               6,500     4,338   3.766   5,773   8,283  22,160      79.1                39.6
Physical Contingencies                    -        434    377    576    829   2,216          7.0                 4.0
Price Contingencies                       -      2,358   3,737   8,739  17,960  32,793      15.5                 7.7
SOb-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES         6,500     7,130   7,879  15,088  27,072  57,169     102.6                51.3
0. hAINTENAhCE AlN OTHER
1. AINTENAICE                          5,O00     5,200   5,850   6,630   6,630  24,310      86.8                   -
2. ADMINISTRATION -                      600       637    637    637    637  2,548           9.1                   -
3. DEBT SERVICING
Local                                 900       600    230    140        70   1,040       3.7                   -
Foreign                             4,000     3,730   3,680   3,710   3,838  14,950      53.4        100     53.4
Sub-Total DEBT SERVICING               4,900     4,330   3,910  3,850   3,900  15,990       57.1                53.4
Sub-Total MINTENANCE Alt OTHER           18,500    10,167  10,397  11,117  11,167  42,848     153.0               53.4
Price Contingencies                       -      5,027   9,375  15,300  22,011  51,713      23.8                 8.2
Sub-Total IHCLUDI11 CONTINGENCIES        10,SO    15,194  19,772  26,417  33,178  94,561     176.8                61.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                     22,000    21,514  21,981  21,421  21,665  86,581     309.2               124.5
Physical Contingencies                    -      1,135   1,159   1,030   1,050   4,374      15.6                 7.2
Price Contingencies                       -     11,197  20,866  30,897  44,774 107,734      49.3                20.0
Total PROGRAM COSTS                     22.000    33,846  44,006  53,348  67,489 198,689     374.1               151.7
........ .. ....... e.  .. ...................... .......................... .. . .....
(b) Financing Plan
Road User Charge (Fuel Tax)                   9,800    13,508  17,875  23,936  30,217  85,536     159.9
Tolls                                         2,000     2,890   3,556  4,773   6,002  17,021       31.7
Vehicle Registration Fees                     3.800     4.797   6,314   8,420  10,577  30,108      56.2
Tax on Foreign Vehicles                         800       986   1,294   1,738   2,199   6,217      11.6
Cosunities                                    4,000     6,130   8,080  10,894  13,665  38,789      72.4
Foreign Credits                               2.400     5.735   6.887   3.587   4.829  21.038     42.3
Total                                        22.000    33.846  44.006  53,348  67,489 198,689     374.1
Notes  Costs estimates hane bean developed from July 1985 base costs. Price
contingencies have bean estimated assuamng international Inflation
rates of zero In 1985, 7% in 1986 and 1987, 7.5% in 1988 nd 7.7% in
1989, and local inflation rates of 60% in 1985, 30% In 1986 and 25S for
each year 1987 to 1989.
Nover 1985



- 53 -
ANEX 2
Table 2
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Investment Program and Financing Plan:
Republic of Croatia
Foreign Exchange
----1986-89-----
Total          Total               Amount
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989   1986-89          1986-89            U 9s$ million
.........  ..........  ....... ................................ .......   . .......  ...... ..........
-------------__  Din Million ------------------ US
(a) Investment Program and Expenses
A. ONGOING INVESTMENTS
1. Eleventh Highway Project (TYH)          9,ODO        -       -        -       -          -
2. EIS II (TYH)                            1,600   2,345        -        -       -      2,345         8.4         40         3.4
3. Rijeka By-Pass                          1,000   2,727   2,727                        5,454         19.5        40         7.8
Sub-Total ONGOING INVESTMENTS                12,600   5,072   2,727         -        -     7,799         27.9                  11.2
Physical Contingencies                         -      507     273        -                780         2.8                    1.1
Price Contingencies                            -   2,758   2,705                        5,463          1.9                   0.7
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES            12,600   8,337   5,705                       14.042         32.6                  13.0
b. PROPOSED FOR BAN LOAN
1. Prvca-Luxani (TYi)                          -   2,300   4,000   4,200   4,200    14,700           52.5         40        21.0
2. Rehabilitation                              -      400     510      700     840      2,450         8.8         SO         4.4
Sub-Total PROPOSED FOR 8AM LOAN                    -   2,700   4,510   4,900   5,040    17,150           61.3                  25.4
Physical Contingencies                         -      270     451      490     504      1,715          6.1                   2.5
Price Contingencies                            -   1,468   4,473   7,418  10,928    24,287            11.4                   4.8
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                 -   4,438   9,434  12,8D8  16,472    43,152            78.8                  32.7
C. OTHER INVESTHENTS
1. Rehabilitation                          3,000   3,600   4,590   6,300   7,560    22,050           78.7         50        39.4
2. EIBR  Luzani-Stupnik (TYH)                  -        -       -   1,650   1,650       3,300         11.8        40         4.7
Sub-Total OTHER INVESTMENTS                   3,000   3,600   4,590   7,950   9,210    25,350           90.8                   44.1
Physical Contingencies                         -      360     459      795     921      2,535         9.1                    4.5
Price Contingencies                            -   1,957   4,554  12,034  19,970    38,515           18.4                    8.8
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES             3,000   5,917  '9,603  20.779  30,101    66,400           118.0                  57.4
D. ItAINTENANCE AND OTHER
1. HAINTENANCE                             7,000  10,OD0  12,000  13,000  13,000    48,000          171.4                      -
2. ADMINISTRATION                            650   1.000   1,000   1,000   1,000        4,000        14.3
3. DEST SERVICING
Local                                   1,350     845      845     845      845     3,380         12.1
Foreign                                 5,000   5,890   5,720   5,610   5,550    27,770           81.3        100        81.3
Sub-Total DEBT SERVICING                   6,350   6,735   6,565   6,455   6,395    26,150           93.4                   81.3
Sub-Total MAINTENANCE AND OTHER              14,000  17,735  19,565  20,455  20,395    78,150          279.1                   81.3
Price Contingencies                            -   8,769  17,640  28,153  40,198    94,760           43.7                   12.2
___  -   --- --   -------    --- --   ------   ---- ---  -- - - __ __ __ __ _ _-__ _--_ _
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES            14,D00  26,504  37,205  48,608  60,593   172,910          322.8                   93.5
Total 8ASELINE COSTS                         29,600  29,107  31,392  33,305  34,645   128,449          4568.8                 162.0
Physical Contingencies                         -   1,137   1,183   1,285   1,425        5,030         18.0                   8.1
Price Contingencies                            -  13,952  29,372  47,605  71,096   163,025           75.4                   26.5
Total PRG6M11 COSTS                          29,600  45,196  61,947  82,195 107,166   296,504           552.2                 196.6
....... ....... ........................... .................          .       ........................ .......  ............
(b) Financing Plan
Road User Charge (Fuel Tax)                      16,200  25,612  33,625  45,709   57,894  182,840           303.9
Tolls                                              1,400   2,854   5,730   7,985   10,398   26,967           49.2
Tax on Foreign Vehicles                           1,300   2,718   3,701   5,157    6,714   18,290            34.0
Co_unities                                        6,000  10,301  13,564  18,379   23,691   65,935           123.0
Foreign Credits                                   4,700   3,711   5,327   4,865    8,488   22,472            42.1
Total                                            29.600  45,196  61.947  82.195  107.16  296.504            552.2
Note:  Costs estimates have been developed from July 1985 base costs.  Price contingencies
have been estimated assuming international inflation rates of zero in 1985, 7X in 1986
and 1987, 7.5S in 1988 and 7.7% In 1989, and local inflation rates of 605 in 1985,
30S in 1986 end 25% for each year 1987 to 1989.
Noveflr 1985
58258



- 54-
ANNEX 2
Table 3
YTGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
HIGH1AY SECTOR PROJECT
Investment Program and Financing Plan;
Republic of Serbia
Foreign Exchange
---- 1985-89 -----
Total       Total                  Anount
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989   l9R6-89        1986-89              3 US$ Million
S.=.. ".  ... ..==== .g.S2...... ..=... ... _=- ==.=. .=== .....     ...i.===:== ........==S:...==tS=
-S--s---- in Million -.___-_  _    ST
(a) Investoent Program and Exoenses
A. ONGONG INVESTMENTS
1. Eleventh Highway Project (TYH)            600         -                .-                             -
2. Cuprija-Pojete (EIB II/IIl)            12,500    1,818         -       .        -   1,818           6.5         40        2.6
Sub-Total ONGOlG INVESTMENTS               13.100    1,818         -       -        -   1,818           6.5                    2.6
Physical Contingencies                         -       182        -       -        -     182           0.7                   0.3
Price Contingencies                            -       988        -       -        -     988           0.3                   0.1
Sub-Total IhCLUDhIN  CONTINGENCIES           13,100    2,988         -       -        -   2,988           7.5                   3.0
B. PRuPOSED FOR BANK LOAN
1. kehabilitation/Betterment                   -    3,270   3,324   3,519   0,579  12,692             45.3        50        22.7
2. Pirot by-pass                                -        -        -     650   1,290   1,940            6.9         40        2.8
3. Bela Palanka by-pass                                  -        -     520   1,170   1,690            6.O        40         2.4
------  -- ---  ----- ------  -- ---  -----   ---       - - -
Sub-Total PROPUSED FUR BANK LOAh                   -    3,270   3,324   4,689   5,039  16,322            59.2                  27.9
Physical Contingencies                          -      327      332     469      504   1,632           5.8                   2.8
Price Contingencies                                  1,777   3,297   7,098  10,926  23,099            10.9                   S.1
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                  -    5,374   6,954  12,256  16,489  41,053            74.8                  35.8
C. OTHER INVESTMENTS
1. Rehabilitatian/Betterment               1,860    1,330   4,500   4,500   4,000  14,330             51.2        90        25.6
2. Other Costs                               200       971   1,277   1,364   1,364   4,975            17.8        40         7.1
Sub-Total OTHER INVESTMENTS                   2,060    2,301   5,777   5,864   5,364  19,306             69.0                  32.7
Physical Contingencies                          -      230     578      586     536   1,930            6.9                   3.3
Price Contingencies                            -    1,251   5,731   8,877  11,631  27,489             12.9                   6.1
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES             2,060    3,782  12,085  15,327  17,531  48,725             88.8                  42.1
D. MAINTENANCE AND OTHER
1. MAINTENACE                              2,990    3,900   5.000   5,600   5,600  20,100             71.8                     -
2. ADMINISTRATION                             90        85       90      90      90      355           1.3                     -
3. DEBT SERVICING
Local                                   3,710    3,710   2,180   2,410   2,600   10,900           38.9                      -
Foreign                                11.600   11,600  10,800  11,300  11,300  45,000            160.7       100       160.7
Sub-lotal DEBT SERVICING                  15,310   15,310  12,980  13,710  13.900  55,900            199.6                 160.7
Sub-Total MAINTENANCE AND OTHER              18,390   19,295  18,070  19.400  19,590  76,355            272.7                 160.7
Price Contingencies                             -    9,532  16,298  26,695  38,617  91,142            41.8                  24.4
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES            18,390   28,827  34,368  46,095  58,207 167,497            314.5                 185.1
Total BASELINE COSTS                         33,550   26,684  27,171  29,953  29,993 113,801            406.4                 203.9
Physical Contingencies                           -      739     910   1,05   1,040   3,745            13.4                   6.3
Price Contingencies                             -   13,549  25,327  42,670  61,174 142,720             65.8                  35.7
Total PROGRAM COSTS                          33,550   40,972  53,408  73,678  92.207 260,265            485.6                 265.9
....... .......................... ................      .....         .        .......... = ....... .   .....  ..... . 
(b) Financing Plan
Road User Charge (Fuel Tax)                    12,450   21,055  27,685  39,025  49,878 137,643           256.5
Tolls                                           2,400    4,393   5,838   8,143  10,101  28,475            53.1
Tax on Foreign Vehicles                         1,900    4,390   5,840   8,218  10,482  28,930            53.5
Cantunities                                       200    4,560   6,000   8,196  10,383  29,139            54.4
Credits
Local                                        3.500    2.393   4,563   4,276   3,934  15,166             28.7
Foreign                                      7,100    4,181   3,482   S,820   7,429  20.912             39.4
Sub-total Credits                              10,600    6,574   8,045  10,096  11,363  36,078            68.1
Republic Intervention Fund                      6,0          -                         -       -
Total                                             33,550   40,972  53,408  73.678  92,207 260,265           485.6
Note:  Cost estimates have been developed from July 1985 base costs.  Price contingencies
have been estimated assuming international inflation rates of zero in 1905, 78 In
1986 and 1987, 7.5% in 1988 and 7.70 in 1989, and local inflation rotes of 605 In
1985, 30% in 1986 and 25% for each year 1987 to 1989.
November 1985



- 55 -                                                           ANNEX 2
Table 4
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Investment Program and Financing Plan:
Republic of Bosnia Herzegovina
Foreign Exchange
--- 1986-89 
Total           Total                   Amount
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989   1986-89              1986-89        X    uS$ Million
----------------  Min Million ------------------            -- US$m -
(a) Investment Program and Expenses
A. PRUPOSEU FOR bANK LOAN
1. alazuj-Bradina                                -    1,400   1,400          -        -   2,800            10.0         50         5.0
2. Maslovare-Pribinic                            -         -        -      710      710   1,420             5.1         50          2.5
3. Baraci-Mliniste                               -       600      600        -        -   1,200             4.3         50          2.1
4. B.Kostajnica-B.UuDica                         -       790      790        -        -   1,580             5.6         50          2.8
5. Other Sections                                -         -        -   2,100   2,300   4,400              15.7         50         7.9
Sub-Total PROPOSEU FOR BANK LO[N                    -    2,790   2,790   2,810   3,010  11,400                40.7                    20.3
Physical Contingencies                           -       279      279     281      301    1,140             4.1                    2.0
Price Contingencies                              -    1,517   2,768   4,254   6,527  15,066                 6.9                     3.5
Sub-Total INCLUDINI, CuNTINGENCIES                  -    4,586   5,837   7,345   9,838  27,606                51.7                    25.8
6. OTHER INVESTMENTS
1. Rehabilitation                           3,000       840   1,400   1,400   1,600   5,240                18.7         50         9.4
Sub-Total OTHER INVESTMENTS                     3.000       840   1,400   1.400   1,600   5,240               18.7                     9.4
Physical Contingencies                           -        84      140      140     160      524             1.9                    0.9
Price Contingencies                              -       457   1,389   2,119   3,469   7,434                3.5                     1.7
Sub-Total INCLUING CONTINGENCIES               3,000     1,381   2,929   3,659   5,229  13,198               24.1                    12.0
C. MAINTENANCE AND OTHER
1. MAINTENANCE                              5,400    5,590   5,850   6,500   6,500  24,440                 87.3                       -
2. ADMINISTRATION                              300       380      420     450      450   1,700              6.1
3. DEbT SERVICING
Local                                      400       520      585      650      715   2,470              8.8
Foreign                                  2,900     3,000   2,770   3,100   3,400  12,270                43.8
Suo-Total OEbT SERVICING                    3,300    3,520   3.355   3,750   4,115  14,740                 52.6        100        43.8
Sub-Total MAINTENANCE ANU UTHER                 9,000    9,490   9,625  10,700  11,065  40,880               146.0                    43.8
Price Contingencies                              -    4,693   8,678  14,726  21,809  49,906                23.1                     6.9
Sua-Total INCLUUISG CONIIN6LNCIES               9,000   14,183  18,303  25,426  32,874  90,786               169.1                    50.7
Total BASELINE coSrs                           12,000   13,120  13,815  14,910  15,675  57,520               205.4                    73.5
Physical Contingencies                            -       363      419      421     461    1,664             6.0                     2.9
Price Contingencies                               -    6,667  12,835  21,099  31,805  72,406                33.5                    12.1
Total PROGRAM COSTS                            12,000   20,150  27,069  36,430  47,941 131,590               244.9           -        88.5
(b) Financing Plan
Road User Charge (Fuel Tax)                     6,700   11,506  15,413  20,792  27,066  74,777                139.2
Vehicle Registration Fees                       2,500     3.192   4,309   5,839   7,625  20,965                39.2
Tax on Foreign Vehicles                         1,700     1,974   2,645   3,552   4,607  12,778                23.8
Conmunities                                       600       761   1,019   1,346   1,779   4,905                 9.1
Fund for LuR                                      50O       669      862   1,118   1,397   4,046                 7.5
Credits
Local                                             -        99      167      279     445      990              1.8
Foreign                                           -    1,949   2,654   3.504   5.022  13.129                 24.3
Sub-total Credits                               -    2,048   2,821   3,783   5,467  14,119                 26.1
Total                                              12,000   20,150  27.069  36,430  47,941 131.590                 244.9
Note;    Costs estimates have been developed from July 1985 base costs.  Price contingencies
have been estimated assuming international inflation rates of zero in 1985, 7% in
1986 ara 1987, 7.5% in 1988 and 7.7% in 1989, and local inflation rates of 60% in
1985, 30% in 1986 and 258 for each year 1987 to 1989.
November 1985
S825U



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Table 5
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Republic of Serbia
Road Rehabilitation and Betterment Program
Road        Section         Length    1984 Traffic         Cost
(km)         (vpd)        (Dinars '000
Jan. 1985)
1986/87 PROGRAM:
Rehabilitation
Ml      Grdelica-Tabanovac  25.0            9,430       880,200
M5      Usizi-Asanovac         5.2          8,980       138,080
M5      Preljina-Adrani       20.7         11,890       728,800
M22     Beograd-Majdan        20.0         11,810       704,160
Betterment (climbing lanes)
M5      Paracin-Zajecar
(Cestobrodica)       4.8          7,360       563,330
M5      Paracin-Zajecar
(Valakonje)          3.1          7,360       375,550
M22     Ljig-G. Milanovac
(Rudnik)             3.7          8,650       476,870
M22     Beograd-G.Milanovac
0 (Rusanj)           3.7         12,880       461,760
TENTATIVE SECTIONS FOR SUBSEQUENT YEARS:
Ml      Grdelica-Tabanovac  35.0            9,430    1,156,400
Ml/9    Beograd-Pancevo        9.0         19,550       369,000
Ml/ll   Batocina-Kragujevac 19.0            6,580       370,500
M1/12   Nis-Dimitrovgrad    24.0            4,880       312,000
M5      Paracin-Zajecar       11.0          7,190       253,000
M19     Sabac-Loznica         20.0          2,550       270,400
M22     Beograd-G.Milanovac 20.0            8,380       500,000
M24/1   Beograd-Zrenjanin   20.0           12,480       600,000
M22     Kraljevo-Raska         8.0          4,010       160,000
M5     Kraljevo-Vrnjacka
Banja                9.0          5,730       135,000
M25     Nis-Knjazevac          5.0          2,660        68,500
Source-: Serbia Road Organization



YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Progress Chart
Coi,inmcme                                                                                                                                                MON1.IY  ,RESSW   AS OF
a DN    DATE.IAIDY
OFFICIAL STARTING DATE
.               ~~~~~~CONTRACT NO             YMA                  TO OA.                                     N COONEACENDA '
RIALl C1E115IN DATE
APPROVED~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ REVIJE ESED COWfONDT                                                        A"IRV         lRVSDONITTACOTA4NTI 
PRI LE COltE)N DAN                   =    _      =                                            PROGRESS CHART                                              ClllNESIAEDFR COSI
_   ElUfill   |   _   S U   J   F  M   A   M   J   J   A   1  0   N   D   _ f  M   A  M   J   J   A   5   0   N   D   J   f  M   A   M   J   J   A   _   0   N   D
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~70-
-R     G  I I  C  E W -   -   -   --                                                                                                                                       *3
PNOGISFS
0
OW~~ SWE            RP."A5MDSC5*Ji
       --ACRAL PROGAFSS
*008o~-*-50



- 58 -                                                   ANNEX 2
Table 7
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Status of Highway Network Administered by
Republican and Provincial Road Organizations 1/
(km)
>3,000                   Poor                >15 yrs
Republic        Paved      Gravel      Total               vpd      %          Surface                  ag de       X
Slovenia
Primary             1,170          --       1,170             783      67             158      14           1,060    91
Regional            2.825        872        3.697             237       _           1.240      44           2.325    63
Total             3,995        872       4,867            1,020      21           1,398      35          3,385      70
Croatia
Primary             4,491         165       4,656           3,440      74             745      17           2,424     52
Regional            7,142      2.448        9.S90           1.400      3            2.110      30           4.861    51
Total            11,633      2,613      14,246           4,840       34          2,855       25          7,285      51
Serbia I/
Primary             3,307         57        3,364           2,000      59           1,550      47           1,650    49
Regional            4,290      4.290       8.580            2.580      24           1.267      30           4,290     so
Total             7,597      4,347      11,944           4,580                   2,817       37          5,940      SO
Bosnia-Herzegovina
Primary             3,360        293        3,653           1,620      44             850      25           1,015     28
Regional            1,950      1,900        3.850             100       3             450      23             5SO     14
Total             5,310      2,193       7,503            1,720      23          1,300       24           1,565    21
Montenegro
Primary               743         100         843             240      28             135      18             528    63
Regional              574        305          879             100      11             242      42             360    41
Total             1,317        405        1,722             340      20             377      29             890     52
Voivodina
Primary             1,363          32       1,395             776      56             105       8           1,080    77
Regional            1.489         162       1.651             364      22             330      22              96      6
Total             2,852        194        3,046           1,140      37             435      15           1,176     39
Macedonia
Primary               796        171          967             563      58             219      28             615    64
Regional            1.853      1,043        2.896             633      22             690      37           1.886    65
Total             2,649      1,214       3,863            1,196      31             909      34          2,501      65
Kosovo
Primary               S30         41          571             323      57              58      11             161     28
Regional              744        450        1.194              70       6             323      43             317    27
Total             1,274        491        1,765             393      22             381      30             478     27
TOTAL           36.627      12,329      48,956          15.229       31         10.472       29         23.760      49
1/ Serbia Road Organization is responsible only for primary roads.
Source:  Road Organizations and FARP



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Table 8
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program Targets l
Esti-       Average Budget Allocations per Kilometer
mated 2/                 (July 1985 prices)
Unit     1985         1986        1987        1988        1989
Maintenance Program
Slovenia:           Dinars   821,900    1,068,400  1,202,000  1,362,200  1,362,200
US$     2,950         3,820       4,290       4,870       4,870
Croatia:            Dinars   393,100        702,000    842,300    912,500    912,500
US$     1,400         2,510       3,010       3,260       3,260
Serbia:             Dinars   711,100    1,159,300  1,486,300  1,664,700  1,664,700
us$     2,540         4,140       5,300       5,950       5,950
Bosnia-Herzegovina: Dinars  575,800         745,000    779,700    866,300    866,300
US$     2,060         2,660       2,780       3,090       3,090
Esti-     Annual Program and Budget Allocations
mated 2/             (July 1985 prices)
Unit     1985         1986       1987       1988       1989
Rehabilitation/
Betterment
Slovenia:               Km       140          130       140       220        220
Dinars million    4,000         3,640    3,920      6,150      6,150
Croatia:                Km        80          140       180       250        300
Dinars million    2,400         4,000    5,100       7,000     8,400
Serbia:                 Km        50          110       190       200        200
Dinars million    1,500         4,600    4,800      8,000      6,600
Bosnia-Herzegovina:    Km         90           80       100       120        140
Dinars million    2,500         2,240    2,800       3,500     3,900
1/ Road Organizations under Project.
2/ July 1985 prices.
Source: Road Organization and Mission estimates



- 60-                               ANNEX 2
Table 9
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Summary Data Sheet for Typical Sub-Project
1. Basic Data
Road                       Trans--Yugoslav Highway:  MI (European Highway: E94)
Section                 : Smarje Sap-Visna Gora (Slovenia)
Length                  :  12 km
Cross section present : 7m concrete in poor condition/im shoulders
Cross section proposed:  2 separated 2-lane sections each with 7.5m riding
surface/2.Sm shoulders.
Proposed pavement       :  Asphaltic concrete
Design class               Limited access 4-lane divided
2.  Traffic                        I/
vpd (AADT)       Car       Bus      Truck      Total
Base Year            1984          7,750    250       2,100      10,100
Opening Year         1989          9.520    310       2,580      12,410
Growth Rates    1984-1985         ---- ------ 5% -----------------
(annual)        1986-1990        -------------- 4% ----____________
1990-2006       ---------- --- 3% -------_--_-____
3. Special Works
Project located in difficult hilly terrain requiring 16 bridges.
1 Grade-separated interchange.
4. Cost Estimate
Dinars 5.4 billion (US$25.2 million) including physical contingencies
(January 1985 prices).
5. Vehicle Operating Costs Dinars/vehicle-km (January 1985 prices)
Car        Bus        Truck
Old Road             21.0      134.6       70.0
New Road             13.8       76.2       49.8
6. Economic Data
First-Year Benefit = 12%
ER                  =  15%
7. Tender
Tentative Tender Date : March 1986
Completion Time         : 40 months
Budget allocations2':
1986 Dinars 1,350 million
1987 Dinars 1.350 million
1988 Dinars 1,350 million
1989 Dinars 1,350 million
8. Technical Description
The proposed improvement would involve the construction of two additional
traffic lanes and the reconstruction of the existing two-lane limited access road.
The road is in an area of difficult terrain requiring separation of the alignments
over short sections and entailing high construction costs.
9. Economic Description
The section is located on a major international route and constitutes a first
stage in the improvement of the road linking Ljubljana with Zagreb. At Smarje Sap
the section connects with the Southern By-pass of Ljubljana, which is being financed
by the European Investment Bank.
1/  Summer peaks of 20,000 to 25,000 vpd; average traffic for four month period
June-September is over 13.000 vpd.
2/ Including physical contingencies, January 1985 prices.



- 61 -                        Annex 2
Table 10
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Highway Design Standards
PRIMARY ROADS                   REGIONAL ROADS
Type of                                      Moun-                            Moun-
Terrain        Unit      Flat     Hilly    tainous        Flat     Hilly    tainous
Design
Speed        km/hr    100-      100-         80-         80-      80-         40-
120      120         100         100      100          80
Maximum
gradient    %         2.0       6.0         9.0          2        6           9
Road Width    m          lx7.5-   lx7.5-      1x7.5-      1x7.5    lx7.0       lx6.0
(min.)                 2x7.5    2x7.5        2x6.0
Width of
Emergency
Lane         m        2.5       2.5
Width of
Shoulder    m         2x1.3    2x1.3        2x1.05      2x1.3    2x1.3       2x1.05
Horizontal
Curves       m          450       450         250         250       250          45
minimum                    750       750        450         450       450         250
Vertical
Curves
Summits        m         12,000   12,000       7,000       7,000    7,000       3,000
minimum
Sags           m          8,000    8,000       5,000       5,000    5,000       2,000
minimum
Maximum Single
Axle Load   Ton            10       10          10          10        10         10
Type of Wear-
ing Surface  -        Asphalt/ Asphalt!   Asphalt/   Asphalt/ Asphalt/   Asphalt/
Concrete Concrete   Concrete   Concrete Concrete   Surface
Surface  Surface    dressing
dressing dressing
Structures designed in compliance with DIN 1072 standard.



- 62-                               ANNEX 2
Table 11
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF.
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Tentative List of Equipment
Estimated Cost
Republic                         Item                              (US$ Equivalent)
SR. Slovenia
1.   4 trucks with attachment for snow removal
2.   3 snow blowers/cleaning machine
500,000
SR. Serbia
1.   6 trucks with attachment for snow removal                       500,000
SR. Croatia
1.   6 trucks with attachment for snow removal                       500,000
SR. Bosnia-Herzegovina
1.   Computer equipment
2.   Office equipment
150,000



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation Studies
Outline Terms of Reference
1. Introduction
1.       An initial study was started in June 1985 in order to provide an
in-depth review of the state of the road network and bridges and the cur-
rent road and bridge rehabilitation and maintenance procedures throughout
Yugoslavia. The study was commissioned by the Federal Association of
Republican and Provincial Road Organizations (FARP) on the basis of these
terms of reference and this will be financed retroactively under the pro-
ject. The study will be based entirely on existing information available
to the road organizations and would be completed by mid-1986 in order to
provide an input to the 1986-90 Plan. The study, which is being undertaken
by a consortium of three Yugoslav Institutes, would also include foreign
experts in road maintenance to assist in developing a program of data col-
lection and in defining complementary in-depth analyses as required. The
study would focus on primary and regional roads, but consideration would
also be given to maintenance needs for local roads. An assessment of road
maintenance and rehabilitation would be made for each of the eight republics
and provinces.
2.       Pending the outcome and recommendations to be made under the
initial study, additional studies would be undertaken in detail to ulti-
mately lead to a recommended program for developing and implementing
management practices for planning, scheduling, and controlling maintenance
and rehabilitation of roads and bridges in each Republic and Province.
II. Objectives
3.       The purpose of the study is to:
(i) make recommendations to ensure economic maintenance of the road
network and bridges;
(ii) define road and bridge maintenance standards;
(iii) conduct an economic analysis of improved maintenance strategies;



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
(iv) determine the effect of different maintenance strategies on the
level and rate of deterioration of roads;
(v) assess the effect of road surface condition and deterioration
on vehicle operating costs;
(vi) assess the needs for a routine program of road rehabilitation;
(vii) provide proposals for improved organization of maintenance
activities and more cost-effective maintenance procedures,
including the possibility of introducing competitive bidding
for maintenance contracts;
(viii) improve information, accounting and cost control systems for
road maintenance;
(ix) ensure adequate priority for both rehabilitation and mainte-
nance in the distribution of national revenues, according to
their high economic return; and
(x) propose adequate budget allocations for highway maintenance and
rehabilitation for the 1986-90 Plan.
4.       Further studies would focus on:
(i) programs for monitoring and reporting on the need for routine
and periodic maintenance, such as: development of road and
bridge inspection and condition assessment including approp-
riate data collection procedures and inputs to data base
systems;
(ii) preparation of road and bridge maintenance standards and
manuals taking into account codes of practice and related
maintenance standards throughout the world;
(iii) economic and value for money assessments for the most effective
strategies with particular emphasis on estimates of cost and
actual cost comparisons and financial monitoring of all main-
tenance component activities;
(iv) implementation and development of a computerized highway infor-
mation system to encompass all maintenance and management
activities with a data base incorporating infrastructure inven-
tory, road condition surveys, traffic data, bridge and struc-
tures inspections with assessments and maintenance programs and
corresponding costs;
(v) evaluation of the need and scheduling of purchase of equipment
for TYH toll roads maintenance operations;



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6
(vi) provision of documentation and reporting procedures of all
maintenance operations;
(vii) training personnel in all aspects of maintenance operations and
management functions;
(viii) quality control and set standards for safety procedures for
operations and staff; and
(ix) assessments of the achievements of work programs and budgetary
allocations vs. targets.
[It. General Scope of Work
Road Network Inventory
5.       An inventory of the road network will be established based to a
large extent on existing data available to the road organizations. Addi-
tional surveys will be executed where necessary to complete or update
available information. The network data will be classified as a function
of traffic range and surface type, together with an estimate of the number
of vehicle-kms traveled in each category. An estimate will also be made of
the rehabilitation needs of the more heavily trafficked roads in the
network.
Improved Maintenance Operations
6.       The studies will describe the existing system of contract main-
tenance and will make any recommendations for its improvement. In parti-
cular, consideration will be given to introducing competitive bidding for
maintenance contracts. All significant elements of work on routine and
periodic maintenance as well as rehabilitation should be identified and
recommendations made on any possible improvements in the procedures used.
This will include defining minimum levels of traffic for specified main-
tenance procedures on different types of road. Unit costs will be developed
for each maintenance activity broken down into equipment materials and
labor components. Based on the recommended procedures and estimated unit
costs, an assessment will be made of the budgetary implications of an
improved maintenance strategy. Proposals will be drawn up for the progres-
sive introduction of an improved maintenance program taking into account
the current financial constraints imposed on the highway budgets.
Road and Bridge Rehabilitation Programs
7.       A separate assessment will be made of road and bridge rehabili-
tation requirements of the more heavily trafficked roads in the primary and
regional road networks. Initially, this will be based on existing inven-
tory data, but complementary surveys may be required in order to develop



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
detailed programs. A program of road and bridge rehabilitation will be
prepared covering the period of the 1986-90 Plan, taking into account any
backlog in rehabilitation as well as anticipated needs.
Economic Justification of Improved Program
8.       To demonstrate the economic returns of an improved maintenance
program, the following will be established:
(i) unit vehicle operating costs for different degrees of road
surface condition;
(ii) traffic growth rates for projecting the number of vehicle-kms
in each traffic range/road condition category (para. 3);
(iii) pavement deterioration as a function of traffic range and main-
tenance level; and
(iv) the evolution of the network (para. 3) through time for the
existing and the improved maintenance programs.
9.       The benefits of the program will include reduced vehicle operating
costs. The net costs of the program will be determined by developing the
stream of costs for routine and periodic maintenance for both the existing
maintenance effort and the proposed improved level. The number of years
adopted for the analysis will be sufficiently long to allow for significant
changes in the condition of the network through time under each of levels
of maintenance analyzed (a five-year period from 1986 through 1990 is sug-
gested). The effect of alternative levels of maintenance will be considered
through analyzing the impact of a 20% increase or decrease in the level of
funding for the proposed improved program. The evaluation will define the
ER as well as BC ratios at discount rates of 12% and 15% and 20%.
10.      A separate economic analysis should be undertaken for typical
rehabilitation schemes based on typical traffic levels, road surface con-
ditions, savings in vehicle operating costs, and the avoided cots of
stepped-up maintenance which would otherwise be necessary to keep roads in
acceptable condition. In the without project scenario, it will be assumed
that in order to maintain the road in its original condition, maintenance
costs will increase rapidly over the period of analysis (ten-year project
life), the total costs being equivalent to the cost of the corresponding
pavement strengthening program. Normal routine maintenance will be assumed
for the with project scenario. Vehicle operating cost benefits will derive
from the difference between a poor road surface throughout the ten-year
evaluation period and an initially excellent surface that progressively
deteriorates to the original condition. It will be assumed that half the
total deterioration will occur in the last two years of the project life.
For each road section, the evaluation will define the ER as well as BC
ratios at discount rates of 12%, 15% and 20%.



- 67 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
11.      A suitable economic evaluation methodology will be established for
the bridge rehabilitation program which would consider the probability of
bridge failure and the consequent effects on traffic patterns. The econo-
mic parameters should be summarized for each major bridge project indicat-
ing the feasible and unfeasible projects.
IV. Reports
12.      For the initial study, an Inception Report will be prepared within
six months after the start of the study covering the following:
(i) a preliminary network classification by traffic range and sur-
face type;
(ii) a description of the proposed evaluation methodology; and
(iii) a bar chart indicating staffing and responsibilities of the
consultants' team.
13.      A Draft Final Report will be submitted 12 months after the start-
ing date covering inter alia:
(i) a detailed network classification;
(ii) description of present activities and funding;
(iii) recommendations on the organization of routine and periodic
maintenance operations, possibilities for improved procedures
and the adequacy of budgetary allocations for maintenance and
rehabilitation purposes;
(iv) proposals for an improved road maintenance program to be intro-
duced progressively in line with financing constraints and
covering the period of the mid-term plan (1986-90);
(v) a proposed program of road and bridge rehabilitation covering
the same time period;
(vi) an economic evaluation of the proposed programs for improved
maintenance and rehabilitation;
(vii) a concise summary of the findings and recommendation of the
study; and
(viii) detailed recommendations for additional road inventory work,
traffic data requirements and further in-depth analysis of the
road rehabilitation and maintenance programs.



- 68 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 6
V. Data and Local Services to be Provided
14.      In ensuring overall coordination for the study, FARP will provide
information on:
(i) traffic data;
(ii) network inventory information;
(iii) all available cost accounting data on road maintenance
activities;
(iv) actual maintenance expenditures during the past three years; and
(v) other pertinent information required for the services.



-69 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Introduction
1.       This annex provides background information on the general approach
used in the preparation of sub-projects as well as details of the analysis
of alternatives and the economic evaluation of sub-projects proposed for
Bank financing. The analysis of alternatives and the results of the econo-
mic evaluation are drawn from detailed feasibility studies prepared by con-
sultants working for the ROs. The studies were reviewed in detail by Bank
preparation missions and appropriate adjustments were made to reflect vary-
ing assumptions in traffic levels, growth rates and changes in base cost
levels. The studies are available in the Project File and are listed in
Annex 6.
Evaluation Methodolog
2.       The general approach and procedures described below have been
employed in the preparation of all sub-projects on which implementation
would begin during the first 18 months of the new project. The same general
methodology will be used for the preparation of sub-projects for inclusion
in subsequent years of the investment programs.
3.       Freeway Construction and Urban Bypasses.  Congestion is the main
factor in justifying the doubling of a two-lane road to four-lanes. The
benefits are mainly vehicle operating cost and time savings from which
follow the elimination of frequent speed change cycles and low operating
speeds. In view of the significant effect of seasonal and/or peak hour
traffic volumes on benefits per vehicle-kilometer, the analysis must be
undertaken for the hourly distribution of traffic in each year. A further
element in the analysis of by-passes is the benefit for intra-city traffic
as well as the traffic diverted to the new facility. Benefits for generated
traffic are estimated separately.
4.       Rehabilitation and Pavement Overlays.  Savings in vehicle operating
costs are the major benefits from road rehabilitation projects. Time sav-
ings and benefits for generated traffic are generally excluded. A further
substantial benefit is the avoided cost of stepped-up maintenance, which
would otherwise be necessary to maintain an acceptable level of service-
ability and prevent further increases in user costs. Generally, overlays



70
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
are designed for a period of ten years. User benefits from the overlays
derive from the difference in vehicle operating costs on a poor road surface
throughout the ten-year evaluation period and on an initially excellent
surface progressively deteriorating to a poor surface. The pattern of
deterioration assumes that half the total deterioration would take place in
the last two-years of the pavement life. Savings in stepped-up maintenance
are assumed to be equivalent to the cost of the pavement overlay and its
distribution over time would build up as a function of deterioration.
5.       Upgrading of Gravel Roads.  The benefits of upgrading gravel roads
include substantial reduction in vehicle operating costs as well as possible
time savings. Maintenance cost savings also represent significant benefits
and are related to the level of traffic and type of surface on the existing
road. Benefits are estimated separately for normal, diverted and generated
traffic.
Basic Assumptions
6.       Traffic Volumes.  Traffic projections are based on current and
expected developments in the economy and take into account only normal
traffic growth. The effects of possible induced or generated traffic have
not been included in the economic evaluation. Traffic levels have been
affected during the past three years by the physical shortages of fuel and
by fuel rationing. In general, present traffic levels are about 10% below
1980/81 levels, with the reductions affecting mainly passenger car traffic.
In 1984, traffic levels increased on most routes by about 5%, this being the
first increase since 1980 or 1981. Following the lifting of fuel rationing
at the end of 1984, moderate increases are expected to continue through 1985
and it is anticipated that the current pent-up demand for travel will result
in traffic volumes returning to their former level prior to the opening years
for road sections under the project. Using 1983 or 1984 traffic levels as
base year estimates, traffic growth rates of 5% per year have been assumed
through the end of 1985, followed by 4% per year through 1990, falling to 3%
in the longer term. These medium-term rates are somewhat less than the fore-
cast growth rates for the economy.
7.       Economic Benefits.  The quantitative economic analysis of the pro-
ject road sections takes into account the savings in vehicle operating
costs, passenger travel times and road maintenance costs. In view of the
marked daily and seasonal peaks in traffic along TYH and their effects on
traffic congestion, the evaluation has been based on the hourly distribution
of traffic throughout the year. In order to take social overhead and
indirect costs into account, time savings for business trips were valued at
1.1 times the average hourly wage of travellers in the zone of influence of
the road. Since the value of time savings for non-business trips is dif-
ficult to establish, they were estimated at one-third of the average wage
rates. Time savings were not included in the quantification of benefits



- 71 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
flowing from the rehabilitation sub-projects and the upgrading of gravel
roads. In addition, the benefits of road rehabilitation were limited to
vehicle operating cost savings and did not include avoided maintenance costs
which would otherwise be necessary to maintain roads in serviceable condi-
tion. Transport cost savings for international traffic, particularly on the
TYH sections, have been included in the evaluation on the grounds that bene-
fits from this traffic accrue to Yugoslavia through foreign trade effects as
well as through entry fees on transit traffic. Although a significant
effect of road improvement on the heavily-congested sections of TYH, the
benefits of increased safety have not been quantified.
8.       Table 1 shows typical vehicle operating cost data for selected
vehicle types in January 1985 prices. The expected savings in vehicle
operating costs per vehicle km in the opening year of the project roads vary
between 14% and 40% on the congested sections of TYH and for major by-passes.
Generally, savings in transport costs on these sections account for over
half of total benefits, the remainder being savings in passenger time and
road maintenance costs. Vehicle operating cost reductions on sections pro-
posed for rehabilitation range from 6% to 9% while those on the upgrading of
roads from gravel standards are in the range of 20% to 40%.
9.       Project Costs.  Estimates of construction costs are based on sub-
stantially completed detailed engineering for all TYH sections and on pre-
liminary engineering for other road sections. The project costs used in the
evaluation include the costs of right-of-way, engineering and supervision.
10.      All costs and benefits used in the evaluation have been adjusted
for taxes and duties. However, no adjustments have been made for shadow
prices as such prices are not significantly different from those adjusted
for taxes and duties and such adjustments would tend to affect the cost and
benefits streams in the same way.
Results of Evaluation
11.      The following describes project preparation, analysis of alterna-
tives and the economic evaluation of sub-projects proposed for Bank
financing. Table 2 summarizes the characteristics of the individual road
sections.
12.      Slovenia has proposed the improvement of two major road sections
under the project, both of which carry substantial volumes of transit
traffic, namely the Smarje Sap-Visna Gora section of TYH (12 km) and the
Maribor By-Pass (6.8 km). The TYH section provides a first stage in the
improvement of the road between Ljubljana and Zagreb which will connect with
the Southern Bypass of Ljubljana at present being financed by EIB. The
proposed improvement would involve the construction of two additional traf-
fic lanes and the reconstruction of the existing two-lane road in order to



- 72 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
provide a four-lane limited access facility. The road is located in an area
of difficult terrain resulting in high construction costs estimated at
US$22.8 million base costs. The ER is estimated at 15%, with the opening
year (1989) traffic volumes being estimated conservatively at 12,500 vpd
with summer peaks of 20 to 25,000 vpd.
13.      During project preparation, major revisions were made to the pro-
ject design for the proposed Maribor By-pass, a 6.8 km section which would
relieve heavy traffic congestion in the town of Maribor. The proposed
improved road is located on the most heavily trafficked international access
route into Yugoslavia, some 15 km south of the Austrian border and the end
of the Pryhrn Autobahn. In view of the predominance of through traffic on
the link (about 13,000 vpd or 70% of total traffic), a controlled access
facility was retained rather than the earlier four-lane alternative with
at-grade intersections. A two-lane and a four-lane restricted access
facility were analyzed, both of which provide more optimal traffic service.
The estimated ER for both alternatives is 20%, but the four-lane alternative
shows a higher net present value at discount rates of 12% and 15%. The esti-
mated base cost of the four-lane alternative is $18.3 million. Even assum-
ing construction of the Karawanken Tunnel and an estimated diversion of
about 30% of heavy truck traffic, the project still yields an ER of above
15%.
14.      Croatia has proposed to include under the project two sections of
TYH totalling 28.5 km. Both sections would provide continuity in the exten-
sion of a four-lane TYH facility eastwards from Zagreb towards Belgrade.
Bank assistance in the financing of these key sections of TYH began under
the Ninth Highway Project and was subsequently pursued as far as Okucani,
126 km from Zagreb, with co-financing under the Eleventh Highway Project.
The first 6.5 km section between Prvca and Novo Gradiska is part of a longer
14 km section between Okucani and Novo Gradiska of which the first
sub-section is currently being financed under EIB Second TYH Project. The
second section proposed under the project is between Novo Gradiska and
Luzani, a distance of 22 km. The proposed improvement includes the recon-
struction of the existing two-lane road and the addition of two new traffic
lanes, with interchanges and link roads at Novo Gradiska and Luzani. Traf-
fic volumes on this section are forecast in the opening year (1989) at about
14,500 vpd. Total base construction costs are estimated at US$52.5 million,
and the ER at 18%.
15.      In Serbia, a time-slice of the primary road rehabilitation and bet-
terment program will constitute the main component for Bank participation
under the road investment program. Implementation of the sub-projects under
this program during the first 18 months of the project will include the pro-
vision of climbing lanes to four short sections totalling 15 km on two major
primary routes as well as the rehabilitation of about 90 km of other primary
roads. The economic evaluation of the individual sections, which is based
entirely on vehicle operating cost savings and excludes any savings in
stepped-up maintenance, shows high ERs ranging from 20% to about 30%. The



- 73 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 5
balance of the program will be selected from a longer list of rehabilitation
sub-projects (Annex 2), the selection being made in agreement with the Bank
according to well-defined criteria. The total cost of the rehabilitation
and betterment components under the project is established at $45.3 million
base costs.
16.      Serbia has also proposed the construction of bypasses at Pirot and
Bela Palanka on a branch of TYH on the main route to Sofia, between Nis and
the Bulgarian border. The proposed two-lane bypasses would considerably
ease the heavy traffic congestion in these important industrial and market
centers and would provide improved service levels to an estimated opening
year (1990) transit traffic of 4,200 vpd on the Pirot bypass and 5,200 vpd
on the Bela Palanka bypass. Base construction cost estimates are $6.9 mil-
lion for the 8 km Pirot bypass and $6 million for the 5.5 km Bela Palanka
bypass. Although the original projects had included grade-separated inter-
changes, detailed analysis showed that three of the four interchanges should
be replaced by at-grade intersections. The ERs are estimated at 14% for
both bypasses, but would fall to marginal levels under pessimistic assump-
tions such as a 10% increase in costs combined with a 10% decrease in
benefits. The bypasses are of lower priority in the investment program and
have been retained for Bank financing on a tentative basis subject to review
of revised costs and benefits. Construction would not begin before 1988.
17.      Proposed improvements under the project in Bosnia-Herzegovina
involve the completion of key components of the highway master plan which
was initiated under the Tenth Highway Project (Sector Loan). Three of the
five road sections proposed are integral parts of the same routes improved
under the Tenth Highway Project and are a logical follow-up to road improve-
ments under that project. Priority is being given to improving the geomet-
ric design and capacity of clearly identifiable bottlenecks, such as the
30 km Blajuz-Bradina section of the main road from Sarajevo to the Adriatic
Coast. Three of the proposed road sections involve completing gaps in the
primary network by upgrading existing substandard links. Sub-projects for
the balance of the program will be drawn from Bosnia-Herzegovina's rehabili-
tation program for primary and regional roads and will be submitted to the
Bank for approval. The total cost of the Bosnia-Herzegovina program under
the project is estimated at $40.7 million base costs and the feasibility
studies show ERs in the range of 15% to 28% with an overall average of about
25%.



- 74 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
1/
Vehicle Operating Costs; Dinars per Veh. km
(January 1985 prices)
Running Costs                       Depreciation
Vehicle Type               Fuel   Tires    Oil   Maintenance   Sub-total          Costs       Total
Passenger Car  Financial    8.76   0.54    0.27          0.91           10.48          4.80      15.28
(1300 cc)      net-of-tax   5.06   0.42    0.20         0.79           6.47          3.83       10.30
Bus             Financial    18.38   3.91    1.87        9.13           33.29         17.85      51.14
(45 seats)    net-of-tax  11.85   3.91    1.45          9.13          26.34          17.85     44.19
Truck           Financial   18.38   3.91    1.87         4.33           28.49         10.95      39.44
(9.5 ton)      Net-of-tax  11.85   3.91      1.45       4.33          21.54          10.95     32.49
Truck/Trailer  Financial   24.85   7.63    3.30          5.14           40.92         15.20      56.12
(9.5 t & 10 t) net-of-tax  16.02   7.63    2.55          5.14          31.34          15.20     46.54
1/ On level, tangent paved road at constant speed 80 km.
Source; Serbia Road Organization



-75  -                                                        ANNEX 4
Table 2
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Characteristics of Road Sections Proposed for Bank-Financinq -
V/i/ 3/                                                                 6/
Type of                  1984 Traffic (ADT)             Upening        VOC    4/    Construction Cost       Economic
Road Section          Improvement         Pass.Car  Buses   Truck   Total          Year     Reductions        Total   Per km          Return
----- uS$ m -----
Slovenia
Smarje Sap-           4-lane limited
Visnd-Gora (12 km)   access               7,750    250      2,100   10,100        1989      29-40S            22.8    1.91             15
Maribor bypass 7'    4-lane limited
(b.8 km)              access             10,800    490      1,410   12,700        1989      14-31%            18.3    2.69             20
Croatia
Prvca-Luzani          4-lane
(28.5 km)            limited access       6,800    320      4,580   11.700        1989      25-33%            52.5    1.84             18
Serbia
Paracin-Zajecar       Rehabilitation &
(Cestobrodica 4.8km)  climbing lanes       5,490    200      1.670    7,360        1987       6-21%             2.7    0.55             20
Paracin-Zajecar       Rehabilitation &
(Valakonje 3.1km)    cliibing lanes       5,490    200      1.670    7,360        1987       4-21%             1.6    0.51             20
Ljig-G. Milanovac    Rehabilitation &
(hudnik 3.7 km)       climbing lanes      6,360    390      2,900    8,6650       1987       3-20%             2.0    0.55             23
Beograd-G.MilanOvac  Rehabilitation &
(Rusanj 3.7 km)        climbing lanes      9,320    1,520   2,040   12,860         1987       4-20%             2.2    0.59             20
Grdel ica-Tabanovac
(25 km)              Overlay              5,170    390      3,8S0    9,400        1987       6-9%              4.1    0.17             30
Usizi-Asanovac
(5.2 km)             Overlay              5,740    470      2,780    8,980        1987       6-9S              0.7    0.13             27
Preljina-Adrani
(20.7 km)            Overlay              8,730    480      2,680   11,890        1987       6-9%              3.4    0.17             28
beograd-Majdan
120.0 km)            Overlay              9,050    820      1,950   11,810        1987       6-9%              3.3    0.17             26
Pirot bypass 7/       2-lane
(8 km)               limited access       2,540      60       600    3,200        1989      34-42%             6.9    0.88             14
bela Palanka by-      2-lane
pass (5.6 km) 7I    limited access        3,250      70       680    4,000        1989      26-35%              6.0    1.09            14
Bosnia-Herze oin
Tilauz-dradina/    Rehabilitation/
(30.3 km)             climbing lanes      6,850    190      1,690   10,800        1989       4-15%            10.0    0.33             28
Maslovare-Pribinic   Upgrading gravel
jl8.8 km) LO/         road                  b80      20       100       800       1988      32-40%             5.1    0.27             15
Liaraci-Mliniste      Upgrading gravel
(19.9 km)             road                  920      90       540    1,550        1987      37-49%             4.3    0.22             29
O.Kostajnica-8.       Upgrading gravel
vubica (21.8 ki)      road                  800      80       440    1,290        1987      20-50%             5.6    0.26             19
Overall Economic Return                                                                                                                   2Q
1/ Including only first year program for rehabilitation.
2/ Since 1982, traffic levels have been affected by fuel shortages and rationing end are now about 10% below 1980/81
levels.
3/ Traffic increased on most routes by about 58 in 1984 and this trend is expected to continue in 1985 following
the lifting of fuel rationing at the end of 1984. Annual traffic growth rates: 5% through 1985; 4% 1986-90; 3% from 1991.
4/  Range of vehicle operating cost reductions in opening year.
5/  Excluding physical and price contingencies.
6/  Excluding induced traffic
7/  Traffic which would be diverted to new facility.
8/  1983 tratfic levels.
Y/  Average traffic for section.
1O/ About 60% of traffic would be diverted Ooboj-Banja Luke traffic.
Source; Road Organizations and mission estimates



- 76-                                                                                 XXNEX S
YUIGOSLAVIA                                                                                 Page  1
STAFF APPRAISAL. REPDRT OF
A HIIGHWIAY SECTOR PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
RESPOlISI-              FY86          I          FY87                       FY48                     FY89                       FY90                FY91
ACTIVITY                 BILITY         CY8O      ___        CY86                      CYG7                      CY88                      CY89                     CY9R'I
I                   2   3                      I 2    3I                   1    3 i        I    2     3      4                      I 
Signature                  Govt./WB                               i                                II                 II                               II                  I      I
Effectiveness              Govt./WbI                               1.I                      I      iI                        II                  I      II                 I      I
Closing Date               WRI                                    I     II                         II                                                                        
FIRST TRANCHIE                                                                                  I                    I                        I      I      II                 I      I
SLOVENIiA:                                                                                                                                                II                 I      I
P.Q. Advertising           Govt.                I                                                                                                                     
lila Period                Govt.                                                                                             III                                           I
Eyaluation                 Govt./WR 8I                                                I     I      II                                                                       
Award ana Mobilization   Contractor                                                                                    III
Construction;I                                              i      I     II                 I      I                                                                        
&nSarje Sap-V. Gora    Contractor                         I     I                         *I                             P                                         I     I
Maribor byPass          Contractor         II                  I      I~q                                            m                                                   
CROATIA.                                                                                                                                                                       
P.Q. Advertising           Govt.0                                        iI                 I      II                 I      iI                  I      III
bid Period                 Govt.jI                                                                              I      I     II                         II                 I     I
Evaluation                 Govt./WG SI                                                II                                                                              
Award anoiMobilization   Contractor                                                   I     I      II                  I     II                  I      II                 I
Construction;                                                                                                                                      
*Prvca-Luzani            Contractor                       I     I! Pin                                              i    p          in        i     !I
SER81A.                                                                                                                                                                        
P.QJ.Advertising           Govt.                                         iI                 I      II                  II                              II                        I
bia Period                 Govt.                          a"                                                                 II                          
Evaluation                 Govt./WS                         ~II                             I      I                                                                          .
Awaro and Mobilization   Contractor                         III                                                        II                        I
Construction.                                                                                                                                                               
'Rehabilitation          Contractor                                           in       P       p n                                                                       j     I
RIOSNIA-HIERZELOVINA;                                                                                                                                
P.Q. Aovertising           Govt.0                                 II                                                   I     II                  I      II                 I      I
Bid Perioa                 Contractor                                                                           I      I     II                  I      iI                 I      I
Evaluation                 Goet./W8                                                                                                                                          
Awaro and Mobilization   Contractor                         I     IIII                                                 I     iI                  I      II
ConstructionI                                                            I                                             I                         I     II                  I      I
*Bla,iuz.braaina         Contractor                                    I*P                      i        in      n i III                                                 I      I
'n.Kostin.-B. Oubica   Contractor                         I     I      1*P n                     iI                  I     II                  I     II                  I     I
* Baraci-Mliniste        Contractor          I                                                                                                                             
Rehabilitation          Contractor                             III                                                  I     II                  I     II                  I      I
SECOND TRUANCHE                                                                                  I                               II                  I      II                 I      I
(ALL BORROWIERS)I                                               I                                                   I      II                        I      II                 I      I
Review withBaunk           Gont./WB                                      IIII                                          I     IIII                                          I      I
Approval                   Govt./WB                                                                                                                                          
Bid Period                 Contractor                       III                              i     II
Evaluation                 Govt./WS                                                                                                                                          
Awardi ana Mobilization   Contractor                        I     II                               II                  I     II                  I      II                        I
kehab.IRetterloent         Contractor                       I     I~                                                  1                                               
THIIIROTRARCiE                                                                                                          I               I I I II     I      II                  I
(A.LLaORROWERS)                                                 II                               I     IIII                                          I      II
Review withnBank           Govt./h8IIWI                                                                         I                                                     
Approval                   Govt./WB                         IIiI                                                      I      IIII
Bid Period                 Contractor                                    I                         II                 I      Ii                  I     II                  I
Evaluation                 Goa,t./CRI                                    II                        II                                                                        
Award and Mobilization   Contractor                         IIIIij                                                                               II                        I      I
SERBIA.                                                                                                                                                                         
Construction                                                             I
C Pirot By-Pass            ContractorI                                                       I     Iv                       !          mp        g     lI                  I      I
vadela Palanka By-Pass   Contractor                               II                        I      II                   1S            i       in        .
80SNIA-lIERZEG.OVINA.                                                                                                                                                          
Construction                                                I                                                   i     I      IiI                                           I      I
ahMaslovare..Pribinic      Contractor          IIII                                                II                   1                   iIn                              
u Other Sections           Contractor          II                       II                  I      IIiin                                j      g      ~               
ALL BORROWERS:                                                                          I            iI                  i      II                 I      III
Rehabjet'ttermenet         Contractor                                                 I      I     IIm pmi                                            t
TECHINICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                            II                                                  II                        I      I
Phase  I;I                                                               I                                      I                                                    I     I      I
Initial Study              Consultants                                                       III
Recruit Consultants        Govt/Wli                         I                                 InowI                                              I       II 
Study Review               Govt/WB                           Ii        II                    I                  i      I     II                  I      Ii                 I      I
Phase  II;III                                                                                                                                    II                        I
Finalize TORt              Govt/WBb                         I      II                        I     II                  I      II                 I      II
Pr epare Proposals    Consultants                           III                              III
Recruit Consultants        Govt/CRII                                                               II                  I                                                    
Study Execution            Consultants                      I     I      III                                                                     I     I



YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Project Preparation Schedule. First Tranche
RESPONSI-       I 9 8        _ _                            1 9 L.
ACTIVITY             BILITY OF:   NOV       DEC      JAN     FEB      MAR      APR      MAY     JUN    JUL    AUG    SEP
1.  PUBLISH PREQUAL. NOTICE    GOVT.
2.  REVIEW P.Q. DOCUMENTS        WB           |       I
3.  ISSUE P.Q. DOCUMENTS         GOVT.
4.  REVIEW/FINALIZE BID DOCS.  GOVT/WB                                /////,LLL'/      'LLLLLII IIA
5.  P.Q. OF CONTRACTORS          GOVT.                          | /
6.  REVIEW OF P.Q.               WB                                                             LI
7.  ISSUE BID DOCUMENTS          GOVT.
8.  BID PERIOD                   CTRS
9.  BID EVALUATION               GOVT.                                                                                    //////
10. RECOMMEND AWARD              GOVT.                                                                                      .
11. REVIEW BID EVAL.             GOVT. &                                                                                           _ LLL
WB
12. SIGN CONTRACT                GOVT. &
-   CONTR.                                             _   _
April 18, 1986



- 78 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 5
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available
In the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
1.   Yugoslavia:  Development with Decentralization - World Bank Country
Economic Report, 1975, Ch. 7, "Infrastructure-Transport,"
pp 166-178.
2.   Guidelines for Highway Feasibility Studies, 1975, Vols 1 and 2,
Dorsch Consult in association with Louis Berger, International, Inc.
3.   Yugoslavia Transport Sector Memorandum (White Cover), April 1978.
4.   Yugoslavia and the World Bank, Ch. 3, "Assistance to the Transporta-
tion Sector," pp 21-28, September 1979.
5.   Road User Charges Study - Summary, CRO, Ljubljana, December 1981
6.   Road User Charges Study, Updated Main Report (Serbo-Croatian), CRO,
Ljubljana, December 1981.
7.   Study of Tolls and Toll Facilities on TYH (Final Report), Belgrade
Road Institute, March 1983.
8.   Yugoslavia:  Transport Sector Investment Review (White Cover),
May 19, 1983.
9.   Yugoslavia:  Transport Sector Strategy Paper (Yellow Cover),
February 16, 1984.
10.   Yugoslavia:  Proposed Highway Sector Project - Foreign Exchange
Component Civil Works, October 16, 1985.
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.   Information on Trans-Yugoslav Highway Construction, Council of
Republic and Provincial Roads Organizations, Ljubljana, April 1976.



- 79 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 5
2.   General Study of Trans-Yugoslav Highway, 1st Report, Council of
Republican and Provincial Road Organizations, Ljubljana,
August 1977.
3.   Research Study on the Development of Cargo Transportation between
Europe and the Near East, Dorsch Consult consulting engineers,
May 1977.
4.   Study to Determine European Community Interest in the Construction
of the InnViertel and Pyhrn Autobahn in Austria (partial transla-
tion), Plana and Bisig, Hamburg 1978.
5.   Pyhrn Autobahn Traffic Study (partial translation), Prof. G.
Steierwald et al, Vienna 1981
Self Management Community of Interest for Roads, Ljubljana:
6.   Slovenia Transport System Study, Vols I and II, United Nations,
February 1983.
7.   Smarje Sap-Visna Gora, Feasibility Study, March 1983.
8.                          , Appendix, June 1983.
9.                          , Appendix A, July 1983.
10.            __, Appendix B, September 1983.
11.   Maribor Expressway - Third Stage, Feasibility Study, March 1983.
12.   ___                               , Appendix, June 1983.
13.                                     , Appendix A, September 1983
Self Management Community of Interest for Roads of Croatia, Zagreb:
14.   "Brotherhood and Unity" Highway, Prvca-N. Gradiska-Luzani section,
Feasibility Study, Volume I, June 1983
15.                            , Volume II, June 1983.
16.                            , Annex, September 1983.
17.   "Brotherhood and Unity" Highway, Prvca-Okucani-Luzani, Feasibility
Study, Annex, June 1983.
Self Management Community of Interest for Roads, Belgrade:
18.   Feasibility Study of Freeway, Belgrade-Nis, section Tekija-Pojate,
June 1983.



- 80 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5
19.                               , Annex, June 1983.
20.   Feasibility Study on the Construction of Bypass around Bela Palanka
and Pirot, February 1983.
21.   Feasibility Study on the Construction of 1/2 Highway on Bypass
around Pirot, Traffic Economics, June 1983.
22.                                         , Annex, June 1983.
23.   Feasibility Study on the Construction of 1/2 Highway on Bypass
around Bela Palanka, Traffic Economics, June 1983.
24.                                         , Annex, June 1983.
25.   Feasibility Study on the Construction of 1/2 Highway on Bypass
around Bela Palanka, Updating of the data from the Main Study,
September 1983.
26.      ____                              , Annex 2, September 1983.
27.   Feasibility Study on the Construction of 1/2 Highway on Bypass
around Pirot, Updating of the data from the Main Study, September
1983.
28.                                         , Annex 2, September 1983.
29.   Feasibility Study on the Construction of By-Pass around Bela Palanka
and Pirot, Updating of Study, February 1985.
30.   Feasibility Study on Construction of an Additional Climbing Lane on
Road Direction M-22 (Saddle across "Rudnik") and M-5 (Direction
"Cestobrodica" and "Valakonje"), September 1983.
31.                                    , Updating of Study, February 1985.
32.   Feasibility Study on Additional Climbing Lane on Road M22 (Rusanj),
February 1985.
33.   Feasibility Study of Carriageway Rehabilitation on Certain Direc-
tions of Arterial Roads M-1, M-5, M-22 and M-24/1, September 1983.
34.                                   , Updating of Study, February 1985.
35.   Feasibility Study on Traffic and Economic Justification of Carriage-
way Rehabilitation for Arterial Roads in Serbia, February 1985.



- 81 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 5
Self Management Community of Interest for Roads, Sarajevo:
36.   Feasibility Study for Baraci-Mliniste Road, First Report, March 1983.
37.                                     , Final Report, June 1983.
38.                                     , Annex, June 1983.
39.                                     , Final Report, September 1983.
40.                                     , Annex, September 1983.
41.   Feasibility Study for Bos. Dubica-Bos. Kostajnica, First report,
March 1983.
42.                                      , Final Report, June 1983.
43.                                    , Annex, June 1983.
44.                                    , Final Report, September 1983.
45.                                    , Annex, September 1983.
46.   Feasibility Study on the Reconstruction of Road M-4 on Section
Maslovare-Pribinic, June 1983.
47.                                    , Annex, June 1983.
48.   Feasibility Study on the Reconstruction of Road M-4 on Section
Maslovare-Pribinic, Updating of the Data from the Main Study,
September 1983.
49.                                       , Annex 2, September 1983.
50.   Feasibility Study of the Traffic Conditions Improvement for the
Arterial Road No. 17 Section Blazuj-Konjic, June 1983.
51.                                       , Annex, June 1983.
52.   Feasibility Study of the Traffic Conditions Improvement for the
Arterial Road M-17 Section Blazuj-Bradina, Updating of the Data from
the Main Study, September 1983.
53.                                       , Annex 2, September 1983.
54.   Feasibility Study on the Construction of 1/2 Highway on Section
Kiasnic-Aerodrom, June 1983.



82 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 5
55.                                        , Annex 2, September 1983.
56.   Feasibility study on the Construction of Road M-5 on Part
Praca-Renovica-Mesici, July 1983.
57.                                        , Annex, July 1983.
58.                                        , Annex 2, September 1983.



YUGOSLAViA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Federal Association of Republican & Provincial Road Organizations: FARP
Pted-ral AasociationoI
Repub iczna.. -.-  tnca
Road Orga;nizaations 
Technical                            AssemC A                             Assembly                  Self MaCDgeNAent
Department                           32 Members                           ChSirmanshep                 Control f0ard                 i
8 Members                    8 Members |
Secretary                            Chairman
Deputy-Charmon                                                       Chairronn
16 Users
HERZEGOVINA                 MONTENEGRO                    CROATIA                   MACEDONIA                     SLOVEN IA                    SERBIA                      KOSOVO                    VOJVODINA
Repubic Self-Mnangcment    Republic Self-Management   Repubilc Self-Monagement    Republic Self-Mnagogment          Self-Management        Republic Self-Management    Provinicial Solt-Management   Provinicial Self-Management
Interest Community         Interest Cormmunity         Interest Community         Interest Community           interest Community          Interest Community           Interest Community          Interest Community
for Roads                  for Roads                   for Roads                   for Roads                    (or Roads                  for Roads                    for Roads                   for Rocids
Worid Bank -25820






NORWAY         ED EN $ks                                                                                   EUROPEAN TRANSPORT NETWORK
tin oe,arterial,rvs between weter and central EuroPe
Li.  i    i                                                                 n                                                                 Balkans and middle East~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~te akasan  idl Es
\il  rI' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Majar rqhayira
lf~~~~~I,                                                                                                  Mater rivers
~~c    trrE0r  -        Cap   ~~~~~~~~~~~'s  s                                                    Maecr
rlraeenA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  /    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~-                                        * ~~~~~~~Airports
'OUN'  T   U                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ports
~~~DPN  AB ~~~~~~~~~~~,  \pOrssv   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    S                                                cii~~~~~~0 pipelines
F'OFTAND    ~ ~ ~       ~ ~ ~                   GRMN~ ~           PO L AN U
0~~~,r1 DLMLeEP \O5lr~~~~~~~~~~~~                                             coo~0  soc  400  300  2a  100   o0 a       e       200     300     *aa
an                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                     ~~GERM  XZ~GSrQoAK                       IXb-                                                                                                    57
J6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1                                                                                          sneeterroeoc  a  iesares5ern55ei"srin
f                                  At~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
,P   P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
rA~~~                                                                                                                                                           Ni~~
rt   tore's  B  POE ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  P 
-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P ILno  '985






IBRD 17934R1
1.                       /                                                                 T  -                   zos                   t~~                                                ~        ~~~~~~~ J  /
A   U  S T R I A                             r      i                                                                                                                                         AU5T  A        HUNGAR  
<                        <    4             7 e                      ~~~~~~~~H U N G A R Y                                                      2                                                      
i~ 4>s- iX  rR  O MA A N  ICA 8 
Oil.,/                                                                                   A .hYt
C. pb.  T I H   -<    I '' 'S.A 
Pr-p-sed TYH  Sections  nderf HiqtaA  Sec,to., Projet                                                                              ,      ALBANI A
otter  ou.tes under High-va Sector Project
-        UOLAI ttIwn                                                                                      or  8t 0J , 58  n  
Y'~~~~'A-,Fk*i rq~  .
'cc   c e    n,p   o' H t epubur   endv/    ' tcc,nc   ,                                                                                                                                                 ._.             , 
.    cr onoe l Ca S c I nP donna                                                                           IeAA rA urLw c                 -                               1e     r    P  r      ,>grrc
A                                                                        e ScOtrot 08 .       '         rpn -T 1h .. -   '  | Scp
---c'A,, EIB, TY HUPr}cs  ,                                                        5.        GREECE
SUIrcrc                                                                 .SIs                                     $s Stet    .       -U  , o c rrGc    58,c                        ' 
"Y ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -
_r 16MAY  1986



