                                         Brazil                                  33625
              m i .
              Inirai wnool ImprovementProject FUNDESZOLA iIiA
                     n 1                           -
                                    (Loan 7122-BR)
                     Proposed Amendment to the Loan Agreement


1. This Memorandum seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to amend the Loan
Agreement for the Third School Improvement Project on a no-objection basis. The
proposed amendment would adjust the Project's design to adapt to the Government's
needs to improvepublic education in the North, Northeast and Center-West regions of the
country by financing school rehabilitation and construction of new schools.

                               PART I -BACKGROUND

2. The CAS 2004-2007 highlights the importance of continuing Bank assistance to the
Government's program for a more equitable, sustainable and competitive Brazil, in the
interest of reducing extreme poverty and providing social inclusion. According to the
CAS, low educational outcomes and attainment among the poor remains the single most
important obstacle to reducing poverty and inequality in Brazil. In line with this
assessment, the CAS's education sector goal is to provide the opportunity for all children
to complete the eight-year fundamental schooling cycle by 2007, and to improve
educational attainment and academic performance in basic subjects, particularly
Portuguese and mathematics. Fundescola IIIA project has been contributing to the
attainment of these goals by promoting greater participation of parents and the broader
public in the governance of schools and school systems, reducing the levels of inequality
across schools, improving school and system management, increasing school
effectiveness and student performance, and by monitoring progress toward obtaining
these goals through project performance indicators. By targeting the three poorest regions
of Brazil, and in particular the Northeast, Fundescola IIIA project also adheres to the
CAS's geographicfocus.

3. The Fundescola School Improvement Program overall concept and purpose were
presented by the Government to the World Bank in October 1997 as a ten year program.
Its aim is to help the Ministry of Education improve Brazil's education performance by
assisting the states and municipalities in the poorest regions of the country (Northeast,
North, and Center-West) to reduce the educational inequalities in their systems, and
increase the effectiveness of their schools so that all children in these regions can
successfully complete the eighth grade, the final year of the compulsory "fundamental''
cycle.

4. The Government's overall strategy consists of three steps. The first step was designed
to develop an initial set of tools needed for improving school equity and effectiveness,
increasing public awareness about the need to improve school quality, and trying out
these tools on a relatively small scale. The second step focused on improving and
expanding the set of tools developed in the first phase, trying them out in additional
schools, and more aggressively engaging the education establishment and the public
sector beyond the schools in the process of school-based development. The third step
aims at completing the work involved in the development of the tools and processes for

                                             -2-


increasing school effectiveness and educational equity, and at designing and trying out
strategies of going to scale with these tools. The Fundescola projects have been designed
to match this strategy.

5. Fundescola I, signed in June 1998, started the program. It developed and piloted the
first set of school-based tools, including especially the "School Development Plan" for
improving the effectiveness of school strategic management, and "Escola Ativa" for
improving the quality of instruction and learning in rural, multi-grade schools. This
project inaugurated the school "minimum operational standards" model for improving
school system equity; it disseminated information on these initiatives to state and
municipal schools and secretariats throughout the North and Center-West regions. In
addition, it launched the "priority attention zone" approach, in which neighboring
municipalities, grouped in micro regions, collaborate with one another, with their state
governments, and with the Ministry of Education in improving schooling in their
jurisdictions.

6. Fundescola 11, signed in December 1999,has greatly improved the school-based tools
developed earlier, and added new tools. The first secretariat-based tool was developed
and tested under Fundescola 11. A comprehensive school improvement strategy was also
introduced with this Project. This Project broadened the testing of these school
improvement tools, including the new ones, and added an additional region into the
project (the Northeast). At the same time, Fundescola I1continued to support Fundescola
I schools in order to promote the sustainabilityof the earlier interventions.Awareness of
the need to improve school effectiveness and the availability of the new tools was
promoted by means of seminars, workshops, research studies, and especially through the
demonstration effect associated with the testing of the school improvement strategy in
thousands of schools.

7. The tools, guidance, and technical assistance provided to schools and Secretariats of
Education during the implementation of Fundescola I and I1have proven to be effective.
The Fundescola strategy has demonstrably contributed to a significant improvement in
educational outcomes for learners in thousands of schools in the North, Northeast, and
Center-West. Nonetheless, there are over 80,000 schools spread across 2000
municipalities in these regions. The greatest challenge facing the Ministry of Education,
beyond assuring consolidation and sustainabilityof what has already been achieved, is to
develop and introduce strategies to bring Fundescola to scale, that is, to deliver the
Fundescola school improvement strategy to an even greater numbers of municipalities,
including the poorest ones with the weakest institutional capacity. Clearly, the project's
role should be to focus on the development of the products, processes, and strategies that
will allow for large scale improvementsin the schools. But beyond Fundescola itself, it is
ultimately the responsibility of the Ministry take these strategies to the schools, using
state and municipal secretariatsas the implementingagencies.

8. Fundescola IIIA brings in the third step of the strategy by helping local governments
integrate Fundescola's school improvement reforms into their structures and routines.
This project has been providing some additional assistance to schools that had begun to

                                            -3-


introduce Fundescola's schooling improvement reforms to consolidate these reforms
under the responsibility and support of their Secretariats of Education. In addition,
Fundescola IIIA has been helping hundreds of local governments expand these reforms
into thousands of additional schools. Fundescola IIIA has also developed and has been
using a new set of teachingAearning models, in addition to "Escola Ativa" and "Gestar",
for different types of schools and population groups. Finally, Fundescola IIIAis building
the capacity of local governments to support continuous improvement in schooling
quality, and promoting the financial, administrative,and managerial permanence of these
reforms through incentives and partnerships. In this way, the project will help assure the
sustainability of Fundescola-basedschool improvementby local governments.

9. For almost two years, the implementation of Fundescola IIIA was considered
"unsatisfactory"due to lack of strategic direction, continuous management changes, slow
implementation, and stalled disbursements. The Bank team has been working very hard
to support the Government in correcting these issues that stemmed from a change in
Government in early 2003 and the subsequent changes (5 in total) of project leadership.
During this period, the Bank team acted very pro-actively,conducting special supervision
missions (up to 4 in a single year) to re-focus the project and re-strengthen its
implementation. During this period, the Bank supervision has been very pro-actively,
with special supervisionmissions (up to 4 in a single year) to re-focus the project and re-
strengthen its implementation. A strategy consisting of disseminating the Strategic
Planning for the Education Secretariats (PES), the School Development Plan (PDE) and
the Escola Ativa (a teaching/learning model) has been initiated and is expected to reach
all 2704 municipal secretariats of education located in the North, North-East and Center-
West regions by year 2008. During the March 2005 mission, the Bank team has
concluded that the key issues have now been corrected, and that project implementation
is back on track. As such, the Bank team upgraded the project implementation to
"satisfactory".The team is continuing to monitor the achievement of project goals and the
project'sdisbursement rate. Budget for project implementation has been secured, at least
for 2005. Fundescola IIIA is now focused on the achievement of its development
objectives and the outcome indicators are likely to be achieved.

10. The Fundescola IIIA Loan, in an original amount of  182,800,000.00was approved
by the Board on June 13, 2002 and declared effective on June 27, 2002. The project is
expected to be completed by June 30, 2006. As of August 31, 2005, the Loan had
disbursed  81,331,970.28,representing 44.4% of the total amount of the Loan and there
are no outstanding audits.

                         PART IT- PROPOSEDAMENDMENT

11.For the purposes described above, the Government of Brazil requested an amendment
to the Loan that consists of the inclusion in Component A of the Project of a new
subcomponent to support rehabilitation and construction of schools. As a consequence
the following changes will apply: (i) inclusion of category of works in Schedule 1of the
Loan Agreement; (ii) inclusion of National Competitive Bidding-NCB procurement
method to contract the works; and (iii) reallocation of loan proceeds among categories to

                                            -4-



support financing of the new subcomponent. These changes are reflected in Schedule I to
the Amendment, attached to this Memo.

12. In view of the inclusion of works subcomponentin the Project, the safeguard category
will change from Category "C" to Category "B". Due to this fact, the Borrower prepared
an Environmental Management Plan        - EMPB, which was approved by the Bank. To
reflect these changes, the PID and the ISDS for the Project were also updated and
approved by QAT. The introduction of the NCB procurement method was reviewed and
approved by LCOPR to allow contractingof works estimated to cost from $350,000 up to
US$5,000,000.

13. The amount of the new Subcomponent that would be financed by the loan is of
12.6m which will be reallocated from the following Categories: 2.3m (from Category
lA), 8.0m (from Category 2A) and 2.3 m (from Category 3). The reallocation from
other categories will not have an effect on the prospect for the achievement of the
projects' original objectives.However, output targets now include the construction of 650
new school classrooms.

                                PART III -RATIONALE

14. The core of the proposed amendment is to adjust the Project in order to assure that it
will continue to achieve its objectives. As a result of recent detailed School Facilities
Survey ("Levantamentoda Situa@o Escolar - LSE') in regions of great demand, schools
have been identified to be in very bad conditions or with no conditions at all of
functioning. Thus the Government requested an amendment to the Fundescola IIIA Loan
Agreement (Loan No. 7122-BR) to include a subcomponent to support school
rehabilitation and construction. The subcomponent had been part of Fundescola I and
Fundescola 11,but originally eliminated from Fundescola IIL4 because the Government
had expressed its interest in focusing on management and pedagogical investments. Due
the results of the survey, the Government reconsidered this decision and is now keen on
supporting the civil works effort through this loan, which are necessary to raise of
primary schools to minimum operationalstandards.

15. The Federal Government, through COFIEX, has already approved this proposed
amendment,

16. The Bank's review of these proposals concluded that they appropriately reflect the
new Government sector strategy. At the same time, the proposed changes fit within the
essential goals of the Project, as well as on the recommendation of the CAS to continue
support improvements in the policy and institutional framework for Brazil's education
sector.

17. In supporting the Government'srequest for this amendment, the Bank technical team
evaluated the major risks associated with it. The key risk lies in having the Government
to focus on physical infrastructure as opposed to maintaining interest in improving the
governance and quality of education through systemic and pedagogical reform. We

                                            -5-


believe that the strategic focus of the program will continue to be the latter both because
of the size of the investment and because of the Government's continuing endorsement of
and commitment to Fundescola's strategy. However, we recognize that the systemic
reforms promoted by Fundescola do in fact need to occur in an educational environment
with minimum conditions conducive to effective and sustainable change.               Thus,
supporting some school construction makes sense given the findings of the School
Facilities Survey.


                                              -6-




                                        SCHEDULE 1


                           Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan


1.      The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expendituresfor items so to be financed in each Category:


                                         Amount of the
                                        Loan Allocated                        % of
           Category                  (Expressedin Euros)                 Expenditures

(1) Goods (except as covered
    by Categories(3) and (4)below:

    (a) For the Borrower                  5,100,000                 100% of expenditures
                                                                    except for taxes

    (b) For the Participating            10,200,000                 100% of foreign
        States and Participating                                    expenditures and 19%
        Municipalities                                              of local expenditures

(2) Consultants'services and
    Training (except as covered
   by Category (3) below):

    (a) For the Borrower                 14,600,000                 100%

    (b) For the Participating             3,000,000                 30%
        States and Participating
        Municipalities

(3) Goods, works and services           129,686,000                 50%
    for Subprojectsunder Parts
    A.l, B.2, and C.2 of the
    Project

(4) AdministrativeExpenses                4,300,000                 100%

(5) Works (except as covered             12,600,000                 50%
    by Category (3) above)

(6) Fee                                    1,828,000                Amount due under
                                                                    Section 2.04 of this
                                                                    Agreement

(7) Premia for Interest Rate                      0                 Amount due under

                                     -7-


   Caps and Interest Rate                           Section 2.09 (c) of
   Collars                                          this Agreement

                               Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated                % of
          CateEtorv          (Expressed in Euros)        Expenditures

(8) Unallocated                 1,486,000

       TOTAL                  182.800.000

