Report No. PID10668
Project Name                             Brazil-FUNDESCOLA 3
Region                                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                                   Other Education
Project ID                               BRPE57653
Borrower(s)                              FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Ministry of Education
Address:
Contact Person: Emilio Marquez
Tel: 55-61-316-2908
Fax: 55-61-316-2910
Email: emilio@fundescola.org.br
Environment Category                     C
Date PID Prepared                        September 24, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date                 November 26, 2001
Projected Board Date                     March 12, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
(a)  Main Sector Issues During the last decade, primary education moved up
to a position of priority importance in public policy at the national,
state, and municipal levels, and simultaneously gained much more
prominence in the media and more broadly in civil society. For example,
since 1995, the federal government raised the expansion of student
enrollment and the quality of learning primary school aged children to a
top position of its policy agenda (MEC, 2001). The federal government's
policy for improving primary education is based on the principles of
improving the equity of opportunities for all children and the
effectiveness of the schools to guarantee adequate quality teaching and
learning. The government seeks to acheive these improvements through
strategies that help state and municipal governments align their education
policies and programs with these principles, and that increase the
engagement of the public in order to promote greater social control and
public accountability. Despite today's relatively low educational
attainment level of 6.7 years for individuals aged 10 or more, (IBGE,
2001), Brazil has made extraordinary progress in the last half-decade.
Improvements include the following:the percentage of children aged 7 to 14
enrolled in school increased from 89t in 1994 to 96t in 1999 (MEC,
2001);primary school enrollment increased by nearly 27t in the Northeast
Region, compared to 13t for Brazil as a whole (MEC, 2001);average
per-student spending cannot drop below R$315 anywhere in Brazil, compared
with expenditure levels as low as R$25 in hundreds of municipalities prior
to the introduction of the 1996 FUNDEF law;the proportion of children aged
11-15 who have completed 4th grade increased from 60t in 1994 to yy9è in
2000.Despite the substantial progress on initial enrollment rates, even in
the poorest regions of Brazil (now at nearly 100w overall), poor system
performance continues to impede Brazil's ability to achieve higher levels
of educational attainment.    Previous decades of inequality in financing,



and the low priority given by government and the public to education until
recently, mean that any improvements in performance made by Brazilian
schools have been from a low starting point. Results on the indicators
specified below pose a particular challenge for reform in the North,
Northeast and Center-West regions. (i) Promotion through Primary School.
High levels of failure of children in primary school each year continue to
plague Brazil, particularly the regions of the Fundescola Program. Even
though primary school promotion rates doubled nationally between 1995 and
2000, the percentage of children in 2000 asked by their teachers to repeat
a year of schooling remains high in the North (over 42 percent), Northeast
(approximately 45 percent) and Center-West (over 35 percent) regions
remain extremely high especially in comparison with the South
(approximately 25 percent). The two main consequences of these failure
rates are: (i) enormous resources are spent in producing one eighth grade
graduate, some 18 years on average; and (ii) faced with the prospect of
having to repeat the same grade level over and over, many children choose
to drop out.(ii) Learning Achievement. According to the Brazil's
National System for Basic Education Evaluation (SAEB), student achievement
in the North, Northeast and Center-West states falls below the national
average and substantially below that of wealthier states in the South and
Southeast. MEC's SAEB assessment system classifies learning achievement
with respect to a uniform scale of proficiency. The 1999 SAEB assessment
results report that less than 25 percent of fourth-grade pupils in the
Project's three regions surpass the lowest performance level on the scale.
This means that in mathematics, three out of four children are unable to
demonstrate understanding of place value, multiply and divide numbers, add
fractions with the same denominator, or solve problems that require more
than one step. In terms of literacy, this means they are unable to
recognize that authors use language to express different emotions, or that
context can be used to analyze meanings of words in a text passage. In the
sciences, these children have no comprehension of basic natural science
concepts such as gravity and the transport of oxygen by the blood; they
are also unfamiliar with the use of scientific language to describe
phenomena. (iii) Completion of Primary Schooling. The consequence of low
rates of promotion and learning achievement is a low survival rate during,
and low completion rate of the primary cycle. In Brazil, although a
continual but gradual increase in investments in educational quality since
1980, especially in the last decade, has resulted in nearly a tripling of
eighth-grade conclusion rates by 2000, from 12 to 38 percent, completion
rates of children attending school in the states participating in the
Fundescola Program remain well behind Brazil's overall average, and
especially in states from the south. Figure 1 shows that the proportion
of 15 to 19 year old children in 1996 who made it through the 8th grade in
the Fundescola regions, which ranges from 209 (in the Northeast) to 30%
(in the Center West), is well below the percentage of 8th grade completers
in the South. Differences in survival rates to fourth grade between the
Fundescola region and the South region are even greater. The worst is for
the Northeast region, where the percent of 15 to 19 year old children
attaining 4th grade is only about 20%, whereas for South it is nearly
50%.  These graphs make it clear that the key education issue in Brazil is
not the problem of getting children to enroll in school. Rather, it is
the problem of encouraging children to stay in school, progress through
the system, and attain a complete primary-level education with adequate
levels of learning achievement. Fundescola III's challenge is obvious:
getting schools to (i) provide opportunities and support for children to
-2 -



learn, (ii) help them each year succeed in learning enough to be promoted
to the subsequent grade level, and (iii) encourage them to complete the
full primary cycle. Figure l(iv) Poverty-related factors. In 1996, at
least 23 percent of all Brazilians were poor, where the poor are defined
as individuals living in households with per capita monthly incomes below
R$65.07. The Northeast, North and, to a lesser extent Center-West are the
poorest of Brazil's five geographic regions, with poverty headcount ratios
of 30, 48 and 16 percent, respectively. Using a higher poverty line of
R$131.97 (which allows for the non-food expenditures made by people whose
incomes just allow them to purchase the minimum food basket) results in a
poverty headcount index of 45 percent for Brazil as a whole, and regional
poverty rates calculated at 60, 75 and 45 percent, respectively, for the
North, Northeast and Center-West. Poverty affects children's chances of
successfully completing an eight-grade education. Studies have shown that
parents' demand for schooling for their children depends in part on their
own level of education. Since low education level of the household head is
strongly correlated with poverty, and most poor households are headed by
someone with less than four years of schooling, it follows that poor
children are at a disadvantage: they are less likely to live in a family
that can effectively support their children's learning. Moreover, parents'
lack of experience with the school system hinders their ability to
participate in their children's education and to advocate on behalf of
their children with teachers and other school authorities. Finally, poor
children generally have access to poorer quality schools than others,
whether quality is measured by the adequacy of the facility itself,
availability of textbooks and other learning materials, or teacher
qualifications. Poor school quality is linked with both repetition rates
and nonattendance, particularly low attendance among older children. One
of the consequences of low quality schooling is that about one in four
poor 7-to-14 year olds (and 40 percent of poor 15-to-17 year olds) who are
out of school report that lack of interest is their main reason for not
attending school.(b)    Government StrategyAs pointed out above, the
federal government has given highest priority to primary education,
initiating a number of significant reforms including: (a) amendment of the
constitution and approval of a law redefining the roles and
responsibilities of each government level to ensure a minimum per student
expenditure; (b) direct transfer of funds to the schools, in an effort to
increase school autonomy and effectiveness; and (c) improvement of
education quality, through a national assessment system (SAEB), a textbook
quality and distribution improvement program, and national standards for
curriculum development. These reforms, designed to decentralize the
funding of primary education, diminish regional disparities, and increase
coordination among the various systems, should have a profound impact on
school quality, particularly to the degree that states, municipalities and
schools effectively use these resources, and to the degree that the public
has efficient mechanisms to monitor the application of these finances. The
Government's strategies and goals for the education sector are further
outlined in the Ministry of Education's adoption of the National Education
Council's 1998 National Plan for Education. The National Education
Council's initiatives for the primary education sector specify a number of
goals that Fundescola III will support, including: increasing the
proportion of students completing primary school, raising student
performance as measured by the national assessment system (SAEB);
elimination of the category of uncertified teacher; definition of minimum
operational standards; a guarantee that new schools meet these minimum
-3 -



operational standards; an increase in the community's participation in
education; and the promotion of school autonomy. In short, those issues,
which are at the heart of the design of FUNDESCOLA, have been taken up as
the standard of the federal government, in its efforts as champion of
educational improvement.FUNDEF. With the objective of reducing the
disparities in the financing of primary education across states and
municipalities, Congress approved Constitutional Amendment No. 14/96 on
December 9, 1996. This amendment, along with Federal Law No. 9.424/96 of
December 24, 1996, established the Fund for the Development and
Maintenance of Basic Education and Teacher Valorization (FUNDEF),
requiring that fifteen percent of total municipal and state revenues be
used to finance an education fund in each state. This fund guarantees that
every primary school student, whether enrolled in a state or municipal
school, benefits from a spending floor of R$300 (raised to R$385 for
calendar year 2001). Amendment No. 14/96 also requires that the federal
government top up with federal funds any state's FUNDEF that falls below
the spending floor. School Autonomy and Parent Participation. The Ministry
of Education's National Education Development Fund has been sponsoring the
now four-year-old "Money Direct to the School Program." This program,
which was designed to increase school autonomy and reduce inequalities
across municipalities, has expanded rapidly since its inception in 1995,
transferring resources on the basis of school size and community
participation.    In 2000, Ministry transferred R$200 million to school
councils under this program.    The 1996 National Education Law (LDB)
stimulates innovation and initiative on the part of educational agents in
order to avoid excessive bureaucratization, give priority to primary
education and strengthen the role of the municipality in the provision of
grades one through eight. The LDB also mandates that every public school
in Brazil must meet acceptable quality standards.
2. Objectives
Fundescola III's development objective is to increase the capacity, and
focus the alignment of education secretariats on the dual tasks of
increasing the effectiveness of each primary school in their system and
raising the equity across these schools.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Informed Cooperation: As the chief external financing institution in the
area of basic education over the past ten years, the Bank has had the
opportunity to develop a well-informed and close familiarity with the key
education challenges in Brazil and has come to recognize windows of
opportunity. More importantly, over the last few years it has built up a
fluent dialogue with the leading education authorities and institutions of
Brazil. This dialogue has grown despite the presence of ideological
differences between a number of the key actors, and across changes in the
political landscape. A Call the Action (Chamada a AOao (1997)), and
three years of the PRASEM workshops are excellent examples of the Bank's
ability to facilitate dialogue and generate consensus around critical
issues in the sector. The Bank has also been actively promoting, for
Brazilian Ministry, State, and Municipal education leaders and technical
staff, the sharing and exchange of ideas on international education sector
experience. Consequently, the Bank has been able to play the role of the
critical friend in policy dialogue, has provided continuity, has promoted
the exchange of international experience, and has served as a key
counterpart in supporting the implementation of development projects and
- 4 -



policy reform.Recent cooperation and exchanges developed with Brazil's
major national professional associations of education managers, namely the
National Council of State Education Secretaries (CONSED) and the National
Association of Municipal Education Managers (UNDIME), have also provided
the Bank with detailed information and analytical perception of local,
state and regional needs and demands. Especially important is the Bank's
ability to use global knowledge to create local solutions in the areas of
education evaluation and assessment, governance reforms and management
restructuring, teacher certification and professional development
programs. Derived from experience gathered from supporting basic education
projects in other countries, particularly with regard to the school
development process, and assembled from the Bank staff's analysis of
education systems and school reform in England, Scotland, Australia, and
the United States, the Bank is able to share its technical know-how with
its clients in Brazil. In addition, the Bank has facilitated a series of
exchanges, discussions, and site visits with staff and experts from the
New American Schools Program and with several reforming school districts
in the United States (for example, with Memphis, Tennessee and Chicago,
Illinois), and with research organizations involved in studying
school-based reform (Rand Corporation and American Institutes for
Research). Study visits taken by Fundescola staff and local government
implementing agencies to New Zealand, Australia, England, France, Ireland,
and Spain have also provided a broader world view of education reform
that has inspired some of the innovation of the Fundescola program.Poverty
Focus: The World Bank's Brazil-specific project experience and sector work
on education and poverty have made the institution well prepared to
incorporate poverty targeting into an education project. In particular,
lessons from the Edurural project (completed in 1990), studies and
instruments prepared under the ongoing Fundescola I and II projects, and
recent urban and rural poverty assessments have facilitated the
identification of key poverty and regional imbalance issues associated
with the education sector. This knowledge base has informed the strategic
choices made in the design of Fundescola III. The project focuses on
Brazil's three poorest regions, the North, Northeast and Center-West, and
on the municipalities in the microregions with the lowest levels on the
Human Development Indicators. Finally, the project's focus on raising all
schools to a certain standard and compensating for past inequalities
differs from Brazil's historical approach to equity in spending, which
has, at best, centered on providing the same resources to all.
4. Description
Since 1998, the Ministry of Education's Fundescola Program has been
working intensively with 19 states and hundreds of municipalities in an
effort to improve education system performance and outcomes at the level
of primary school. The tools, guidance, and technical assistance provided
to schools and Secretariats of Education during the implementation of
Fundescola I and II have proven to be effective. The Fundescola strategy
has demonstrably contributed to a significant improvement in educational
outcomes for learners in thousands of schools in the North, Northeast, and
Center West. Nonetheless, there are over 80,000 schools spread across
over 2000 municipalities in these regions. The greatest challenges facing
the Ministry of Education now are to help municipalities and states that
have already adopted Fundescola reforms sustain them, and to bring the
Fundescola school improvement strategy to even greater numbers of
municipalities, including the poorest ones with the weakest institutional
- 5 -



capacity.  Table 1.    Project Components and Subcomponents
1.  RAISING SCHOOLS TO MINIMUM OPERATIONAL STANDARDS
1.1 School-Managed Rehabilitation Subprojects
1.2 Provision of Furniture and Equipment
1.3 Provision of Reading Books
2.   ESTABLISHING A SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROCESS
2.1 School Strategic Planning
2.3 Implementation of Teaching-Learning Models
3.   STRENGTHENING THE EDUCATION SECTOR
3.1 Funding School Councils
3.2 Institutional Development of Local Education Secretariats
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 384.50
IBRD                     384.50
Total Project Cost       769
6. Implementation
4.1 Central level coordinationAt the federal level, the Project
Coordination Unit (DGP) within the Federal Ministry of Education has been
responsible for the preparation and will be charged with the
administration of Fundescola III. The DGP has already demonstrated,
through its capable performance of similar duties under Fundescola I and
II that it is institutionally and technically ready to: (a) serve as
principal project counterpart to the World Bank and key government and
international agencies; (b) rely on the state-based Project Executive
Coordination (COEP) and on monitors/supervisors hired to support project
implementation at the microregion level; (c) analyze and approve state,
intra-state, and microregion projects and annual work plans; (d) establish
and sign agreements with states, municipalities, and other government and
international agencies; (e) determine, together with the states, the
definition of minimum operational standards; (f) elaborate the annual
implementation program based on the microregion programs; (g) conduct
project-related regional, state, and municipal analysis; (h) analyze and
submit to the World Bank the relevant documentation for the acquisition of
goods and services and expenditure receipts; and (i) prepare the progress
reports and participate in the mid-term and final review according to
World Bank procedures. 4.2 State and Municipal Coordination and
ImplementationAt the state level, Fundescola III will operate by means of
the Project Executive Coordination Unit (COEP) within each state education
secretariat, which: (a) serves as the key administrative project unit at
the state level; (b) prepares the Annual Work Plan with the participation
of the municipalities in that state and submits this plan to DGP for
approval and registration in the SPA; (c) coordinates project execution
across municipalities and state school systems; (d) houses the DGP
monitors and supervisors; (e) coordinates communication and cooperation
among the local government agencies involved in project-related
activities; (f) procures goods and services according to the guidelines of
the World Bank; (g) records and certifies expenditures; (h) prepares
- 6 -



progress reports; and (i) monitors and evaluates the outputs and outcomes
of Fundescola in each state. Since Fundescola III will be working with
the poorest and most difficult to reach municipalities, Ministry staff
expect that COEPs will have a much more technical role in implementation
of Fundescola III, in comparison with Fundescola II and Fundescola I.
This new role will need to be carefully explored end developed during
project preparation. Part of this preparation will include capacity
assessment and work load analysis vis-a-vis instititional strengthening
needs for the participating municipalities, as well as the implications
for capacity enhancement of the COEPs themselves. At the state and
municipal level, each participating education secretariat is responsible
for: (a) assisting schools in designing their own school development plan
and school improvement projects; (b) fostering the operation of school
councils and community participation; and (c) monitoring the delivery of
goods and services procured by the state Project Executive Coordination
Units (COEP). Finally, guidance and training for school leadership in the
creation of a school development plan and school improvement project will
be offered through municipal-based School Development Teams (GDE). These
teams will be composed of municipal education professionals who will
themselves be trained by the federal (DGP) and state (COEP) level
coordination units.4.3 School level coordinationAt the school level, a
leadership team composed of the principal and the pedagogical coordinator
or other lead staff at the school will be responsible for: (a)
participating in Fundescola's school development training program; (b)
involving the entire staff of the school as well as parents in the
creation and implementation of a school development plan and corresponding
school improvement projects; (c) accepting visits and technical assistance
from DGP-contracted monitor/supervisors; (d) taking advantage of the
ongoing school development support offered by the school's respective GDE
or COEP; (e) managing the use of Fundescola-transferred funds for
implementing the school improvement project, including purchasing goods
and services, maintaining accounting records for these purchases, and
providing accounting information to DGP during routine audits and review.
Finally, the school team is responsible for selecting and implementing the
appropriate teaching-learning model. 4.1 Project monitoringFundescola II
has developed and operates a rich set of indicators and a sophisticated
management information system (MIS) to track the implementation progress
and output, as well as to align its components and be accountable. Each
unit within the Ministry's Project Management Unit (DGP) that is
responsible for each component has developed its own MIS system, and has
used their own system to track progress and take decisions. It has been
agreed that, for Fundescola III, the DGP will pursue the following
strategies during project preparation to use indicators more effectively
as a tool for improving implementation and policy.DGP managers to agree on
a set of comprehensive summary indicators that provide an integrated
information base about the project as a whole, not as separate
products.DGP will set a time frame (e.g. quarterly, biannually or
annually) for updating the summary indicators.DGP will design standardized
forms to simplify existing detailed information by expressing them in
categorical variables (e.g. type of interventions in each product) and
continuous variables (e.g. cost and scale score on the quality of each
intervention) for technical supervisors to fill in and for states
eventually to collect. The information collected thus form the raw data
for distillation and integration into a comprehensive database.DGP will
increase regular communication and technical assistance to states and
- 7 -



municipalities in data collection, cleaning, entry and use for monitoring
purposes.DGP will commission the development of an information system to
integrate these indicators from separate databases.DGP will set a date
each year (e.g. every July) for publishing and reporting these indicators
(by region, state, microregion, and municipality) publicly, in additional
to making the database available to the public through its web site. This
is both for public accountability, as well as setting a competitive
context for states and municipalities to perform and to provide data in
time.At the State level, the State Project Executive Coordination Units
(COEPs) will essentially use the same indicators on process, output and
outcomes of Fundescola interventions products in each state during the
life of the project. However, to be sustainable, these indicators should
become tools for the state to monitor the implementation process, output
and outcomes of its own policy and programs. Technical supervisors of
COEPs complete the data collection forms and enter the data into the COEP
database for transmission to DGP on a regular basis. State supervisors
will eventually take over this function as part of their monitoring
responsibility. The States and Municipalities will be able to use the same
form to monitor implementation of Fundescola type of interventions funded
by themselves outside of the project.
7. Sustainability
Bringing Fundescola interventions to schools attended by the poorest
children in Brazil, and providing a framework through which Fundescola can
both be sustained and can go to scale will require that large numbers of
education secretariats commit themselves to the school improvement
effort. It will also demand significant leadership and enhanced capacity
in these secretariats for them to both promote school improvement and
provide technical assistance and support to schools in their jurisdiction
willing to sign on to the improvement program. Moreover, for Fundescola
to spread and take root, to be successfully implemented, and to be
sustained over the long term, the principles--equity and quality, and
strategies--public engagement and alignment, of Fundescola's school
improvement program will need to be integrated into the mindsets and daily
practices of the staff in the secretariats of education, and into the
operating procedures of the institutions themselves.      Transforming
Secretariats of Education.    By mid-2001, only three states and 7
municipalities (albeit several of the larger ones) have expanded at least
some aspects of the Fundescola strategy to all schools in their
jurisdiction. The litmus test for achieving the ownership described in
the preceding paragraph is for large numbers of Secretariats of Education
to adopt Fundescola policies and methods, adapt them to their own context
and conditions, integrate them into their strategic plan as well as their
routine operations, and then transform themselves into Fundescola-inspired
systems. This is a significant challenge for Fundescola III with regard
to the microregions in which Fundescola I and II have already been
working. But that challenge pales in comparison to that of transforming
municipal education secretariats suffering from the lowest levels of Human
Development into model adopters and implementers of the Fundescola school
improvement strategy.       The Role of the State Government.   The State
Secretariat of Education has a critical role to play in supporting the
weaker municipal governments. Although it is not their legal
responsibility, it is up to the State governments to take the lead in the
process of providing technical assistance to these municipalities, in
creating an information culture, and in supporting their implementation of
- 8 -



a school improvement strategy. Clearly larger cities have the greatest
capacity to manage their own systems, and States progressively transfer
operational responsibility and even entire primary education systems to
these local governments.    Such action would lead to a gradual reduction
on the burden borne by State Secretariats of Education. Correspondingly,
State governments interested in improving education outcomes for all of
its citizenry should increase their efforts in providing assistance to
those jurisdictions where education indicators are pulling down the
statistics for the entire State. Fundescola III will work with the
State's Fundescola Coordinating Group in the Secretariat of Education to
build their capacity and help provide incentives for them to work as
partners with the poorest municipalities attempting to transform
themselves into Fundescola districts.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Following the lessons learned from the design and implementation process
of Fundescola I (FY1998, Loan 4311-BR) and Fundescola II (FY2000, Loan
4487), the Northeast Basic Education Project (NEBE II, FY 1993, Loan
3604-BR and NEBE III, FY1994, Loan 3663-BR), and prior Bank experience in
Brazil, Fundescola III will incorporate those project aspects that were
successful in achieving their intended objectives, avoiding those aspects
that, upon evaluation, were deemed incomplete or unattainable. First, the
design of Fundescola III benefits from the implementation experience of
its sister projects, Fundescola I and II. Lessons include the need to give
higher priority to social mobilization and communication efforts in
promoting the school-based development approach; the benefits to funding a
second and third round of school improvement projects, providing an
incentive for schools to stay focussed on the issue of quality improvement
and practice the planning skills they have learned; and providing
incentives for municipalities to expand the school-based development
approach to additional schools.Importantly, research was carried out by
The National Institute for Education Research (INEP) on the impact of key
interventions from Fundescola I and II have influenced the design of
Fundescola III (see Avalia6ao de Desempenho: Fatores Associados, mimeo.,
July 2001, 59 pps). In 1999, a research sample was selected, which was
composed of 158 schoools located in six States distributed across all
three of Fundescola's regions (North, Norhteast, and Center West),
including 55 schools with the PDE intervention and the remainder without
PDEs. INEP contracted consultants to survey these schools and to collect
detailed background information on the students and their families, their
teachers, the principals, and characteristics of the schools themselves.
Achievement tests in Portuguese and Mathematics, equated with the SAEB,
were als developed by INEP and administered by consultants to all of the
fourth grade students in the sample schools. Students have now take these
test three times: in April of 1999 (close to the March start of the
school year) in November 1999 (at the end of the school year), and in
November 2000. As of the July, 2001 study, data from the November 2000
test administration had not been included in the database INEP researchers
analyzed, consequently the results examine the value added during the
1999 school year.Among the numerous variables included in the research
study are teacher education attainment level, teacher performance on (the
same) achievement tests, student previously repeated, teacher self-report
on curriculum coverage, mother's education level, indicators of student's
socio-economic status, and a binary indicator of school participation in
the PDE intervention. Despite the extremely short timeframe (less than
-9-



one year), most of the regression models estimated find a positive and
significant difference for students enrolled in schools implementing
Fundescola's PDE intervention, with the coefficient on PDE stronger when
using the November 1999 Portuguese test as the dependent variable rather
than the 1999 mathematics test. Other results are consistent with
standard expectations, including a correlation between achievement and
such variables as student SES, student attendance and promotion rates,
mother's education, teacher experience, teacher completing the
curruculum. In addition, performance is higher for boys in mathematics
and girls in Portuguese. The research shows that students enrolled
schools implementing PDEs also perform better with respect to other
dependent variables such as student's report card scores and student
promotion rate (both based on teacher's own assessment of student
achievement rather than the standardized tests).      It is important to
point out that this research focused on only one of Fundescola's
interventions. Other interventions, such as the Minimal Operational
School Standards interventions, Escola Ativa, Proforma6ao, and Gestar, are
being examined separately. Nonetheless, given that the PDE is considered
the core intervention of Fundescola, the results form the study referred
to above give strong suppor to the Fundescola School Improvement Strategy.
Second, international project experience has also influenced the formation
of the Fundescola program, including (a) the lessons from Chile, Uruguay,
and other Latin American countries in promoting school improvement
projects for the procurement of context-appropriate materials and
increasing stakeholder input; and (b) the Colombian Escuela Nueva program,
which achieved effective results in the modular use of textbooks,
capacity-building of teachers, student-centered learning, evaluation of
student attainment, and community participation for multi-grade schools,
and finally, the valuable and well documented experience of New American
Schools in the United States, which promotes whole-school reform through
the development of structured but adaptable packages of "school
improvement designs" that include materials, strategies, assessment, and
linked training activities, along with ongoing technical support to
schools and education districts. Third, the current nationwide evaluation
process of textbooks (PNLD) was adopted and developed by MEC based on the
previous experience of the Northeast Basic Education Projects, which
introduced innovative procurement procedures. The purchase of textbooks is
now made through the teachers' choice based on a guide containing titles
recommended by education specialists and teachers. This guide classifies
the books according to content and pedagogical quality, promoting
improvement by the publishers. Textbook distribution for the entire
country has improved significantly since the first delivery made under the
Northeast Basic Education projects. The books now arrive at the start of
the school year, their arrival in the school is being monitored through a
special operation introduced by MEC, and a new delivery system is being
implemented by the post office. The selection and delivery of basic school
supplies to schools under the Fundescola projects is modeled after this
successful example of local selection combined with central procurement
and oversight.Finally, to promote effective personnel management in basic
education, the project derives lessons from the positive experience of the
Northeast Basic Education Project in the training and capacity-building of
municipal and state secretaries in the Northeast (Municipal Education
Secretaries Support Program [Prasem]). The project coordination unit will
continue to build upon the success of the Northeast Basic Education
Project, especially in terms of effective management techniques and
- 10 -



built-in accountability requirements.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        There are no major environmental issues envisioned,
as the project will finance rehabilitation of existing primary schools,
but no new construction. Guidelines for school repair and renovation by
school-council contracted labor were reviewed by Bank environmental
specialists during the preparation of Fundescola I and II.     These
government documents have been updated and the revised, and the current
editions were already cleared by the Bank. Periodic supervision missions
will continue to verify that guidelines are being followed adequately.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Robin S. Horn
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Email: rhorn@worldbank.org
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending September 28, 2001.
- 11 -



