Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23297-BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR182,800,000 MILLION
(US$160.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR
FUNDESCOLA IIIA (THIRD SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT)
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
FUNDESCOLA PROGRAM
May 17, 2002
Human and Social Development Group
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 2002)
Currency Unit = BRAZILIAN REAL (R$)
R$1.00 = US$0.41
US$1.00 = R$2.46
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY I -- DECEMBER 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COEP          State-based Project Executive Coordination (Coordenacao Estadual Executiva do
Projeto)
CONSED       National Council of State Education Secretaries (Conselho Nacional de Secretrrios
Estaduais de Educa,do)
DGP           Central Project Coordinatilon Unit (Dire'do Geral do Projeto)
FNDE         National Education Development Fund (Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da
Educacdo)
Fundescola    School Improvement Program (Programa Fundo de Fortalecimento da Escola)
FUNDEF       Fund for the Development and Maintenance of Basic Education and Teacher Valorization
(Fundo de Desenzvolvimento e Manutencio do Ensino Fundamental e Valoriza,do do
Magisterio)
GDE          School Development Group (Grupo de Desenvolvimento Escolar), local government
support to PDEs
GT           Technical Group (Grupo Tecnico)
IBGE         Brazilian Census Bureau (anstituto Brasileiro de Geografla e Estatistica)
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
INEP         National Institute for Educanonal Research and Studies, a MEC-based agency (Insttuto
Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais).
LDB          National Education Law (Lez de Diretrizes e Bases de Educa,co Nacional)
MEC          Brazil's Ministry of Education
MOS          Minimum Operational Standards
MOIP         Project Operations and Implementation Manual (Manual de Opera,coes e Implementacdo
do Projeto)
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NEBE         Northeast Basic Education Project (II and IIn) ( Projeto Nordeste)
PDE          School Development Plan (Piano de Desenvolvimento da Escola)
PGS          Secretariat Management Plan (Piano de Gestao da Secretaria) of the education secretariat
PME          School Improvement Project (Projeto de Melhoria da Escola) initiated under PDE
PNLD         National Textbook Program (Programa Nacional do Livro Didatico) of the Ministry of
Education
PPO          Research and Operationalization Program of Education Policies (Programa de Pesquisa e
Operacionliza ,co)
PTA          Annual Work Plan (Plano de Trabalho Anuat) of the project
SAEB         National System for Basic Education Evaluation (Sistema Nacional de Avaliaqdo da
Educacdo Bdsica)
SEE           State Education Secretariat (Secretaria Estadual de Educagdo)
SEED          Secretariat of Distance Education (Secretaria de Educagdo a Distdncia), Ministry of
Education
SIED          Integrated Education Information System (Sistema Integrado de Infoma,ces
Educacionais), Ministry of Education
SPA           Planning and Monitoring System (Sistema de Planejamento e Acompanamento) of
Fundescola
SEF           Secretariat of Fundamental Education (Secretaria de Educaqdo Fundamental), Ministry
of Education
SME           Municipal Education Secretariat (Secretaria Municipal de Educa,co)
UE            School Council (Unidade Executora)
UNDIME        National Association of Municipal Education Managers (Unido Nacional dos Dirigentes
Municipais de Educagio)
ZAP           Priority Attention Zone (Zona de Atendimento Prioritnrio)
Vice President:  David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager/Director  Ana-Maria Arriagada
Task Team Leader/Task Manager    Robin Hom



BRAZIL
FUNDESCOLA lILA (THIRD SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT)
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                 Page
1. Program purpose and prognrm phasing                                                3
2. Project development objective                                                      4
3. Key performance indicators                                                         4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     6
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         6
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                13
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                 14
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                16
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     21
3. Benefits and target population                                                    21
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     21
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considexed and reasons for rejection                         23
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        26
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               27
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  28
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       29
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          30
2. Financial                                                                         31
3. Technical                                                                         31
4. Institutional                                                                     32
5. Environmental                                                                     34
6. Social                                                                            34
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                37
F. Sustainability and Risks



1. Sustainability                                                                   37
2. Critical risks                                                                   38
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   39
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          39
2. Other                                                                             39
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        39
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       40
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        41
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  49
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       56
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                           57
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             69
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     71
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    85
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  86
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 88
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           92
Annex 11: Research on Fundescola Interventions                                          94
Annex 12: Technical Issues Related to Education Reform in the Fundescola Region         98
MAP(S)
IBRD 20444R



BRAZIL
FUNDESCOLA IIlA (THIRD SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT)
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSHE
Date: May 17,2002                               Team Leader: Robin S. Hom
Country Director: Vinod Thomas                  Sector Manager/Director: Ana-Maria Arriagada
Project ID: P057653                             Sector(s): EP - Primary Education
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  Theme(s): Education
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
[Program Financing Data
Estimated
API, ,.,  ", iy Indicative Financing Plan      Implementation Period        Borrower
' F ,, __ _,_-_t; 4 .,  _  _ ___                       ,-;  - -  0 '(Bank  'FY
IBRD            Others      Total   Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ in     USS m       Date        Date
APL 1      160.00    50.0  160.00      320.00    08/01/2002  12/30/2006 Federative Republic of Brazil
Loan/
Credit
APL 2      226.50    50.0  226.50      453.00    07/01/2006  12/31/2010 Federative Republic of Brazil
Loan/
C redit I_        _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _
Total      386.50          386.5(      773.00
[X1 Loan    [ ] Credit     ] Graint   [ Guarantee      [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: Euro
Amount (US$m): EUR 182,800,000
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: l Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5         '             Years to maturity: 12
Commitment fee: 0.85%                         Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis: Mlaintain as Variable
Type of repayment schedule:
[X] Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one): level
[ ] Linked to Disbursement
Conversion options: [X]Currency  pC]Interest Rate  [X]Caps/Collars:
Financing Plan (US$m):   Source                           Local        Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                   160.00          0.00        160.00
IBRD                                                       160.00          0.00        160.00
Total:                                                     320.00          0.00        320.00
Borrower: FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Address: Avenida N-I Leste, Pavilhao (las Metas, Brasilia, DF Brazil CEP 70150-900



Contact Person: Antonio Carlos Xavier                      Project Website: www.fundescola.org.br
Tel: +55(61)316-2908           Fax: +55(61)316-2910          Email: xavier@fundescola.org.br
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002,      2003       2004     2005       2006
Annual |    8.69     28.31     38.59     40.43      43.98
Cumulative     8.69     37.00      75.59    116.02    160.00
Project implementation period: 4.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
AM PAD r.,  d
- 2-



A. Program Purpose and IProject Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
Overview.' The Fundescola III Project is the third step in Brazil's ten-year Fundescola School
Improvement Program. The Program's overall concept and purpose were presented by the Government to
the World Bank in October 1997. It is to help the Ministry of Education improve Brazil's education
performance by assisting the states and municipalities in the poorest regions of the country, the Northeast,
North, and Center-West reduce the educational inequalities in their systems, and increase the effectiveness
of their schools so that all children in these regions can successfully complete the eighth grade, the final
year of the compulsory "fundamer,tal" cycle.
Program Phasing. The Government's overall strategy consists of three steps. The first step was
designed to develop an initial set of tools needed to improve school equity and effectiveness, increasing
public awareness of the need to iimprove school quality, and trying out these tools on a relatively small
scale. The second step focused on improving and expanding the set of tools developed in the first phase,
trying them out in additional schools, and more aggressively engaging the education establishment and the
public sector beyond the schools in the process of school-based development. The third step aims at
completing the work involved in the development of the tools and processes for increasing school
effectiveness and educational equity, and at designing and trying out strategies of going to scale with these
tools. The Fundescola projects have been designed to match this strategy.
Fundescola I, signed in June 1998, started the program. It developed and piloted the first set of
school-based tools, including especially the "school development plan" for improving the
effectiveness of school strategic management, and Escola Ativa for improving the quality of
instruction and learning in rural, multi-grade schools. This project inaugurated the school
"minimum operational slandards" model for improving school system equity, it disseminated
information on these iniliatives to state and municipal schools and secretariats throughout the
North and Center-West regions. In addition, it launched the "priority attention zone" approach, in
which neighboring municipalities, grouped in microregions. collaborate with one another, with their
state governments, and with the Ministry of Education on improving schooling in their
jurisdictions.
Fundescola U, signed in December 1999, has greatly improved the school-based tools developed
earlier, and added new tools. The first secretariat-based tool was developed and tested under
Fundescola II. A  comprehensive school imRrovement stratey was also introduced with this
Project. This Project brcadened the testing of these school improvement tools, including the new
ones, and added an additional region into the project (the Northeast). At the same time, Fundescola
II continued to support Fundescola I schools in order to promote the sustainability of the earlier
interventions. Awareness of the need to improve school effectiveness and the availability of the
new tools was promoted by means of seminars, workshops, research studies, and especially
through the demonstration effect associated with the testing of the school improvement strategy in
thousands of schools.
Fundescola m  brings in the third step of the strategy by helping local governments integrate
Fundescola's school improvement reforms into their structures and routines. First, this project will
provide some additional assistance to schools that had begun to introduce Fundescola's schooling
improvement reforms consolidate these reforms under the responsibility and support of their
Secretariats of Education. Second, Fundescola m will help hundreds of local governments expand
these reforms into thousands of additional schools. Third, Fundescola III will develop and use a
- 3-



new set of teaching/learning models, in addition to Escola Ativa and Gestar, for diverse types of
schools and population groups. Finally, Fundescola HI will build the capacity of local
governments to support continuous improvement in schooling quality, and through incentives and
partnerships, promote the financial, administrative, and managerial permanence of these reforms.
In this way, the project will help assure the sustainability of Fundescola-based school improvement
by local governments.
Fundescola hIIA and Fundescola HuB: Fundescola Il will be implemented in two phases:
Fundescola IA (May 2002 to December 2006) and Fundescola IB (July 2006 to December
2010). During the first phase, Fundescola LIA, the Government will finalize the development of
all planned school-based and secretariat-based tools, develop complementary products and
materials to facilitate the application of these tools, and conduct in-depth evaluations of each tool
and its complementary products and materials. It will also initiate a program to help develop the
capacity of municipal and state secretariats and design strategies for going to scale with the tools
and the complementary products, using these secretariats. During the second phase, Fundescola
IIB (estimated to have a total project cost of approximately US$450 million), the Government will
implement strategies of going to scale.
Program Mission. The mission of the Fundescola m Project is to improve the educational
outcomes of children living in the Northeast, North, and Center West regions of Brazil by improving the
performance of their public primary schools and the Secretariats of Education responsible for them.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of Fundescola IILA (the first phase of Fundescola III) is to assist
targeted education secretariats reduce disparities across their primary schools and to increase the
effectiveness of these schools, within each local governments' financial capacity.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators for Fundescola IIIA, with targets to be achieved by December 30,
2006, focus on the improvement of educational equity and school effectiveness, and on the capacity of
participating education secretariats to bring about and maintain these improvements in their system.
Indicators for Fundescola HIA (the first phase of the Fundescola IH Project)
Equity:
*   The guidelines for minimum operational standards for schools will be disseminated
to at least 50% of the secretariats of education in the participating microregion for
them to promote to their school staff and school communities. (The Project
Operational Manual specifies Fundescola's guidelines for minimum operational
standards and definitions of what it means for a secretariat to disseminate and
promote these standards.)
* At least 70% of primary school students will be enrolled in targeted schools in the
participating microregions meeting these standards.
-4 -



Effectiveness:
*   Each of the Fundescola-designed schooling improvement products, along with its
complementary program for improving the secretariat effectiveness in
implementing that product, will be fully developed and tested. In addition,
evaluations of secretariats' implementation of these products and complements,
and of the irnpact of these products on schools and student outcomes will be
completed. (The Project Operational Manual includes a list of the schooling
improvement products to be supported under Fundescola IIIA, along with a list of
the complementary secretariat-based products, and the evaluation criteria.)
* At least 700/o of primary students will be enrolled in targeted schools in the
participating xnicroregions that are implementing one or more of these schooling
improvement products, with the support of their secretariats.
Output Indicators for Fundlescola IHB (Phase B of the Fundescola III Proiect)
Equity:
*   The guidelines for minimum operational standards for schools will be disseminated
to 80% of secretariats of education in the participating microregions for them to
promote to their school staff and school communities.
* At least 90% of primary school students will be enrolled in targeted schools in
these microre,gions meeting these standards .
Effectiveness:
* Each of the Fundescola-designed schooling improvement products, along with its
complementary program for the secretariat, will be updated and completed.
* One or more strategies for "going to scale" with these products will be developed
and tested."
* At least 80% percent of the primary students will be enrolled in targeted schools
implementing at least one of Fundescola's schooling improvement strategies, with
the support of their secretariats.
Student Outcomes:
* In the participating microregions, promotion rates will increase from their current
levels (on average, in 1997, 64.2% in the North, 64.7% in the Northeast, and
71.5% in the Center West) to 85%.
* In the participating microregions, achievement rates will increase from their
- 5-



current levels. In mathematics, the proportion of 4th grade students achieving at
the elementary level of proficiency will increase from 55%, 52%, and 60% in the
North, Northeast and Center West regions, respectively, to 62%, 59%, and 68%.
In Portuguese, the proportion of 4th grade students achieving at the elementary
level of proficiency will increase from 59%, 58%, and 62% in the North, Northeast
and Center West regions, respectively, to 67%, 66%, and 69%.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20160     Date of latest CAS discussion: May 1, 2001
World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The overall goal for Brazil in the CAS is to
promote sustainable long-term growth, alleviate poverty, and reduce income inequality. According to the
CAS, low educational outcomes and attainment among the poor remain the single most important obstacle
to reducing poverty and inequality in Brazil. In line with this assessment, the CAS's education sector goal
is to provide the opportunity for all children to complete the eight-year fundamental schooling cycle by
2007, and to improve educational attainment and academic performance in basic subjects, particularly
Portuguese and mathematics. Fundescola III will contribute to the attainment of these goals by promoting
greater participation of parents and the broader public in the governance of schools and school systems,
reducing the levels of inequality across schools, improving school and system management, and by
increasing school effectiveness and student performance, and by monitoring progress toward obtaining
these goals through project performance indicators. By targeting the three poorest regions of Brazil, and in
particular the Northeast, Fundescola m also adheres to the CAS's geographic focus.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
(a) Education system performance
During the last decade, primary education moved up to a position of priority importance in public
policy at the national, state, and municipal levels, and simultaneously gained much more prominence in the
media and more broadly in civil society. For example, since 1995, the federal government raised the
expansion of student enrollment and the quality of learning primary school aged children to a top position
of its policy agenda (MEC, 2001). The federal government's policy for improving primary education is
based on the principles of improving the equity of opportunities for all children and the effectiveness of the
schools to guarantee adequate quality teaching and learning. The government seeks to achieve these
improvements through strategies that help state and municipal governments align their education policies
and programs with these principles, and that increase the engagement of the public in order to promote
greater social control and public accountability. Despite today's relatively low educational attainment level
of 6.7 years for individuals aged 10 or more, (IBGE, 2001), Brazil has made extraordinary progress in the
last half-decade. Improvements include the following:
*   the percentage of children aged 7 to 14 enrolled in school increased from 89% in 1994 to 96%
in 1999 (MEC, 2001);
*   primary school enrollment increased by nearly 27% in the Northeast Region, compared to 13%
for Brazil as a whole (MEC, 2001);
*   average per student spending (in 2002) cannot drop below R$418 for 1st through 4th grades,
- 6 -



and R$429 for 5th through 8th grades and special education, compared with expenditure levels
as low as R$25 per student in hundreds of municipalities prior to the introduction of the 1996
FUNDEF law;
Despite the substantial progress on initial enrollment rates, poor system performance based on
decades of inequality in financing and low priority given to education, continues to impede Brazil's ability
to achieve higher levels of educational attainment.
Promotion through the primary cycle. High levels of failure of children in primary school each
year continue to plague Brazil, particularly in the regions served by the Fundescola Program. Even though
primary school promotion rates doubled nationally between 1995 and 2000, the percentage of children in
2000 asked by their teachers to repeat a year of schooling remains high in the North (over 42 percent),
Northeast (approximately 45 percent) and Center-West (over 35 percent) regions remain extremely
high-especially in comparison with the South (approximately 25 percent).
Student learning achievement. According to the Brazil's National System for Basic Education
Evaluation (SAEB), student achievement in schools located in the North, Northeast and Center-West states
falls below the national average and substantially below that of schools of the wealthier states in the South
and Southeast. MEC's SAEB assessment system classifies learning achievement with respect to a
continuous scale of proficiency. The 1999 SAEB assessment results show that less than 60 percent of
fourth-grade pupils in the Project's three regions surpass the lowest performance level on the scale. This
means that in mathematics, children with learning achievement below this performance level are unable to
demonstrate understanding of place value, multiply and divide numbers, add fractions with the same
denominator, or solve problems that require more than one step. In terms of literacy, this children with
performance below this level are, for example, unable to recognize that authors use language to express
different emotions, or that conlext can be used to analyze meanings of words in a text passage. In the
sciences, these children have no comprehension of basic natural science concepts such as gravity and the
transport of oxygen by the blood; they are also unfamiliar with the use of scientific language to describe
phenomena.
Completion of the primary cycle. The consequence of low rates of promotion and learning
achievement is a low survival rate during, and low completion rate of the primary cycle. In Brazil,
although a continual but gradual! increase in investments in educational quality since 1980, especially in the
last decade, has resulted in nearly a tripling of eighth-grade completion rates by 2000, from 12 to 38
percent, completion rates of chi:ldren attending school in the states participating in the Fundescola Program
remain well behind Brazil's overall average, and especially in states from the south. Figure 1 shows that
the proportion of 15 to 19 year old children in 1996 who made it through the 8th grade in the Fundescola
regions, which ranges from 20% (in the Northeast) to 30% (in the Center West), is well below the
percentage of 8th grade completers in the South. Differences in survival rates to fourth grade between the
Fundescola region and the South region are even greater. The worst is for the Northeast region, where the
percent of 15 to 19 year old children attaining 4th grade is only about 20%, whereas for South it is nearly
50%. These graphs make it clear that the key education issue in Brazil is not the problem of getting
children to enroll in school. Rather, it is the problem of encouraging children to stay in school, progress
through the system, and attain a complete primary-level education with adequate levels of learning
achievement. Fundescola M's challenge is obvious: getting schools to (i) provide opportunities and
support for children to lear, (ii) help them each year succeed in learning enough to be promoted to the
subsequent grade level, and (iii) encourage them to complete the full primary cycle.
- 7 -



Figure 1
Centr Oeste, Brazil 1996  Nordeste, Brazil 1996
Atlairtents1 me,antes 1.19  Atainiwnt crorQe,aues 15-19
0.0                      1.0
1  3 5  7  9      ~~~1  3  5  79
Gladrw             O~~~~~~rade
Norte, Brazil 1996  .-  51, BrazU -1"6
Adtaintnin psoble, nge 16&.19   AMaint radpbf,aSesS 119
1.0          1.0
0.8                    0.8
0o.e                     0.6
0.4
0.0                     0.0
1 3  -5 7 9            1  3  S   7  9
Grade                  Grade
The impac of poverty on student performancB  In 1996, at least 23 percent of all Brazilians
were poor, where the poor are defined as individuals living in households with per capita monthly incomes
below R$65.07. The Northeast, North and, to a lesser extent Center-West are the poorest of Brazil's five
geographic regions, with poverty headcount ratios of 30, 48 and 16 percent, respectively. Using a higher
poverty line of R$131.97 (which allows for the non-food expenditures made by people whose incomes just
allow them to purchase the minimum food basket) results in a poverty headcount index of 45 percent for
Brazil as a whole, and regional poverty rates calculated at 60, 75 and 45 percent, respectively, for the
North, Northeast and Center-West. Poverty affects children's chances of successfully completing an
eight-grade education. Studies have shown that parents' demand for schooling for their children depends in
part on their own level of education. Since low education level of the household head is strongly correlated
with poverty, and most poor households are headed by someone with less than four years of schooling, it
follows that poor children are at a disadvantage: they are less likely to live in a family that can effectively
support their children's learning. Moreover, parents' lack of experience with the school system hinders their
ability to participate in their children's education and to advocate on behalf of their children with teachers
and other school authorities. Finally, poor children generally have access to poorer quality schools than
others, whether quality is measured by the adequacy of the facility itself, availability of textbooks and other
learning materials, or teacher qualifications. Poor school quality is linked with both repetition rates and
-8 -



nonattendance, particularly low aitendance among older children. One of the consequences of low quality
schooling is that about one in four poor 7-to- 14 year olds (and 40 percent of poor 15-to- 17 year olds) who
are out of school report that "lack of interest" is their main reason for not attending school.
(b) Constraints to improving education system performance.
Substantial national and international, sector analyses, and knowledge built up over a decade of
project implementation of seven World Bank financed education projects conclude that there are four main
constraints to improving Brazil's schools and consequent student performance. Annex 13, a technical
annex entitled Constraints Facing Brazilian Education Reformers, provides a more comprehensive
explanation of these issues.
(i) Many Schools Are Not Using Effective Teaching and Learning Models. One of the most
striking characteristics of so many Brazilian schools is the limited use of proven, effective teaching
and learning strategies. Although MEC and state governments have successfully promulgated
significant improvements educational standards, changes in classroom practice remain the next, big
frontier. For decades, and in particular in recent years, Brazilian educators and policy makers
have recognized the prol51em of poorly functioning schools and have achieved some success in
improving individual schools. Unfortunately, attempts to raise school quality and student outcomes
in large scale have been Frustrated. Brazil's principal constraint to improving student outcomes is
the education community's inability to translate the objective of educating all children into program
of coherent, integrated, instrument-based, school-run reforms for thousands and thousands of
schools, in poor as well as less poor communities, throughout the country.
(ii) Local Governments Have Inadequate Policies to Address Educational Inequality. Millions
of children attending public schools located throughout the regions served by the Fundescola
Program lack basic educational opportunities that are available to children attending schools in
other parts of Brazil, or even in better endowed schools within the same jurisdictions. Federal law
requires children aged 7 to 14 to attend school. Yet many school children in the Northeast, North,
and Center West regions go to a school that is not possessed of qualified teachers, appropriate
reading books, didactic materials, adequate classrooms with appropriate furniture and usable
chalkboards, fully functional roofs, windows, walls, toilets, or water fountains. It is not just the
fact that schools in these appalling conditions exist, but that they exist in the same jurisdictions
where good schools may also be found. Research and survey work carried out under Fundescola I
and II demonstrate that in most of the municipalities working with Fundescola, and certainly in
every State participating in the Fundescola Program, good, even excellent public schools can be
readily identified in the (lata. These schools may not be "first world" schools in every sense, but
they are schools to which' middle-class parents from any country in the world would be happy to
send their children. To put it bluntly, local governments have persistently invested in the quality of
some schools while allowing other schools in their jurisdictions to deteriorate. Because children
tend to frequent schools that reflect residential patterns of economic differentiation, the schools at
which these manifestly substandard conditions exist in any jurisdiction tend to be attended by
children from families living at or below the poverty line. Research points out that poor children
do not become "used to" substandard learning conditions. Instead, repeated deprivation of basic
learning tools compounds the deleterious effect of learning deficits, a situation from which children
may never successfully recover. Consequently, students in schools lacking in the basic educational
necessities in lower primary will begin their upper primary under-prepared and under-motivated,
-9-



and this cycle will continue into the students' secondary school years if they make it that far.
Schools below acceptable learning standards thereby contribute to grade repetition and to student
disaffection, ultimately inhibiting the chances of the poor to escape from poverty.
Local governments (both State and Municipal) have not managed to establish minimal standards
for teachers and staffing requirements, materials, and facilities encountered by students in the
public schools. Even in those few instances in which the education secretariats have formally
established standards, responsible officials have not been willing or able to determine whether
conditions in their schools meet those standards. Finally, even when system officials know that a
school's quality falls below minimal standards, they have no strategies or budgets to remedy the
inadequacies.
(ii,) Parents and the Broader Public are Insufficiently Engaged in School Improvement
Processes. Research in Brazil, as well as elsewhere, overwhelmingly concludes that parent
involvement in schooling and in children's learning is strongly related to their attainment and
achievement. The more intensively parents are involved, the more beneficial the impact on student
outcomes. This holds true for all types of parent involvement in children's learning and for all
types and ages of students. The research also shows that the earlier in a child's educational process
parent involvement begins, the more powerful are the effects. Moreover, considerably higher
outcomes are measured when parent involvement is active. In other words, greater benefits accrue
not only when parents work with their children at home, but also when they attend and actively
support school activities, are involved in school governance and policy, and even when they help
out in classrooms. Despite the many potential benefits associated with parent involvement,
beneficiary assessment studies and ethnographic research in Brazil reveal that parents are often
reluctant to participate in their children's schools. Many parents express the belief that schools are
only interested in them insofar as they can provide materials or services, though teachers say they
believe that parents in fact do have opportunities to become more involved in their schools.
Interviews with poor parents reveal that they may not be participating in their schools due to a lack
of time or energy, embarrassment or shyness about their own educational level or verbal abilities,
lack of understanding or information about the structure of the school and accepted communication
channels, perceived lack of welcome by teachers and administrators, and teachers and
administrators' assumptions of parents' disinterest or inability to help with children's schooling. At
the same time, analysis of interview data show that although many parents appear to value
education in the abstract, in reality they have little idea of what happens inside the school and
classroom, and are clear about what ought to be happening there.
(iv) Management Processes and Financing are not Aligned on Efforts to Improve Schooling.
At the level of the school, when management processes and resources are not aligned on student
learning, student results are jeopardized. Most schools participating in the Fundescola
Program are very constrained in terms of financial and human resources. Unfortunately,
it is frequently the case that when schools make efforts to improve quality themselves,
many spend their scarce resources in fragmentary and ineffective ways. Often with they
believe are in the best interests of their students, school staff implement multiple programs
that are neither aligned with a plan for school improvement nor evaluated for their
effectiveness. Over time, these piecemeal-type of programs represent a major energy
drain for schools, both in terms of resources and focus. To make matters worse, according
to research in the Northeast of BraziL many schools are excessively concerned with state or
municipal norms and regulations, or are constrained by their own limited experience.
- 10 -



Disorganized schools are more likely to have staff who blame parents and even the students
themselves for low levels of learning, rather than accept their responsibility for assuring children's
educational success.
At the level of local government, education secretariats are correspondingly not organized to
provide efficient educatic,nal services and support to schools. Obviously, student learning takes
place at school, not in the secretariat or at the level of the school system. Nonetheless, the system
has an obligation to focus all efforts on facilitating the teaching/learning processes at the school.
With increasing demands for improving educational outcomes, secretariats of education are
inundated with a variety of approaches and "silver bullets" for improving their systems. With so
much pressure and need, districts are more than willing to try out many different options. The end
result is often an abundance of well-intentioned plans that are not focused on a single, unifying
vision. This kind of education improvement overload contributes to a defeatist mentality. Instead,
school improvement requires that the secretariats of education be endowed with the organizational
structure and capacity to take optimal advantage of their resources and align them with the
objective of school improvement and equity.
(c)    Government strategy to address sector constraints
The federal government hlas given its highest priority to improving access and quality in primary
education. In recent years it has initiated a number of reforms including: (a) amendment of the constitution
to guarantee a minimum spending level on primary education everywhere in the country; (b) the support for
a law that sets the standards redefining the roles and responsibilities of each government level; (c)
implementing a program to directly transfer funds to the schools, in an effort to increase school autonomy
and effectiveness; and (d) development of information and a communication program about education
quality and performance through a national assessment system (SAEB) and a sophisticated annual school
census; (e) a textbook quality and an efficient distribution program; and (f) the development and
dissemination of new, national curriculum parameters. These reforms, designed to decentralize the funding
of primary education, diminish regional and local disparities, and increase coordination among the various
systems, will continue to have a profound impact on school quality and system performance.
Increased resources for education. Considering all public programs and levels of government,
public expenditures on education totalled US$43 billion in 1997, corresponding to 5 percent of GDP.
Primary education received nearly 45% of public spending on education. In 1997, public expenditures on
education increased by roughly 12% over the previous years. State government spending on education
represented the lion's share of this growth, with an increase of 23%, whereas municipal governments
increased spending by 16%. Of total spending, the federal share represented about 20%.
Reducing educational inequity by guaranteeing a minimum per-student spending level. With the
objective of reducing the disparities in education finance between municipal and state school systems across
the states, Congress approved Constitutional Amendment No. 14/96 on December 9, 1996. This
amendment, along with Federal Law No. 9.424/96 of December 24, 1996 to regulate this amendment,
established the Fund for the Development and Maintenance of Basic Education and Teacher Valorization (
FUNDEF), requiring that three-fifths of the 25 percent of total municipal and state revenues earmarked for
education be redistributed on a per-student basis in each state. The fund guarantees that every primary
school student, whether enrolled in a state or municipal school, benefits from a spending floor in his or her
school system of R$300 (raised to R$385 for calendar year 2001). Amendment No. 14/96 also requires
that the federal government top up, with federal funds, any state's FUNDEF that falls below this spending
floor. FUNDEF should have a strong impact on school quality, particularly to the degree that (a) states,



municipalities and schools effectively use these resources and (b) the public is able to monitor the
application of these finances.
Improving quality through assessment and standards.  Two other important Government
strategies for improving education quality and equity are the enhancement of the education indicator system
and the development of National Curriculum Parameters.  The indicator system includes the National
Basic Education Evaluation System (SAEB), the annual school census system, and comprehensive
programs to disseminate educational results. The development and publication of the National Curriculum
Parameters serve as a complement to these efforts by establishing learning standards for every grade level,
facilitating the design of the SAEB instruments. The publication and distribution of these standards (over
1.5 million packages were distributed to all primary school teachers) marked the first time in history that
Brazilians had come to agreement over the parameters of a national curriculum.
Capacity building. The strategy adopted by the Government of Brazil to achieve its equity and
quality objectives relies heavily on state and municipal secretariats of education. The secretariats are the
key instrument through which the Government is hoping to reach all the schools and implement its reform
measures. The government recognizes, however, the constraints that limit the capacity of these
secretariats, especially in the poorer regions of the country, and has incorporated into its strategy a set of
measures to help address them. In fact, the Fundescola program was developed large parte to develop and
launch this strategy. Tactics include guided and self-administered assessments of capacity, organization
and methods work, systems development, process re-engineering, and training - all aimed at strengthening
the secretariats both in delivering routine educational services better and in raising the quality and equity of
the various education systems.
Encouraging public engagement. The Government's strategies and goals for the education sector
are further developed by National Education Council's "1998 National Plan for Education,"which was
formally adopted by the Ministry. The National Education Council's initiatives for the primary education
sector specify a number of goals that Fundescola m supports, including: increasing the proportion of
students completing primary school, raising student performance .AA measured by SAEB; elimination of the
category of uncertified teacher; definition of minimum quality standards for schools; an increase in the
community's participation in education; and the promotion of school autonomy. In short, those issues,
which are at the heart of the design of Fundescola, have been taken up as the standard of the federal
government, in its efforts as champion of educational improvement.
Promoting school autonomy and parent participation. The Ministry of Education's National
Education Development Fund (FNDE) has been implementing the now five-year-old "Money Direct to the
School Program." This program, which was designed to increase school autonomy and reduce inequalities
across municipalities, has expanded rapidly since its inception in 1995, transferring resources on the basis
of school size and cormmunity participation. Between 1996 and 1999, the Ministry transferred over R$1
billion to school councils under this program. During the same period of time, this program stimulated the
creation of 50,000 additional school councils, which were established to receive and manage these funds.
- 12-



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
(a) Key sector issues to be addressed by Fundescola m
Education System Equity. Fundescola IlI will help Secretariats of Education establish and
disseminate an effective framework for reducing the striking disparities in learning conditions between the
schools under their authority. Schools, in turn, will be provided with assistance and management models to
help them assure that all of their students have equal opportunities to learn and advance successfully
through the school system.
School Effectiveness. Earlier projects in the Fundescola Program have developed and tested
various teaching/learning models iin recent years. They have found several to be effective and Fundescola
has helped Secretariats of Education introduce them successfully into hundreds of individual schools. But
they have yet to replicate these successful interventions in tens of thousands of schools. This inability to go
to scale has been the' result of weak capacity - in particular, the capacity to get organized for large-scale
operations and to manage them well in a system that is highly fraginented. This constraint will be
addressed by the Fundescola m project. The project includes what is likely to be the first large-scale
introduction of teaching/learning raodels comprehensively into entire school systems in the North, Northeast
and Center-West, with new instruments and technical support for Secretariats of Education pursuing these
reforms. The logistics of doing this, the organizational arrangements, and the management systems and
practices required, will be worked out and included in the project. In this way, this project will itself
become an experiment in going to scale, paving the way to future large-scale operations of this kind.
Fundescola III will develop the capacity in Secretariats of Education to provide guidance and
support to their schools to: (a) design and implement their own strategic plans and schooling improvement
projects; and (b) select and adopt a tested model of effective teaching and learning. Fundescola's focus on
increasing school effectiveness will in turn help schools raising the learning outcomes for all of their
students--their principle clients.
(b) Strategic choices
Fundescola m will seek to imprcve effectiveness and equity through a dual strategy of increasing policy
alignment and promoting public engagement. Fundescola III will support Secretariats' efforts and build
their capacity to align their management processes and resources on school improvement--to achieve the
principles of equity and effectiveness. The establishment of effective organizational capacity and alignment
of the Secretariat will in turn help schools do a better job of aligning their own activities and resources on
improving student performance and other educational outcomes. Fundescola III will also promote greater
public engagement in schools and the entire education process.
Figure 2 provides a schematic analysis of how Fundescola has been organized to achieve the mission,
development objectives, and specific objectives of increasing the equity of learning opportunities across the
schools in each Secretariat of Education's school system, and to help these Secretariats of Education
improve the effectiveness of each of their schools. The three legs of this figure correspond to the three
components of the project, detailed in the next section.
- 13 -



Figure 2
Work Breakdown Stnucture of Fundescola
Improve Educatonal Outcmes of Children
Living in the North, Northeast, and Center West
Regions of Brazil by Improving their Schools and the
Secretariats of Education Responsible for them
I
Increase the Effecdveness of Schools and
Ralse the Equity Across the Schools by Helping
Secretariats of Education Establish a and Sustain
a System-Wide School Improvement Strategy
Assure that                                Assure that                          Assure that Schools and
Children have Access                   Students are Enrolled in Schools             School Systems Align Their
to a School that Meets                   Using Effective Models for         Management Practices and Engage the Public
Minimum Operational Standards                  Teaching and Leaming                 on Improving Educational Outcomes
Design, Test and Disseminate               Design, Test and Disseminate                Design, Test and Disseminat
Guidelines for Minimum                     Teaching and Learning                    Management and Monitorlng
Operational Standards                         Models for Use                           Models for the Use of
In Schools                                 by Schools                                  Schools
Develop & Test GuideUnes                       Develop Products      1                    Develop Products
for Minimum Operational                         and Services                               and Services
_    Standards in        |for Improving School                                   _      for Improving School
Schools           ]                   Teaching/Learning                        Management/Monitoding
Disseminate Guidelines                      Disseminate Products                       Disseminate Products
for Minimum Operadonad                          and Services oand Servichool
f      Standatoa                             for Improving Schs                        for mperving Schol
to Schools                             TeachingtLearning                        Management/Monitoring
Provide Schools with Fumiture, 1                 Demonstrate How                            Demonstrate How
Equipment, and Support to  |                   Schools Can Use                            Schools Can Use
Demonstrate the Viability of  |                Teaching/Leaming                         Management/Monitoring
Minimum Operational Standards                   Products & Services                        Products & Services
Increase Capacity and                      Increase Capacity and                      Design, Test, and Help
Incentives for Secretariats                Incentives for Secretariats                    Secretauiats Use
to Raise Schools up to                      to Help Schools Use                      Management & Monitoing
Minimum Operatonal Standards                  Teaching/Leaming Models                  Models throughout the System
Develop Complementary Tools                       Design & Test       1                      Design & Test
for Secretariats to Use to Raise                  Complementary        I                     Complementary
their Schools up to Minimum                       Products for        l                      Products for
Operatonal Standards                            Secretarlats       l                       Secretadats
Provide Training & lncentives                    Provide Training     1                     Provide Training
for Secretariats to use                       & Incentives for     I                     & Incentives for
Complementary tools to                         Secretariats to      j                     Secretariats to
Raise Standards of Schools                     Use Complements                            Use Complements
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
Fundescola Program Context
The Challenge. Since 1998, the Ministry of Education's Fundescola Program has been working
intensively with 19 states and hundreds of municipalities in an effort to improve education system
performance and outcomes at the level of primary school. The tools, guidance, and technical assistance
provided to schools and Secretariats of Education during the implementation of Fundescola I and II
have proven to be effective. The Fundescola strategy has demonstrably contributed to a significant
improvement in educational outcomes for learners in thousands of schools in the North, Northeast, and
Center West. Nonetheless, there are over 80,000 schools spread across 2000 municipalities in these
- 14 -



regions. The greatest challenge facing the Ministry of Education, beyond assuring the consolidation
and sustainability of what has already been achieved, is to develop and introduce strategies to bring
Fundescola to scale, that is, to deliver the Fundescola school improvement strategy to even greater
numbers of municipalities, including the poorest ones with the weakest institutional capacity. Clearly,
the project's role should be to focus on the development of the products, processes, and strategies that
will allow for large scale improvements in the schools. But beyond Fundescola itself, it is ultimately
the responsibility of the Ministry take these strategies to the schools, using state and municipal
secretariats as the implementing agencies.
Bringing Fundescola interventions to schools attended by the poorest children in Brazil, and providing
a framework through which Fundescola can both be sustained and go to scale will require that large
numbers of education secretariats commit themselves to the school improvement effort. It will also
demand significant leadership and enhanced capacity in these secretariats for them to both promote
school improvement and provide technical assistance and support to schools in their jurisdiction willing
to sign on to the improvement program. Moreover, for Fundescola to spread and take root, to be
successfully implemented, and to be sustained over the long term, the principles--equity and quality,
and strategies-public engagement and alignment, of Fundescola's school improvement program will
need to be integrated into the mindsets and daily practices of the staff in the secretariats of education,
and into the operating procedures of the institutions themselves.
Performance Triggers for l'hase B of the Fundescola m1 Project (for Fundescola IIIB)
Fundescola EII performance triggers for launching Phase B of the program, estimated to be achieved by
July 2005, are moderately less ambitious versions of the end-of-project targets specified in Section
A. 1, above (Key Performance Indicators).
Equity:
*   The guidelines for minimum operational standards for schools will be disseminated to at
least half of the secretariats of education in the participating microregions, and these
secretariats will have promoted the standards to their school staff and school communities.
(The Project Operatioral Manual specifies Fundescola's guidelines for minimum
operational standards .md defines what it means to adopt these standards.)
* In these microregions, an average of at least 60% of primary school students will be
enrolled in targeted schools with classrooms meeting these standards.
Effectiveness:
*   Each of the Fundescola-designed schooling improvement products aimed at increasing
school effectiveness, along with its complementary program for improving the secretariat
effectiveness in implemnenting that product, will be fully developed and tested. In addition,
evaluations of secretariats' implementation of these products and complements will be
completed. (The Project Operational Manual includes a list of the schooling improvement
products to be suppomted under Fundescola IIIA, along with a list of the complementary
secretariat-based products, and the evaluation criteria.)
- 15 -



* In the participating microregions, an average of at least 60% of primary students will be
enrolled in targeted schools that are implementing one or more of these schooling
improvement products, with the support of their secretariats.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Table 1. Project Components and Subcomponents
Indicative  -Bank-                 of
Component I                Sector-        OS s      - of il' financing=  Bank-
I                                    (US$M)    Top'   1,*',,1,, ~t,.al_  (US$M)  'financing
1. RAISING SCHOOLS TO           Primary Education               0.0                 0.0
MINIMUM OPERATIONAL
STANDARDS
1.1 School-Managed Rehabilitation                    50.00      15.6    25.00       15.6
Subprojects
1.2 Provision of Furniture and                      40.00      12.5      8.00       5.0
Equipment
1.3 Provision of Reading Books                        5.60       1.8      1.05       0.7
2. ESTABLISHING A SCHOOL        Primary Education                0.0                 0.0
DEVELOPMENT PROCESS
2.1 School Strategic Planning                         4.60       1.4      1.38       0.9
2.2 Schooling Improvement                            20.00       6.3     10.00       6.3
Subprojects
2.3 Implementation of                                11.80       3.7      8.97       5.6
Teaching-Learning Models
3. STRENGTHENING THE            System Reform &                  0.0                 0.0
EDUCATION SECTOR                Capacity Building
3.1 Institutional Development for                     9.00       2.8      9.00       5.6
Education Secretariats
3.2 School Council Strengthening                    160.00      50.0     80.00      50.0
Subprojects
3.3 Project Management, Monitoring,                  17.40       5.4     15.00       9.4
and Research
0.0                 0.0
Total Project Costs                318.40      99.5    158.40      99.0
Front-end fee                    1.60       0.5      1.60       1.0
Total Financing Required                  320.00     100.0    160.00     100.0
-16-



Description of Project Components and Subcomponents
COMPONENT 1: AISING SCHOOLS TO MINIMUM OPERATIONA,
STANDARDS
This component consists of activities aimed at helping all secretariats in the participating
microregions establish a policy to improve the equity across the schools and initiate an
investment program to raise the conditions of learning in all of their schools up to an agreed set
of standards. Specifically, the Fundescola IILA Project will encourage secretariats to adopt the
Fundescola Program's "Minimum Operational Standards" model as their yardstick for
evaluating and improving the equity of their school systems. The Minimum Operational
Standard model was developed by the Fundescola Program as a benchmark for all secretariats
and schools. It consists of a predetermined set of essential inputs, school resources, and
conditions that are considered to be minimally necessary for a school to be capable of
providing learning opportunities to its students. The model covers basic pedagogical inputs
such as books and student materials, school equipment such as desks, chairs, and shelves,
physical characteristics such as basic infrastructure, safety factors, and sanitary conditions;
and human resources. Fundescola lILA's Operational Manual details the guidelines and
checklists for Mininmum Operational Standards. The Fundescola Program has already
developed and has been using a School Facilities Survey for use by the secretariats in assessing
the school conditions with respect to these guidelines. During Fundescola ILA, the Project
will work with secretiriats to: (i) agree, as a matter of policy, on a set of minimum operational
standards of their own, according to each one's reality and financial capacity, but based on the
Fundescola Program'n; guidelines; (ii) inform the schools and the school's own community of
these standards; (iii) measure each of their schools against these standards, (iv) prepare
multi-year investment and technical assistance programs , with priority given to schools that
fall farthest from the standard and; based on their financial capacity; (v) implement their
investment program to raise the quality all schools to the agreed Minimum Operational
Standards. In this vay, each secretariat will increase the equity across the schools in its
system, providing the necessary, although not sufficient, conditions for schooling improvement.
Components 2 and 3 address the other factors considered necessary by the Fundescola
Program strategy to improve schooling and ultimately educational outcomes.
Subcomponents of Component 1
(1) School-Managed Rehabilitation Subprojects (US$50 million). Fundescola IILA will finance
the rehabilitation of 10,000 classrooms by transferring funds to the schools and helping the
school councils and participating secretariats monitor the implementation of the renovations.
The guidelines for school rehabilitation, the spaces in the school to be covered under this
subcomponent, and the specifications, are included in the Operational Manual.
(2) Provision of Furniture and Equipment (US$40.0 million). Fundescola IIIA will finance
the furniture and equipment for 10,000 classrooms, which are needed for schools to achieve the
minimum operational standards. The specifications of this furniture and classroom equipment,
and the procedures for acquiring and distributing these goods, are included in the Operational
Manual.
- 17 -



(3) Provision of Reading Books (US$5.6 million). Fundescola HIA will provide 5,000 sets of
reading books to schools implementing teaching/learning models under subcomponent 2.3
below. Procedures for selecting and distributing these book modules are included in the
Operational Manual.
COMPONENT 2 - ESTABLISHING A SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROCESS
This component consists of activities aimed at helping schools be substantially more effective
at with their primary function: helping students learn. The component will help secretariats
build the capacity of their schools to: (i) formulate strategies and action plans to improve their
ability to serve the schools' principal client?-their students; (2) strengthen and align schools'
administrative, management, and monitoring systems to support this aim; and (iii) enhance the
effectiveness of their teachers and the adequacy of the instructional approaches used in the
classrooms. The basic instruments to be used in this process are the School Development
Plan, the School Improvement Subproject, and tested, integrated programs for classroom
designed to promote effective teaching and learning. This component will be implemented
through three subcomponents.
Subcomponents of Component 2
(1) School Strategic Planning (US$4.6 million). This subcomponent will help participating
secretariats introduce and support school-based strategic and action planning. The key
instrument for school strategic planning is the preparation and implementation, by the staff and
community of the participating school, of a School Development Plan, or PDE. The PDE
framework and guidelines went through a first round of development and testing under
Fundescola I and II, and will be further developed and evaluated during the implementation of
Fundescola IIIA. This subcomponent covers the additional development work required to
finalize the version of PDE currently under implementation, as well as to update it based on the
evaluation being undertaken under Fundescola II. It covers also the development of
'complementary' products and materials needed to help Secretariats introduce, maintain, and
sustain school strategic planning in their schools, in addition to training and support to be
provided to these secretariats. During Phase One of Fundescola III (Fundescola IIIA), the
DGP will design strategies for going to scale with PDE and its complementary products and
materials. During Phase Two, DGP will test these strategies and develop complementary
materials for going to scale, if such materials are considered necessary.
(2) Schooling Improvement Subprojects (US$20 million) finances activities in the School
Development Plan that require funding, in particular, the activities identified in the School
Development Plan that specify the selected actions needed to increase schooling quality and
achieve the strategic targets.  These actions include, inter alia, inservice teacher training,
assessment, educational materials, and instructional equipment  While the Minimum
Operational Standards model from Component 1, above, is designed to equalize the learning
environment across all the schools in each secretariat's education system, the schooling
improvement subprojects aim to individualize each school's program of action by responding
to school-specific needs and initiatives that school staff and parents believe can improve
student learning and school quality, as identified during the school strategic planning process.
This subcomponent covers two additional items. The first is an in-depth evaluation of School
Improvement Subprojects, which will be undertaken towards the end of Phase One. The
second is the design of strategies aimed at ensuring that secretariats are able to provide the
- 18 -



necessary guidance to schools preparing subprojects and to monitor these subprojects, when
they go to scale with them. This will be undertaken during Phase Two.
(3) Implementation of Teaching-Learning Models (US$11.8 million) will cover activities aimed
at the adoption, adaptation, and implementation by .schools, on a voluntary basis, and with the
direct technical support and assistance of their secretariats of education, of one of a variety of
teaching and learning models. Several of these models were developed under Fundescola II,
and new ones will be designed and tested under Fundescola hIA. These models are meant to
support teachers' effbrts to improve student learning achievement by aligning curriculum,
instruction, teaching materials, and classroom organization with student learning objectives.
Moreover, the learning objectives included in these models are based on Brazil's National
Curriculum Parameters.  The inclusion of teaching-learning designs into the schooling
improvement strategy is based on a central principle of the Fundescola Program, namely that
school improvement requires multiple, mutually reinforcing interventions. Component 1 is an
equity-oriented intervention that supports secretariats' efforts to raise school quality up to an
acceptable level in all the schools. Subcomponents 2.1 and 2.2 help schools align their internal
efforts and programs to give priority to student learning.  While these two types of
interventions are important building blocks for a school improvement strategy, they are not
sufficient. Even when a school is fully functional and when its staff is fully committed to
improving educational outcomes, teachers and principals may still lack the requisite
knowledge, methods:, and skills to integrate instruction, educational materials, monitoring and
evaluation, and classroom organization on the objective of improving learning. Subcomponent
2.3 addresses this deliciency.
In particular, this subcomponent covers activities aimed at further development of GESTAR
and Escola Ativa, along with other teaching/learning models appropriate to different types of
schools. It will also cover the field-testing of these models. It will also cover the development
of the "complementary products" needed to help secretariats introduce and support the various
models in their schools. All models will completed and evaluated in Phase One. Finally,
strategies for going to scale with these models will be designed under this component. The
models will be fine-tmed, and the strategies for going to scale will be tried out, in Phase Two.
COMPONENT 3 - STRENGTHENING THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM
This component will cover activities aimed at strengthening the capacity of secretariats of
education in the targeted microregions to deliver their education services and to implement all
of the components of this project. It will do so by guiding secretariats of education through a
strategic planning process to clarify their mission, focus more effectively on their principal
clients - their schools, carry out more effective school monitoring and support, and follow
more efficient management practices. Second, this component will promote greater public
engagement in education, in particular, greater parent participation on school councils.
Greater public involvement will contribute to increased social accountability, thereby helping
to keep schools ancL their education secretariats focused on increasing equity and school
effectiveness. Finally, the component will support project coordination and research on project
implementation and impact. The component has three sub-components.
(I) Institutional Development for Education Secretariats (US$9 million). The key objective of
this component is to help secretariats of education, via strategic planning exercises, develop
-19 -



and implement Secretariat Management Plans (PGS). These tools will be introduced on a trial
basis during Fundescola IIIA, with local governments being invited to partner with Fundescola
in order to design and evaluate the effectiveness of these instruments and processes.
Specifically, these systems are being developed to help guide secretariat leadership teams on
exercises to help them clarify their mission and align their policies, programs, and supervision
and support activities on helping all of their schools be effective. The management
strengthening programs will also assist Secretariats' efforts to improve their decision-making
and their monitoring of school performance. Through the implementation of the PGS, the
Secretariat will be able to effectively implement Fundescola-developed products on their own,
sustain policy-strengthening activities for their schools, and adopt permanent mechanisms to
support these initiatives, including through the direct transfer of funds to their schools.  In
addition, for secretariats that are implementing a PGS, Fundescola will provide incentives for
them to adopt, initially on a trial basis, a system that promotes the continuous improvement of
their schools towards an agreed set of "standards of excellence." This system will be
developed and tested under Fundescola IILA based on the following three, integrated
instruments: (a) school self-evaluation; (b) secretariat-managed school external evaluation (a
type of quality assurance inspection); and (c) a supervision program of the secretariat aimed at
providing qualified technical-assistance to schools to help them achieve the standards of
excellence.
(2) School Council Strengthening Subprojects (US$160 million) will provide funding to school
councils for them to finance a activities aimed at engaging parents more in school
improvement, and helping parents take greater responsibility in improve the conditions of their
schools. Greater public involvement will contribute to increased social accountability, thereby
keeping schools and their education secretariats focused on increase equity and quality. This
subcomponent will transfer financial resources to the school councils (UEs), with the amount
to be based on school enrollment (approximately US$5.00 per student on a yearly basis).
School Council Strengthening Subprojects will be supported in all of the jurisdictions of the
participating microregions, including in the municipalities of the microregions that are
expected to enter Fundescola IIIB. This transfer of resources, which constitutes, on average,
only about 2 percent of the total annual public expenditure at a typical school, strengthens the
school council by authorizing and empowering the council members to decide on what
purchases will most improve the conditions for students, and then to carry out the purchase and
see the effect of their decision. Public engagement in school govemance is stimulated by this
subcomponent because of fact that this fund is controlled by an organization composed of
parents, and not by the local government. For a school to receive the funds, it has to have a
functioning and legal school council. Fundescola I and II both included this activity as a
means of setting the stage for Fundescola reforms in schools and local govemments in the
project's microregions.  Research carried out on the use of these funds during the
implementation of Fundescola II has shown that these funds are used by parents mostly to
acquire books and other instructional materials, equipment and fumiture, maintenance supplies
and services, paper, chalk, pencils, and pens, and computer supplies, among other items. Over
85 percent of the funds in this subcomponent will be transferred to schools located in the
participating microregions. The remaining 15 percent will be transferred to schools located in
those microregions that are most likely to participate in the second phase of this project,
Fundescola IIIB.
(3) Project Management, Monitoring, and Research (US$17.4 million) finances Fundescola's
incremental management, technical assistance activities, and supervision responsibilities in the
- 20 -



Ministry of Education. A major element in this subcomponent is the research on its
implementation and impact. Given that primary schooling in Brazil is the responsibility of
state and municipal governments, over which the federal Ministry of Education has no
direct authority, the project design recogn3izes that to improve schools, the Ministry
will have to mobilize the state and municipal governments to undertake the reforms
developed and tesled under the Fundescola Program. Clearly a key element the
federal government would need in its effort to convince state and municipal
governments to aclopt Fundescola-based reforms is a set of solid, high quality,
quantitative and qualitative empirical research studies, carried out by independent,
respected specialists and institutions, that examine every aspect of the program's
objectives and interventions. For this reason, the research to be financed out under this
subcomponent will go well beyond comprehensive monitoring to evaluate program
interventions and impact. In addition to assessing the impact of specific instruments and
models on student learning, the research program will examine the adoption and integration of
Fundescola-type reforms by local governments, policy reforms in those governments, and the
sustainability of such reforms.
2. Key policy and institutional r eforms supported by the project:
The project's key policy challenge is for local governments, particularly municipal Secretariats of
Education, to adopt a set of policies that clearly defines support to schools as the top priority. As
discussed above, the Secretariat of Education's support to schools should be based on two, incontrovertible
principles: (i) improving school eifectiveness, which means the schools' ability to focus on student learning
and raise student outcomes; and (ii) raising inter-school equity, which means reducing disparities in
opportunity to learn standards between schools under their responsibility. Fundescola has developed and
continues to develop "tool kits" designed to help Secretariats of Education consider these policies,
understand their central importance, and implement and sustain them successfully. Fundescola has
demonstration schools and districts that characterize these two principles. Fundescola also carries out
massive training and consciousness-raising programs to promote these concepts and the Fundescola
approach to system-wide improvement in schooling. Despite these efforts, historical patterns of poor
planning, lack of coordination and articulation within and between jurisdictions and levels of government,
and the continued presence of pollitical patronage, puts the sought after policy reforms at risk. Fundescola
III will be designed to account for these constraints to the degree possible. Nonetheless, the key risk to the
project's success is not its immediate implementation but rather its long-term sustainability.
3. Benefits and target population:
The priority benefit population conisists of the children located in the municipalities in microregions with
the highest number of poor families distributed across the 19 states of the project's three regions.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
4.1    Central level coordination
At the federal level, the Project Coordination Unit (DGP) within the Federal Ministry of Education
has been responsible for project preparation and will be charged with the administration of Fundescola III.
The DGP has already demonstrated, through its capable performance of similar duties under Fundescola I
and II, that it is institutionally and technically ready to: (a) serve as principal project counterpart to the
World Bank and key government and international agencies; (b) rely on the state-based Project Executive
Coordination (COEP) and on monitors/supervisors hired to support project implementation at the
- 21 -



microregion level; (c) analyze and approve state, intra-state, and microregion projects and annual work
plans; (d) establish and sign agreements with states, municipalities, and other government and international
agencies; (e) determine, together with the states, the definition of minimum operational standards; (f)
conduct project-related regional, state, and municipal analysis; (g) analyze and submit to the World Bank
the relevant documentation for the acquisition of goods and services and expenditure receipts; and (h)
prepare the progress reports and participate in the mid-term and final review according to World Bank
procedures. Despite DGP's proven track record in project implementation, and in view of the magnitude of
its role in Fundescola III, the Project will support, under Component 3, training and capacity building in the
areas of project administration (particularly the administration of large, external contracts) and project
monitoring, as well as activities to promote the integration of some of the DGP's technical roles into other
functions within the Ministry of Education.
4.2    State and Municipal Coordination and Implementation
At the state level, Fundescola III will operate by means of the Project Executive Coordination Unit
(COEP) within each state education secretariat, which: (a) serves as the key administrative project unit at
the state level; (b) prepares the Annual Work Plan with the participation of the municipalities in that state
and submits this plan to DGP for approval and registration in the SPA; (c) coordinates project execution
across municipalities and state school systems; (d) houses the DGP monitors and supervisors; (e)
coordinates communication and cooperation among the local government agencies involved in
project-related activities; (f) procures goods and services according to the guidelines of the World Bank; (g)
records and certifies expenditures; (h) prepares progress reports; and (i) monitors and evaluates the outputs
and outcomes of Fundescola in each state. Since Fundescola III will be working with the poorest and most
difficult to reach municipalities, Ministry staff expect that COEPs will have a much more technical role in
implementation of Fundescola IMl, in comparison with Fundescola H and Fundescola I. This new role will
need to be carefully explored end developed during project preparation. Part of this preparation will
include capacity assessment and work load analysis vis-a-vis institutional strengthening needs for the
participating municipalities, as well as the implications for capacity enhancement of the COEPs
themselves.
At the state and municipal level, each participating education secretariat is responsible for: (a)
assisting schools in designing their own school development plan and school improvement projects; (b)
fostering the operation of school councils and community participation; and (c) monitoring the delivery of
goods and services procured by the state Project Executive Coordination Units (COEP). Finally, guidance
and training for school leadership in the creation of a school development plan and school improvement
project will be offered through municipal-based School Development Teams (GDE). These teams will be
composed of municipal education professionals who will themselves be trained by the federal (DGP) and
state (COEP) level coordination units.
4.3    School level coordination
At the school level, a leadership team composed of the principal and the pedagogical coordinator or
other lead staff at the school will be responsible for: (a) participating in Fundescola's school development
training program; (b) involving the entire staff of the school as well as parents in the creation and
implementation of a school development plan and corresponding school improvement projects; (c)
accepting visits and technical assistance from DGP-contracted monitor/supervisors; (d) taking advantage of
the ongoing school development support offered by the school's respective GDE or COEP; (e) managing
the use of Fundescola-transferred funds for implementing the school improvement project, including
purchasing goods and services, maintaining accounting records for these purchases, and providing
- 22 -



accounting information to DGP during routine audits and review. Finally, the school team is responsible
for selecting and implementing the appropriate teaching-learning model.
4.1    Project monitoring
The predecessor project, Fundescola II, developed and operates a broad range of indicators and a
management information system (MIS) to track the implementation progress and outputs, as well as to
align its components and maintain accountability. Each coordination unit within the DGP responsible for a
subcomponent has developed its ciwn MIS system, and has used their own system to track progress and
take decisions. For Fundescola II, the DGP will pursue the following strategies use indicators as an
effective tool for improving implenmentation and policy reform.
*   DGP managers to agree ol1 a set of comprehensive summary indicators that provide an integrated
information base about the project as a whole, not as separate products.
*   DGP will set a time frarne (e.g. quarterly, biannually or annually) for updating the summary
indicators.
*   DGP will design standardized forms to simplify existing detailed information by expressing them in
categorical variables (e.g. type of interventions in each product) and continuous variables (e.g. cost
and scale score on the quality of each intervention) for technical supervisors to fill in and for states
eventually to collect. The information collected thus form the raw data for distillation and
integration into a comprehensive database.
*   DGP will increase regular communication and technical assistance to states and municipalities in
data collection, cleaning, entry and use for monitoring purposes.
*   DGP will develop a system to integrate these indicators from separate databases.
*   DGP will set a date each year (e.g. every July) for publishing and reporting these indicators (by
region, state, microregion, and municipality) publicly, in additional to making the database
available to the public through its web site. This is both for public accountability, as well as
setting a competitive context for states and municipalities to perform and to provide data in time.
At the State level, COEPs will essentially use the same indicators on process, output and outcomes of
Fundescola interventions products in each state during the life of the project. However, to be sustainable,
these indicators should become tools for the state to monitor the implementation process, output and
outcomes of its own policy and programs. Technical supervisors of COEPS complete the data collection
forms and enter the data into the COEP database for transmission to DGP on a regular basis. State
supervisors will eventually take over this function as part of their monitoring responsibility. The States and
Municipalities will be able to use the same form to monitor implementation of Fundescola type of
interventions funded by themselves outside of the project.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Adaptable Program Loan (APL) versus Specific Investment Loan (SIL) design. Fundescola III
- 23 -



was originally conceived as a traditional specific investment loan, like its predecessor projects Fundescola I
and II. There are two reasons for changing the investment modality to the APL design. First, given that
this third Fundescola project is larger than the first and second Fundescola projects, and is supposed to be
implemented over a six year period, rather than a 3 year period (as with Fundescola I and II), both the
Bank and Ministry of Education agreed that phasing the project in two steps would make the execution of
the project more manageable. Implementation targets for the completion of the first phase of Fundescola
III (Fundescola IIIA) will be established to trigger the launch of the second phase (Fundescola IIB).
Moreover, given the Fundescola III's focus on sustainability and expansion, the APL modality allows
greater flexibility in the design, components, and implementation arrangements. Second, the financial
uncertainty facing Brazil's federal government argues for caution with regard to the amount of debt (as
Borrower) the government is carrying at any point in time. Under the APL modality, the federal
government can lower debt exposure and commitment fees, and will request a second loan only when the
implementation triggers are met.
Top-down versus bottom-up design. Alternatives for improving the quality of primary schooling
included: (a) implementation of an entirely top-down model in order to ensure greater consistency across
schools and more effective control at the national level; and (b) establishment of a completely bottom-up
school-driven method for determining needs and resources. The first alternative was discarded as prior
project experience and education sector evaluations have demonstrated that local interests need to be
considered in order to ensure effective implementation and greater sustainability. Time and time again,
top-down, input-oriented strategies have failed to substantially affect the teaching-learning process in the
classroom. Such a top-down strategy would also have run counter to recent government cornmitment for
decentralization through such programs as direct school transfer programs, school lunch programs and
textbook selection. The fully bottom-up alternative was rejected based on the evaluation of capacity at the
school level that indicated that school principals are not yet politically or technically capable of adequately
expressing and rapidly attaining their needs for school inputs within the structure of the current system.
Moreover, without appropriate public demand and accountability, municipal education secretariats have
not assumed their responsibility for strengthening schools and supporting quality improvements. In
addition, the slow pace of a fully bottom-up approach would dampen political support for the project in
particular and increased school autonomy in general. Furthermore, project components such as
coordirration of teacher certification and quality assurance of selected inputs were found to be more
cost-effective if carried out at a higher level than the school. For these reasons, a more integrated form of
project implementation that includes both top-down and bottom-up methods was selected.
Bolsa-Escola Type Project.  An demand-stimulus approach was also considered. Analysis
suggested that this type of demand-stimulating program has better chances of success where schools can
offer poor children better opportunities for successfully completion of primary school  Beneficiary
assessment analysis and classroom observation studies (carried out under the "Call to Action" program)
demonstrated that children's persistence in school and their parents' expectations about educational
attainment are low when they believe that the school offers a low quality education. Consequently, this
alternative was rejected in favor of a project that complements the recently-launched Bolsa Escola
approach by attacking the supply-based problems of the project's participating microregions, namely the
lack of planning, low expectations, and poor school quality.
(a) Bolsa Escola is a program developed and implemented by the federal government of Brazil and
administered by the Ministry of Education. It is designed to provide modest income subsidies to the
families of the nation's poorest children as an incentive for them to attend and stay enrolled in primary
school. These financial incentives will be administered locally by municipal governments, who are
responsible to compile the list of participants and monitor their adherence to program guidelines and
- 24 -



receipt of the benefits.
(b) Fundescola III will serve both to complement and reinforce the Bolsa-Escola program. Although
most municipalities in the project's target regions have not drawn up the list of participant yet, it is
clear that thousands of children will receive the dual benefits of the Bolsa Escola and Fundescola. Of
course, the direct objective:; of Fundescola differ from those of Bolsa Escola. In particular, the
objectives of Bolsa Escola are to promote children's enrollment and continuation in the school system,
providing a push-incentive for children's participation and continuance at school. Fundescola's purpose
is to assure that children's school experiences are effective, meaningful, and productive, providing a
pull-incentive for children's enrollment and perseverance in school. The two programs target the poor
in different, but also complementary ways. The Bolsa Escola program is targeted to poor children,
restricting benefits to children whose families meet income-needs tests. Fundescola provides most
support to the worst schools, which tend to serve the poorest children. These are schools where
leaming conditions and resources are well below minimum standards, and where the classroom leaming
opportunities are the most dis;advantaged.
(c) Fundescola III will also include a number of activities designed to further enhance the synergy
between the Fundescola Program and Bolsa Escola program. In particular, the project design includes
the development of three new models to support the schooling of the poorest children. First, two new
classroom-learning designs will be developed and tested; one will serve the learning needs of rural
children who complete 4th grade in a school running the Escola Ativa program; the other will focus on
children attending schools in the most precarious conditions with respect to material and human
resources. Both of these designs will benefit schools with higher concentrations of Bolsa Escola
beneficiaries. Second, Fundescola III will develop, test, and help municipalities and states implement a
model to professionalize school management,. These school management tools are to be designed
especially to help schools organize their routines and improve their operating procedures, and monitor
student attendance and performance. Schools with weaker administrations or less qualified principals,
again most likely to receive the poorest students, will be targeted to receive this assistance on a priority
basis.
Private Sector School Improvement. Another project option would have given a larger role to
the private sector in promoting or supporting school improvement. It is important to point out that the
private sector already plays a large role in the Fundescola program. First, all education materials,
including especially textbooks, are published by the private sector. Second, Fundescola contracts firms
production of software systems, educational learning kits, furniture, other equipment, and research. Third,
school renovation work is undertaken by firms contracted by school councils and parent organizations.
Fourth, schools contract locally for educational advice and services using funds from their School
Improvement Projects. Finally, Fundescola contracts various firms and NGOs to develop teaching-learning
models employes NGOs and private firms to develop and test materials.
One key area in which the private sector has a potential role to play is in providing technical
assistance services to reforming schools. Several industrialized countries, notably England, New Zealand,
and Australia, have been experimenting with incentives to encourage private technical assistance suppliers,
such as management training organizations or private schools, to help schools implement reforms. A large
body of research, however, suggests that even in these countries the private sector has been slow to provide
assistance services to schools. For example, in England, the 1988 national education finance reform
transferred education funding to the schools themselves. These transfers included the funds earmarked for
teacher training and other school support services, previously under the control of the Local Education
Authority. Schools then had the choice of buying support services from their Local Education Authority
- 25 -



(LEA) or from the private sector. Even today, twelve years after the reform, most schools, especially
primary schools, continue to purchase the overwhelming majority of these services from their LEAs, as
private vendors have not materialized in adequate numbers, and as LEAs have been quite flexible in
adapting the services they provide to meet the demands of the schools. Fundescola would start off at an
even greater disadvantage given that the private education market is very small, and the schools needing
training and support services are widely dispersed. Moreover, support services from the private sector
would be particularly desirable in municipalities where local governments are too fragile or ill equipped to
provide relevant support. Unfortunately, these are the very same locations where the availability of skilled
professionals, either as individual consultants or in consulting firms, is extremely limited. Consequently,
the decision taken by the designers of Fundescola m is strengthening the capacity of local secretariats of
education in the larger microregions, and providing incentives and training to encourage state secretariats
of education to support weaker municipalities in smaller microregions.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Primary education access and quality  Northeast Basic Education I  S             S
(completed)
Primary education quality         Urban Basic Education Project,   S             S
"Monhangara" (completed)
Primary education access and quality  Northeast Basic Education II  S            S
and III Projects (completed)
Primary education quality         Innovations in Basic Education   S             S
(completed)
Primary education access, quality, and Bahia Education Project     S             S
management
Primary education access, quality and  Ceara Education Project     S             S
management
Primary education quality and equity  Fundescola I (completed)     S             S
Primary education quality         ParanA Education Project         S             S
Primary education quality         Minas Gerais Education Project   S             S
Primary education quality and equity  Fundescola II                 S             S
Other development agencies
Unicef                            Child Rights focus Support to
NGOs (ongoing)
Ford Foundation                   Ceara Early Childhood
Development Project                      I
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 26-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Following the lessons learned from the design and implementation process of Fundescola I
(FY1998, Loan 4311-BR) and Fuidescola II (FY2000, Loan 4487), the Northeast Basic Education Project
(NEBE II, FY 1993, Loan 3604-EBR and NEBE Ill, FY1994, Loan 3663-BR), and prior Bank experience
in Brazil, Fundescola III will incorporate those project aspects that were successful in achieving their
intended objectives, avoiding those aspects that, upon evaluation, were deemed incomplete or unattainable.
First, the design of Fundescola III benefits from the implementation experience of its sister
projects, Fundescola I and II. Lessons include the need to give higher priority to social mobilization and
communication efforts in promoting the school-based development approach; the benefits to funding a
second and third round of school improvement projects, providing an incentive for schools to stay focussed
on the issue of quality improvement and practice the planning skills they have learned; and providing
incentives for municipalities to expiand the school-based development approach to additional schools.
Importantly, research was carried out by The National Institute for Education Research (INEP) on
the impact of key interventions from Fundescola I and II have influenced the design of Fundescola III (see
Avaliacdo de Desempenho: Fatores Associados, mimeo., July 2001,S59pps). In 1999, a research sample
was selected, which was composed of 158 schoools located in six States distributed across all three of
Fundescola's regions (North, Northeast, and Center West), including 55 schools with the PDE intervention
and the remainder without PDEs. INEP contracted consultants to survey these schools and to collect
detailed background information on the students and their families, their teachers, the principals, and
characteristics of the schools themselves. Achievement tests in Portuguese and Mathematics, equated with
the SAEB, were also developed by INEP and administered by consultants to all of the fourth grade students
in the sample schools. Students have now take these test three times: in April of 1999 (close to the March
start of the school year) in November 1999 (at the end of the school year), and in November 2000. As of
the July, 2001 study, data from the November 2000 test administration had not been included in the
database INEP researchers analyzed, consequently the results examine the value added during the 1999
school year.
Among the numerous variables included in the research study are teacher education attainment
level, teacher performance on (the same) achievement tests, student previously repeated, teacher self-report
on curriculum coverage, mother's education level, indicators of student's socioeconomic status, and a binary
indicator of school participation in the PDE intervention. Despite the extremely short timeframe (less than
one year), most of the regression models estimated find a positive and significant difference for students
enrolled in schools implementing Fundescola's PDE intervention, with the coefficient on PDE stronger
when using the November 1999 Portuguese test as the dependent variable rather than the 1999 mathematics
test. Other results are consistent with standard expectations, including a correlation between achievement
and such variables as student SES, student attendance and promotion rates, mother's education, teacher
experience, teacher completing the curriculum. In addition, performance is higher for boys in mathematics
and girls in Portuguese. The research shows that students enrolled schools implementing PDEs also
perform better with respect to other dependent variables such as student's report card scores and student
promotion rate (both based on teacher's own assessment of student achievement rather than the
standardized tests).
It is important to point ouit that this research focused on only one of Fundescola's interventions.
Other interventions, such as the Minimal Operational School Standards interventions, Escola Ativa,
Proformaqdo, and Gestarare being examined separately. Nonetheless, given that the PDE is considered the
core intervention of Fundescola, the results form the study referred to above give strong support to the
- 27 -



Fundescola School Improvement Strategy.
Second, international project experience has also influenced the formation of the Fundescola
program, including (a) the lessons from Chile, Uruguay, and other Latin American countries in promoting
school improvement projects for the procurement of context-appropriate materials and increasing
stakeholder input; and (b) the Colombian Escuela Nueva program, which achieved effective results in the
modular use of textbooks, capacity-building of teachers, student-centered learning, evaluation of student
attainment, and community participation for multi-grade schools, and finally, the valuable and well
documented experience of New American Schools in the United States, which promotes whole-school
reform through the development of structured but adaptable packages of "school improvement designs" that
include materials, strategies, assessment, and linked training activities, along with ongoing technical
support to schools and education districts.
Third, the current nationwide evaluation process of textbooks (PNLD) was adopted and developed
by MEC based on the previous experience of the Northeast Basic Education Projects, which introduced
innovative procurement procedures. The purchase of textbooks is now made through the teachers' choice
based on a guide containing titles recommended by education specialists and teachers. This guide classifies
the books according to content and pedagogical quality, promoting improvement by the publishers.
Textbook distribution for the entire country has improved significantly since the first delivery made under
the Northeast Basic Education projects. The books now arrive at the start of the school year, their arrival in
the school is being monitored through a special operation introduced by MEC, and a new delivery system
is being implemented by the post office. The selection and delivery of basic school supplies to schools
under the Fundescola projects is modeled after this successful example of local selection combined with
central procurement and oversight.
Finally, to promote effective personnel management in basic education, the project derives lessons
from the positive experience of the Northeast Basic Education Project in the training and capacity-building
of municipal and state secretaries in the Northeast (Municipal Education Secretaries Support Program
[Prasem]). The project coordination unit will continue to build upon the success of the Northeast Basic
Education Project, especially in terms of effective management techniques and built-in accountability
requirements.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Government commitment to the Fundescola program is manifest in: (a) the origins, context and
content of the project design and the implementation record of Fundescola I and II.
The overall Fundescola Program has its origins in a series of 13 studies of the causes of school
failure in the Northeast region of Brazil which formed the basis for the sector study, "Brazil: A Call to
Action" published in 1997. The process of conducting and reviewing both the research and
recommendations for this study was a broadly collaborative one, involving the federal government, the
World Bank, UNICEF, representatives from federal universities in the Northeast, representatives from
political groups concerned with education, including the National Association of Municipal Education
Managers (UNDIME), and state Secretaries of Education. The recommendations contained in the report
were widely discussed and agreed, and they form the basis of the design of many of the Fundescola
activities and strategies. As discussed earlier (see key policy and institutional reforms supported by the
project), the Fundescola Program also directly supports the implementation of a number of important recent
changes in the legal, financial and operational framework governing the education sector. Government
commitment to the policy reforms supported through the Fundescola program has already been
- 28 -



demonstrated.
Fundescola III irnplementation will benefit directly from the advanced execution of the Fundescola
I and Fundescola II projects. The fact that 98 percent of the Fundescola I loan has already been disbursed,
and nearly 50 percent of the Fundescola II loan has been disbursed demonstrates clearly the high
implementation capacity of the Ministry, the project team, and the local executing agencies.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Informed Cooperation: As the chief external financing institution in the area of basic education
over the past ten years, the Bank has had the opportunity to develop a well-informed and close familiarity
with the key education challenges in Brazil and has come to recognize windows of opportunity. More
importantly, over the last few years it has built up a fluent dialogue with the leading education authorities
and institutions of Brazil. This dialogue has grown despite the presence of ideological differences between a
number of the key actors, and across changes in the political landscape. "A Call the Action" and three
years of the "Prasem" workshops are excellent examples of the Bank's ability to facilitate dialogue and
generate consensus around critical issues in the sector. The Bank has also been actively promoting, for
Brazilian Ministry, State, and Muaicipal education leaders and technical staff, the sharing and exchange of
ideas on international education sector experience. Consequently, the Bank has been able to play the role
of the "critical friend" in policy dialogue, has provided continuity, has promoted the exchange of
international experience, and ha3 served as a key counterpart in supporting the implementation of
development projects and policy reform.
Recent cooperation and exchanges developed with Brazil's major national professional associations
of education managers, namely the National Council of State Education Secretaries (CONSED) and the
National Association of Municipal Education Managers (UNDIME), have also provided the Bank with
detailed information and analytical perception of local, state and regional needs and demands. Especially
important is the Bank's ability to use global knowledge to create local solutions in the areas of education
evaluation and assessment, governance reforms and management restructuring, teacher certification and
professional development prograrns. Derived from experience gathered from supporting basic education
projects in other countries, particularly with regard to the school development process, and assembled from
the Bank staff's analysis of education systems and school reform in England, Scotland, Australia, and the
United States, the Bank is able to share its technical know-how with its clients in Brazil. In addition, the
Bank has facilitated a series of exchanges, discussions, and site visits with staff and experts from the New
American Schools Program and with several reforming school districts in the United States (for example,
with Memphis, Tennessee and Chicago, Illinois), and with research organizations involved in studying
school-based reform (Rand Corporation and American Institutes for Research). Study visits taken by
Fundescola staff and local govermnent implementing agencies to New Zealand, Australia, England, France,
Ireland, and Spain have also provided a broader world view of education reform that has inspired some of
the innovation of the Fundescola program.
Poverty Focus: The World Bank's Brazil-specific project experience and sector work on education
and poverty have made the institution well prepared to incorporate poverty targeting into an education
project. In particular, lessons from the Edurural project (completed in 1990), studies and instruments
prepared under the ongoing Fundescola I and II projects, and recent urban and rural poverty assessments
have facilitated the identificatiori of key poverty and regional imbalance issues associated with the
education sector. This knowledge base has informed the strategic choices made in the design of Fundescola
III. The project focuses on Brazil's three poorest regions, the North, Northeast and Center-West, and on the
municipalities in the microregions with the lowest levels on the Human Development Indicators. Finally,
- 29 -



the project's focus on raising all schools to a certain standard and compensating for past inequalities differs
from Brazil's historical approach to equity in spending, which has, at best, centered on providing the same
resources to all.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Underlying Fundescola HI's economic analysis is the fact that, despite the latest improvements in
performance and enrollments, the North, Northeast and Center West regions still lack large-scale,
integrated interventions to improve their public primary education systems. The development objective of
the project is to increase the capacity of education secretariats and to focus their attention on the dual tasks
of augmenting the effectiveness of the primary schools in their system and of raising levels of equity across
these schools.
The cost-benefit analysis was undertaken in the following manner: (a) the costs were estimated; (b) the flow
model was estimated for each participating region the state system; (c) a historical trend was applied for the
flow models, taking into account the method introduced by Ruben Klein of Cesgranrio in Rio de Janeiro, in
order to estimate how the flows of students would look without the project; (d) the impact of the project on
the flows was estimated to the year 2010; (e) the number of students that conclude each grade was
predicted and the difference between the flows with the project and without the project were determined; (f)
given these differences, the out-of-school benefits were calculated by using both the private rate of return to
each grade of education and the increment in productivity related to the increase in the proportion of
schools meeting SAEB learning standards; (g) in performing the sensitivity analysis, the NPV and the IRR
were calculated and tested for different scenarios.
In the calculation of the IRR and the NPV, the sensitivity analysis considered twelve possible scenarios
influenced by potential outcomes of income flows and productivity growth. The IRR results are as follows:
The Internal Rate of Return for all scenarios are satisfactory (the IRR ranges from 19.16% to 29.84%).
Even in the "Worst" case, the return rate of the project is greater than the Bank's standard discount rate of
10-12 percent, which indicates the capacity of the project to generate substantial benefits. Besides the
satisfactory IRRs and positive NPVs, the project does not yield to a high variability across the scenarios,
suggesting a high probability that gains will be positive and significantly above the minimum requirement
for investment yield.
- 30 -



Worst            Middle Poor      Middle Good     Best
IRR - 0% prod.   19.16%           21.62%          25.23%           29.00%
In c                              _ _  _ _ _ _ _                     _ _ _ _ _ _  _
IRR1 - 1% prod. 19.24%            21.94%          25.60%           29.42%
Inc__                                                                  _ _ _ _ _   _
IRR - 2% prod. 19.52%            22.26%           25.96%           29.84%
In c__              _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___                                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
NPV - 0% prod. R$ 535,30 1,735    R$ 687,804,031   R$ 930,928,837  R$ 1,174,059,936
In c             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
NPV - 1% prod. R$ 539,7565,422    R$ 712,188,452   R$ 958,361,267  R$ 1,204,540,437
Inc
NPV - 2% prod. R$ 561,810,742     R$ 736,572,872  R$ 985,793,696   R$ 1,236,360,827
In c            I _ _  _ _ _I_ _   I__ _ _ _  _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 284.9 million; FRR = 21.9 % (see Annex 4)
These are based on the sensitive analysis summarized above, with the information derived from
the scenarios highlighted in bold.
Fiscal Impact:
The analysis reveals that the loan can be absorbed by the Government without serious negative impact on
the Government's debt capacity and debt/GDP ratio. Three issues were important in analyzing Fundescola
III's financial impact: (i) whether it places an excessive burden upon the Federal treasury; (ii) whether it is
financially sustainable, and (iii) what its role will be given the present fiscal situation. The analysis
examined the impact of Fundescola III on net public debt and on outstanding Federal debt. The analysis
also examined the impact of mandated Federal education expenditures. Fundescola HI is not likely to
create new expenditure since expmnsion of the existing school system is not among its objectives. On the
contrary, if its goals are achieved, Fundescola III will lead to a much more efficient school system and thus
save resources.
3. Technical:
As indicated in Section B4, one of the key roles being played by Fundescola is the development of the
products, process and strategies thtat will help the Ministry of Education bring educational improvement to
thousands and thousands of schools. It is the Ministry's role to take these products, processes and
strategies to the schools, and the Ministry will do so by providing incentives, encouragement, and support
to state and municipal secretariaes who would in turn serve as the change agents. The success of the
Ministry in achieving the objectives of educational reform depends very much both on the soundness of this
overall approach and on the effectiveness of the products, processes and strategies developed.
From a technical and logistical point of view, the overall approach is sound. The products, processes and
strategies need to be developed cost-effectively by highly skilled people who specialize in product
development. Thus, their development is given to the professional teams assembled by Fundescola. But,
the introduction of these products, processes and strategies on a large scale does not require the same level
of skill and specialization, and cannot be centralized. Thus their dissemination, and the training, support
and monitoring that go along with it, is given to the secretariats of education. There is no other sensible
- 31 -



way to reach the thousands and thousands of schools.
The effectiveness of the products, processes and strategies depends on the extent to which Fundescola's
DGP is structured to follow sound product development practices, and actually follows them. During the
preparation of the project, the project team carried out an analysis of both of these factors and helped DGP
introduce work procedures that follow the product development cycle. It also helped DGP restructure itself
in ways that will ensure adherence to these work procedures. Both the procedures and the new
organizational structure are presented in the Operational and Implementation Manual (MOIP).
4. Institutional:
During the preparation of this project the project team carried out an institutional capacity analysis of a
number of state and municipal secretariats of education, as well as the DGP. The analysis of the
secretariats was aimed at getting an initial understanding of their capacity to deliver services - sufficient to
help design, and include in the project, a capacity building sub-component where additional analyses will be
undertaken. The analysis of the DGP was aimed at getting a full understanding of its capacity to
implement this project. Being the key implementer, the capacity of DGP is considered to be core capacity.
It must be in place when the project commences, or immediately thereafter, if the project, including its
capacity-building sub-component, is to be well implemented. The analyses focused on the following factors
of institutional capacity:
*      The organizational setting within which these institutions are operating and the division of
labor in them.
*      The leadership in each of these institutions and, in particular, the existence of clear vision,
strategies, objectives and plans.
*      The financial, human and material resources available to the institutions to carry out their
work, and
*      Some of the prevailing work practices followed by them.
With respect to DGP, the analysis included a detailed review of the way it planned to implement the
project. The three components and nine sub-components of the project were broken down and re-grouped
into 14 distinct operations. Each operation was broken down into tasks and a logistical plan was developed
for it. An accountable unit and an accountable manager was identified within DGP for each of these
operations. The logistical plans also served as tools to assess the time required for each operation, the
resources involved and the counterpart costs.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Executing agencies: The key implementing agency is the General Project Direction (DGP) of the
Ministry of Education. This department has developed a high degree of management autonomy and
capability with the Ministry. Nonetheless, much of the success of Fundescola III will hinge on the
willingness and capacity of the state and municipal secretaries to adopt the school-based reforms.
Consequently, one of the key objectives of Fundescola II is to help Secretariats of Education establish
differentiated and effective organizational "homes" for key institutional functions related to implementing,
supporting, and sustaining school-based development processes. This objective will be pursued through the
development of systems to help Secretariats integrate school-based reform into their operating structures.
- 32 -



The role of international agencies in support of project implementation. The Ministry of
Education will require high levels of technical support in order to effectively carry out its coordination role
in Project management. Likewise, effective transformation of the COEPs and the GDE's into institutions
capable of effectively executing and sustaining the education reforms inspired by the project will require
significant levels specialized management support. For example, Fundescola I and II benefited greatly
from the support of the United Nation's Development Program (UNDP). UNDP's supported the Ministry
of Education through, inter alia, the contracting of consultants and specialized consulting firms in the areas
of strategic planning, design and delivery of, and support for, project implementation and monitoring
systems, and technical assistance and intensive support services for dissemination and communication
programs. Through several years of collaboration, the Ministry of Education and all of State Secretariats
of Education involved in the Fundescola Program have established close working relationships with the
UNDP. This high degree of trust and cooperation has led the Ministry of Education to seek additional
support from a specialized international agencies during the implementation of Fundescola IIl.
4.2 Project management:
The federal Project Coordination Unit (DGP) has experience in managing the implementation
Fundescola I and II. A key issue being addressed under Fundescola III is how much of this managerial
experience at the federal and state (COEP) levels can be eventually absorbed by the parent institutions --
MEC and the local (State and Mimicipal) secretariats of education. This issue is addressed below under
Sustainability and Risks
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement under the Project cortsists of workshops, training, hiring of consultants, procurement of school
furniture and ventilation fans, printing of textbooks, production of training video-tapes, independent
procurement reviews and payment of salaries of professional staff performing activities for project
implementation. At a central level, project activities will be implemented by Fundescola's Project
Implementation Unit (DGP). At the State level, procurement will be implemented by the Secretariat of
Education and at a school level, procurement will be carried out by communities. At both central and State
levels, procurement of Goods will be carried out in accordance with World Bank Guidelines Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997
and January 1999); recruitment of consultants' services (consulting firms or individuals consultants) for
technical studies, training and reviews, will be carried out in accordance with the Bank Guidelines on
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September
1997 and January 1999). For the school grants component, procurement will follow the procedures
presented in the Operational Manual (MOIP).
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Project's planning and financial monitoring system "Sistema de Planejamento e Acompanhamento -
the SPA," is DGP's computerized system for monitoring and generating Statements of Expenditure - SOEs,
the basis for the Project to prepare: application forms to disburse funds and request disbursements from the
Bank through STN - Secretary do Tesouro Nacional. This system has been operating for other Ministry of
Education implemented Bank finamced projects such as the Second and Third Northeast Basic Education
Project and Fundescola I and II for at least 4 years, and has demonstrated its capacity to maintain adequate
expenditure records and generate reports showing the actual expenditures. Moreover, the SPA was adapted
under Fundescola II to generate physicalVfinancial management reports acceptable to the Bank. The DGP
manages Fundescola with the support of (a) Financial and (b) Budget Coordinating Units, which are
responsible for the financial management and procurement related matters for the project. The Financial
and Budget Coordinating Units consolidates all financial data generated at the implementing agencies,
including states and other Secreitariats of the Ministry of Education through the SPA.  The SPA is
- 33 -



structured on the basis of a "chart of accounts," and includes an accounting module integrated into the
system. The system has demonstrated its capacity to maintain adequate expenditure records and generate
reports showing the actual expenditures, which are well documented for expenditure tracking.
It has been agreed with DGP that a set of model project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, will
be submitted for review at negotiations. This package of model reports should cover expenditures and
disbursements, procurement and contracts, and information related to financial audits.  During
implementation, these reports, updated monthly , will be available to the Bank supervision team as
required.
Audits are handled by the Federal Government's General Accounting Organization, or "Federal Control
Secretary--SFC. " The SFC acts as a completely independent auditing agency and has played an important
role in assuring the quality of project accounts and in identifying any accounting errors or discrepancies.
The SFC has become mnore involved with the Fundescola Program on matters related to financial quality
control during the preparation of Fundescola III. The SFC has agreed with the Bank based on the protocol
of understanding between the Secretariat and the Bank, that SFC will continue to perform audits for
Fundescola as a priority in their work program.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
There are no major environmental issues envisioned, as the project will finance the rehabilitation of existing
primary schools. Absolutely no new school construction will be financed by this project. Guidelines for
school repair and renovation by school-council contracted labor were reviewed by Bank environmental
specialists during the preparation of Fundescola I and II. These government documents have been updated
and the revised, and the current editions were already cleared by the Bank. Periodic supervision missions
will include Bank environmental specialists to verify that guidelines are being followed adequately.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
(not applicable)
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
(not applicable)
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
(not applicable)
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
(not applicable)
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Fundescola II's ability to achieve its educational goals as an equity oriented project may be
affected, both positively and negatively, by various social factors. Three of the most positive factors at play
- 34 -



are the solid and increasing political support provided by the government to basic education, the brand-new
and many-faceted national consensus for and commitment to education, and parents' continuing demand for
educational services for their children in spite of serious economic constraints.
Studies exploring stakeholder perspectives reveal that there is a widespread belief in the value of
education, and a general belief arnong most stakeholders that the quality of primary education needs to be,
and can be, improved. Available evidence also suggests that although economic pressures on poor families
and limited access to higher levels of primary education continue to be problems, poor quality education is
the primary reason behind school failure and dropout. For example, 1996 LSMS data indicates that 23
percent of poor 7-14 years old and 41 percent of poor 15-17 years old who were out of school cited "lack
of interest" as their main reason for not attending, though less than 1 percent of the same group felt they
had already attained the desired level of schooling.
There is also a fair degree of overlap in opinions regarding what needs to be changed. Better
physical conditions for schools, more and better material and equipment, a more relevant curriculum, and
better qualified teachers are mentioned again and again in interviews across a range of stakeholders. The
design of the Fundescola progran takes these perspectives into account, while also attempting to address
some of the root causes of the problems identified. Thus, for example, repair of school buildings and
equipping of classrooms are included in the project, within a larger framework of promoting the use of
minimum operating standards and state and municipal cooperation in microregional planning.
Attitudes and perspectives that present a challenge for the project include: (1) a sense of
disconnection and lack of shared perspectives between schools and their communities; (2) the lack of a
common view among teachers and principals that student learning is their main priority; (3) teacher
misperceptions about repetition and literacy teaching; (4) lack of clarity about the role of the school; (5) the
personalization of school failure; and (6) a fairly widespread "disempowerment syndrome" whereby
everyone complains about the system, but few (be they parents or municipal secretaries of education)
assume the responsibility for change. Fundescola's main mechanism for working at the level of the school
and community (where many of these attitudes prevail) is the school development plan. Conceived as a joint
school-community exercise, the school development plan is also the most likely entry point to begin to
address many of the issues outlined above. Messages and activities developed under the project's social
mobilization and communication component should also help reinforce alternative perspectives. As a
concrete incentive for schools to participate in the school development process, Fundescola HI includes
financing for school improvement projects developed as part of the overall school plan.
At the state and municipal level, the project represents a fairly radical departure from the status
quo and will doubtless entail a range of attitude and behavioral shifts. By encouraging states and
municipalities to cooperate rather than compete for resources, the project will help to clarify responsibilities
and raise issues of accountability that have hitherto been obscured. This process is likely to have its
politically uncomfortable aspects. The challenge for the project will be to demonstrate to both states and
municipalities, that they can "(1o well by doing right" in the educational arena. Here again, social
mobilization and communications activities included under the project should be helpful, both in
maintaining pressure on political figures to do the right thing, and in helping to publicize the successes of
those that do. Training for state and municipal education staff should give them a technical basis for
decisions that in the past have tended to be ruled by politics. Concrete incentives for municipalities to "buy
in to" and expand project approaches have will be included in the Fundescola III design.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
- 35 -



The design of the program emphasizes deep community engagement and parental involvement.
Ever since the first phase of the Fundescola program, a large number and variety of consultations were
carried out to identify evaluate key stakeholders' most important values regarding education. Some of the
consultations took a more formalized format (for instance, responding the LSMS or participating in
structured workshops); others, more were informal (meetings in schools and with community groups). The
main result of this process is the confirmation of a general sense of disempowerment on the part of teachers
and parents. In a sense, the project was designed specifically to address these feelings of disengagement.
Parents and teacher became the key stakeholders at the school and community level; together they are
responsible for developing the school's strategic objectives and action plans, receiving financial and
technical support from the government via the project, and re-directing this support according to the
priorities identified in their own strategic plan. Thus, not only is the project participatory by design, it is
also participatory in its implementation.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The main civil society organization that is intrinsic to project design is the school council, which is
composed mainly of parents associated each school, one per targeted school. Its function is to elaborate the
School Development Plan with the school staff, and manage the additional finances the school receives
under the project to improve the school's operational conditions, and to implement the annual Schooling
Improvement Subprojects. Participation is deeply rooted within communities. The key stakeholders for the
project are students, parent, teacher and local governments (through School Development Plans). The
school council engages or manages contracts with local organizations, NGOs, private associations, and
other institutions to acquire services for the training of their teachers.
The School Development Plan is a strategic planning process initiated by school leaders and
prepared with the participation of the school community. It allows each school to assess its quality, define
its values, mission, goals and strategic objectives, and action plan for reaching and improving.
Furthermore, it promotes an enhanced process of community development.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Essentially, the School Development Plan helps local government support the community's effort to
improve their schools. In fact, promotion of, and support for public engagement is one of the key
objectives of the project. The process helps the local government recognize the uniqueness of each school
support its search of identity and values.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Annex 1, and especially section 4.1, highlights the intense monitoring and evaluation for this
project. Besides monitoring the number of schools using Fundescola interventions, every one of the schools
participating in the program will be monitored for the level of implementation of the interventions, and the
quality of such implementation.  In addition, through research studies, student performance in these
schools will be monitored.
- 36-



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BIP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     O Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 437, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Transforming Secretariats of Education. By mid-2001, only three states and 7 municipalities (albeit
several of the larger ones) have expanded at least some aspects of the Fundescola strategy to all schools
in their jurisdiction. The litmnus test for achieving the type of ownership described in the preceding
paragraph is for large numbers of Secretariats of Education to adopt Fundescola policies and methods,
adapt them to their own context and conditions, integrate them into their strategic plan as well as their
routine operations, and then transform themselves into Fundescola-inspired systems. This is a
significant challenge for Fundescola m with regard to the microregions in which Fundescola I and 11
have already been working. But that challenge pales in comparison to that of transforming municipal
education secretariats suffering from the lowest levels of Human Development into model adopters and
implementers of the Fundescola school improvement strategy.
The Role of the State Government. The State Secretariat of Education has a critical role to play in
supporting the weaker municipal governments and helping sustain the education reforms introduced by
the Project. Although it is not their legal responsibility, it is up to the State governments to take the
lead in the process of providing technical assistance to these municipalities, in creating an information
culture, and in supporting their implementation of a school improvement strategy. Clearly larger cities
have the greatest capacity to manage their own systems, and States progressively transfer operational
responsibility and even entire primary education systems to these local governments. Such action
would lead to a gradual reduction on the burden borne by State Secretariats of Education.
Correspondingly, State governments interested in improving education outcomes for all of its citizenry
should increase their efforts in providing assistance to those jurisdictions where education indicators
are pulling down the statistics for the entire State. Fundescola IIl will work with the State's Fundescola
Coordinating Group in the 'Secretariat of Education to build their capacity and help provide incentives
for them to work as partners with the poorest municipalities attempting to transform themselves into
sustained Fundescola districts.
- 37 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
A lack of political commitment or         N         The project will provide differentiated support
technical support to schools of state and           to schools, municipalities, or states depending
municipal education secretariats                    on their level of commitment and effort.
Rewards, incentives, or technical assistance will
be offered to promote partnerships and higher
levels of sustained commitment. Social
marketing will also be used to foster community
pressure for adopting Fundescola-type reforms.
Low level of cooperation among the state  M         The project will use the microregion forum to
and municipal systems                               promote inter-regional collaboration and
pressure to maintain the engagement of each of
the members of the forum.
End of decentralization of resources      M         Fundescola III will support local workshops to
directly to schools (on the part of federal        launch the project, will disseminate findings of
government)                                         research currently underway for the program.
Political and public awareness of the project's
success at local levels will also help maintain
pressure on the Ministry of Education to
continue with the "money to schools" program.
Lack of community and political           N
commitment for reform including demand
for quality services, social mobilization
and monitoring.
Low commitment for improving the          N         Project will continue to support and disseminate
education results as a means of poverty             research that examines relationship between
reduction and national development.                 education and poverty.
From Components to Outputs
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
In contrast to Fundescola I and II, which were conceived, prepared and implemented during the two
terms of the Cardoso presidency, the third project of the Fundescola Program will be gearing up and reach
full implementation phase under a new federal administration and numerous new state governments. This
brings a new challenge to the program. Although previous political changes had in fact occurred during the
implementation of projects I and II, President Cardoso's supported and maintained Minister of Education
Paulo Renato throughout his tenure, and the Minister did not change any of his key staff, including the
Program's management, since the beginning of the Program.
The political and administrative changes at the federal level will include in a new Minister of
Education and a variety of new state Secretaries of Education. In addition, these changes may bring some
new management arrangements to the project. Nonetheless, major changes would only happen if the
- 38-



federal government's process of school-level decentralization and school autonomy that is in place were to
be modified.
At state level, the change s that are expected may repeat previous government changes at the states
administration, with immediate eifects on the COEPs structures and staff. This kind of changes has been
absorbed by the support of the local technical team of supervisors and monitors.
The political changes at mlunicipal level will take place only in the midterm of project
implementation. At this time, management arrangements will be able to anticipate any potential problem.
With regard to financial issues, although the national economic growth rate is expected to
decrease, the financing laws and arrangements, especially the Education Salary Tax, the federal share of
which finances project counterpart funds, and the FUNDEF law, which assures a funding floor for public
education, is not expected to be modified or even interrupted during the life of Fundescola Im.
Finally, there is a strong social mobilization in favor of education in Brazil, and a continuously
increasing pressure of the citizemy for additional years educational attainment. Although the expansion of
secondary education may request firther investments by the states, municipal governments will maintain
their emphasis on primary education, seeking higher quality.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
A. The Project's Operational Manual (the MOIP) has been approved by the Bank, and
B. At least 10 Participation Agreements, acceptable to the Bank, will have been signed by all parties.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documenits for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementatioia Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 39 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
OI 2.. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Robin S. Hom                      Ana-   i                         Vinod Thomas
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director          Country Director
-40 -



Aninex 1: Project Design Summary
BRAZIL: FUNDESCOILA IIIA (THIRD SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT)
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
jHi.rarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Achieve universal primary  Increased average years of
education by 2007; and     schooling for economically
active populations in targeted
regions.
Improve academic           Increased percentage of youth
performance in basic subjects, that have completed primary
particularly Portuguese and  school in the Northeast,
mathematics.               North, and Center West
Regions.
Reduce inter-regional      3. Reduced disparity in
disparity in educational   schooling attainment between
outcomes.                 the Northeast, North, and
Center 'West regions.
Program Purpose:           End-of-Program Indicators: Program reports:          (from Purpose to Goal)
By 2010:                   By 201(1:
Improved educational       The guidelines for minimum
outcomes of children enrolled operatioinal standards for
in public primary schools in  schools will be disseminated
the targeted microregions of  to 80% of secretariats of
the North, Northeast, and  education in the participating
Center West regions.       microregions for them to
promote to their school staff
and school communities.
At least 90% of primary
school students will be
enrolled in targeted schools in
these microregions meeting
these standards .
Each of the
Fundescola-designed
schoolinig improvement
producis, along with its
complementary program for
the secietariat, will be
updateel and completed.
One or more strategies for
"going to scale" with these
products will be developed
and tested."
At leasi. 80% percent of the
primary students will be
enrolled in targeted schools
- 41 -



implementing at least one of
Fundescola's schooling
improvement strategies, with
the support of their
secretariats.
Improve promotion rates in
their schools: In the
participating microregions,
promotion rates will increase
from their current levels (on
average, in 1997, 64.2% in
the North, 64.7% in the
Northeast, and 71.5% in the
Center West) to 85%.
Improve student achievement
levels in their schools: In the
participating microregions,
achievement rates will
increase from their current
levels. In mathematics, the
proportion of 4th grade
students achieving at the
elementary level of
proficiency will increase from
55%, 52%, and 60% in the
North, Northeast and Center
West regions, respectively, to
62%, 59%, and 68%.
In Portuguese, the proportion
of 4th grade students
achieving at the elementary
level of proficiency will
increase from 59%, 58%, and
62% in the North, Northeast
and Center West regions,
respectively, to 67%, 66%,
and 69%.
-42 -



Ke3i Performance       Data Collection Strategy   .
Hlerarchy of Objectives          Indicators                          .           Critical Assumptions
Project Development        Outcomia / Impact         Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To assist targeted secretariats  The guidelines for minimum  INEP, SAEB, and LSE  Continued Basic Education
of education to reduce the  operational standards for  reports.                 Policies, particularly in
disparities across their   schools will be disseminated                         reference to financing, equity,
prinary schools and increase  to at least 50% of the  Specially contracted SAEB  quality and evaluation.
the effectiveness of these  secretariats of education in the sample of targeted schools  Consolidation of mechanisms,
schools, within each local  participating microregion for during the years SAEB is  programs and system within
government's financial     them to promote to their  administered.              the scope of Basic Education
capacity.                  school staff and school                              with emphasis on: FUNDEF,
communities. (The Project  Studies and surveys using a  Bolsa-Escola, Text books,
Operational Manual specifies representative sample of  School Lunches, National
Fundescola's guidelines for  schools assisted by the project. Curriculum Standards and
minimumn operational                                 SAEB.
standards and definitions of                         Increase in the articulation
what it means for a secretariat                      between these policies,
to disserainate and promote                          programs, systems and
these standards.)                                    mechanisms, and states and
municipalities initiatives.
At least 70% of primary
school students will be
enrolled in targeted schools in
the participating microregions
meeting these standards.
Each of the
Fundescola-designed
schooling improvement
productr,, along with its
complermentary program for
improving the secretariat
effectiveness in implementing
that product, will be fully
developed and tested. In
addition, evaluations of
secretariats' implementation
of these products and
complements, and of the
impact of these products on
schools and student outcomes
will be completed. (The
Project ODperational Manual
includes a list of the schooling
improvement products to be
supported under Fundescola
LEiA, along with a list of the
complementary
secretariat-based products,
and the evaluation criteria.)
At least 70% of primary
students will be enrolled in
-43 -



targeted schools in the
participating microregions
that are implementing one or
more of these schooling
improvement products, with
the support of their
secretariats.
- 44 -



HIerar                        K                          Cerformance  I 'uata Collection Strategy  I
-Hierarchy, of;ObJectiVesW  *  ;W fndicAto-X i;=                   --         ;. Crtl'A "tirtio 0Ss
Output from each          Output ilndicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Raising Schools to
Minimum Operational
Standards
1.1 School-Managed        1.1 10,000 or more
Rehabilitation Subprojects  classrooms and their
corresponding sanitary
modules financed with project
funds;
1.2 Provision of Furniture
and Equipment              1.2 10,000 or more
classrooms equipped and
provided with furniture
financed. by the project;
1.3 Provision of Reading
Books                      1.3 5,000 sets or more of
supplementary reading books
(modules) delivered to
schools implementing
teaching/learning models.
2. Establishing a School
Development Process
2.1 School Strategic Planning 2.1 2,000 or more schools,
with at least 100 students
enrolled, elaborated and
implemented their PDEs.
2.2 Schooling Improvement  2.2a 2000 or more schools
Subprojects               implemrnmted "initial-phase"
PMEs.
2.3 Implementation of     l                         l
Teaching-Learning Models   2.3a 2,'500 or more rural
multigrade schools,
implemented the Escola Ativa
model.
2.3b. 700 or more schools
with PDE having
implemented the Gestar
teaching-learning model;
2.3c Two or more new
teaching-learning models
developed and tested by
Fundescola.
-45 -



3. Strengthening the
Education Sector
3.1 Institutional Development
of Education Secretariats  3.1a 30ormoreSecretariat
Management Plans (PGS)
elaborated and implemented
by Education Secretariats
within the Project's targeted
microregions.
3. lb 20 or more Education
Secretariats adopted at least
one of the following
instruments and/or systems:
* systems to support school
development planning
(alignment with
PDE/PME);
* systems to support school
equity improvement and
monitoring (LSE and
PMFE);
* systems to assess and
monitor school and
student performance;
* system to support school
implementation of at least
one teaching-learning
model.
3.2 School Council        3.2 85% of schools with more
Strengthening Subprojects  than 20 students, in targeted
areas, received an annual
transfer of funds.
3.3 Project Management,   3.3a Quarterly project
Monitoring and Research   progress and implementation
reports, providing results on
all Logframe indicators,
generated by project's
upgraded Implementation
Monitoring System.
3.3b At least 4 major studies
on the implementation and
impact of each of Fundescola's
key principles and strategies,
including especially studies of
-46 -



the adoption, integration,
expansion, and sustainability
of Fundescola- type reforms
by local. governments, and
study rnsults domestically and
internationally disseminated.
- 47 -



',' arh of Objectivs ;       KeylPet nnnce        DtaP CollectioMn,      |, 1
,____,ierarcihy of lbjdctiv6s'  <                                              iIndicatorsl-A asumptrotsg
Project Components /     Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                         Outputs)
1. Raising Schools to
Minimum Operational
Standards
1.1 School-Managed       $50,000,000
Rehabilitation Subprojects
1.2 Provision of Furniture  $40,000,000
and Equipment
1.3 Provision of Reading  $5,600,000
Books
2. Establishing a School
Development Process
2.1 School Strategic Planning $4,600,000
2.2 Schooling Improvement  $20,000,000
Subprojects
2.3 Implementation of     $11,800,000
Teaching-Learning Models
3. Strengthening the
Education Sector
3.1 Institutional Development 9,000,000
of Education Secretariats
3.2 School Council        160,000,000
Strengthening Subprojects
3.3 Project Management,   $19,000,000
Monitoring and Research
- 48 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BRAZIL: FUNDESCOLA IIIA (THIRD SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT)
Component 1: Raising Schools to Minimum Operational Standards
Subcomponent 1.A: School-Managed Rehabilitation Subprojects
This subcomponent provides financing and technical assistance to schools in order to help them attain
the Minimum Operational Standards level of functioning. Fundescola will support the rehabilitation or
improvement of school security, sanitary facilities, structural integrity, and operational conditions of
schools without altering the constructed area or internal layout of the school building. Also, it will
prepare schools to receive and maintain furniture and equipment.
Within this subcomponent, Fundescola prioritizes the rehabilitation of school space used by students.
This means that top priority will be given to classrooms, and in view of the need to ensure adequate
hygienic and sanitary conditions, priority will also be given to the rehabilitation of school bathrooms.
Once these spaces are addressed, remaining funds may be used by the school to rehabilitate or guarantee
the adequacy of other school rDoms.
Each school benefiting from this subcomponent needs to have a legally-established school council, along
with a school bank account The school councils, which are responsible for the management of funds
transferred to schools, define, plan, and manage the implementation of activities financed under this
subcomponent. Technical staff from the responsible state or municipal education secretariat will
provide guidance and technical support to the school councils. Fundescola will audit the physical and
financial execution of these activities.
Emphasis will be given to schools that are implementing a School Development Plan (see subcomponent
2A) or the Escola Ativa rural multigrade model (see subcomponent 2C).
Fundescola will use the following criteria to assess school eligibility for financing under this
subcomponent: The school should:
be located in a Fundescola targeted microregion
be a public state or municipal school.
have a school council of its own, or in joint venture, registered with the National Fund for
School Development (FNDE);
should be identified as eligible in Fundescola's School Status Assessment.
Projected Results
Students studying in approximately 10,000 classrooms in targeted microregions will benefit from
improved school facilities, including toilet modules and the rehabilitation of classroom infrastructures.
Subcomponent 1.B: Provision of Furniture and Equipment
This subcomponent finances the acquisition of basic furniture and equipment for schools eligible under
the terms of the previous subcomponent. Classroom and school items include, inter alia, desks and
chairs for students, tables and chairs for teachers, fans, and classroom storage cupboards. Special
attention will be given to the durability and ergonomic specifications of furniture, as well as the mobility
-49 -



of chairs, desks, tables and blackboards within the classroom.
Projected Results
These materials will reach approximately 10,000 classrooms.
Subcomponent 1.C: Provision of Reading Books
This subcomponent will provide a kit of supplementary reading books to rural multigrade schools that
adopt and implement the Escola Ativa teaching/learning model within the scope of the Fundescola
Program as well as to other schools implementing new teaching/learning models to be developed under
Fundescola IIIA.
Projected Results
Approximately 5,000 schools that are implementing Escola Ativa other new teaching/learning models
will be provided with a kit of supplementary reading books via support from the Fundescola III project.
Component 2: Establishing a School Development Process
Subcomponent 2A: School Strategic Planning
This subcomponent supports the preparation, monitoring and evaluation of the school strategic planning
process, leading the preparation and implementation of School Development Plans (PDEs) within the
targeted microregions. Under this subcomponent, a structured training and technical assistance program
will be provided for state and municipal secretariats of education throughout the 36 microregions, as
well as for principals and teachers spanning at least 2,000 schools. This subcomponent helps the school
align its programs, policies, and resources on students and their educational outcomes.
The PDE process is initiated by the school leadership and prepared with the participation of the school
community. It helps each school to assess its quality, define its values, mission, goals, strategic
objectives, and annual action plans for improving the educational experience for the students. The
ultimate objective of this subcomponent is to improve teaching quality, raise promotion rates, reduce
failure and dropout rates, and increase student learning achievement Further, it is designed to promote
greater public engagement in the education system, and ownership of the school, which in turn leads to
increased school effectiveness.
The methodology used to prepare and implement the School Development Plan follows strategic
planning principles. The school principal takes on the responsibility for the guidance and coordination
of the development plan. All school staff school and the school community participate in the diagnosis of
school quality constraints, the establishment of a monitorable strategic plan with indicators, objectives,
and quantitative targets, and the specification of activities designed to help the school staff and
community achieve the agreed targets.
The School Development Plan is divided into two major components:
A Strategic V'ision, in which the school identifies:
*   the values agreed by the school community;
*   the vision for the future of the school;
* the mission, or "raison d'etre" of the school;
- 50-



*   the strategic objectives for the next two to five years.
A Strategic Support Plan, in which the school defines a set of strategies, goals, and an action
plan that will help it achieve its strategic objectives.
The selection criteria for schools to be eligible for PDEs are:
*   To belong to a Fundescola microregion
*   To have a legally-established school council.
* To have a principial with strong leadership qualities;
* To meet Minimumn Operational Standards.
Projected Results
School Development Plans will be implemented in at least 2,000 schools.
Subcomponent 2.B: Schooling Improvement Subprojects
This subcomponent finances activities identified in the PDE by directly transferning funds to school
councils. The Schooling Impiovement Subproject consists of an action plan that a school selects from
its School Development Plan i(PDE). These activities have been specified in these PDEs as critical to
improving student learning, the ultimate goal of the school, and as key steps towards achieving the
PDE's targets.
These subprojects are appraised, selected and financed according to the following criteria:
consistency with Fundescola objectives and procedures,
*   coherence with the school's Development Plan
expected impact on student performance and school management capacity.
The implementation of any particular Schooling Improvement Subproject should not last more than one
year, and the threshold of funds for each beneficiary school is proportional to the number of students, as
follows:
Range Level   Number of Students                         Total in R$
1             From 100 to 199 students                   R$ 4,400.00
2             From 200 to 500 students                   R$ 6.200.00
3             Between 501 and 1,000 students             R$ 10.000.00
4             Between 1,001 and 1,500 students           R$ 12,000.00
5             Over 1,500 students                        R$ 15,000.00
Projected Results
2,000 schools will implement "initial phase" PME activities funded by Fundescola hIA.
Subcomponent 2.C: Implementation of Teaching-Learning Models
This subcomponent finances the development and supports the implementation of school-level, or
classroom-level programs designed to help improve teachers' effectiveness at improving student learning
- 51 -



outcomes. It provides support for the research, development, testing, and dissemination of a variety of
teaching-learning models that consist of an integrated package of didactic support materials, classroom
methodologies, sample lesson plans, student evaluation instruments, content-rich teacher development
materials and training linked to the model, and routine technical assistance. A variety of models are to
be developed as appropriate for different types of learning situations, different student populations, and
different content areas. All developed models in this subcomponent are optionally available for schools
and secretariats of education.
The primary objective of this subcomponent is to develop a menu of tested approaches that allows each
school to select a model that best suits its context, philosophy, and priorities. At least four models will
be supported by this component. Two of them have already been developed and are being implemented
and/or expanded under Fundescola II. These are
*   Escola Ativa (or "Active School'), a school improvement strategy geared towards multi-grade
teachers for working in small, multi-grade, mostly Ist-4th grade schools, particularly those
located in rural areas;
Escola Ativa is designed to maxiniize the quality of teaching in multi-grade classes by
combining a series of elements and tools with pedagogical/managerial techniques.
Escola Ativa is based on the following concepts:
Active learning centered on student;
Cooperative learning;
Continuous evaluation;
Flexible promotion.
Combined elements are:
- Learning guides;
- Group work;
- Learning corners;
- Active, Student government;
- Parent and community participation;
- Teachers trained in the Escola Ativa approach;
- Microcenters.
The selection criteria for schools to be eligible for Fundescola's Escola Ativa program are:
- To belong to a Fundescola Microregion";
- To have only multi-grade classes;
-To have an approved Escola Ativa school kit for each student.
Projected Results
The Escola Ativa design will be introduced and implemented in at least 2,500 new
multi-grade rural schools.
* GESTAR (or "School Learning Management Program') is a pedagogical management and
instructional support program aimed at helping teachers dramatically improve the educational
outcomes of their students in mathematics and Portuguese for 1st through 4th grade students.
To achieve this end, three main activities are included: Re-organizing of teaching content based
- 52 -



on student assessment; continued in-service training, including self-paced modules, for the
teaching staff based on knowledge shortfalls diagnosed by means of the same student
assessment instruments,, and learning support activities to help teachers develop knowledge and
skills in their pupils.
The following are components of the Program that promote classroom impact:
- School space for collective study;
- Strong articulation between study and work;
- Study circles;
- Theory and practice notebooks
- Teacher training monitored and guided by tutors.
The following are the criteria for municipalities and schools to be eligible for Fundescola's
GESTAR Program:
- To belong to a Fundescola Microregion
- To have schools that have implemented School Development Plans
- To have a coordination team in the Secretariat of Education
- To have no programs that conflict with the pedagogical proposal of GESTAR
- To have approval from school principals and teachers
- To select and make available full-time tutors for the Program
Projected Implementation
700 schools from municipalities and states will adopt the GESTAR program.
* At least two, new teaching/learning models will be developed and implemented within the scope
of Fundescola IIIA: these are an upper-level GESTAR for grades 5 to 8, and an alternative
teaching/learning mod'el to GESTAR, oriented to small size urban and single-grade rural
schools, grades I through 8.
Component 3
Subcomponent A - Institutiornal Development for Education Secretariats
The purpose of this subcomponent is to help secretariats of education, via Fundescola-led strategic
planning exercises carried oui: by leadership teams in participating secretariats of education, develop
and implement their own Secretariat Management Plans (PGS). These PGS tools will be introduced on
a trial basis during Fundescola IIIA, with local governments invited to partner with Fundescola to
design and evaluate the effectiveness of these instruments and processes. Specifically, these systems
are being developed to help guide secretariat leadership teams on exercises to help them clarify their
mission and align their policies, programs, and supervision and support activities on helping all of their
schools be effective. The management strengthening programs will also assist Secretariats' efforts to
improve their decision-making and their monitoring of school performance.  Through the
implementation of the PGS, the Secretariat will be able to effectively implement Fundescola-developed
products on their own, sustain policy-strengthening activities for their schools, and adopt permanent
mechanisms to support these initiatives, including through the direct transfer of funds to their schools.
In addition, for secretariats that are implementing a PGS, Fundescola will provide incentives for them
- 53 -



to adopt, initially on a trial basis, a system that promotes the continuous improvement of their schools
towards an agreed set of "standards of excellence." This system will be developed and tested under
Fundescola LIA based on the following three, integrated instruments: (a) school self-evaluation; (b)
secretariat-managed school external evalution (a type of quality assurance inspection); and (c) a
supervision program of the secretariat aimed at providing qualified technical-assistance to schools to
help them achieve the standards of excellence.
The following are the supporting tools for educational management provided to educational systems by
Fundescola:
* Monitoring and evaluation systems for school effectiveness
* School supply monitoring system
*   Support system for the implementation of teaching and learning models
By adhering to PGS methodology, the secretariat of education will:
* implement Fundescola products on its own
sustain policy-strengthening for schools and systems that have implemented Fundescola products
* adopt permanent mechanisms for direct transfer of funds to schools
Fundescola will also assist the Secretariats of education employ software for the statistical,
administrative, and financial information needed for effective decision-making. Fundescola grants the
software and the technical assistance during the implementation and production stages, while the
secretariats are responsible for providing facilities, equipment, necessary staff.
Projected Results
The Secretariat Management Plan will be implemented in 30 secretariats of education.
20 or more Education Secretariats adopted at least one of the following instruments and/or systems:
-systems to support school development planning (alignment with PDE/PME);
-systems to support school equity improvement and monitoring (LSE and PMFE);
-systems to assess and monitor school and student performance;
-system to support school implementation of at least one teaching-learning model.
Subcomponent B - School Council Strengthening Subprojects
This subcomponent promotes greater school autonomy by providing a small budget to all schools with
more than 20 students in the North, Northeast, and Center-West regions. Funds reach the school
councils for financing the School Council Strengthening Subproject by direct transfer from the federal
government (FNDE). The procedure is regulated by federal legislation, which sets criteria, conditions
and processes for direct school funding.
This subcomponent is designed to stimulate the active engagement of parents and teachers in the
governance of the school, to promote school autonomy by providing funds that can only be used subject
to the decision of parents and teachers at the school, and to contribute to school performance by
financing goods and services identified and prioritized by the school council as needed to raise school
outcomes. School councils will use their subprojects for the acquisition of teaching materials, books,
equipment for school management, and other goods or services on which school councils come to an
agreement. School councils must draw up a plan for the utilization of these funds, and must account for
- 54 -



the use of these funds vis a vis the plan. Fundescola's DGP supports schools in their correct utilization
of these funds by providing training and guidance materials to schools, and monitors schools' planning
and accounting.
Projected Results
85 percent of schools with more than 20 students in the targeted areas of Fundescola DIlA will benefit
from this subcomponent.
Subcomponent C - Project IManagement, Monitoring, and Research
This subcomponent aims to ensure effective coordination and implementation of Fundescola DI.
Fundescola management will rely on the Program General Management Unit (DGP) and the State
Executive Coordination for tha Program (COEP) to effectively administer the project to all beneficiaries
at the school, municipal, and raicro-region levels.
Established by the Ministry oi Education to manage the activities needed for the total compliance of the
Loan Agreements of Fundescola, the DGP will manage end activities of the Program.  It will also
manage all administrative and logistical support needed for the development of all activities of Program.
Given that primary schooling in Brazil is the responsibility of state and municipal governments, over
which the federal government has no direct authority, the project design recognizes that to improve
schools, the Ministry will have to mobilize the state and municipal governments to undertake the reforms
developed and tested under the Fundescola Program. Clearly a key element the federal government
would need in its effort to convince state and municipal governments to adopt Fundescola-based reforms
is a set of solid, high quality, quantitative and qualitative empirical research studies, carried out by
independent, respected specialists and institutions, that examine every aspect of the program's objectives
and interventions. For this reason, the research to be financed out under this subcomponent will go well
beyond comprehensive monitoring to evaluate program interventions and impact. In addition to
assessing the impact of specific instruments and models on student learning, the research program will
examine the adoption and integration of Fundescola-type reforms by local governments, policy reforms
in those governments, and the sustainability of such reforms.
Projected Results
At least 4 independent researcli studies will be completed under Fundescola IILA.
Bi-Annual reports, with Project implementation indicators, will be produced.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$95.60 irnillion
Project Component 2 - US$36.40 million
Project Component 3 - US$ 188.01) million
- 55-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BRAZIL: FUNDESCOLA IIIA (THIRD SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT)
iET,L'*,X;caIx  *   'Foreign  .  'otal
P'.,.,rojectCosttByComponent.            US $million  .-US $million  US $miilion
1. Raising Schools to Minimum Operational Standards                                0.00
1.1 School-managed rehabilitation subprojects         40.70                     40.70
1.2 Provision of Furniture and Equipment              31.36         0.64        32.00
1.3 Provision of Reading Books                         5.00                      5.00
2. Establishing a School Development Process                                       0.00
2.1 School Strategic Planning                          4.00         0.20         4.20
2.2 Schooling Improvement Subprojects                 16.45                     16.45
2.3 Implementation of Teaching-Leaming Models          9.55                      9.55
3. Strengthening the Education Sector                                              0.00
3.1 Institutional Development of Education Secretariats  7.16       0.14         7.30
3.2 School Council Strengthening Subprojects         137.00                    137.00
3.3 Project Management, Monitoring and Research       13.31         0.24        13.55
Total Baseline Cost                                    264.53         1.22       265.75
Physical Contingencies                                  2.11         0.08         2.19
Price Contingencies                                    50.29         0.17        50.46
Total Project Costs            316.93          1.47       318.40
Front-end fee                    1.60         1.60
Total Financing Required            316.93         3.07        320.00
, .  , . , ,,-....... ,, ,>" ,  ,,^y-,;= *Loca.                 .                     . il -2Foreign  T6tal
'ProiectCostByCategory,              ,.'4. Sl$m ilion  'US $million  US.$millior
A. Goods                                                                              0.00
For the Borrower                                       6.44          0.34          6.78
For States and Municipalities                         47.34          0.73        48.07
B. School Subprojects                                    230.05                     230.05
Training & Consultants for the Borrower                18.46         0.40         18.86
Training & Consultants for States and Municipalities   9.06          0.00          9.06
D. Administrative Expenses                                 5.58         0.00          5.58
Total Project Costs    316.93          1.47       318.40
Front-end fee                    1.60         1.60
Total Financing Required    316.93          3.07       320.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 320 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 50% of total
prject cost net of taxes.
- 56 -



AnFiex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
BRAZIL: FUNDESCOLA IIIA (THIRD SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT)
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Undergirding Fundescola III's economic analysis is the fact that, despite the latest improvements in
performance and enrollments, the North, Northeast and Center West regions still lack large scale,
integrated interventions to improve their public primary education system. The development objective of
the project is to increase the capacity of education secretariats and to focus their attention on the dual tasks
of augmenting the effectiveness of the primary schools in their system and of raising levels of equity across
these schools.
The cost-benefit analysis was undertaken in the following manner: (a) the costs were estimated; (b) the flow
model was estimated for each participating region the state system; (c) a historical trend was applied for the
flow models, taking into account the method introduced by Rubens Klein, in order to determnine how the
flows of students would look without the project; (d) the impact of the project on the flows was estimated to
the year 2010; (e) the number of students that conclude each grade was predicted and the difference
between the flows with the project and without the project were determined; (f) given these differences, the
out-of-school benefits were calculated by using both the private rate of return to each grade of education
and the increment in productivity related to the increase in the proportion of schools meeting SAEB
learning standards; (g) in performing the sensitivity analysis, the NPV and the IRR were calculated and
tested for different scenarios.
In the calculation of the IRR and the NPV, the sensitivity analysis considered twelve possible scenarios
influenced by potential outcomes of income flows and productivity growth. The IRR results are as follows:
Worst         Middle Poor      Middle Good           Best
IRR- %     prod.      19.16%           21.62%           25.23%            29.00%
IRR- 1% prod.         19.24%           21.94%           25.60%            29.42%
In c              _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _                      _ _  _ _ _  _
IRR- 2%    prod.      19.52%           22.26%           25.96%            29.84%
NPVo- 0%          R$ 535,301,735    R$ 687,804,031   R$ 930,928,837   R$1,174,059,936
NPV - 1%          R$ 539,756,422    R$ 712,188,452   R$ 958,361,267   R$ 1,204,540,437
prod. Inc__                           _ _  _ _ _  __                     _ _
prod. Inc         R$ 561,810,742    R$ 736,572,872   R$ 985,793,696   R$ 1,236,360,827
Yhe Internal Rate of Return for all scenarios are satisfactory (the IRR ranges from 19.16% to 29.84%).
Even in the "Worst" case, the return rate of the project is greater than the Bank's standard discount rate of
10-12 percent, which indicates the capacity of the project to generate substantial benefits. Besides the
satisfactory IRRs and positive Nl?Vs, the project does not yield to a high variability across the scenarios,
suggesting a high probability that gains will be positive and significantly above the minimum requirement
for investment yield.
- 57 -



Main Assumptions:
1. Project Context
In Brazil primary education has become an important priority for the federal government.
Substantial progress was made in the last half-decade, as indicated by the following: (i) the
percentage of children aged 7 to 14 enrolled in school increased; (ii) primary school enrollment
experienced major growth in all regions; and (iii) the FUNDEF law assured a minimum level of
per-student spending, increasing educational expenditures in hundreds of poor municipalities.
Nonetheless, the improvements in performance and enrollments are still insufficient, and much
progress is still necessary, especially in the North, Northeast and Center-West regions. For
example: (i) although primary school promotion rates doubled nationally in the last five years,
repetition rates remain extremely high in those regions (causing age/grade gaps, over-enrollment
and dropping out); (ii) student achievement in the North, Northeast and Center-West regions falls
below the national average (less than 25% of fourth-grade pupils in those regions exceed the
lowest performance level of SAEB); (iii) the completion and survival rates of the primary cycle
are still very low in those regions as compared to the ones registered in the South and Southeast;
and (iv) there is a notable social and economic difference between the Brazilian regions, where the
North, Northeast and Center-West are the poorest ones, with 48%, 30% and 16%, respectively,
of their populations living in households with per capita monthly incomes below the poverty line
(US$ 65.00, in 1996).
Thus, large scale, integrated interventions to improve primary education in the North, Northeast
and Center-West regions of. Brazil would appear to be highly warranted. The Fundescola III
Project constitutes an example of such an intervention.
2. Project Development Objective, Key Performance Indicators and Components
The development objective of the Fundescola III Project is to increase the capacity of education
secretariats and to focus their attention on the dual tasks of augmenting the effectiveness of the
primary schools in their system and of raising levels of equity across these schools.
The key performance indicators and targets to be achieved by 2010 are the following:
*     In the participating microregions, at least 80 percent of primary school students will be
enrolled in schools meeting Fundescola - based minimum operational standards.
*     In the participating microregions, at least 80 percent of primary school students will be
enrolled in schools implementing at least one of the Fundescola-based school effectiveness
strategies.
*     In the participating microregions, promotion rates will increase approximately 20
percentage points in the Northeast, 22 percentage points in the North and 15 percentage
- 58 -



points in the Center West.
In the participating municipalities, the proportion of fourth grade students meeting
SAEB-based acceptable learning standards in targeted schools will increase 2 percentage
points from the levels that will be achieved by Fundescola I.'
The main components of Fundescola III are the following:
Component 1: Raising ')chools to Minimum Standards
Subcomponent 1.1: School-Managed Rehabilitation Subprojects
Subcomponent 1.2: Provision of Furniture and Equipment
Subcomponent 1.3: Provision of Reading Books
Component 2: Establishing a School Development Process
Subcomponent 2.1: School Strategic Planning
Subcomponent 2.2: Schooling Improvement
Subcomponent 2.3: Implementation of Teaching-Learning Models
Component 3: Strengthening the Education Sector
Subcomponent 3.1: Funding School Councils
Subcomponent 3.2: Inslitutional Development for Education Secretariats
Subcomponent 3.3: Project Management, Monitoring and Research
3. Cost-Benefit Analysis
3.1. Methodology
One might argue that an economic analysis of the project would require adopting a
cost-effectiveness approach, since some of the benefits of the project, such as test scores and the
number of students enrolled, are not measured in monetary units. Nevertheless, we assume that
cost-effectiveness analysis was already utilized in the preliminary stage of the project, when the
implementation strategy was selected based on a comparison of the cost-effectiveness ratios for
all possible interventions. Thus, this document focuses on the selected intervention strategy and
does not present further cost-effectiveness analyses for the project.
This economic analysis provides a cost-benefit analysis of the project and a corresponding
sensitivity analysis for alternative scenarios.
The Cost-Benefit analysis of Fundescola III is undertaken in the following manner:
(a)   The costs are estimated,
(b)   A flow model is estimated for each participating region.
- 59-



(c)   A historical trend is applied for the flow models, taking into account the method
introduced by Rubens Klein2, in order to determine how the flows of students would look
without the project.
(d)   The impact of the project on the flows is estimated to the year 2010 taking into
consideration four possible scenarios based on the percentage of schools undertalkng
PDEs.
(e)   The number of students that conclude each grade is predicted and the difference between
the flows with the project and without the project are determined.
(f)   Given these differences, the out-of-school benefits are calculated by using both the private
rate of return to each grade of education and the increment in productivity related to the
increase in the proportion of schools meeting SAEB learning standards.
(g)   In performing the sensitivity analysis, the NPV and the IRR are calculated and tested for
different scenarios.
The main assumptions underlying the estimation and prediction of costs and benefits across time
are the following:
(a)   The average exchange rate of R$/US$=2.80 is applied to all cash flows throughout the
period 2002-2010.
(b)   The estimated marginal cost, unemployment rate, and the proportion of students that
study and work are constant over time.
(c)   For each grade, there are a large number of children out of school that would likely
occupy the spot generated by the promotion of a student in the system. Therefore, a
reduction in the years of schooling due to greater promotion rates will not reduce the
overall number of students enrolled.
(d)   The increase in salary due to productivity gains is proportional to the improvement in
SAEB test scores.
(e)   Expected earnings related to the education level can be determined by Mincerian rate of
return estimates.
3.2. Costs
3.2.1. Direct Costs of the Project
The projected cost and financing of the project were converted from US$ to R$. The average
exchange rate for the period 2002-2010 was assumed to be equivalent to the one estimated in
-60 -



November of 2001 by the Fundacao Getulio Vargas for the year 2002 (R$ 2.80 = US$ 1.00).
Although not perfect, this is a reasonable estimate, given Brazil's managed floating currency
regime and the commitment of its policymakers to keep inflationary pressures low and to
minimize volatility in the currency market. Furthermore, if it is assumed that the real exchange
rate will be constant over timre (PPP holds), it can be said that the estimated direct costs are
already discounted for possible inflationary movements.
Table 01 displays the projected direct costs of the Project for the years 2002 - 2010 in Brazilian
Reais.
Table 01 -- Project Direct Costs* (In R$ 1,000,000)
12002 12003 12004 12005 J2006 12007 12008 12009 12010
Direct Cost   134.4 168.0 196.0 420.0 410.8 168.0 336.0 1168.0 163.1
* The direct costs for period 2007-2010 are based on preliminary information.
Table 02 shows the distribution of the costs among the project participants and thereby points out
the contribution of each to the project's implementation. The Present Value of the total costs
indicates the project's attractiveness to each participant.
Table 02 - Estimating Costs* (Present Value in R$)
Category          Total Cost          Cost to the IBRD  Cost to the
Borrower
Project Cost      1,257,22.8,575.30   628,614,287.65   628,614,287.65
* Based on prelinminary information.
3.3   Benefits
3.3.1 Benefits Associated with the Improvement of Student Flows
Flow Model and Estimation o,fParameters
The estimation of the flow model was based on the approach developed by Klein (1995 and
1999), which considers promotion, repetition and drop-out rates, as well as the percentage of
students transferred from other: school systems and the proportion of students previously enrolled
in the system that registered after initial enrollment.
The main difficulty was not the calculation of the student flow, but rather the correct estimation of
the various student achievement rates mentioned above. Since data sets tend to display distinct
rates for the same year and grade, it is hard to tell which estimates should be used for the flow
calculation. Moreover, the estimation process is complicated by the fact that the magnitudes of
the rates are different for public and private systems.
- 61 -



The estimation method adopted is based on the fact that enrollments, promotion and repetition
rates are expected to oscillate in accordance with a historical trend independently of any external
intervention. In other words, we assume that it is very unlikely that the observed promotion and
repetition rates will be exactly the same in the future.
The flow of students was estimated for the public schools systems of the three benefited regions.
First, the student flows for the without-project scenario were estimated for the period 2001-2010,
and then the scenario with the intervention was determined for the same period. Next, the number
of students that would conclude each grade was predicted for every year until 201 0.4 Finally, once
the number of concluding students per grade was estimated for both scenarios, the difference was
taken, in order to determine the increment in the number of concluding students attributable to the
intervention5.
Tables 03, 04 and 05 display the additional concluding students in each grade in the best scenario,
where Fundescola III benefits 100% of the primary students of the participating microregions.
Observe that the tables display the aggregated data for the North, Northeast and Center-West
regions.
Table 03: Additional concluding students in the North region
1       2        3       4      5       6       7       8      Total
2002    1,996   7,261   676      5,586  4,532   3,940   3,426   3,033  36,521
2003   10,006   9,996           10,301  8,174   7,751   7,055   5,988  72,081
2004   21,581  16,172   15,245  14,720 10,352   9,983  10,286   9,477  107,817
2005   35,356  26,152  20,048   16,071  12,428  10,248  11,120 _12199 143,621
2006   49,917  38,868  28,495   19,205 12,092  10,649   9,396  11,511  180,132
2007   57,961  52,793  39,765   25,782 12,764   9,234   8,213  15,912 222,425
2008   54,513  61,026  52,310   45,828 16,461   8,485  14,143  22,229 274,995
2009   36,680  57,670  68,574   69,520 32,938  14,878  21,901  33,538 335,699
2010   10,023  39,094  78,304   98,6101 53,739  39,514  37,484  40,907 397,675
- 62 -



Table 04: Additional concluding students in the Northeast region
=   1   2     =         4        5        6        7         8      Total
2002    2943   18,212  17,79   16,928   11,462   12,974    10,704    9,727  100,728
2003   33,372  22,746  31,341  26,578   19,693   22,181    21,496   19,420  196,828
2004   79,966  44,663  34,102  33,537   19,193   23,394    28,090   28,463 291,409
2005  135,020  8449    5 4     31,098   15,696   13,216    22,063   32,503 383,647
2006 191796   135,838  82,600  39,614    499        9821    1,273   18,225 475,307
2007  226,737  191,139 128,247  65,829   1,288  (16,156)  (20,782)   2,490 578,793
2008 -23-32738    959 17E648   15s586   13,672  (27,161)  (45,058)   7,277 70430 1
2009  223,824 235,615 211,857 201,833   49,403  (23,250)  (63,305)   1,702 837,679
2010  187,561 223,667 215,14 246,100   121,781   20,0531 (57,370)  (22,199) 934,758
Table 05: Additional concluding students in the Center West region
1       2      3       4       5       6        7        8      Total
2002     277   2,099   1,82   1,270     138     482      761      575 _7444
2003   7,164   2,209   3,218  1,841   (371)    (494)     196      348   14,111
2004  15,604   7,701  2,742   1,973  (1,501)  (2,442)  (1,886)  (1,149)  21,043
2005  23,515  15,552   6,868    247  (3,143)  (4,969)  (5,266)  (4,144) _ 28,661
2006  30,263  23,270  13,698  2,676  (6,465)  (7,986)  (9,226)  (8,626)  37,604
2007  35,397  29,852  20,632  8,054  (7,038)  (12,558)  (13,624)  (13,680)  47,036
2008  39,793  34,729  26,442  13,669  (4,546)  (15,259)  (19,560)  (19,107)  56,161
2009  44,2611 38,698  30477  18,091  (1,167)  (15,185)  (24,160)  (26,046)  64,968
2010          42,652 36,52      42    1,330  (14,053)  (26,229)  (32,083) 1 7
Marginal Rates of Return with Schooling
The private rates of return were calculated using high quality, up-to-date data from Brazil's yearly
household survey, PNAD (Pesquisa Nacional por Amostragem de Domicilios). The data were
then applied to an adapted Mincerian wage equation, which is:
Log Y = i i di + 1 Age + 2 Age2 + 3 Black + 4 Female +
- 63 -



Where Y is the hourly wage received in all occupations the week before the survey and di is a
dummy variable having the value 1 if the individual has completed the i-th grade level of education
and the value 0 otherwise, so that a person having completed the fourth grade will have:
dl = d2 = d3= d4 = 1 and d5 = d6...d15 = 0.
In other words, the coefficient i shows the marginal log rate of return to the i-th grade level of
education. The equation was estimated for those between 15 and 65 years receiving positive
income and living in an urban area during the week before the survey.
Table 06 provides the private rates of return to education for the North, Northeast, and
Center-West and the estimates for dummy variables associated with personal characteristics such
as gender and race (black or not black).
Table 06 - Private (log) Rates of Return to Education
OLS Results
North             Northeast         Center West
N        9,310      N      38,377      N      15,182
R2       0.4336     R2     0.4299      R2      0.4762
Logy       Coef.    Std. Err.  Coef.   Std. Err.  Coef.   Std. Err.
S 1       .1250565  .0510001  .0966122  .0210669  .1484377  .0407844
S 2       .1832415  .0398992  .1422833  .0177706  .2067085  .0333637
S3        .2119872  .0365626  .2615792  .016827  .2946314  .0305245
S 4        .375886  .0338265  .3758965  .0152652  .4049962  .0258883
S 5       .3985928  .0354678  .4638196  .0168149  .5217767  .0297672
S 6       .4493781  .0430484  .5199976  .0213661  .6031285  .03344
S 7         .48393  .0406056  .6116913  .0211766  .6365371  .0325335
S 8       .6491801  .0341628  .7475181  .0172099  .7643907  .0282485
S9        .7217799  .0470745  .8407385  .0266162  .7947714  .0394935
S 10      .8573613  .0445917  .9239882  .025973   .972957  .0369066
S 11       1.140362  .0291346  1.228756  .0135027  1.266056  .0256103
S 12       1.465537  .0721108  1.595397  .0396914  1.635115  .0570308
S 13       1.619498  .0854219  1.849126  .0457924  1.786782  .0606712
S 14       1.777542  .0782068  1.037009  .0326016  1.830025  .0559455
S 15       2.13045  .0381828  2.356669  .0190525  2.349898  .0293373
Age       .0731219  .0028422  .0657369  .0013931  .0722807  .0023295
Age2      -.0007022  .0000361  -.000644  .000017  -.000691  .0000295
Black     -.0707488  .0428729  -.073553  .0156727  -.128265  .0306277
Female     -.3086441  .0157484  -.335103  .008181  -.317745  .012291
-cons     -1.781925  .0570705  -1.84352  .0279844  -1.72183  .0473376
Source: PNAD (1999)
3.3.2 Benefits Associated with Gains in Productivity
The improvement in the SAEB test scores indicates an increase in the overall education quality of
the school system. A reasonable way to quantify this benefit is by assuming that gains in labor
productivity are proportional to the increase in the quality of education. The benefits due to
quality improvements lead to higher academic achievement, which will eventually take the form of
- 64 -



higher labor productivity and a relative increase in earnings.
The main assumptions behind thlis analysis are that wage levels reflect the marginal productivity of
labor and that growth in marginal productivity will be related to the improvement in SAEB's test
scores. However, it is very unlikcely that there is a linear relation between test scores and wages.
Some studies suggest, at best, a weak connection between these two factors. Thus, in the
sensitivity analysis section, the estimation of the NPV and IRR will take into consideration three
possible outcomes regarding productivity growth: 0%, 1%, and 2% growth in salary with the
project implementation.
The last step in determining the total amount of benefits was to multiply the number of additional
graduates per grade by the expected earnings, taking into account the average unemployment rate6
for the North, Northeast, and Center West regions. Unfortunately, only a portion of the additional
graduates will have the opportunity to enter the job market, which lowers the estimated benefits
of the project.
The calculation of the total benefitsI ook into account the expected additional graduates caused by
the project through the year 2010 (project implementation period). The income surplus generated
by the project was then determined and the total benefits estimated to the year 2025 (15 years
after the implementation period and 5 years after the graduation of the last "benefited" cohort)'.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
4. Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values
4.1 Switching Values
The first step of the sensitivity analysis is to identify which variables most affect the project
outcomes by switching the values of the aggregate variables. The primary goal is to find the
switching value of a variable at which the project's NPV becomes zero or the IRR is equivalent to
the discount rate.
Table 08 presents the switching values of the relatively more important variables in order of
declining sensitivity. The student income flow must decrease more than 36% to make the NPV
negative if other things remain as expected, whereas a 57% growth in the direct cost would make
the IRR of the project equivalent to the discount rate (12%). The project does not seem to be
very risky, since it is reasonable to assume that the examined variables are unlikely to present such
high variations in their values.
- 65 -



Table 07 - Switching Values*
Variable                            Switching Value
Income Flow                              -36.16%
Direct Cost                              56.65%
* Based on data for the "Middle Poor" scenario, as defined below.
This analysis presents some shortcomings: the variables give very rough estimates of the
sensitivity of the project and do not assist in judgments concerning the range of likely variation or
the specific measures that could reduce the risks associated with the project. In addition, like
other approaches to sensitivity analysis, the switching values estimation does not take into
account the probabilities of event occurrence.
4.2 The IRR for Different Scenarios
The second step of the sensitivity analysis is to establish different scenarios for the project by
assuming four possible outcomes of the income flows, as determined by the percentage of schools
benefited by Fundescola III. The income flow impacts will determine changes in the benefits,
whereas the costs are not expected to be altered.
The "Worst" scenario is that 70 percent lof primary school students will be enrolled in schools
meeting Fundescola - based minimum operational standards. The scenario that is most likely to
take place is the one entitled "Middle Poor", where 80 percent of primary school students will be
enrolled in schools meeting Fundescola - based minimum operational standards (see Project
Development Objective and Key Performance Indicators). The "Middle Good" scenario assumes
that 90 percent of primary students will be enrolled in schools meeting Fundescola - based
minimum operational standards. The "Best" scenario is one in which it is assumed that all primary
students in the participating microregions will be enrolled in schools meeting such standards.
The sensitivity analysis also considers three possible outcomes regarding productivity growth
related to the improvement in tests scores. Each scenario will present three estimates for IRR and
NPV: one in which there is no increase in salazy, another in which there is a 1% wage increase,
and finally one in which the salary is expected to grow 2% with the implementation of the project.
According to Table 08, both the Net Present Value and the Internal Rate of Return for all
scenarios are satisfactory (the IRR ranges from 19.16% to 29.84%). Even in the "Worst" case,
the return rate of the project is much greater than the Bank's standard discount rate of 10-12
percent. Besides the satisfactory IRRs and positive NPVs, the project does not yield to a high
variability across the scenarios, suggesting that there is a low risk of default associated with its
implementation.
- 66 -



Table 08 - Internal Ratesa of Return and Net Present Values of Possible Scenarios
Worst         Middle Poor      Middle Good           Best
IRR - 0% prod.        19.16%           21.62%           25.23%            29.00%
Inc                                                                  .-
IRR- 1% prod.         19.24%           21.94%           25.60%            29.42%
Inc
IRR - 2% prod.        19.52%           22.26%           25.96%            29.84%
Inc
NPV - 0%           R$ 535,301,735   R$ 687,804,031   R$ 930,928,837   R$1,174,059,936
prod. Inc
NPVr - 1%          R$ 539,756,422   R$ 712,188,452   R$ 958,361,267   R$ 1,204,540,437
prod. Inc
NPV - 2%           R$ 561,810,742   R$ 736,572,872   R$ 985,793,696   R$ 1,236,360,827
p rod._Inc                        _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  __      _ _ _ _ _
Besides the assumptions presented in section 3.1, there are additional possible sources of under
or overestimation of the rates presented above:
*   In the student flow estimation, no allowance was made for continued schooling. For
instance, in the fundamental cycle the fact that students finishing the eighth grade may
subsequently achieve greater rates of return from secondary and higher education is
disregarded.
*   Other benefits, such as, health insurance, vacation, 13th salary, and retirement plans were
not taken into account in the calculation of the income flows.
Despite the limitations associated with the underlying assumptions of this analysis, it is certain
that the Fundescola III project should be implemented, given its low risk of default and the
substantial benefits that it will generate. The economic analysis reveals that the investrnent in
the North, Northeast and Center-West regions (raising school minimum standards, establishing
a school development process, and strengthening the Education Sector) will yield rates of
return that are significantly greater than the Bank's standard discount rate.
Endnotes:
See PAD of Fundescola I.
2See Rubens Klein, "Producao e Ulilizacao de Indicadores Educacionais" (1995).
This assumption is based on the fact that the net enrollment rates for fundamental education in the North,
Northeast and Center West regions (90.4%, 90.0%, and 93.9%, respectively) are relatively low. In addition,
there is a large contingent outside official age-grade limits who is seeking to reenter school, as indicated by the
huge discrepancies between the rngions' net and gross enrollment rates (90.4% vs. 150.9% in the North, 90% vs.
135.5% in the Northeast, and 93.9% vs. 137.7% in the Center West). These rates indicate excess in demand,
clearly suggesting that, for the tixae frame under analysis, there will always be someone wishing to enroll in the
- 67 -



system.
The concluding students calculation took into consideration the promotion/approval parameter suggested by
Barros and Mendon9a (1996), and Gomes Neto (1992).
For older children, time in school represents a real cost because the family forgoes the services of the child in
household activities, in the family business, or on the farm. Where opportunities for wage employment exist, the
student and the family forego income while the child is in school. There is an important issue that should be
discussed: an increase in school quality will allow the student of the primary level to graduate sooner, thereby
reducing the opportunity cost for that individual. The benefit associated with the savings in time resulting from a
decrease of the years of schooling should be considered as a benefit generated by the project. However, this gain
does not seem to be quantitatively important in determining the final economic rate-of-return values. See the
Economic Analysis of the Project Appraisal Document on a proposed credit to Bolivia, May 25, 1998.
Some of the analyzed states are still incapable to produce high quality statistics, moreover the Brazilian Institute
of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) do not provide "regional" unemployment rates that take into account both
"open" and "occult" figures. In order to overcome this shortcoming, the "youth" unemployment rate of the state
of Bahia (estimated by PED - Pesquisa de Emprego e Desemprego) was adopted for all regions.
Per student cost: the reduction in repetition rates, and the resulting improvement in student flow should result in
savings to the Federal Government. Moreover, the increase in school quality should lead to lower marginal costs
in the future. As stated in assumption "c", the improvement of school quality and the subsequent reduction in
repetition rates and increase in promotion rates will not have any impact on the overall number of enrollments.
This means that there will always be a potential student outside the system willing to take the place of a peer.
Hence, an increase in the number of students promoted from the 8th grade, for instance, will imply a
proportional increase of new enrollments in the subsequent year. The number of enrollments will still be the
same; the difference is that the students will move more rapidly from one grade level to the next.
- 68 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BRAZIL: FUNDESCOLA IIIA (THIRD SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT)
Years Ending
1__                      1!TATIeN!FI,R,p
Yeair 1     Year 2     Year 3     Year 4    Year 5   I Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           30.8       72.8       81.4      80.5       46.1        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             1.5        0.9        1.3        1.4        1.3       0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs          32.3       73.7       82.7       81.9      47.4        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee     1.6                                                   0.0        0.0
,Total Financing             33.9       73.7       82.7       81.9       47.4        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  l6.9       36.8       41.3       40.9       23.7       0.0        0.0
Government                :17.0      36.9       41.4       41.0       23.7       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Other                         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     33.9       73.7       82.7       81.9      47.4        0.0        0.0
Other                        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Fiscal issues and the Fundescola Program
Much of Fundescola is designed to enhance the efficiency of educational expenditures. The
innovations in educational management, both at the school and the local-government levels, are expected
to have as one of their main results an increase in the efficiency of the participating education systems.
In other words, if Fundescola succeeds in achieving its objectives, the dollar efficiency of other
educational outlays should be greater.
Also important is the fact that Fundescola III will be implemented with the National Education
Development and Maintenance Fund (FUNDEF) already in effect. The complementarity between the
two programs (FUNDEF and Fundescola) means that Fundescola should have a special efficiency
enhancing role for the R$5 billion that the FUNDEF reserves every year for the states of the North,
Northeast, and Center-West.
The effect of the project on public finances is small. Notwithstanding the fact that it is a very
large education project, Fundescola is too small and spread out over time to have any relevant effect on
public sector finances in Brazil. The entire Fundescola program (US$ 1.3 billion comprising all three
loans and including counterpart funds) amounts to a less than 0.5% of net public debt and less than
0.8% of Federal debt. Cons,titutionally mandated Federal educational expenditures are expected to
amount to more than R$ 10 billion, making the 2002 counterpart funds of R$34 million amount to less
- 69 -



than 1% of Federal educational expenditures. In other words, the Fundescola Program will have a
negligible impact on the Ministry's recurrent budget.
Post-Implementation Period
With respect to the Fundescola hIa Project (the first part of the Fundescola III APL), the project's
expected recurrent liability during the post-implementation period is approximately R$7 million
(equivalent to US$3 million in December 2001) per year. This would represent 0.04% of the Ministry
of Education's CYO1 budget of R$16.1 billion (equivalent to US$6.9 billion). A conservative growth
projection of the Ministry of Education's budget is about 2% per year. This was in fact the Ministry's
budget growth rate from 1994 to 1998, and is the projected growth rate of the Ministry's budget from
its 2001 actual budget to its 2002 requested budget. Consequently, the expected project liability at the
close of the Loan would represent about .038% of the forecasted Ministry budget for CY06.
- 70 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BRAZIL: FUNDESCOLA IIIA (THIRD SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT)
Procurement
Summary of the procurement arrangements. The procurement under the Project consists of
workshops, training, hiring of consultants, procurement of school furniture and fans, printing of
textbooks, production of training video-tapes, independent procurement reviews and payment of
salaries of professional staff performing activities for project implementation. At a central level,
project activities will be implemented by Fundescola's Project Implementation Unit. At the State
level, procurement will be implemented by the Secretariat of Education and at a school level,
procurement will be carried out by communities. At both central and State levels, procurement of
Goods will be carried out in accordance with World Bank Guidelines Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999); recruitment of consultants' services (consulting firms or individuals consultants)
for technical studies, training and reviews, will be carried out in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January
1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999). For the school subprojects, procurement will
follow the procedures presented in the Operational Manual (MOEP) pursuant to para. 3.15 of the
Guidelines. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and Standard Request for Proposals will
be used for the Bank-financed ICB goods and consultant services, respectively. For all NCB
procurement of goods, the model standard bidding document issued by SEAIN (Secretaria de
Assuntos Internacionais) in June 2001 will be used. The project's procurement arrangements for
each component are summarized in Table A.
National procuremenm' environment: The Bank and the Government of Brazil have recently
completed the first stage of study on government procurement concluding that the legal
framework and implementation of the government procurement in Brazil are generally acceptable
and guarantee adequate transparency.
Procurement Responsibility: There would be three levels of implementing agencies: (a) at the
central level, the Dire.,o Geral do Projeto (Central Project Coordination Unit, the DGP) of the
Ministry of Education will carry out the hiring of consultants and procurement of larger
packages (such as books, school furniture, and fans); (b) the participating States will carry out
procurement activities using procurement methods established in the Loan Agreement under the
supervision and support of Fundescola's DGP; and (c) the communities will contract small
school rehabilitation works (estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000), purchase goods to
improve school quality, consisting of, inter alia, educational materials, school and classroom
equipment, school supplies, and materials for physical maintenance, grouped into small packages
estimated to cost less than US$15,000. Communities will also hire services for school or
educational support, estimated to cost less than US$15,000 per school per year. All procurement
to be implemented by the participating communities will follow the procedures described in the
Operational Manual (MOIP). The DGP will be responsible for the overall project procurement
activity, including conmpliance with procedures and timetables agreed with the Bank.
Procurement Implementing Capacity: The capacity assessment of the DGP was completed and
an action plan for its improvement was developed. Under de-centralized activities to be
implemented by the participating States, Fundescola's DGP will carry out upstream procurement
- 71 -



activities, inter alia, capacity assessment of the implementing capacity of the States, preparation
and review of procurement plans, development and monitoring of improvement action plans,
justification of risk classification, delivery of procurement ex-post reviews, and prior review
activities. In order to discharge the above responsibilities, Fundescola counts with an organized
procurement team consisting of two experienced procurement specialists and one junior
procurement specialist. The team, which is already familiar with the Bank's procurement
guidelines, will assess the implementing capacity of the selected States, and will determine the
level of risk of each beneficiary, using a methodology acceptable to the Bank. The Participation
Agreement to be signed between each State and Fundescola will establish the obligation to for
Fundescola to carry out the assessment before procurement responsibility is delegated to that
State. The procurement team will prepare the procurement section of the various directives. The
procurement team and support staff will participate in a workshop that will focus on the means
to ensure that the participant States will follow the procurement arrangements as set forth in the
Loan Agreement. The workshop would focus on the Bank's procurement policy and procedures
and their application to the procurement arrangements planned for project implementation. In
addition, Fundescola's procurement group will set up a technical assistance and problem-solving
system in order to provide timely advice on procurement-related matters to the participating
States and communities. It is expected that a specific telephone number will be made available
and disseminated to all implementing agencies of the project. Fundescola's procurement team
will also carry out procurement ex-post reviews on the participant States during the regular visits
to monitor the preparation of evaluation reports in NCBs and ICBs. The Bank will be furnished
a copy of the findings of the ex-post exercises.
Procurement Plan and Plan of Action: The procurement plan will be a key implementation
element and management tool. The actions as detailed in the procurement plan will trigger
disbursements, selection of procurement methods, level of prior review and performance
indicators. The DGP prepared an overall procurement plan for the tasks to be carried out during
the project implementation, including activities to be carried out at state and community levels.
This plan was discussed during appraisal and will be used as a model for project implementation.
The general procurement plan consists of: (i) contract packaging, applicable procedures and
process scheduling; (ii) a consultant selection process plan for the project's consultant services,
including contract packaging, applicable procedures, shortlists, selection criteria. The
procurement plan and consultant selection process plan will be updated quarterly.
Methods for Bank-Financed Procurement: Procurement of Goods under the project will be
carried out in accordance with World Bank Guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits (January 1995, revised January and August 1996 and September 1997).
Recruitment of consultants' services (consulting firms or individuals consultants) for technical
studies, training and reviews, will be carried out in accordance with the Bank Guidelines on
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised
September 1997 and January 1999). The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and Standard
Request for Proposals will be used for the Bank-financed ICB goods and consultant services,
respectively. For all NCB procurement of goods, the model standard bidding document issued
by SEAIN (Secretaria de Assuntos Intemacionais) in June 2001 will be used. The project's
procurement arrangements for each component are summarized in Table A.
Bank-Financed Goods: The project will finance goods consisting of school furniture and fans,
printing of school books, and the production of videotapes. The thresholds defining the
procurement methods will be set forth in the Loan Agreement and applied equally to all
- 72 -



participating States and DGP. DGP will be in charge of the procurement actions to be carried
out by all participating States; DGP will write the bidding documents, monitor the evaluation of
proposals and speak to the Bank. Concurrently, DGP will be doing procurement capacity
assessment of the participating States and upon consultation with the Bank will be entitled to
decentmlize procurement function to States. ICB procedures will be used for all goods grouped
into packages by all executing agencies into contracts of more than US$350,000 (approximately
US$ 40.40 million). NCB procedures will be used for goods contracts that cannot be grouped
into packages of at least US$ 350,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 10 million. Shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines will be
used for goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract.
Bank-financed Works: The works in the Project include small rehabilitation of existing schools
which will be contracited by obtaining quotations from qualified contractors, with community
participation, or through other local arrangements acceptable to the Bank and included in the
Operational Manual and not to exceed US$ 100,000, pursuant to paragraph 3.15 of the
Guidelines.
Bank-Financed Consultant Services: The proposed Project would finance consultant services
and training for an estimated total cost of about US$29.5 million. The Project's selection and
employment of consullants will be carried out under arrangements acceptable to the Bank (Table
Al), using the Bank's Standard Forms and Contracts. Consultant services for School Strategic
Planning, Implementation of Teaching-Learning Models, and Research activities may be
procured using the "Selection Under a Fixed Budget" method in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. Consultant services, including inter alia
the staff of Fundescola's DGP (Project Management Unit), for which individual qualification and
experience are the paramount requirement for the assignment - will be procured under contracts
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of Section V of the
Consultant up to a maximum aggregated amount of US$ 15,000,000.
Quality and Cost procedures will be used for selection of consultants for all contracts estimated
to cost more than US$ 100,000. Consultant services including foreign and local ad hoc expertise
and contractual services - for which individual qualification and experience are the paramount
requirement for the assignment - will be procured under contracts awarded to individual
consultants in accordance with the provisions of Section V of the Consultant Guidelines.
- 73 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category       .ICB.        . NCB   .       her     Consultng Total Cost
Sdrvlces
1. Goods (except those
financed by School Grants)
(a) Borrower                     5.6          0.7          0.2                   6.5
(b) Participating states &      (5.6)         (0.7)       (0.2)                  (6.5)
municipalities
34.9           9.3         4.2                   48.4
(7.2)         (1.8)        (0.8)                 (9.8)
2. Subprojects                                            230.0                  230.0
(School-Managed,                                          (115.0)               (115.0)
School Rehabilitation, and
School Council
Strengthening)
3. Training and Consultants
(except by school grants)
(a) Borrower                                                           20.6      20.6
(b) Participating states &                                            (20.6)    (20.6)
municipalities                                                         9.1        9.1
(2.7)     (2.7)
4. Administrative Expenses                                 3.8                    3.8
(3.8)                 (3.8)
5. Bank Front-end fee                           -          1.6          -         1.6
(1.6)                 (1.6)
Total                        40.5           10.0        239.8       29.7      320.0
(12.8)        (2.5)       (121.4)      (23.3)    (160.0)
- 74 -



Table A1: Consultani: Selection Arrangements (in US$ thousand equivalent)
Type of     Estimated   Selection Method   Prior review    Maxinum
Contract   Contract Size                                     Aggreg.
Amount (in
USD)
Firms       >200k         Quality and Cost  All
Firms       <200k and                     All, except technical
>100k                         evaluation report
Firms       <100k                         None
Flrms       Parts B. 1, B.3,  Selection under a  As per all, above
and C.3 (ii)   Fixed-Budget
Individuals  > 50k        Section V of the All                15 million
Guidelines
Individuals  < 50k        Section V cf the TORs and all agreed  idem
Guidelines      reporting
requirements
(detailed in
Operational Manual)
TABLE A.2: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review of Goods
(in US$ thousand equivalent)
ICB         DGP prior review         Bank's prior review      Ex-post Review
Type A        >350k     All ICB; All NCB.          All ICB; First NCB of goods Procurement audit as
in each participating State  may be needed; regular
supervision
Type B        >350k     All ]CB; All NCB.          All ICB; First NCB of goods One procurement audit
in each participating State  in Project
Type C        >350k     All ]CB; All NCB.          All ICB; First NCB of goods Annual procurement
in each participating State  audits
Fundescola's  >350k                               All ICB.                  No procurement audits;
DGP                                                                         regular supervision
Procurement Review and Methods: The Bank's procurement review will be outlined in the Loan
Agreement as per tables Al. and A.2 above and in accordance with Appendix 1 of the
Guidelines for Procurement. All ICB will be subject to Bank's prior review, irrespective of the
estimated amount of contract. DGP will prior review the first procurement actions of the smaller
procurement methods carried out by the States. With regard to consultant services, Bank's
review will be in accordance with Appendix 1 of the Guidelines for Selection and Employment
of Consultants and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. The Bank will prior review
the larger assignments estimated cost more than US$ 100,000 for firms and US$ 50,000 for
individuals. A review process similar to that for individual consultants, will apply to training and
- 75 -



workshops.
Methods for Non-Bank Financed Procurement. It is expected that DGP will hire the support of
an international agency, along with the Brazilian Cooperation Agency (ABC) for the contracting
of goods and services, as well as individual consultants, as needed for direct implementation
under cost sharing arrangement and a procurement procedures checklist approved by the Bank.
Considering the long-lasting relationship between Fundescola and an international agency, it is
expected that the mutual collaboration relationship will be taken to a higher level based on an
action plan to be prepared by the parties.
Advertising. A General Procurement Notice for hiring of consultant services, and the ICB
goods and consultants services should be published in the United Nations Development
Business, no later than June 2002. The Notice will be updated annually for outstanding
consultant services and ICB goods. In addition, detailed consultant services and assignments will
be advertised, as they become available, in at least one national newspaper of a large circulation,
and in the webpage of United Nations Development Business. Furthermore, the implementing
agencies may also advertise some of the Project's studies in an intemational newspaper or a
technical magazine.
Procurement Records. Detailed procurement records, reflecting the Project's supply of goods
and consultant services, including records of time taken to complete key steps in the process and
procurement activities related to supervision, review and audits, will be maintained by DGP.
These records will be maintained for at least two years after the Project's closing date. The
records for goods will include public notices, bidding documents and addenda, bid opening
information, bid evaluation reports, formal appeals by bidders and outcomes, signed contracts
with related addenda and amendments, records on claims and dispute resolution, and any other
useful information. The records for consultant services will include public notices for expression
of interest, request for proposals and addenda, technical and financial reports, formal appeals by
consultants and outcomes, signed contracts, addenda and amendments, records on claims and
dispute resolution and any other useful information. The participant States will retain all the
bidding documents used, invoices, price comparison, bids received, bid evaluation reports and all
relevant documentation. The audit, the procurement post-review supervision by the Bank and the
independent audit reviews by independent consultants are particularly important due to the large
amount of funds associated with the school grants category, and the fact that Participating
Schools will be receiving and managing funds to implement two other subcomponents: schooling
improvement subprojects and school rehabilitation subprojects.
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: The Bank will carry ex-post reviews
through an annual supervision mission on procurement. The Bank's project supervision will
retain a part time local implementation officer that would review the procurement reporting and
will carry out procurement reviews in the participant States.
Independent Procurement Reviews of the School Subprojects. In order to ensure compliance
with the operational manual rules, the participant States will be subject to independent
procurement reviews to be delivered on a yearly basis. DGP will provide the Bank, no later than
six months after the end of each year, reports prepared by independent procurement experts,
acceptable to the Bank. The terms of reference for the independent procurement reviews will be
in accordance with internationally accepted standards.
- 76 -



Procurement Risk Assessment. There is Country Procurement Assessment (CPAR) for Brazil
dated 1993. A new CPAR in collaboration with federal authorities is under way. The preliminary
results of this review indicate that the judicial protests or recurso continue to be a major cause
for delays in the government procurement. Another finding indicates that the use of
COMPRASNET and c,f E-purchasing (pregdo eletronico) and other modem procurement
methods will add efficiency and transparency to government procurement. Fundescola has a team
of about 50 staff entirely dedicated to implement the Project and with a solid and vast experience
in Bank-financed operations. In fact, most of the team has worked together in NEBE (Northeast
Basic Education) and Fundescola I and II, which are previous projects supported by the Bank.
The procurement unit has three staff. Two of them are very well acquainted with Bank-financed
procurement and the ot:her one has just been hired and participated in the training session in
Faxinal do Ceu (November 26-30, 2001). The risk of the participant States will be established
with the application based on a self-assessment, independent review by qualified staff at the DGP
and confirmation by the Bank in each case. Based on this approach, a capacity assessment for
each participant State will be available before DGP approves any ICB or NCB for execution by
that State. Fundescola will be trained in the use of the Bank's toolkit for determination of the
procurement implementing capacity and establishing risk assessment. Fundescola will be using
the same questionnaire and may use this methodology to classify the risk of the participant States
following this rule: four or more items classified as High Risk will determine a High Risk
classification; two or three items above classified as High Risk will determine an Average Risk
classification; one or none items classified as High Risk will determine a Low Risk classification.
Based on the risk estirrtate, the estimate is that about 50%, 25% and 25% of the States may be
classified respectively as moderate, high and low risk. Fundescola's risk was rated average
provided that it implements the action plan in files. The capacity assessment of the DGP as well
as the action plan for the improvement of the procurement capacity includes: Development of a
contract management umit, improvement of the correspondence control system, update of the
procurement plan on a quarterly basis,hiring of independent procurement reviews for the States
and school grants, development of a plan for upgrading the relationship with UJNDP, post-review
of shopping acquisitions to be carried out by Fundescola staff on the State level, implementation
of the call center to assist States and communities and Capacity assessment of the participating
States.
Tablle A.3: Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
!                   I~~~~~~~~11lellienltillg gency
Type of Agency  Expected % Participant States in the
Risk Rating
Low         Type A          25%
Average     Type B          50%
High        Type C          25%
Remedies: School subprojects will build on the existing control, supervision, audits, reporting and
implementation rules of Fundescola applicable to the transfer of funds that appear to be competent
and robust. Complementing these measures, Fundescola has agreed to hire independent
procurement reviews to be delivered on a yearly basis. In order to strength contract implementation
- 77 -



supervision, Fundescola will create a contract management unit which will be responsible to
monitor all ongoing contracts signed by Fundescola. This unit will certify that contract
requirements were fulfilled before issuing a payment order.
Misprocurement will be declared when any contract has not been procured in accordance with the
agreed procedures in the Loan Agreement. Consequently, any contract subject to the application
of the Bank's guidelines for procurement and for selection of consultants which violates the
guidelines will be declared misprocured and the Bank will cancel the portion of the Loan allocated
to the contract. For the case of school subprojects, where the Operational Manual procedures will
be applied, misprocurement will include: failure to award to then lowest evaluated bidder; lack of
records and information pertaining to the bidding and award; disqualification of lowest price
without a sound reason, deviations from the approved procurement plan without prior approval,
and impeding the carrying out of audits or ex-post reviews.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
v ,- ..' Confra tsValue~'       <,, ,,;........... ,ConCtiaci Subject to'
,Threhold     ,"I     -roc Prurement            Prir evie
lExpenditure Category, ,', , (US$ thousands)-         Method                (US millions)
1. Goods                        >350                     ICB                      All**
>100 and <350                NCB              First contract of each
participating State
<100                   Shopping                  None
2. Services
>200              QCBS/fixed budget*             All***
2.1 Firms                                                                (including technical eval.)
>100 and <200         QCBS/fixed budget*             All***
(except technical eval.)
2.2 Individual                   <100             QCBSIfixed budget*       Review of TORs only
>50                   Individual                All***
<50                   Individual          TORs and all agreed
reporting requirements
(detailed in MOIP)
3. Miscellaneous                <100                   Shopping                  None
Pursuant to Table A. I ** The standardization of: (a) technical specification for goods; (b) place of delivery; and (c)
bidding documents will facilitate prior Bank review;  The standardization of global TORs and model contract forms
will facilitate prior Bank review.
- 78 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category             Amount in US$million  |Financing Percentage
1. Goods:
(a) Borrower                               6.5          100% of all expenditures, excluding
duties and taxes
(b) Participating states &                 8.9          100% of foreign and 19% of local
municipalities                                          expenditures
2. School Subprojects                     115.0         50% of all expenditures
3. Training and Consultant Services:
(a) Borrower
20.3          100% of all expenditures, excluding
duties and taxes
(b) Participating states &
municipalities                             2.6          30% of all expenditures
4. Administrative Expenses                 3.8          100% of all expenditures, excluding
duties and taxes
5. Bank front-end-fee                      1.6          100%
6. Unallocated                             1.3
Total                   160.0
Administrative Expenses include incremental operating cost incurred on account of project
implementation, management and supervision, including office maintenance, office supplies,
communication services, office machinery, vehicle maintenance, vehicle acquisition and spare parts,
travel or allowances for Project staff.
Financial Management Assessjment and Disbursement
Country Issues
A CFAA has recently been conducted for Brazil and a draft report has been prepared with the final
report to be completed following a workshop including the Bank and relevant government officials.
The report presents findings that state that Brazil has sound financial management and accounting
practices which allows for the transparent budget elaboration and its execution. The report provides
adequate assurance that there are no major accounting or financial management accountability issues.
There are no issues at country level which could negatively affect the use of funds.
- 79 -



Strengths and Weaknesses.
DGP has been responsible for implementing Fundescola I, H and Projeto Nordeste, this means that
they have accumulated substantial experience in Bank's procedures. DGP is well organized to respond
to the workload required to implement the project activities established in the PAD. On the other hand,
the audit report submitted to the Bank, contained some contract management weaknesses issues which
could imply in lack of management control.
Implementing Entity.
DGP is responsible for the administration of Fundescola I, II and Projeto Nordeste, all financed by the
Bank, and it is staffed with a financial manager and administrative assistants. DGP has accumulated
lots of experience during these years of projects implementation and during this period it has
demonstrated a sound institutional capacity and implementation capacity.
Staffing.
DGP's staff is sufficient in number and capability to successfully manage Fundescola III. Staffing
includes a competent financial manager plus assistants. The staff have demonstrated good knowledge
of Bank financial, disbursement and procurement procedures which should ensure smooth project
implementation.
Results of Assessment: With experienced staff on board, the management risk can be reduced, and
financial management reports can also be promptly generated.
Accounting Policies and Procedures.
DGP through FNDE uses the SLAFI system to record all financial transactions related to each of the
projects under implementation by DGP. SIAFI complies with the Budgetary Law No. 4,320-64. The
project accounts can be identified in SIAFI, as it has its own accounting codes, and project expenses
can also be identified based on sources of funds and categories of project expenditure. DGP has in
place a monitoring and planning system - SPA, which is the system to monitor the projects
expenditure in a very detailed level. SPA can generate a range of management reports to allow the
project financial team to prepare SOEs and report on the progress of the project implementation.
Results of the assessment DGP has developed a system, "SPA"that has been in use for 5 years. All
executing agencies (States and Municipalities) are linked to SPA and DGP can extract all project
execution information to prepare the financial reports as well as SOEs. It makes use of the project
information archives-both planning and financial execution. An accounting module has been
incorporated to SPA which will permit the extraction of specific financial reports for the Project. It
will facilitate and support project report generation and audits. It also has a procurement module -
Selecao, Licitacao e Contrato- SLC that will conform to the specific requirements of the Bank's
procurement officer and will generate management and control reports required by the Bank and for
efficient project management.
- 80 -



FLU)GMRAPAA GERAL DE EXECUVAO FINANCEIRA DO PROJETO FUNDESCOLA
Ux       EXEWUMR     COEP         D-P CQDE                 am
(O-Oo)                                         wFMM
- -                                   -
--
+   G +   . .           _           1        a . .. -p..   ~ J 
X 3  _                   7              L~~~~~~~~~~~ne
I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*~S



The financial management system will generate a set of management reports, however, disbursements
will be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs), except for goods above
US$350,000.00 equivalent, and contracts with consulting firms above US$100,000.00 equivalent and
with individuals above US$50,000.00. In these cases all contracts information has to be attached to
the Summary Sheet (SS). The information required for the compilation of SOEs would be maintained
by the Direcao Geral do Projeto (DGP) and executing agencies in the MIS data base. The SOEs will
be submitted to the Bank as per cash flow requirements.
Internal Audit
In order to strengthen the DGP's internal controls, an internal audit function is being created and the
terms of reference is very comprehensive. This will help the DGP to identify, early on, any potential
risks or problems related to financial and procurement operations.
Results of the assessment: Financial staff in the DGP are very experienced, with more than 10 years
of experience implementing Bank-finance projects (including the Second and Third Basic Education
Projects, Fundescola I, and Fundescola II). They are also knowledgeable on Bank procedures as well
as on issues related to the design and implementation of education projects. The unit will be working
very closely with the SFC (the external auditors).
External Audit
Following the' arrangements for Bank-financed projects in Brazil, the annual financial audit of the
project accounts for the period January 1 to December 31 of the year will be carried out by Secretaria
Federal de Controle - SFC, acceptable to the Bank to perform the Bank's financed projects. SFC will
submit to the Bank no later than June 30 in the year following the year for which the project accounts
have been reported. The Auditor's TOR has been discussed and it will be submitted to the Bank, for
final review. It will include the issuance of a management letter on intemal controls six months after
effectiveness. The format of the project financial statements has been established. Audits carried out
on the year 2000 regarding the implementation of Fundescola I and II identified a number problems
arising mainly from an inadequate system for contract management. The problems identified in SFC's
audit report were examined and discussed with the Bank's financial and procurement teams in the
CMU, the Bank's task team, and the DGP. As a consequence of this review, and in agreement with
the audit agency SFC, a series of specific recommendations were issued. During the Financial
Assessment of the Fundescola III project, agreements on the implementation of these recommendations
were reached by all parties. In the 2001 audit, a follow-up report will be prepared by the SFC and
discussed with the Bank and project financial staff. Throughout the implementation of Fundescola m,
including especially at the initial stage of operations, the Bank's FMS and procurement staff will
closely monitor the DGP's implementation of the SFCs recommendations and maintain the Task Team
Leader informed of satisfactory progress.
- 82 -



Audit Report                                 Due Date
Entity                                       Not Applicable
Project                                      June 30th following the year of which the
expenditures have been reported
SOE                                          June 30th following the year of which the
e xpenditures have been reported
Special Account                              June 30th following the year of which the
e xpenditures have been reported
Contract Clauses                            June 30th following the year of which the
____________________  expenditures have been reported
Disbursement Arrangements for School Subprojects.
As with Fundescola I (Ln. 4311-BR) and Fundescola II (Ln. 4487-BR), the basis of disbursements for
Subcomponent 1.1 (School,-Managed Rehabilitation Subproject), Subcomponent 2.2 (Schooling
Improvement Subprojects), and Subcomponent 3.1 (Funding School Grants) will be signed
Participation Agreements based on a model agreement approved by the Bank and included in the
Operations Manual. The Bank recognizes that the project gives a great deal of responsibility to the
school for managing these funds. Nonetheless, the development of management capacity in schools is
one of Fundescola's main aims.  Under the Fundescola III project, schools participate in intensive
capacity building exercises for planning, strategic development, procurement, and financial monitoring.
All participating schools receive a set of clearly-written guidelines, which have been reviewed and
agreed to by the Bank, that include instructions for managing these funds, and sample forms for
shopping, keeping records, rnaintaining financial books, and on making accounting records available
for periodic supervision visits by the Fundescola's DGP or the Bank. Bank supervision of Fundescola
I and II has demonstrated that the Fundescola model successfully incorporated this decentralization of
implementation down to the school level. Each Participating School maintains separate accounts for all
project expenses (with separate accounting for school-managed rehabilitation subprojects, schooling
improvement subprojects, and school grants. Moreover, the DGP is fully experienced in supporting
schools in their implementation of these school-based responsibilities.  Although it is DGP's
responsibility under Fundescola III to visit schools receiving direct support from Fundescola, Bank
supervision visits will continue to carry out periodically supervision assessments of schools'
recordkeeping with respect to the three subcomponents associated with school grants.
Reporting, Monitoring and'Information System
With SPA in place, DGP will generate a set of project management reports including financial,
physical/financial, procurement an contracts and audit. In addition, the system has been upgraded to
provide additional accounting information that will be used by the Project Team to ensure track the
various and numerous operations at the level of local governments. This will help assure efficient and
timely implementation. One of the results of the financial management assessment is that the DGP
responded adequately to the recommendations made by the FMS during the implementation of
Fundescola I and II. When Fundescola III begins operations, the DGP will have the capability of
producing high quality reports that will provide up-to-date and detailed information on the
physical/financial progress of the Project's components. It was agreed with the Borrower that these
reports would be generated each quarter and submitted to the Bank task team on a timely basis.
- 83 -



Special Account and Disbursement Arrangements
The financial management system will generate a set of management reports, however, disbursements
will be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs), except for goods above
US$350,000.00 equivalent, and contracts with consulting firms above US$100,000.00 equivalent and
with individuals above US$50,000.00. In these cases all contracts information has to be attached to
the Summary Sheet (SS). The information required for the compilation of SOEs would be maintained
by the Direcao Geral do Projeto (DGP) and executing agencies in the MIlS data base. The SOEs will
be submitted to the Bank as per cash flow requirements.
In order to facilitate project implementation, the Borrower will establish a special account in US
Dollars, in a commercial bank, with an authorized allocation based on projected disbursements for
four months, so as to initiate disbursements under the traditional disbursement methodology. This
authorized allocation is US$ 16 million. The implementation process of the project requires the
simultaneous transfer of financial resources to the schools, which are the final executors of the
project.
Directpayment: minimum application amount must be above 20% of Special Account deposit.
Results of the Assessment: The Special Account will be open in the due course by the National
Treasury Secretariat - STN. STN is responsible for keeping the reconciliation of the special account,
and is also responsible for reviewing SOEs prior to their submission to the Bank. STN has staff with
extensive experience in the Bank's disbursement procedures and the secretariat's internal controls can
be considered adequate. Instructions on disbursement will be described in the disbursement letter,
which the Government will receive once the loan is declared effective.
Retroactive Financing
Project expenditures made after July 1, 2001, not to exceed US$16 million, will be eligible for
retroactive financing from the loan.
Action Plan
It has been agreed with DGP that a set of model project management reports, acceptable to the Bank,
will be submitted for review at negotiations..  This package of model reports should cover
expenditures and disbursements, procurement and contracts, and information related to financial
audits. During implementation, these reports, updated monthly, will be available to the Bank
supervision team as required.
Supervision Plan
The task manager will ensure that early in project start-up there will be a Bank sponsored project
launch, which will involve Bank specialists in procurement, financial management, and legal issues.
Supervision missions will be undertaken at least twice a year, although it is likely that additional
supervision activities will be carried out given the task team leader's frequent missions to Brazil to
work on other projects. The supervision missions will periodically include a financial management
specialist and a procurement specialist. PSRs will be updated after each mission. When appropriate
these reports will include coverage of all issues related to financial control and audit issues, and the
monitoring of the procurement plan.  The major responsibility for procurement and financial
-84 -



management supervision and client assistance in these areas will be provided through the CMU
Brasilia-based Implementation Team that is fully staffed to carry out these fumctions.
- 85 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BRAZiL: FUNDESCOLA IIIA (THIRD SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT)
Project Schedule                                  Planned,                        a
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      7                           8
First Bank mission (Identification)             07/11/2001                  07/11/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     01/07/2002                  01/07/2002
Negotiations                                    02/19/2002                  04/22/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/22/2002
Prepared by:
Robin Horn, World Bank Task Manager
Antonio Carlos Xavier, Fundescola Director, Brazil Ministry of Education
Antonio Augusto Neto, Fundescola Technical Coordinator, Brazil Ministry of Education
Ronyse Avelino Pacheco, Fundescola Budget Coordinator, Brazil Ministry of Education
Duilio Braga, Fundescola Financial Coordinator, Brazil Ministry of Education
Antonio Emilio Marques, Former Fundescola Director, Brazil Ministry of Education
Jose Amaral Sobrinho, Fundescola Education Management Coordinator, Brazil Ministry of Education
Mayra Lumy Tapia, Fundescola Monitoring Specialist, Brazil Ministry of Education
Preparation assistance:
Julie B. Nannucci, Language Program Assistant
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Name                                     Speciality
Eliezer Orbach                    Institutional Development
Alberto Rodriguez                 Education
Efraim Jimenez                    Procurement
Alexandre Borges Oliveira         Procurement
Maria Madalena dos Santos         Education Policy
Ana Cristina Accioly de Amorim    Education
Kin Bing Wu                       Education Economics
Tulio Correia                     Financial Management
Omowunmi Ladipo                   Disbursement
Eduardo Brito                     Legal
- 86 -



Anniex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BRAZIL: FUNDESCOIA IIIA (THIRD SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT)
A. Project Implementation Plaii
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
DOCUMENTS SUPPORTING PROJECT PREPARATION
A Call to Action: Combatting School Failure in the Northeast of Brazil. World Bank, Brazil Ministry of
Education, Unicef, December 19, 1997. (World Bank Sector Stuty Report No. 18358-BR). This
report summarizes findings and recommendations from thirteen commissioned studies, not listed
separately here.
Avaliacao e Desempenho: Fatores Associados: Resultados da 4a Serie-1999. Relat6rio Preliminar.
Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais--INEP, Brasilia, 2001.
Censo Escolar 1998: Sinopse Estatistica da Educacao BAsica. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas
Educacionais--INEP, Brasilia, 1999.
Censo Escolar 1999: Sinopse Estatistica da Educacao Basica. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas
Educacionais--INEP, Brasilia, 2000.
Censo Escolar 2000: Sinopse Estatistica da Educacao Basica. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas
Educacionais--INEP, Brasilia, 2001.
Projeto de Melhoria da Escola. Terceira Edigao. Fundescola, MEC, Brasilia, 2001.
Sistema Nacional de Avaliagio da Educasao Basica, SAEB/95: Resultados Estaduais. Instituto Nacional
de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais--INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
Sistema Nacional de Avalia9ao da Educagao Basica, SAEB/97: Primeiros Resultados. Instituto Nacional
de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais--INEP, Brasilia, 1999.
Sistematica de Financiamento do E]nsino Fundamental. Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da
Educaqio--FNDE, MEC, Brasilia, 1997.
Dinheiro na Escola: procedimientos operacionais. Ministerio da Educagao e do Desporto--MEC, Brasilia,
1997.
Educaton for All: Evaluation of the Year 2000. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas
Educacionais--lNEP, Brasilia, 2000.
Geografia da Educagao Brasileira (CD-ROM). Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas
Educacionais--INEP, Brasilia, 2000.
"The Financing of Education in Brazil," Sergei Soares, World Bank, Washington, D.C., 1999.
- 87 -



Escola Ativa: Capacitacao de Professores. Fundescola/MEC, Brasilia, 1999.
Guia de Consulta, Programa de Apoio aos Secretarios Municipais de Educacao (PRASEM). Projeto
Nordeste, Banco Mundial, UNICEF, Brasilia 1997.
Manual de Operacionalizacao: Proformacao. Fundescola, SEED/MEC, Brasilia, 2000.
Manual de Operacao e Implementacao do Projeto (MOIP): Fundescola I. Volume 1, Orientacoes Gerais.
Fundescola, MEC, Brasilia, 1998.
Manual de Operacao e Implementacao do Projeto (MOIP): Fundescola I. Volume II, Orientacoes aos
Estados e Municipios. Fundescola, MEC, Brasilia, 1998.
Manual Para Adequacao de Predios Escolares, Tercera Edicao. Fundescola, MEC, Brasilia, 2001.
Normas Para Financiamento de Projetos Educacionais no Ambito do Fundescola. Fundescola,
MEC/FNDE, Brasilia, 1998, 1999, 2000.
"O Plano de Desenvolvimento da Escola e a Gestao Escolar no Brasil: Situacao Atual e Perspectivas."
Jose Amaral Sobrinho, Fundescola, MEC, Brasilia, 2001.
Plano de Carreira e Remuneracao do Magisterio Publico. Fundescola, MEC, Brasilia, 2000.
Project Appraisal Document: Fundescola I. World Bank, Washington, D.C., 1998.
Project Appraisal Document: Fundescola II. World Bank, Washington, D.C., 1999.
IMPACT EVALUATION STUDIES
Sistema Nacional de Avaliacao da Educagao Basica, SAEB/99: Resultados 99. Instituto Nacional de
Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais--INEP, Brasilia, 2001.
Avaliacao de Desempenho: Fatores Associados, July, 2001 59 pps. National Institute of Education
Research (lNEP). Impact Analysis of Fundescola's School Development Plan program.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
*Including electronic files
- 88-



Anniex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BRAZIL: FUNDESCOLA IIA (THIRD SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT)
02-May-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Onginal Amount in Us$ miliions                              disbursements'
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                 GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
P05,1698       2002 sAo PAULO METRO LINE 4 PROJECT                 209.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    209.00      0 00       0 00
P055954        2002 GOLAs STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT                  65 00      0.00                 0.00       0 00     64 35      5.28       0 00
P060221        2002 FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRkNSPORT                85.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     67.88       0 00      0 00
P073192        2002 PROJECT                                         14.50      000O                 0.00       0.00     14.46      0 00       0 00
P057685       2002 TA Financial Sector                              68.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    (oe.00      0 00       0 00
P043869       2002 BR-FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION PROJECT               62.80       0 00                0 00       0.00     62 80       0 00      0 00
P074085       2002 BR SANTA CATARINA NATURAL RESOURC & POV.         20.80      0.00                 0.00       0 00     20 80       0.00      0 00
P057649        2001 Sergipe Rural Poverty Reduction                 54.35       0.00                0.00       0.00     51 31       7 37      0,00
P050881        2001 Rural Poverty Reduction Project - EIA           22.50      0.00                 0.00       0.00     22.50       8.80      0 00
P050880        2001 RURAL POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT - Pi            30.10       0.00                0.00       0 00     28 90       1.47      0 00
P050875        2001 Rural Poverty Reduction Project - FIE           37.50       0.00                0.00       0.00     32.48       3.40      0.00
P050772        2001 Rural Poverty Reduction Project - C:E          202.10      0.00                 0.00       0.00    1110 93     30 87      0 00
P059568        2001 LAND-BASED POVERTY ALLEVIATION I (SIM)          90.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     88.24      -1.76      0 00
P059565       2001 BR- CEARA BASIC EDUCATION                        69860       0 00                0.00       0.00     17 03     -10.54      0.00
P073294        2001 BR- BiA BASIC EDU PROJECT (PHASE I)              8.68       0.00                0.00       0.00      7.91       1.67      0.00
P047309        2000 BR Fiscal & Fin. Mgmt. TAL                       0.00       0.00               15.00       0 00     11.91       2.98      0 00
P039200        2000 BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY (GEFI                      43.40       0.00                0 00       0 00     42.68      12 93      0.00
P039199        2000 ENERGY EFFICIENCY (ELETROBRAS)                  30.30       0.00                0.00       0.00     29.60      -0.70      0 00
P035741        2000 PROSANEAR 2                                     15.00       0.00                0.00       0.00     13 37       9.10      6 94
P006449        2000 NATL ENV 2                                      138.00      0.00                0 00       0 00    123 41      45 06      0 00
P062619        2000 CEARA WTR MGT (PROGERIRH)(SIM)                   5.05       0.00                0 00       0 00      1.07       0 45     -0 73
P050776       2000 INSS REF LIL                                     50.00       0.00                0.00       0 00     40.40      -9.80      0 00
P043874        1999 NE Microflnance Development                     100 00      0.00                0.00       0.00     61 87      61 87      0.00
P050783        1999 BR- DISEASE SURVEILLANCE -VIGISUS              202.00       0.00                0 00       0 00     Ii1 54    -18.48      0.00
P054120        1999 BR- Fundescola 2                                185.00      0.00                0.00       3.50     41.85      40.35      0 00
P048869        1999 BR- AIDS & STD Control 11                      150.00       0.00                0.00       0 00     107 67     74 34      0.00
P058129        1999 SALVADOR URBAN TRANS                             15 00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      8.93       8.93      8 93
P038947        1998 BR EMER. FIRE PREVENTION tEItL)                 155.00      0,00                 0.00      0 00     121 29    121 29      0 00
P038895        1998 BR- SC &TECH 3                                  198.00      0.00                0.00       0.00     124 78    113 .88    59.45
P051701        1998 FED.WTR MGT                                     80.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      10 37      0.17      0.00
P057910        1998 MARANHAO R.POVERTY                               5.00       0 00                 0.00      0.00      3.08       3 06      -0.41
P043420        1998 BR PENSION REFORM LIL                          150.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     148 99    140 22    121.93
P042565        1998 WATER S.MOD.2                                   60.00       0 00                 0.00      0.00     :28.91     18.41      0.00
P035728        1998 PARAIBA R POVERTY                               51 00       0 00                 0 00      0 00     29 91      27 47      9 36
P008559        1998 BAHIA WTR RESOURCES                             45.00       0.00                 0 00      0.00     25 02      25.02      0 00
P006474        1998 (BF-R)SP.TSP                                    55.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      51.79     35.13     21 98
P048357        1998 BR LAND MGT 3 (SAO PAULO)                       20.00       0 00                 0.00      0.00      0.02       0.02      -7.30
P043421        1998 BRAZIL CEN.BANK TAL                             186.00      0.00                 0.00     17.17     138.11    155.28      0 00
P006475        1997 Ri M.TRANSIT PRJ                                90.00       0 00                 0.00      0.00      23.77     23 77      0 00
P048052        1997 LAND RFM PILOT (SIM)                             9.60       0.00                 0 00      0.00       2.19  ~    .l9       1.68
P006562        1997 CEARA WATER PILOT (SIM)                         100.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      54.06     54.06      5.87
P038896        1997 BAHIA MUN.DV                                    24.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00       0.57      0.57      0.00
P034578        1997 R.POVERTY(RGN)                                  70.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     53.55      50.89     38.89
P043873        1997 RGS HWY MGT                                     60.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      34.15     33.29     21.53
P006532        1997 AG TECH DEV.                                   300.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     156.71    158 71     56 26
P043868        1997 FED HWY DECENTR                                100.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     57.13      40.85     18 22
P040028        1998 RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY                           350.00       0.00                 0.00     75.00      17.92     92.92     17.92
P008210       1998 RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG                              0.00       0.00                10.00      0.00      3.23       4 44      5 06
P037828        1998 GEF BR-NAT`L BIODIVERSITY                      175.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     84.50      83.30     67.32
P00O55         1998 BR (PR)R.POVERTY                               300.00       0.00                 0 00      0.00     104.12    104 12      0 00
P008564       1995 BR- HEALTH SECTOR REFORM - REFORSUS              99.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      18.12     18.12      0.00
P038882        1995 BELO HM.TSP                                    102.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      16.15     16.15      0.00
P006436        1995 RECIFE M.TSP                                    140.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      18.58     18 58      11.06
Ceara Urban Development & Water, Resource
- 89 -



Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                           disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                    IBRD         IDA                   GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.      Org    Frm Rev'd
P006543       1994 BR- MINAS GERAIS BASIC EDU.                    150.00      0.00                0.00      0 00       3.71      3.71      0.00
P006522       1994 ESPSANTOWATER                                  15400       0.00                0.00     54.00      11.94     65.94      619
P006541       1993 BR WrR QIPLN(SP/PRIFED)                        245.00      0 00                0.00       5.15      4 16      9.31      3.15
P006505       1992 MATO GROSSO NAT RES                            205.00      0.00                0.00      15.00     12 12     27.12       0.00
P006454       1992 RONDONIA NTRL RES. M                           167.00      0.00                0.00      10.00     10 84     20.84      0.00
Total:    5797.48       0.00              25.00     179 83    2878.63    1740 25    471 28
- 90-



BRAZIL
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                           IFC
FY Approval       Company                     Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997              Guilman-Amorim              25.78   0.00    0.00   57.47   25.78   0.00    0.00   57.47
1998              Icatu Equity                 0.00  20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  12.14    0.00    0.00
1999              Innova SA                   20.00   5.00    0.00   60.00   20.00   5.00    0.00   60.00
1980/87/97        Ipiranga                    29.33   0.00    0.00   57.27   29.33   0.00    0.00   57.27
1999              Itaberaba                    0.00   5.34    0.00    0.00    0.00   5.34    0.00    0.00
1999              JOSAPAR                      8.00    0.00   7.00    0.00    3.00   0.00     7.00   0.00
1995              LATASA - Brazil              1.33   0.00    5.00    0.00    1.33   0.00    5.00    0.00
1995              Lojas Americnna             14.00   0.00    5.00    2.00   14.00   0.00    5.00    2.00
1987/92/96/99     MBR                         20.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
0                 Macedo Nordeste              6.33    0.00   5.00    0.00    6.33    0.00    5.00   0.00
1996              Mallory                      4.36   0.00    0.00    0.00    4.36   0.00    0.00    0.00
1975/96           Oxiteno NE                  10.00   5.00    0.00    0.00   10.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              Para Pigmentos              21.50   0.00    9.00   12.32   21.50   0.00    9.00   12.32
1987/96           Perdigao                    15.31   0.00    0.00    2.00   15.31   0.00    0.00    2.00
1989/95           Politeno Ind.                5.85   0.00    0.00    0.00    5.85   0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/00/02        Portobello                   0.00    1.15   0.00    0.00    0.00   1.15     0.00   0.00
2000               Puras                       4.67    0.00    0.00   0.00    4.67    0.00    0.00   0.00
1998              Randon                       6.53    0.00   3.00    0.00    6.53   0.00     3.00   0.00
1991              Rhodia-Ster                  0.00    5.95   0.00    0.00    0.00   5.95     0.00   0.00
1995              Rhodiaco/PTA                 7.50    0.00   0.00    3.00    7.50    0.00    0.00   3.00
1990              Ripasa                       0.00    5.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   5.00     0.00   0.00
1997              Rodovia                     27.22    0.00   0.00   47.70   27.22    0.00    0.00  47.70
S.A.I.C.C.                   0.00   2.85    0.00    0.00   0.00    2.85    0.00    0.00
1994/96           SP Alpargatas               16.67    0.00   5.00    0.00   16.67    0.00    5.00   0.00
1987/97           Sadia                       20.50    0.00   6.83  109.33   20.50    0.00    6.83  109.33
1994/95/97        Samarco                     11.70    0.00   0.00    6.67   11.70    0.00    0.00   6.67
1997              Samaritano                  20.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
2000               Saraiva                    10.38    3.00    0.00   0.00   10.38    3.00    0.00    0.00
1998              Seaa Alimenios               0.00    3.88   0.00    0.00    0.00    3.88    0.00   0.00
0                 Sepetiba                    32.00    0.00    0.00   8.00   17.00    0.00    0.00    8.00
2001               Sucorrico                   7.50    0.00    0.00   0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Synteko                     18.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   18.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
2001              TIGRE                       13.46    0.00    5.00   6.41   13.46    0.00    5.00    6.41
1996              TRIKEM                       0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93           Tecon Rio Gnmde              6.65    0.00   5.50   14.84    6.65    0.00    5.50   14.84
1998              Tecon Salvador               3.50    1.00   0.00    5.00    3.50    0.77    0.00    5.00
2001              Votorantim                   1.43    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.43    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Vulcabras                   16.68    0.00   0.00    0.00   16.68    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Wembley                      0.00   10.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Wiest                        0.00    0.00   8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00
1999              AG Concession                0.00   15.00   15.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001              AlgarTeleconi                0.00    8.17    0.00   0.00    0.00    8.17    0.00    0.00
1996/97           Apolo                        8.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001              Arteb                       20.00    7.00    0.00  18.33   20.00    7.00    0.00   18.33
1998
Total E'ortfolio:     731.43  159.78  133.83  649.28  657.65  131.34  115.53  644.16
- 91 -



Approvals Pending Conmmitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
2002               Banco Itau                      0.00     0.00      0.00    100.00
2000               BBA                            10.00      0.00     0.00     50.00
2001               Brad Templeton                  0.00      0.00    20.00      0.00
2001               Cataguazes                     45.00      0.00     0.00     40.00
1999              Cibrasec                         0.00     0.00      7.50      0.00
2001               Satipel                        15.00     15.00     0.00      0.00
2002               Unibanco-CL                     0.00      0.00     0.00    150.00
2001               Unisul                         15.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
2002               Univali                        10.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       95.00    15.00     27.50   340.00
- 92 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BRAZIL: FUNDESCOLA IIIA (THIRD SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT)
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        America   middle-
Brazil  & Carib.  Income      Development dlamond'
2000
Populaton, mid-year (miltlons)                     170.1      516      647                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                 3.590    3,680     4,620
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                   610.1    1,895     2,986
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                       1.3      1.6       1.3
Labor force (9)                                      1.9      2.3       2.0     GNI                            Gross
per                           Primar
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                           capita                     enrollment
Poverty (X of population below national Doveilv line)  22
Urban population (% of total Population)             81        75       76
Life expectancv at birth (years)                     67        70       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             32        30       28
Child malnutrition (96 of children under 5)           6         9                    Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (9 of po,7ulaflon)  87      85        87
Illiteracv (X of oopulation ane 15+)                 15        12       10
Gross primarv enrollment (9 of school-age population)  125    113       107       -      azil
Male                                                                 106              Upper-middle-income group
Female                       ,.                              -. 105
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratlos'
GDP (US$ billions)                        235.0    465.0     529.4    595.5
Gross domesUc InvestmentGDP                23.3     20.2     20.4      20.5
Exports of poods and services/GDP           9.1      8.2      10.6     10.9                    Trade
Gross domestic savInqs/GDP                 21.1     21.4      19.3     19.3
Gross national savinas/GDP                 17.8     18.9      16.1
Current account balance/GDP                -5.5     -0.8      -4.8      41      Domestic       '
Interest pavments/GDP                       2.7      0.4       2.5      2.5    Ds                          iInv estml1
Total debt/GOP                             30.4     25.8      45.6     39.7     savings
Total debt service/exports                 63.4     22.5     112.3     77.9
Present value of debtUGDP                                     45.9
Present value of debtexports                                 403.7
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000.04
(average annual arowth)
GDP                                2.7      2.9      0.8       4.5      36         -     rezil
GDP Der capita                     0.8      1.5     -0.5       3.2      2.3           -  Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services      7.5      5.5     12.0      11.0     13.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000     Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                      1-
Agriculture                                11.0      8.1       7.2      7.4     10
Industry                                   43.8     38.7      27.5     28.6      0
Manufacturing                            33.5               23.1      24.0     o
Services                                   45.2     53.2      65.3     64.0                                    -7-; 00
Private consumption                        69.7     59.3      61.8     62.5    -10
General government consumpUon               9.2     19.3      18.9      18.2               _GDI       -0    GDP
Imports of goods and services              11.3      7.0      11.7      12.1
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual grovwth)
Agriculture                                 2.8      3.2       7.4      3.0     40
Industrv                                    2.0      2.6      -1.6      5.0    20
Manufacturing                             1.6      2.1      -0.7              20
Services                                    3.3      3.0       1.3      3.9 o
Private consumption                         1.2      5.7       6.1      9.9           so5   9B   97    9          00
General povernment consumption              7.3     -1.7      -9.3     -5.4    -20
Gross domestic investment                   3.3      3.4      -3.0      5.0                 :ExpoIs lmports
lmoorts of goods and services               0.5     11.9     -14.8     13.8
Note: 2000 data are prellminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrV (in bold) compared with Its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be lncomolete.
- 93 -



Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prfcos                            1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflaon (%)
(% change)                                                                      2,5000
Consumer prices                              ..   2,947.7      8.9      6.0    2.000
Implcit GDP deflator                       87.3   2,509.5      4.3      8.5     1     \
1,000
Government finance                                                               So-
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o
Current revenue                              ..       ..      19.5     20.0             9s    99    97   98    99   0D
Current budget balance                        ..      ..       0.4      1.0                 GDP deflator  * CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..       ..      -6.8     -3.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000     Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           ..  31,414    47,140   53,589      s
Coffee                                       ..   2,656     2,746    3,048
Soybeans                                     ..   2,854     1,593    2,188 O  .000
Manufactures                                ..   19,624    35,312   41,027
Total Imports (cf)                            ..  20,661    49,275    55,800                             d
Food                                        ..    1,379     1,655    1,507    25,00D
Fuel and enermy                              ..   4,354     4,258    6,362
Capital goods                                ..   5,932    13,570   13,593        0
Export price index (1995=100)                80       81        91       97           94   95   90   97   98   go  oo
Importprfceindex(1995&100)                   65       74       113      118                HExports     *Impots
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   123      109        80       82
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services             21,857  34,615    55,205   64,470     0      I _
Imports of goods and services            27,788   26.708    63,443   72,741
Resource balance                          -5,931   7,907     4,238    9,271                                   _
Net income                                -7,044  -12,523   -18,848  -17,886                                i
Net current transfers                        42      834     1,689     1,521   -3
Current account balance                  -12,933  -3,782    -25,397  -24,636     4.
Financing hems (net)                       8,990   -5,043   13,634    33,815    4-
Changes in net reserves                    3,943   8,825    11,763    -9,179   .6
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)     5,853   9,175    35,725    33,011
Conversion rate (DEC, locellUS$)        1.92E-11  2.48E-5      1.8       1.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                   Compositlon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      71,520  119,877  241,468   236,200                    A:7,37
IBRD                                    2,035    8,427     6,822     7,377                           C: 1,768
IDA                                         0        0         0        0            G: 29,486
Total debt service                        14,757   8,168    67,522    53,200                                   48,358
IBRD                                      275    1,975     1,381     1,351
IDA 
Composition of net resource flows                                                                               E: 9,932
Official grants                            14       41        62
Official creditors                        825     -633       660    -2,037
Private creditors                       3,745     *427    -11,828  -32,675
Foreign direct investment                1,911     989    32,659
Porttolio equity                            0        0     1,961        .            F: 139.279
World Bank program
Commitments                               820      905     1,863     1,593    A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             343      788     1,533     1,692    B - IDA   0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       98    1,251       952      887     c - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                 245     -463       580      805
Interest payments                         177      725       428      464
Net transfers                              68   -1,187       152      341
Development Economics                                                                                            9/17/01
- 94 -



Additional Annex 11
Research on Fundescola Interventions
BRAZIL: FUNDESCOILA IIIA (THIRD SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT)
In order to better understand the School Development Plan (PDE) experience and its relationship to school
improvement efforts, the Ministry of Education's Fundescola Program, in conjunction with the National
Education Research Institute (INEP), has undertaken an ambitious data collection data in both PDE and
non-PDE schools on programming 1999, 2000 and 2001. In April of 1999 a baseline was established in a
sample of 158 "complete" (offering grades 1-8) fundamental level schools (offering grades 1-8) distributed
across thirty-four municipalities in the following six states in the Center-West, North and Northeast
regions' three geographical areas as follows::
Center-West Region States and Municipalities
Goias:              Abadia da Goias, Aparecida de Goiania, Goiania, Goianira, Guapo, Hidrolandia,
Santo Ant6nio de Goiis, Senador Canedo and Trindade
Mato Grosso do Sul:  Campo Grande, Corguinho, Jaraguari, Rochedo, Sidrolandia and Terenos.
North Region States and Municipalities
Rondonia:           Buritis, C'andeias do Jamari, Nova Mamore, and Porto Velho.
Para:               Ananindeua, Belem, Benevides and Manituba.
Northeast Region States and Municipalities
Pemambuco:          Abreu e Lima, Camaragibe, Jaboatao, Moreno, Olinda, Paulista, Recife and Sao
Lourenco.
Sergipe:            Aracaju, N. Sra. do Socorro and Sao Crist6vao
Of a total of 400 schools designated as PDE schools in the above states, 120 were chosen to comprise the
sample. At the same time, another 120 schools were selected as "matching" controls (non-PDE schools).
This sample was then reduced to 158 schools (half PDE, half non-PDE) that comprise the final sample.
With the exception of schools located in Pemnambuco and Sergipe (which had not yet implemented the PDE
at the time of the baseline test in April 1999), implementation of the PDE occurred in various stages
beginning in 1997. Four hundred teachers and 12,580 4th grade students participated in the initial April
1999 data collection, where achie'vement tests (drawn from a national item bank) were applied to all 4th
grade students and their teachers. Subsequent applications of the test, which added questionnaires for
teachers, students and school principals, were conducted in November 1999, 2000 and 2001, with a third
application planned for 2001. Data on student flows were collected in February 2000 and April 2001. By
the end of the data collection prolpam, in November of 2003, this rich longitudinal data set will provide
information on a cohort of students from 4th grade to 8th grade, a crucial stage of the primary cycle.
The data that have already been collected in these 158 schools provide information to respond to a number
of important research questions. However the variation in student performance, both among PDE schools
and between PDE and non-PDE schools, requires an assessment of the level of implementation of the PDE
in each school. This research agenda proposes to supplement the existing data set (as of June 2001) with
information gathered in site visits, interviews, and instruments designed to deepen our understanding of the
- 95 -



degree of the PDE program and its outcomes. In addition, the researchers will compare costs to benefits in
both PDE and non-PDE schools and assess the degree of implementation within PDE schools, while taking
into account the particular problems of selection that may be associated with PDE schools.
In order to undertake the proposed research agenda, Fundescola has contracted a group of researchers
associated with Stanford University and the Heritage Foundation (including Martin Carnoy, Eric
Hanushek, Susanna Loeb, Jeffery Marshall, Amber Gove and Miguel Socias) that will work with a
Brazilian counterpart team. This Brazilian counterpart team, in partnership with the Stanford Researchers,
is responsible for the collection of additional data. In addition to the continual dialogue established between
the international and national researchers, those areas that are key to the methodology and technical aspects
of the study will be conducted in close cooperation, including construction of instruments and the study
plan, analysis of data and results.
The following research questions were designed with this minimum additional development of the data set
in mind
1.     Are there significant differences in student achievement, attainment (student flow) and
attendance levels between PDE and non-PDE schools?
Using information drawn from the existing student, teacher and principal questionnaires, and supplemented
with school census information, the researchers will first investigate whether there are significant
differences in student achievement levels between the PDE and control group schools. Holding such
variables as socio-economic status, teacher education or qualification level, and school system constant, the
researchers will attempt to determine whether or not differences in student performance between PDE and
non-PDE schools are present. That is, given very similar school populations, staff and materials, do PDE
schools perform better than non-PDE schools?
Academic achievement is just one outcome variable among many in which policy makers, parents and
researchers are interested. In Honduras, for example, expected increases in test scores were found to exert
a strong influence on the student attendance decision (Bedi and Marshall 1999). That is, parents determined
the attendance of their child based on their expectations for the child's success. Examination of this
research question in Brazil would be an important contribution to the ongoing debate of under-investment
in education: do parents take their children out of school because of low school quality, high opportunity
costs, or a combination of the two? Student attainment and student flows are also important outcomes,
especially given widespread age-grade distortion levels and high costs to the system (Gomes-Neto and
Hanushek 1996). Understanding how the implementation of educational policies such as PDE could help to
solve schooling problems related to achievement, attainment and attendance will contribute to policy
decision-making.
2.     Selection Issues: What schools are participating in the PDE program and what kinds of
students are attending PDE schools?
Few issues present a more serious threat to validity in studies of educational interventions than selection
bias, which is difficult to detect but likely to exist in samples of schools and students, especially since
randomized experimentation is often not permitted for legal and ethical reasons. Even those studies that
purport to be based on randomly assigned control and treatment groups, usually, upon closer inspection,
reveal breakdowns in the assignment process due to parent and teacher desires (e.g. the Tennessee STAR
Project, voucher studies). The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the impact of the PDE
program. In order to do that the researchers need to take account of these selection issues that otherwise
could bias the estimates of the impact of PDE programs.
- 96 -



Researchers are confronted with two key selection issues: selection of PDE schools and selection or choice
of students to attend these schools. First, differences between PDE schools and non-PDE schools may have
existed prior to PDE implementation. If, for example, PDE programs are more likely to be implemented in
schools with the highest standardts of teacher quality, student performance and parental education, a simple
difference between the average test scores of PDE and non-PDE schools would overestimate the effect of
PDE programs.
A second potential selectivity bias stems from the reaction of parents to PDE implementation. If parents are
pulling their children out of a nearby school in order to send them to a PDE school, the differences in
achievement or attendance that we find between the two groups may have more to do with the families than
the actual schools. Again, these possible differences between families who are in the PDE schools
compared to the non-PDE schools must be taken into account in the evaluation process.
Dealing with these selection issues in the assessment of PDE effects requires additional information on
students' family background and ihe processes of school selection.
3.     Within-group variation: What factors, including degree of implementation and flow of
program, are associated with d6fferences in outcomes among PDE schools?
It is likely that the above research questions will be difficult to answer without further examination of
variation in those school characteristics that are impacted by the PDE intervention. School organization,
work team, principal leadership, technical support to the schools, parents participation, methodology and
training for its application, availability of financial resources, accountability to the system and degree of
alignment with student needs are just a few aspects that could vary greatly between both PDE and
non-PDE schools. Understanding the degree of implementation within PDE schools will require the
development of an historical questionnaire in which school, secretariat teams and Fundescola staff
reconstruct the activities that were proposed and implemented under the plans. In addition, analysis of the
progression of the plans, including person-hours invested, level of investment per activity and timning of the
intervention will allow the researchers to assess the impact of PDE-specific activities on a number of
outcomes. Variation in implementation will also be reflected in outcomes beyond that of student
achievement. Some schools may be very good at retaining students due to a school climate that reflects
what parents expect from a school. Those schools that embark on ambitious plans of reform without a
consultative process may find that parents reject experiences that do not reflect their own.
4.     Cost Benefit Analysis. Is the PDE providing sufficient benefits for its costs in making schools
more attractive to parents and si!udents?
Cost-benefit analysis measures both costs and benefits when each is measured in monetary terms. Cost
analysis is labor intensive, as it requires summation of all true costs involved in the intervention, including
teacher and volunteer time. Calculating benefits requires the transformation of educational outcomes such
as years of attainment and additional learning into monetary terms. The researchers will conduct a
cost-benefit analysis comparing the value added of the PDE program (above and beyond normal school
operating costs) with the benefits of the program as measured by predicted additional attainment in order to
demonstrate the importance of this type of analysis in education evaluation and understand the economic
effects of improved school quality (Carnoy and Thias 1972; Carnoy 1995).
Selected References
Amaral Sobrinho, J., & de Almeida Neto, A. A. (2001). 0 Plano de Desenvolvimento da Escola e a
Gestdo Escolar no Brasil: Situagdo Actual e Perspectivas. Brasilia, Brasil: MEC/Fundescola
(Processed).
- 97-



Bedi, A. S., & Marshall, J. H. (1999). School Attendance and Student Achievement: Evidence from Rural
Honduras. Economic Development and Cultural Change, 657-682.
Carnoy, M. (1995). Benefits of Improving the Quality of Education. In M. Carnoy (Ed.), The Second
International Encyclopedia of the Economics of Education (pp. 154-159): Pergamon.
Carnoy, M., & Thias, H. H. (1972). Cost Benefit Analysis in Education: A Case Study of Kenya. Johns
Hopkins Press, Baltimore: The World Bank.
Gomes-Neto, J. B., & Hanushek, E. A. (1996). The Causes and Effects of Grade Repetition. In N. E.
Birdsall & R. H. E. Sabot (Eds.), Opportunity Foregone: Education in Brazil (pp. 425-460).
Washington DC: LADB.
Gomes-Neto, J. B., & Rosemberg, L. (2001). Avalia,do de Desempenho: Fatores Associados. Brasilia:
National Institute of Education Research (INEP) (Processed).
Harbison, R W., & Hanushek, E. A. (1992). Educational Performance of the Poor: Lessons from Rural
Northeast Brazil: Oxford University Press.
- 98 -



Additional Annex 12:
Technical Issues Related to Education Reform in the Fundescola Region
BRAZIL: FUNDESCCLA IIIA (THIRD SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT)
The Four Key Constrainits to Education Reform in the Fundescola Region
A. Schools Are Not Using Effe,tive Teaching and Learning Models.
One of the most striking characteristics of so many Brazilian schools is the limited use of effective
teaching and learning strategies. Although the government has successfully promulgated significant
improvements educational standards, for example with respect to the development of national curriculum
parameters, the introduction of routine standardized testing, and the promotion of improvements in
textbook content and presentation, changes in classroom practice remain the next, big frontier. Research
and classroom observation studies in Brazil demonstrate that schools continue to rely on traditional
instructional approaches. For inm;tance, with respect to student engagement, many teachers tend to rely on
one of two altematives: either ihey interact with the class as a whole-even when desks are grouped
together-mainly to explain an assignment or to have students copy something from the chalkboard, or they
engage individual or small groups of students to establish or re-establish discipline. Textbooks and
curriculum guides are universally available, but seldom used in any coherent way in the classroom.
Supplementary pedagogic material or books are rarely available, and where they are, students have few
opportunities to use them, neither during nor after school hours. Classroom time is treated in a cavalier
manner; in multi-shift schools, t.ime-on-task averages about 3 hours. The principle classroom teaching
instruments are the chalkboard and the lecture. Lessons tend to favor low order skill assignments such as
copying text, which minimizes teacher stress while maintaining discipline in an authoritarian context.
Classroom instruction often appears unfocused, perhaps due to a lack of clarity in curriculum objectives or
lack of knowledge regarding what constitutes good teaching practice. Despite the availability of national
curriculum parameters and in nany cases State curriculum guides, schools operate without explicit
grade-level learning objectives, and a long way from  using  standards-based student assessment
instruments.
For decades, and in particular in recent years, Brazilian educators and policy makers have
recognized the problem of poorly functioning schools and have achieved some success in improving
individual schools. Unfortunately, attempts to raise school quality and student outcomes in large scale have
been frustrated. Efforts to encourage schools or school-based organizations to develop innovations have
clearly resulted in success stories, but they are few, dispersed, and sometimes short-lived. Such bottom-up
reforms have proven to be precarious in part because of their dependence upon an exceptional school
principal or a committed sponsoring organization. When the principal leave, or the supporting organization
changes, the reform may be reversed without its champion. Moreover, when school-based initiatives evolve
faster than the responsible secretariat can understand or absorb them, their dissemination and even stability
becomes constrained. This also contributes to a tendency for reforms to wither rather than take off. In
other words, Brazil has quite a bir. of experience with small-scale efforts that have not been expanded.
The top-down approach has likewise failed to generate widespread and sustainable implementation
of effective of teaching strategies and their corresponding learning gains. Mandates for change from
federal, state, or municipal governments have proven themselves to be largely ineffective. This appears to
be due to the fact that, for schools to take on the challenge of fundamental reform, the staff and community
must undertake a series of changes themselves. They would have to recognize the need for reform, then
embrace the required changes, then adapt the' reform to their own context; and finally acquire the needed
skills, institutional capacities, and organizational structures required to incorporate the new processes into
the functioning of the school. Any widespread and sustained structural reform of schools in Brazil can
- 99 -



therefore neither bubble up from below nor be irnposed from above. Consequently, Brazil's principal
constraint to improving student outcomes is the education community's inability to translate the objective of
educating all children into program of coherent, integrated, school-driven reforms in thousands and
thousands of schools, in poor as well as less poor communities, throughout the country.
B. Local Governments Have Inadequate Policies to Address Educational Inequality.
Substandard schools. Millions of children attending public schools located throughout the regions
served by the Fundescola Program lack basic educational opportunities available to children attending
schools in other parts of Brazil, or even in better endowed schools within the same jurisdictions. Federal
law requires children aged 7 to 14 to attend school. Yet many school children in the Northeast, North, and
Center West regions go to school without qualified or the necessary educational books and supplies,
adequate classrooms, student desks, functional roofs, windows, walls, and water fountains, usable
chalkboards, or trained and appropriately qualified teachers. Students are forced to learn in schools that
lack ventilation, adequate lighting, and functioning toilets. These appalling conditions have persisted for
years in many parts of the Fundescola regions and have worsened over time. Without functional
classrooms, without books or other educationally essential materials, without minimally qualified teachers,
and without facilities that are safe and healthful, children are consigned to a system of inadequate custodial
care that does not, neither in fact nor in law, provide the free, minimum quality education mandated by the
constitution and federal legislation.
Unequal schools.   This inequity is perhaps what is most striking about these dramatic
deficiencies. It is not just the fact that schools in these appalling conditions exist, but that they exist in the
same jurisdictions in which adequate or even good schools may be found. Research and survey work
carried out under Fundescola I and II demonstrate that in most municipalities working with Fundescola,
and certainly in every State participating in the Fundescola Program, good, even excellent public schools
can be readily identified in the data. These schools may not be "first world" schools in every sense, but
they are schools to which middle-class parents from any country in the world would be happy to send their
children. To put it bluntly, local govermments have persistently invested in the quality of some schools
while allowing other schools in their jurisdictions to deteriorate.
Public policy and unequal school quality. Why is it that these inequalities in school quality are so
prevalent? There are two main reasons for this. First, until recently public policy has not focused on
educational inequality, but rather on basic access to schooling. One big turning point in public policy was
the FUNDEF amendment and law (discussed above), which set a minimum, per-student spending level.
This redistributive legislation has provided a financial basis for redressing imbalances in educational
quality. Nonetheless, state and municipal governments charged with public education obligations have
failed to develop policies or implement appropriate procedures to identify and correct the substandard
conditions at the schools attend.
Lack of supply-side investment policies that are pro-poor. Although the federal government has
undertaken a major initiative to stimulate demand for schooling by children living in poverty through the
Bolsa-Escola Program, there still remain serious problems on the supply side regarding the quality of
schools frequented by poorer children. Because children tend to frequent schools that reflect residential
pattems of economic differentiation, the schools at which these manifestly substandard conditions exist in
any jurisdiction tend to be attended by children from families living at or below the poverty line.
Consequently, it is especially the poorest children who are denied basic educational opportunities. Without
those adequate quality schools, children have limited options to realize their potential. Research points out
that children do not become "used to" substandard learning conditions. Instead, repeated deprivation of
basic learning tools compounds the deleterious effect of learning deficits, a situation from which children
- 100-



may never successfully recover. Consequently, students in schools lacking in the basic educational
necessities in lower primary will begin their upper primary under-prepared and under-motivated, and this
cycle will continue into the students' secondary school years if they make it so far. Schools below
acceptable learning standards thereby contribute to grade repetition and to student disaffection, ultimately
inhibiting the chances of the poor to escape from poverty. Local governments (both State and Municipal)
have not managed to establish minimal standards for teachers and staffing requirements, materials, and
facilities encountered by students in the public schools. Even in those few instances in which the education
secretariats have formally established standards, responsible officials have not been willing or able to
determine whether conditions in their schools meet those standards. Finally, even when system officials
know that a school's quality falls below minimal standards, they have no strategies or budgets to remedy
the inadequacies.
C Parents and the Broader Public are Insufficiently Engaged in School Improvement
Parent involvement is critical to school improvement. Research in Brazil, as well as elsewhere,
overwhelmingly concludes that parent involvement in schooling and in children's learning is strongly related
to their attainment and achievernent. The more intensively parents are involved, the more beneficial the
impact on student outcomes. This holds true for all types of parent involvement in children's learning and
for all types and ages of studentr. The research also shows that the earlier in a child's educational process
parent involvement begins, the more powerful are the effects. Moreover, considerably higher outcomes are
measured when parent involvement is active. In other words, greater benefits accrue not only when parents
work with their children at horae, but also when they attend and actively support school activities, are
involved in school governance and policy, and even when they help out in classrooms. Studies in Brazil
also reveal many benefits for school systems when parents become more involved in their children's
schools. Teachers, for example, benefit from the improved rapport that generally accompanies increased
parent involvement. This rappcort is often expressed in parents' increased willingness to support schools'
efforts during special projects, festivals, or fund-raising activities. The many ways in which parent
involvement benefits students' achievement, attitudes, and behavior have a positive impact on school staff
as well. Finally, research shows that parent involvement in educational governance and policy, such as
through the school council or the municipal education council, helps correct erroneous assumptions that
parents and educators may hold about one another's motives, attitudes, or intentions. In addition, their
engagement in schools and schlooling has been shown to encourage parents to serve as advocates for
schools throughout their community.
But parents are not engaged. Despite the many potential benefits associated with parent
involvement, beneficiary assessment studies and ethnographic research in Brazil reveal that parents are
often reluctant to participate in their children's schools. Many parents express the belief that schools are
only interested in them insofar as they can provide materials or services, though teachers say they believe
that parents in fact do have opportunities to become more involved in their schools. Interviews with poor
parents reveal that they may riot be participating in their schools due to a lack of time or energy,
embarrassment or shyness aboul. their own educational level or verbal abilities, lack of understanding or
information about the structure of the school and accepted communication channels, perceived lack of
welcome by teachers and adrministrators, and teachers and administrators' assumptions of parents'
disinterest or inability to help with children's schooling. At the same time, analysis of interview data show
that although many parents appear to value education in the abstract, in reality they have little idea of what
happens inside the school and classroom, and are clear about what ought to be happening there.
- 101 -



D. ManagementProcesses and Financing are notAligned on School Improvement
At the level of the school, when management processes and resources are not aligned on student
learning, student results are jeopardized. Most schools participating in the Fundescola Program are
very constrained in terms of financial and human resources. Unfortunately, it is frequently the
case that when schools make efforts to improve quality themselves, many spend their scarce
resources in fragmentary and ineffective ways. Often with they believe are in the best interests of
their students, school staff implement multiple programs that are neither aligned with a plan for
school improvement nor evaluated for their effectiveness. Over time, these piecemeal-type of
programs represent a major energy drain for schools, both in terms of resources and focus. To
make matters worse, according to research in the Northeast of Brazil, many schools are excessively
concerned with state or municipal norms and regulations, or are constrained by their own limited
experience. Disorganized schools are more likely to have staff who blame parents and even the students
themselves for low levels of learning, rather than accept their responsibility for assuring children's
educational success.
Earlier projects in the Fundescola Program have developed and tested various teaching/learning
models in recent years. They have found several to be effective and Fundescola has helped Secretariats of
Education introduce them successfully into hundreds of individual schools. But they have yet to replicate
these successful interventions in tens of thousands of schools. This inability to go to scale has been the
result of weak capacity - in particular, the capacity to get organized for large-scale operations and to
manage them well in a system that is highly fragmented. This constraint will be addressed by the
Fundescola III project. The project includes what is likely to be the first large-scale introduction of
teaching/learning models comprehensively into entire school systems in the North, Northeast and
Center-West. The logistics of doing this, the organizational arrangements, and the management systems
and practices required, will be worked out and included in the project. In a sense, this project will itself
become an experiment in going to scale, paving the way to future large-scale operations of this kind.
At the level of local government, education secretariats are correspondingly not organized to
provide efficient educational services and support to schools. Obviously, student learning takes place at
school, not in the secretariat or at the level of the school system. Nonetheless, the system has an obligation
to focus all efforts on facilitating the teaching/learning processes at the school. With increasing demands
for improving educational outcomes, secretariats of education are inundated with a variety of approaches
and "silver bullets" for improving their systems. With so much pressure and need, districts are more than
willing to try out many different options. The end result is often an abundance of well-intentioned plans
that are not focused on a single, unifying vision. This kind of education improvement overload contributes
to a defeatist mentality. Instead, school improvement requires that the secretariats of education be endowed
with the organizational structure and capacity to take optimal advantage of their resources and align them
with the objective of school improvement and equity. But, the lack of capacity in educational secretariats
represents one of their chief constraints.
E. Limited Capacity of Secretariats of Education
From an organizational point of view, the capacity of the education system to improve equity and
raise school quality is constrained by several factors. These include:
a less-than-optimal division of labor among institutions at the federal, state and local levels, and an
inadequate division of labor within many of these institutions;
- 102 -



*      fragile leadership and an unclear sense of direction at sector level, as well as at the level of
individual institutions, resulting from the lack of a shared and detailed vision;
*      an inadequate mix of skills and a low level of competency among administrative, technical and
managerial staff particularly in small and medium-size, mostly rural, secretariats;
*      a lack of administrative, technical and managerial systems, coupled with weak work practices,
particularly in the area of management;
*      a strong presence of politics in the decision-making process, and
*      a proliferation of 'standL alone' programs and governing bodies operating in an un-integrated fashion
with little communication and coordination.
Organizational Setting and Division of Labor. The division of labor and responsibility in the
education sector, particularly between state systems and municipal systems, has introduced many
complexities and inefficiencies into the system. The key institutions that run the schools in this system are
the education secretariats. For historical reasons, there are State Secretariats and Municipal Secretariat
side by side, each running their own schools. Because most municipalities are by definition smaller than
states, their education secretariats are smaller too. They have a fewer number of students for which they
are responsible, and an smaller overall revenue base for education. Due to their smaller size, they are
unable to enjoy economies of scale in using these resources, particularly in the area of management and
administration. They are less able than the state secretariats to pursue functional differentiation and
specialization or to attract highly-skilled professionals. They also receive no little if any help from the
State Secretariats of Education. From a capacity point of view, this dual, highly unbalanced, structure
greatly weakens the capacity of the system as a whole to deliver effective education services and to achieve
the goal of equity.
Many secretariats have bureaucratic outlooks, not treating the schools as clients to whom they - the
Secretariats - owe a service. They, therefore, have bureaucratic structures that are designed to facilitate
administrative functions rather than to maximize pedagogical support to the schools and work for school
improvement.
In the municipal secretnriats there are not enough people to specialize in, and take care of, distinct
functions. In many cases, financial management and materials acquisition, as well as the management of
human resources, for example, are carried out by the municipality's accountant and personnel manager,
respectively, and not by Secretariat staff. Small size means that many important decisions are taken by the
mayor. It means also that the Secretaries, with the help of a few non-specialized staff, are responsible
themselves for a broad array of issues. The net result is that key functions do not get the attention they
require for policy and strategy, for norms and standards, and for the utilization of resou-ces. This greatly
influences the capacity of the secretariats both to deliver routine services and to implement specialized
projects. In State Secretariats, the level of functional differentiation is higher, but there, too, one seldom
finds integrated functions such as pedagogically-related school support and supervision aimed at enhancing
the teaching/learning processes in the classrooms. State secretariats, and especially municipal secretariats,
have small numbers of permanent positions that are financed from their recurrent budgets, and larger
numbers of temporary positions that are financed through political appointments or temporary projects.
There is therefore a tendency for staff to be clustered around projects or the Secretary himself or herself,
rather than around functions. This creates a de-facto division of labor that, while attending to political
demands or specifically defined projects, does not pay sufficient attention to important, on-going functions.
- 103-



And since projects and political appointees come and go, there is also limited continuity in the performance
of the tasks that are covered by them.
Leadership and Direction. The fragmentation of the education system into a large number of state
and municipal sub-systems has made it difficult to develop a unifying vision that is shared by all. But a
vision does not often exist even within individual institutions. Municipal secretariats typically do not have
well-formulated, if any, vision and strategies, because they find it hard to attract leaders. Some of them do
not seem to feel the need for such vision and strategies.  State secretariats, on the other hand, often do
attract people with leadership qualities, but these leaders typically focus on resource mobilization. They
see their main role as raising funds for the system. They therefore bring in a large number of projects from
wherever they can get them. These projects do not add up into a clear and unified direction, however, nor
do they last over long periods of time. In these secretariats, vision is therefore a product of the projects,
rather than the thinking that generates these projects. It is not always coherent and if the projects pull in
different directions, so does the vision. Moreover, it lasts only for as long as the projects are there,
Human Resources. The number of skilled and responsible staff in many education secretariats is
inadequate, and so is the mix of capabilities they possess. As indicated earlier, many secretariats have a
small number of establishment-based staff. The transient staff come and go with projects. The activities
they conduct are discontinued when they go; the skills that they bring along or acquire are lost. This
greatly influences both the mix of skills at the secretariats and the level of competency reached by the
people working for them. The skills' mix at any given time reflects the mix of projects or initiatives being
implemented at that time, but it does not necessarily reflect the mix of functions that need to be attended to
at all times. The level of competency in whatever skills are available differs between the large mostly state
secretariats and the small municipal ones. It is quite impressive at the larger secretariats, but is much less
impressive at the smaller ones - which are the bulk of all secretariats. Staff, at least in smaller secretariats,
require training and development, but decisions to invest in them are complicated by the fact that so many
of them are transient staff who will leave the secretariats when the initiatives are completed or when the
Secretary leaves. These factors constrain not only the capacity to deliver routine services, but also the
capacity to take special action, to implement projects and programs, and thus achieve the objectives of
equity and quality.
Management Practices.  The capacity of Secretariats of Education to deliver services and
implement projects effectively is constrained also by weak management, excessive and divided control, and
political intervention. Key management functions are carried out in the secretariats ineffectively due to the
lack of systems, skills and incentives to manage better. Among these are the functions of leading, planning,
communication and coordination. But, the capacity of secretariats to influence the schools is also limited
by the proliferation of controlling bodies to which the schools report. Almost every project and every area
that is 'handed over' to the municipalities, or directly to the schools, leads to the creation of a council. The
schools in a small municipal secretariat have to work with at least five councils: the Municipal Education
Council, the School Education Council, the FIJNDEF Council, the School Lunch Council and the
Bolsa-Escola Council. This complicates the management of education in the schools and may also
introduce an unnecessary waste of time and resources.
The intervention of politics in the system of education is pervasive. Political leaders and political
factors influence the choice of higher level goals for the education system, which is an acceptable role for
politics; but, they influence also the choice of lower level objectives. strategies and means of action, where
technical and professional considerations ought to be the dominant considerations. One of the most
common results of political intervention in the education system is a high turnover of personnel, and
sometimes also of programs, which takes place when ruling parties and elected officials change. This
- 104 -



weakens the capacity of educational institutions to carry on with their work efficiently and effectively.
- 105 -






BIRD 20444R
0. (VENEZUELA_*                              50-' (RE-
;                 /) C- .ISURINAME9GUIANA2
C O L O M B I Ar       2   BooVista             /   j
L                                         AA
A r L A AN r / |
Fortleza
A~~~~ ~ ~~ M AR                                AAZH                         FA
A. p                                TSInoICEARA /RIO GR DE DO NORTE
resin~~~~~Naa
33~~      PARAIBA  JoaoPe~~~~ssao
'-torto N1OM                                  ~       ~      PENMLC
~*-.~Rorantg  '  D   K'
_l~~~~~~~~~oN<<DONIt                                                    9S4' ed,,o   A" GOAS
CA Ti NS~~~~~~~~~.* aao              O
P E R U                                      T *B._,  H)                       I A;  T OV  OCA TINS  A H i A  SERGIPE
.-*-.  GRO~~~~~SS   0                         Fi.d -.
;   \S  G R\ 0G5  S/ O  U   (S    /3     99S        vC4a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lvador
CETE          T     G EST
If               Ca aGrde S*  1V          B     / P  ITO S O Federal
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~orot, ,               o/ :PAAN
\PARAG  AY      ~~~~~~~ReASILIARbE4oPr&t
B 0                                    dinia"  ~     OEANoEi,O0C 
C GROc0SSO                  G E TBR A Z I
Oo /rosillD            U G   DO                Hrzn te-'   No0onol Capitl
e.  A f  M E R I C orlJ  5ss                   l<,Clo rSo     /  d  Stoe Cop.tols
-217,      Ae@~s8IIO0s@AChSIV6~/OPr_  I  r~   PortaAleQre)                  -    Seleced Towns
r                            SAR                         So  Rooodoi es
- 'ATlANTIlC  c,e,or'oeD el            o        P \ O /7rc  KILOMETERS o  100 200 300 400 500 -' SceBudrs
(  C  OCEAN                                    \* PA oP A       IRIXZZI      ==   Region Roondonies
~~~~~~~~~~ heHo tsr rs7 OY+on                \ /t  R,o Gronde  MILES 0  100  2000  300  * -* Internotionol Boondories
F3*U) 01 SAY 1 0.11   C033.t,3 anvA                          - il EA  -   Rivers
HILE3QO3                                                   RiodeJanir
SOUTH 50                I t            BRAZI
AUCJST 1 Y8



MAP SECTION






IMAGING
Report No.:        23297   BR
Type:     PAD



