INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
UPDATED
(Implementation STAGE)
I. Basic Information
Date prepared/updated: 07/28/2005                        Report No.: AC1556
1. Project Statistics
Country: Brazil                        ProjectID: P057653
Project Name: FUNDESCOLA IIIA (THIRD SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT)
Task Team Leader: Alberto Rodriguez
Appraisal Date: January 8, 2002       Board Date: June 13, 2002
Managing Unit: LCSHE                  Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program
Loan
Sector: Other social services (50%); Primary education (31%); Sub-national government
administration (7%); Tertiary education (6%); Central government administration (6%)
Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Education for all (P); Municipal
governance and institution building (P); Social analysis and monitoring (P); Access to
urban services and housing (P)
IBRD Amount (US$m.):     160.00
IDA Amount (US$m.):        0.00
GEF Amount (US$m.):        0.00
PCF Amount (US$m.):        0.00
Borrower Amount (US$m)    160.00
Other financing amounts by source:
Environmental Category: B
Simplified Processing                 Simple [X]        Repeater []
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)  Yes []  No [X]
2. Project Information
Project Objectives:
Fundescola IIIA's development objective is to assist targeted secretariats of education to
reduce the disparities across their primary schools and increase the effectiveness of these
schools, within each local government's financial capacity.
Project Description:
Component 1. Raising Schools to Minimum Operational Standards (US$ 95.60 million).
This component consists of activities aimed at helping all secretariats in the participating
micro regions to establish a policy on improving the equity across the schools and
initiating an investment program to raise the conditions of learning in all of their schools
up to an agreed standard. The Project will encourage secretariats to adopt Fundescola's
"Minimum Operational Standards" as their yardstick for evaluating the equity of their
school systems, will develop and promulgate guidelines, survey instruments, and
technical assistance for secretariats to use in order for them to (i) compare each school



with the standard, (ii) identify each school's deficiencies with respect to the standard, and
(iii) develop an investment plan to help secretariats reduce disparities across their
schools. The component has four subcomponents:
Subcomponents of Component 1
(1) School-Managed Rehabilitation Subprojects. Fundescola IIIA will finance the
rehabilitation of 10,000 classrooms by transferring funds to the schools and helping local
governments monitor the implementation, by schools, of their renovations.
(2) Provision of Furniture and Equipment. Fundescola IIIA will finance furniture and
equipment for 10,000 classrooms, which are needed for schools to achieve the minimum
operational standards.
(3) Provision of Reading Books. Fundescola IIIA will provide 5,000 sets of reading books
to Escola Ativa schools.
(4) Provision of Physical Infrastructure. This subcomponent will finance the expansion
of 108 classrooms and construction of 545 classrooms in the participating micro-regions
that present deficit of classrooms.
Component 2. Establishing a School Development Process (US$ 36.40 million). This
component consists of activities aimed at helping schools to be substantially more
effective with their primary function: helping students learn. The component will help
secretariats build the capacity of their schools to: (i) formulate strategies and action plans
to improve their ability to serve their principal client-the students; (2) strengthen and
align their administrative, management, and monitoring systems to support this aim; and
(iii) enhance the effectiveness of their teachers and the adequacy of the instructional
approach used in the classrooms. The basic instruments to be used in this process are the
School Development Plan, the School Improvement Subproject, and tested programs for
effective teaching and learning in the classroom. This component will be implemented
through three subcomponents.
Subcomponents of Component 2
(1) School Strategic Planning. The key instrument to help introduce effective strategic
and action planning into the schools is the School Development Plan (PDE). The PDE
went through a first round of development and testing during Fundescola I and II, and
will be further developed and evaluated during Fundescola IIIA. This subcomponent
covers the additional development work required to finalize the version of PDE currently
under implementation, as well as to update it based on the evaluation being undertaken
under Fundescola II. During Fundescola IIIA the Central Coordination Unit (DGP) will
design strategies for going to scale with PDE and its complementary products and
materials. During Fundescola IIIB, DGP will test these strategies and develop
complementary materials for going to scale will be developed, if such materials are
necessary.
2



(2) Schooling Improvement Subprojects finances activities in the School Development
Plan that require funding, in particular, the activities identified in the School
Development Plan that specifies the selected actions needed to increase schooling quality.
These actions include, inter alia, in service teacher training, assessment tools, educational
materials, and instructional equipment.
(3) Implementation of Teaching-Learning Models will cover activities aimed at the
adoption and implementation by schools, with the direct support and assistance of the
Secretariats of Education, of one of a variety of teaching and learning models. These
models are being designed to help support teachers' efforts to improve student learning
achievement by aligning curriculum, instruction, teaching materials, and classroom
organization with student learning objectives. The educational objectives included in
these models are based on Brazil's National Curriculum Parameters.
Component 3 - Strengthening the Educational System (US$186.40 million)
This component will cover activities aimed at strengthening the capacity of Secretariats
of Education in the targeted micro regions to deliver education services and to implement
all other components of this project. It will do so by leading them through a strategic
planning process to clarify their mission, focus more effectively on their principal clients
- their schools, carry out more effective school monitoring and support-particularly in
activities developed under Component 2, above, and follow more efficient management
practices. The component has three subcomponents.
Subcomponents of Component 3
(1) Institutional Development Secretariats of Education. The key objective of this
component is to develop and test a set of management improvement systems (PGS) for
Secretariats of Education with varying levels of institutional capacity and size. These
tools will be introduced on a trial basis during Fundescola IIIA, with local governments
willing to partner with Fundescola to design and evaluate the effectiveness of these
instruments and processes.
(2) Funding School Councils will cover activities aimed at providing incentives to engage
parents more effectively in school improvement, and will help them improve the
conditions in their schools. This subcomponent will provide a small discretionary budget,
based on school enrollment (approximately US$5.00 per student on a yearly basis), to
school councils located in the jurisdictions of the participating micro regions. Public
engagement in school governance is stimulated by this subcomponent because of the fact
that this fund is controlled by an organization composed of parents, and not by the local
government. For a school to receive the funds, it has to have a functioning and legal
school council. Any decision regarding the use of these funds requires that elected school
council members come to the school to meet and decide on the utilization of the funds.
(3) Project Management, Monitoring, and Research finances Fundescola's incremental
management, technical assistance activities, and supervision responsibilities at the
Ministry of Education. This subcomponent will also finance the research on its
implementation and impact. It will focus on the adoption and integration of Fundescola-
type reforms by local government, and the sustainability of such reforms. The research
3



will also address the evaluation of the school-based and secretariat-based instruments vis-
a-vis their objectives. Finally, research under this component will continue to examine
the impact of Fundescola interventions on school performance and student outcomes.
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
Schools in Northeast, North and Center-West of Brazil will be involved in the project.
5. Environmental and Social Specialists on the Team
Maria Isabel Junqueira Braga
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                    Yes       No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)               X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                 X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                          X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     X
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                       X
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                        X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                   X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)              X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                       X
II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
A. Sutmmary of Key Safegutard Issues
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, signiflcant and/or irreversible
impacts:
At the Appraisal stage the Project Fundescola IIIA was assigned Category "C" rating for
environment purposes because no new constructions would be financed by the project.
The project included only rehabilitation of existing schools to upgrade facilities. The
project has been using the guidelines for repair and renovation of schools prepared by
Fundescola project and approved by the Bank ("Subsidios para Elabora,co de Projetos e
Adequa,ao de Edifica,oes Escolares"). However, after 2.5 years from the effectiveness
date of the Loan Agreement, the Borrower requested an amendment to be made to
include an infrastructure subcomponent in the project. Since the new subcomponent will
include expansion of existing schools and construction of new schools in the participating
micro-regions, Category "B" rating is now appropriate. For this reason an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) was prepared by Fundescola team and has been reviewed by
the Quality Assurance Team (QAT) which found it in compliance with the safeguards
requirements.
4



2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated
future activities in the project area:
No major environmental impact are envisioned, as physical activities under the project
will be basically expansion of existing schools and construction of small schools in
municipalities and rural areas.
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or
minimize adverse impacts.
During the identification process of the schools to be expanded or constructed,
alternatives will be considered to minimize any potential safeguard policy issue.
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues.
Provide an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures
described.
The Ministry of Education, through FNDE, and State and Municipal's Education
Secretariats will be committed under the project's legal documents, to carry out effective
screening of physical activities for potential impacts, supervise the implementation of the
EMP and monitor subproject impacts on the environment. The Bank will also supervise
the implementation of the EMP.
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
During preparation, consultations were carried out in all states targeted by the project.
Documentation of these consultations, signed by the federal agency responsible for
indigenous rights (FUNAI), state and local governments, and representatives of
indigenous communities, are available in project files. In general, the consultations
highlight the following problems and needs, as voiced by indigenous peoples: (a) poor
access to schooling--more schools and more classrooms are requested (b) some schools
are in such a state of disrepair they exist only on paper--deep repairs and renovations are
required to make these schools functional; (c) teacher skills and knowledge of indigenous
culture is sometimes quite limited-there is a need for teacher training and for hiring
teachers from indigenous ethnicities; (d) the importance of association schools and sports.
The examples here mentioned do not exhaust the number of richness of these
consultations and are included as: In Alagoas, the state Secretary of Education committed
itself to hiring and training teachers to provide indigenous education and guaranteeing the
physical conditions of schools. FUNAI is committed to financing these actions and
providing technical assistance to indigenous teachers, preferable recruited from
indigenous communities. In Mato Grosso do Sul, consultation was held with (a) the
ethnic group Terena in the municipality De Aquidauana, revealing the presence of 77
indigenous children and recommending the construction of another schools with four
classrooms; (b) the Etnia Guarani in the municipality of Coronel Sapucaia, revealing a
close coordination between the indigenous community and the local government and
stressing the importance for the indigenous youth of having, together with school, a
soccer field; (c) the ethnic group Kaiowa in the municipality of Caarap6, where the
school is far from the community and the main recommendations is to built one closer to
5



it with two classrooms. In Mato Grosso, location of schools continued to be a major issue
for the indigenous communities who complained about the long distance to the schools.
Soccer fields also continued to be repeated request from the communities; (d) the ethnic
group Anambe in Para, residing in the municipality of Mocajuba, also attends a poorly-
maintained school: the enrollment low and the sense of ownership is almost non-existent;
and (e) the ethnic group Kaiap6 in Para, in the Reserva Florestal Garotire, where three
teachers for 107 students are strongly aware of the importance of a curriculum that is
culturally appropriate, and where education plans are made and results registered and
monitored, suffers from a school building in ruins. The consultation in the Pakuera aldea
(about 1 10 km from the municipality of Paranating) highlighted the importance of a close
contact between government and indigenous peoples. The Ministry's Fundescola Project
Development Team and the Bank task team agreed on an approach for assuring that
benefits for indigenous schools are incorporated as specific activities under the project.
The approach agreed between the Bank and the Project team in Brazil is summarized in
Annex 12 to the PAD, and was subsequently disseminated publicly in Brazil via the
Internet.
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety of
Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the
Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
Cultural Property issues have been addressed in the EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:
Not applicable.
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's Infoshop?
Yes.
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a form and
language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected groups and local
NGOs?
Yes. The EMP is available for public review in the Public Infornation Center - PIC at the
World Bank in Brasilia and can also be accessed at:
(i) Banco Mundial site:
http://www.bancomundial.org.br
6



(ii) FNDE/FUNDESCOLA site:
http://www.fnde. gov.br/home/index.jsp?arquivo=/fundescola/fundescola.html#publicacoes
All Safeguard Policies
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities been
prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard policies?
Yes.
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project cost?
Yes.
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation systems of the project include the monitoring of
safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
Yes.
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the borrower and
the same been adequately reflected in the project legal documents?
Yes.
D. Approvals
Signied anid submitted by:                  Name                     Date
Task Team Leader:                      Alberto Rodriguez
Environmental Specialist:              Flavio Chaves
Social Development Specialist
Additional Environmental and/or
Social Development
Specialist(s):
Approved by:                 Name                                    D te
Regional Safeguards             Jean-Roger Mercier 6'  t0!5 7             (o5
Coordinator:
Comments:                                                               I
Sector Manager:                 Eduardo Velez Bustillo  t-l X v
Comments:
7



