Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE (Updated during implementation) 
Report No.:  AB1597 
Project Name 
FUNDESCOLA IIIA (THIRD SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT 
PROJECT) 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Other social services (50%); Primary education (31%);Sub-
national government administration (7%);Tertiary education 
(6%);Central government administration (6%) 
Project ID 
P057653 
Borrower(s) 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
Implementing Agency 
 
Fundescola- FNDE- Ministry of Education 
Avenida N-1 Le
ste, Pavilhão das Metas, Brasília, DF – Brazil 
CEP 70150-900 
Tel: 55 61 3035-2908 
Fax: 55 61 3035-2910 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
x]
B
[] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared  
June 8, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 8, 2002 
Date of Board Approval 
June 13, 2002 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
Sector issues 
 During the last decade, primary education moved up to a position of priority importance in 
public policy at the national, state and municipal levels, and simultaneously gained much more 
prominence in the media and more broadly in civil society. For example, since 1995, the federal 
government raised the expansion of student enrollment and the quality of learning of primary 
school aged children to a top position of its policy agenda (MEC, 2001). The federal 
government’s policy for improving primary education is based on the principles of improving the 
equity of opportunities for all children and the effectiveness of the schools to guarantee adequate 
quality teaching and learning. The government seeks to achieve these improvements through 
strategies that help state and municipal governments align their education policies and programs 
with these principles, and that increase the engagement of the public in order to promote greater 
social control and public accountability. Despite the substantial progress on initial enrollment 
rates, even in the poorest regions of Brazil (now at nearly 100% overall), poor system 
performance continues to impede Brazil's ability to achieve higher levels of educational 
attainment. Previous decades of inequality in financing, and the low priority given by 
government and the public to education until recently, mean that any improvements in 
performance made by Brazilian schools have been from a low starting point. According to the 
Brazil's National System for Basic Education Evaluation (SAEB), student achievement in the 
North, Northeast and Center-West states falls below the national average and substantially below 
that of wealthier states in the South and Southeast. MEC's SAEB assessment system classifies 
learning achievement with respect to a uniform scale of proficiency. The 1999 SAEB assessment 
results report that less than 25 percent of fourth-grade pupils in the Project's three regions surpass 
Page  2
the lowest performance level on the scale.  In Brazil, although a continual but gradual increase in 
investments in educational quality since 1980, especially in the last decade, has resulted in nearly 
a
tripling of eighth-grade conclusion rates by 2000, from 12 to 38 percent, completion rates of 
children attending school in the states participating in the Fundescola Program remain well 
behind Brazil's overall average, and especially in states from the south. Differences in survival 
rates to fourth grade between the Fundescola region and the South region are even greater. The 
worst is for the Northeast region, where the percent of 15 to 19 year old children attaining 4th 
grade is only about 20%, whereas for South it is nearly 50%. Fundescola III's challenge is 
obvious: getting schools to (i) provide opportunities and support for children to learn, (ii) help 
them each year succeed in learning enough to be promoted to the subsequent grade level, and 
(iii) encourage them to complete the full primary cycle.  The Northeast, North and, to a lesser 
extent Center-West are the poorest of Brazil's five geographic regions, with poverty headcount 
ratios of 30, 48 and 16 percent, respectively. Using a higher poverty line of R$131.97 (which 
allows for the non-food expenditures made by people whose incomes just allow them to purchase 
the minimum food basket) results in a poverty headcount index of 45 percent for Brazil as a 
whole, and regional poverty rates calculated at 60, 75 and 45 percent, respectively, for the North, 
Northeast and Center-West. Poverty affects children's chances of successfully completing an 
eight-grade education. Since low education level of the household head is strongly correlated 
with poverty, and most poor households are headed by someone with less than four years of 
schooling, it follows that poor children are at a disadvantage: they are less likely to live in a 
family that can effectively support their children's learning. Finally, poor children generally have 
access to poorer quality schools than others, whether quality is measured by the adequacy of the 
facility itself, availability of textbooks and other learning materials, or teacher qualifications.  
 
Government Strategy 
The federal government has given highest priority to primary education, initiating a number of 
significant reforms including: (a) amendment of the constitution and approval of a law redefining 
the roles and responsibilities of each government level to ensure a minimum per student 
expenditure; (b) direct transfer of funds to the schools, in an effort to increase school autonomy 
and effectiveness; and (c) improvement of education quality, through a national assessment 
system (SAEB); (c) textbook quality and distribution improvement program; and (d) national 
standards for curriculum development. These reforms, designed to decentralize the funding of 
primary education, diminish regional disparities, and increase coordination among the various 
systems, should have a profound impact on school quality, particularly to the degree that states, 
municipalities and schools effectively use these resources, and to the degree that the public has 
efficient mechanisms to monitor the application of these finances.   
The Government's strategies and goals for the education sector are further outlined in the 
Ministry of Education's adoption of the National Education Council's 1998 National Plan for 
Education. The National Education Council's initiatives for the primary education sector specify 
a
number of goals that Fundescola III will support, including: increasing the proportion of 
students completing primary school, raising student performance as measured by the national 
assessment system (SAEB); elimination of the category of uncertified teacher; definition of 
minimum operational standards; a guarantee that new schools meet these minimum operational 
standards; an increase in the community's participation in education; and the promotion of school 
autonomy. In short, those issues, which are at the heart of the design of FUNDESCOLA, have 
Page  3
been taken up as the standard of the federal government, in its efforts as champion of educational 
improvement. 
 
FUNDEF.
With the objective of reducing the disparities in the financing of primary education 
across states and municipalities, Congress approved Constitutional Amendment No. 14/96 on 
December 9, 1996. This amendment, along with Federal Law No. 9.424/96 of December 24, 
1996, established the Fund for the Development and Maintenance of Basic Education and 
Teacher Valorization (FUNDEF), requiring that fifteen percent of total municipal and state 
revenues be used to finance an education fund in each state. This fund guarantees that every 
primary school student, whether enrolled in a state or municipal school, benefits from a spending 
floor of R$300 (raised to R$385 for calendar year 2001). Amendment No. 14/96 also requires 
that the federal government top up with federal funds any state's FUNDEF that falls below the 
spending floor. 
 
School Autonomy and Parent Participation
.
The Ministry of Education's National Education 
Development Fund (FNDE) has been sponsoring the now four-year-old "Money Direct to the 
School Program." This program, which was designed to increase school autonomy and reduce 
inequalities across municipalities, has expanded rapidly since its inception in 1995, transferring 
resources on the basis of school size and community participation.  
 
2. Objectives 
Fundescola III is the third of the three projects comprising Brazil's Fundescola Program.  The 
Program's  overall mission, concept and objectives were presented by the Government to the 
World Bank in October 1997.  Like its sister projects, Fundescola III contributes to the Ministry 
of Education's goal of ensuring that children from the poorest regions of Brazil--the Northeast, 
North, and Center-West states--can successfully complete the eighth grade, the final year of the 
compulsory "fundamental" cycle.  This will help guarantee that they will be better prepared to 
participate as active and productive citizens in a democratic society, and will assist in reducing 
Brazil's disparities in educational attainment and achievement. Fundescola IIIA's development 
objective is to assist targeted secretariats of education to reduce the disparities across their 
primary schools and increase the effectiveness of these schoo
ls, within each local government’s 
financial capacity. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Informed Cooperation. As the chief external financing institution in the area of basic education 
over the past ten years, the Bank has had the opportunity to develop a well-informed and close 
familiarity with the key education challenges in Brazil and has come to recognize windows of 
opportunity. More importantly, over the last few years it has built up a fluent dialogue with the 
leading education authorities and institutions of Brazil. This dialogue has grown despite the 
presence of ideological differences between a number of the key actors, and across changes in 
the political landscape. A “Call to Action” program (Chamada à Ação (1997)), and three years of 
the PRASEM workshops are excellent examples of the Bank's ability to facilitate dialogue and 
generate consensus around critical issues in the sector. The Bank has also been actively 
promoting, for Brazilian Ministry, State, and Municipal education leaders and technical staff, the 
sharing and exchange of ideas on international education sector experience. Consequently, the 
Bank has been able to play the role of the critical friend in policy dialogue, has provided 
Page  4
continuity, has promoted the exchange of international experience, and has served as a key 
counterpart in supporting the implementation of development projects and policy reform. Recent 
cooperation and exchanges developed with Brazil's major national professional associations of 
education managers, namely the National Council of State Education Secretaries (CONSED) and 
the National Association of Municipal Education Managers (UNDIME), have also provided the 
Bank with detailed information and analytical perception of local, state and regional needs and 
demands. Derived from experience gathered from supporting basic education projects in other 
countries, particularly with regard to the school development process, and assembled from the 
Bank staff's analysis of education systems and school reform in England, Scotland, Australia, 
and the United States, the Bank is able to share its technical know-how with its clients in Brazil. 
In addition, the Bank has facilitated a series of exchanges, discussions, and site visits with staff 
and experts from the New American Schools Program and with several reforming school 
districts in the United States (for example, with Memphis, Tennessee and Chicago, Illinois, and 
with research organizations involved in studying school-based reform (Rand Corporation and 
American Institutes for Research).  
 
Poverty Focus. The World Bank's Brazil-specific project experience and sector work on 
education and poverty have made the institution well prepared to incorporate poverty targeting 
into an education project. In particular, lessons from the Edurural project (completed in 1990), 
studies and instruments prepared under the ongoing Fundescola I and II projects, and recent 
urban and rural poverty assessments have facilitated the identification of key poverty and 
regional imbalance issues associated with the education sector. This knowledge base has 
informed the strategic choices made in the design of Fundescola III. The project focuses on 
Brazil's three poorest regions, the North, Northeast and Center-West, and on the municipalities in 
the micro regions with the lowest levels on the Human Development Indicators. Finally, the 
project's focus on raising all schools to a certain standard and compensating for past inequalities 
differs from Brazil's historical approach to equity in spending, which has, at best, centered on 
providing the same resources to all. 
 
4. Description 
Since 1998, the Ministry of Education's Fundescola Program has been working intensively with 
19 states and hundreds of municipalities in an effort to improve education system performance 
and outcomes at the level of primary school. The tools, guidance, and technical assistance 
provided to schools and Secretariats of Education during the implementation of Fundescola I and 
II have proven to be effective. The Fundescola strategy has demonstrably contributed to a 
significant improvement in educational outcomes for learners in thousands of schools in the 
North, Northeast, and Center-West. Nonetheless, there are over 80,000 schools spread across 
over 2000 municipalities in these regions. The greatest challenges facing the Ministry of 
Education now are to help municipalities and states that have already adopted Fundescola 
reforms sustain them, and to bring the Fundescola school improvement strategy to even greater 
numbers of municipalities, including the poorest ones with the weakest institutional capacity.  
 
Project Components and Subcomponents 
Component 1.  Raising Schools to Minimum Operational Standards. This component consists of 
activities aimed at helping all secretariats in the participating micro-regions establish a policy to 
Page  5
improve the equity across the schools and initiate an investment program to raise the conditions 
of learning in all their schools up to an agreed set of standards. 
 
1.1 
School-Managed Rehabilitation Subprojects. This subcomponent will finance 
rehabilitation or improvement of schools security, sanitary facilities, structural integrity and 
operational conditions of schools without altering the constructed area or internal layout, of 
10,000 classrooms. This finance will be made by transferring funds to the schools and helping 
the school councils and participating secretariats monitor the implementation of the renovations. 
 
1.2 
Provision of Furniture and Equipment. This subcomponent will finance the furniture and 
equipment for 10,000 classrooms, which are needed for schools to achieved the minimum 
operational standards. 
 
1.3 
Provision of Reading Books.  This subcomponent will provide 5,000 schools reading 
books to schools implementing teaching learning models, under subcomponent 2.3 below. 
 
1.4  
Provision of Physical Infrastructure 
–
This subcomponent will finance the expansion of 
108 classrooms and construction of 545 classrooms in the participating micro-regions that 
present deficit of classrooms. 
 
Component 2. Establishing a School Development Process. This component will help 
secretariats build the capacity of their schools to (i) formulate strategy and action plans to 
improve their ability to serve their students; (ii) strengthening and align schools´ administrative, 
management and monitoring systems to support this aim; and (iii) enhance the effectiveness of 
their teachers and the adequacy of the instructional approaches used in the classroom. 
 
2.1 
School Strategic Planning. This subcomponent will support the preparation, monitoring 
and evaluation of the school strategic planning process, leading the preparation of the School 
Development Plans (PDEs) within the target micro-regions. 
 
2.2 
Schooling Improvement Subproject. This subcomponent will finance the activities 
identified in the PDE by directly transferring funds to school councils. 
 
2.3 
Implementation of Teaching-Learning Models. This subcomponent finances the 
development and supports the implementation of school-level, or classroom-level programs 
designed to help improve teacher’s effectiveness at improving student learning outcomes. 
 
Component 3. Strengthening the Education Sector. This component will cover activities aimed at 
strengthening of secretariats of education in the targets micro-regions to deliver their education 
services and to implement all of the components of this project. 
 
3.1 
Institutional Development of Education Secretariats. The key objective of this 
subcomponent is to help secretariats of education, via strategic planning exercises, develop and 
implement Secretariat Management Plans (PGS). 
 
Page  6
3.2 
School Council Strengthening Subprojects. This subcomponents will provide funding to 
school councils for them to finance activities aimed  at engaging parents more in school 
improvement, and helping parents take grater responsibility in improve the conditions of their 
schools. 
 
3.3  
Project Management, Monitoring and Research. This subcomponent will finance 
Fundescola´s incremental management, technical assistance activities and supervision 
responsibilities in the Ministry of Education. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 160 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
160 
 Total 
320 
 
6. Implementation 
6.1 Central level coordination at the federal level: the Project Coordination Unit (DGP) within 
the Federal Ministry of Education has been responsible for the preparation and is charged with 
the administration of Fundescola IIIA. The DGP has already demonstrated, through its capable 
performance of similar duties under Fundescola I and II that it is institutionally and technically 
ready to: (a) serve as principal project counterpart to the World Bank and key government and 
international agencies; (b) rely on the state-based Project Executive Coordination (COEP) and on 
monitors/supervisors hired to support project implementation at the micro-region level; (c) 
analyze and approve state, intra-state, and micro-region projects and annual work plans; (d) 
establish and sign agreements with states, municipalities, and other government and international 
agencies; (e) determine, together with the states, the definition of minimum operational 
standards; (f) elaborate the annual implementation program based on the micro region programs; 
(g) conduct project-related regional, state, and municipal analysis; (h) analyze and submit to the 
World Bank the relevant documentation for the acquisition of works,
 
goods and services and 
expenditure receipts; and (i) prepare the progress
 
reports and participate in the mid-term and 
final review according to
 
World Bank procedures.  
 
6.2 State and Municipal Coordination and
 
Implementation at the state level: Fundescola III will 
operate by means of
 
the Project Executive Coordination Unit (COEP) within each state 
education
 
secretariat, which: (a) serves as the key administrative project unit at
 
the state level; 
(b) prepares the Annual Work Plan with the participation of the municipalities in that state and 
submits this plan to DGP for approval and registration in the SPA; (c) coordinates project 
execution across municipalities and state school systems; (d) houses the DGP monitors and 
supervisors; (e) coordinates communication and cooperation among the local government 
agencies involved in project-related activities; (f) procures works, goods and services according 
to the guidelines of the World Bank; (g) records and certifies expenditures; (h) prepares progress 
reports; and (i) monitors and evaluates the outputs and outcomes of Fundescola in each state.  
 
Page  7
6.3 At the state and municipal level, each participating education secretariat is responsible for: 
(a) assisting schools in designing their own school development plan and school improvement 
projects;
 
(b) fostering the operation of school councils and community participation; and (c) 
monitoring the delivery of goods and services procured by the state Project Executive 
Coordination Units (COEP). Finally, guidance and training for school leadership in the creation 
of a school development plan and school improvement project is being offered through 
municipal-based School Development Teams (GDE). These teams are composed of municipal 
education professionals who have been trained by the federal (DGP) and state (COEP) level 
coordination units. 
 
6.4 Coordination at the school level: a leadership team composed of the principal and the 
pedagogical coordinator or other lead staff at the school will be responsible for: (a) participating 
in Fundescola's school development training program; (b) involving the entire staff of the school 
as well as parents in the creation and implementation of a school development plan and 
corresponding school improvement projects; (c) accepting visits and technical assistance from 
DGP-contracted monitor/supervisors; (d) taking advantage of the ongoing school development 
support offered by the school's respective GDE or COEP; (e) managing the use of Fundescola-
transferred funds for implementing the school improvement project, including purchasing goods 
and services, maintaining accounting records for these purchases, and providing accounting 
information to DGP during routine audits and review. Finally, the school team is responsible for 
selecting and implementing the appropriate teaching-learning model. 
 
6.5 Project monitoring
:
Fundescola II has developed and operates a rich set of indicators and a 
sophisticated management information system (MIS) to track the implementation progress and 
output, as well as to align its components and be accountable. Each unit within the Ministry's 
Project Management Unit (DGP) that is responsible for each component has developed its own 
MIS system, and has
 
used their own system to track progress and take decisions. It has been 
agreed that, for Fundescola IIIA, the DGP will pursue the following strategies during project 
preparation to use indicators more effectively as a tool for improving implementation and policy. 
DGP managers to agree on a set of comprehensive summary indicators that provide integrated 
information base about the project as a whole, not as separate products. DGP will set a time 
frame (e.g. quarterly, biannually or annually) for updating the summary indicators. DGP will 
design standardized forms to simplify existing detailed information by expressing them in
 
categorical variables (e.g. type of interventions in each product) and continuous variables (e.g. 
cost and scale score on the quality of each intervention) for technical supervisors to fill in and for 
states eventually to collect. The information collected thus form the raw data for distillation and 
integration into a comprehensive database. DGP will increase regular communication and 
technical assistance to states and municipalities in data collection, cleaning, entry and use for 
monitoring purposes. DGP will commission the development of an information system to 
integrate these indicators from separate databases. DGP will set a date each year (e.g. every July) 
for publishing and reporting these indicators (by region, state, micro region, and municipality) 
publicly, in additional to making the database available to the public through its web site. This is 
both for public accountability, as well as setting a competitive context for states and 
municipalities to perform and to provide data in time. At the State level, the State Project 
Executive Coordination Units (COEPs) will essentially use the same indicators on process, 
output and outcomes of Fundescola interventions products in each state during the life of the 
Page  8
project. However, to be sustainable, these indicators should become tools for the state to monitor 
the implementation process, output and outcomes of its own policy and programs. Technical 
supervisors of COEPs complete the data collection forms and enter the data into the COEP 
database for transmission to DGP on a regular basis. State supervisors will eventually take over 
this function as part of their monitoring
 
responsibility. The States and Municipalities will be able 
to use the same
 
form to monitor implementation of Fundescola type of interventions funded
 
by 
themselves outside of the project.
 
7. Sustainability 
Bringing Fundescola interventions to schools attended by the poorest children in Brazil, and 
providing a framework through which Fundescola can both be sustained and can go to scale will 
require that large numbers of education secretariats commit themselves to the school 
improvement effort. It will also demand significant leadership and enhanced capacity in these 
secretariats for them to both promote school improvement and provide technical assistance and 
support to schools in their jurisdiction willing to sign on to the improvement program. Moreover, 
for Fundescola to spread and take root, to be successfully implemented, and to be sustained over 
the long term, the principles--equity and quality, and strategies--public engagement and 
alignment, of Fundescola's school improvement program will need to be integrated into the 
mindsets and daily practices of the staff in the secretariats of education, and into the operating 
procedures of the institutions themselves.  
Transforming Secretariats of Education: By mid-2001, only three states and 7 municipalities 
(albeit several of the larger ones) have expanded at least some aspects of the Fundescola strategy 
to all schools in their jurisdiction. The litmus test for achieving the ownership described in the 
preceding paragraph is for large numbers of Secretariats of Education to adopt Fundescola 
policies and methods, adapt them to their own context and conditions, integrate them into their 
strategic plan as well as their routine operations, and then transform themselves into Fundescola-
inspired systems. This is a significant challenge for Fundescola III with regard to the 
microregions in which Fundescola I and II have already been working. But that challenge pales 
in comparison to that of transforming municipal education secretariats suffering from the lowest 
levels of Human Development into model adopters and implementers of the Fundescola school 
improvement strategy.        
The Role of the State Government.  The State Secretariat of Education has a critical role to play 
in supporting the weaker municipal governments. Although it is not their legal responsibility, it 
is up to the State governments to take the lead in the process of providing technical assistance to 
these municipalities, in creating an information culture, and in supporting their implementation 
of a school improvement strategy. Clearly larger cities have the greatest capacity to manage their 
own systems, and States progressively transfer operational responsibility and even entire primary 
education systems to these local governments.   Such action would lead to a gradual reduction on 
the burden borne by State Secretariats of Education. Correspondingly, State governments 
interested in improving education outcomes for all of its citizenry should increase their efforts in 
providing assistance to those jurisdictions where education indicators are pulling down the 
statistics for the entire State. Fundescola III will work with the State's Fundescola Coordinating 
Group in the Secretariat of Education to build their capacity and help provide incentives for them 
to work as partners with the poorest municipalities attempting to transform themselves into 
Fundescola districts. 
 
Page  9
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
Following the lessons learned from the design and implementation process of Fundescola I 
(FY1998, Loan 4311-BR) and Fundescola II (FY2000, Loan 4487), the Northeast Basic 
Education Project (NEBE II, FY 1993, Loan 3604-BR and NEBE III, FY1994, Loan 3663-BR), 
and prior Bank experience in Brazil, Fundescola III will incorporate those project aspects that 
were successful in achieving their intended objectives, avoiding those aspects that, upon 
evaluation, were deemed incomplete or unattainable. First, the design of Fundescola III benefits 
from the implementation experience of its sister projects, Fundescola I and II. Lessons include 
the need to give higher priority to social mobilization and communication efforts in promoting 
the school-based development approach; the benefits to funding a second and third round of 
school improvement projects, providing an incentive for schools to stay focused on the issue of 
quality improvement and practice the planning skills they have learned; and providing incentives 
for municipalities to expand the school-based development approach to additional schools. 
Importantly, research was carried out by The National Institute for Education Research (INEP) 
on the impact of key interventions from Fundescola I and II have influenced the design of 
Fundescola III (see Avaliação de Desempenho: Fatores Associados, mimeo., July 2001, 59 pps). 
In 1999, a research sample was selected, which was composed of 158 schools located in six 
States distributed across all three of Fundescola's regions (North, Northeast, and Center West), 
including 55 schools with the PDE intervention and the remainder without PDEs. INEP 
contracted consultants to survey these schools and to collect detailed background information on 
the students and their families, their teachers, the principals, and characteristics of the schools 
themselves. Achievement tests in Portuguese and Mathematics, equated with the SAEB, were 
also developed by INEP and administered by consultants to all of the fourth grade students in the 
sample schools. Students have now take these test three times: in April of 1999 (close to the 
March start of the school year) in November 1999 (at the end of the school year), and in 
November 2000. As of the July, 2001 study, data from the November 2000 test administration 
had not been included in the database INEP researchers analyzed, consequently the results 
examine the value added during the 1999 school year. Among the numerous variables included 
in the research study are teacher education attainment level, teacher performance on (the same) 
achievement tests, student previously repeated, teacher self-report on curriculum coverage, 
mother's education level, indicators of student's socio-economic status, and a binary indicator of 
school participation in the PDE intervention. Despite the extremely short timeframe (less than 
one year), most of the regression models estimated find a positive and significant difference for 
students enrolled in schools implementing Fundescola's PDE intervention, with the coefficient 
on PDE stronger when using the November 1999 Portuguese test as the dependent variable rather 
than the 1999 mathematics test. Other results are consistent with standard expectations, including 
a
correlation between achievement and such variables as student SES, student attendance and 
promotion rates, mother's education, teacher experience, teacher completing the curriculum. In 
addition, performance is higher for boys in mathematics and girls in Portuguese. The research 
shows that students enrolled schools implementing PDEs also perform better with respect to 
other dependent variables such as student's report card scores and student promotion rate (both 
based on teacher's own assessment of student achievement rather than the standardized tests). It 
is important to point out that this research focused on only one of Fundescola's interventions. 
Other interventions, such as the Minimal Operational School Standards interventions, Escola 
Ativa, Proformação, and Gestar, are being examined separately. Nonetheless, given that the PDE 
is considered the core intervention of Fundescola, the results form the study referred to above 
Page  10
give strong support to the Fundescola School Improvement Strategy. Second, international 
project experience has also influenced the formation of the Fundescola program, including (a) 
the lessons from Chile, Uruguay, and other Latin American countries in promoting school 
improvement projects for the procurement of context-appropriate materials and increasing 
stakeholder input; and (b) the Colombian Escuela Nueva program, which achieved effective 
results in the modular use of textbooks, capacity-building of teachers, student-centered learning, 
evaluation of student attainment, and community participation for multi-grade schools, and 
finally, the valuable and well documented experience of New American Schools in the United 
States, which promotes whole-school reform through the development of structured but 
adaptable packages of "school improvement designs" that include materials, strategies, 
assessment, and linked training activities, along with ongoing technical support to schools and 
education districts. Third, the current nationwide evaluation process of textbooks (PNLD) was 
adopted and developed by MEC based on the previous experience of the Northeast Basic 
Education Projects, which introduced innovative procurement procedures. The purchase of 
textbooks is now made through the teachers' choice based on a guide containing titles 
recommended by education specialists and teachers. This guide classifies the books according to 
content and pedagogical quality, promoting improvement by the publishers. Textbook 
distribution for the entire country has improved significantly since the first delivery made under 
the Northeast Basic Education projects. The books now arrive at the start of the school year, their 
arrival in the school is being monitored through a special operation introduced by MEC, and a 
new delivery system is being implemented by the post office. The selection and delivery of basic 
school supplies to schools under the Fundescola projects is modeled after this successful 
example of local selection combined with central procurement and oversight. Finally, to promote 
effective personnel management in basic education, the project derives lessons from the positive 
experience of the Northeast Basic Education Project in the training and capacity-building of 
municipal and state secretaries in the Northeast (Municipal Education Secretaries Support 
Program [Prasem]). The project coordination unit will continue to build upon the success of the 
Northeast Basic Education Project, especially in terms of effective management techniques and 
built-in accountability requirements. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [ 
x] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[
]
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[
]
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
x] [ 
] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[
]
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[
]
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[
]
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[
]
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[
]
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[
]
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  11
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
A
Call to Action: Combating School Failure in the Northeast of Brazil. World Bank, Brazil Ministry of 
Education, Unicef, December 19, 1997. (World Bank Sector Study Report No. 18358-BR). This report 
summarizes findings and recommendations from thirteen commissioned studies, not listed separately 
here.  
Avaliação e Desempenho: Fatores Associados: Resultados da 4a Série—1999. Relatório Preliminar. 
Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais--INEP, Brasília, 2001.  
Censo Escolar 1998: Sinopse Estatística da Educação Básica. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas 
Educacionais--INEP, Brasília, 1999.  
Censo Escolar 1999: Sinopse Estatística da Educação Básica. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas 
Educacionais--INEP, Brasília, 2000.  
Censo Escolar 2000: Sinopse Estatística da Educação Básica. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas 
Educacionais--INEP, Brasília, 2001.  
Projeto de Melhoria da Escola. Terceira Edição. FUNDESCOLA, MEC, Brasília, 2001.  
Sistema Nacional de Avaliação da Educação Básica, SAEB/95: Resultados Estaduais. Instituto Nacional 
de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais--INEP, Brasília, 1997.  
Sistema Nacional de Avaliação da Educação Básica, SAEB/97: Primeiros Resultados. Instituto Nacional 
de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais--INEP, Brasília, 1999.  
Sistemática de Financiamento do Ensino Fundamental. Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da 
Educação--FNDE, MEC, Brasília, 1997.  
Dinheiro na Escola: procedimentos operacionais. Ministério da Educação e do Desporto--MEC, Brasília, 
1997.  
Education for All: Evaluation of the Year 2000. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas 
Educacionais--INEP, Brasília, 2000.  
Geografia da Educação Brasileira (CD-ROM). Instituto 
Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais--INEP, 
Brasília, 2000. “The Financing of Education in Brazil,” 
Sergei Soares, World Bank, Washington, D.C., 1999.  
Escola Ativa: Capacitação de Professores. FUNDESCOLA/MEC, Brasília, 1999.  
Guia de Consulta, Programa de Apoio aos Secretários Municipais de Educação (PRASEM). Projeto 
Nordeste, Banco Mundial, UNICEF, Brasília 1997.  
Manual de Operacionalização: Proformação. FUNDESCOLA, SEED/MEC, Brasília, 2000.  
Manual de Operação e Implementação do Projeto (MOIP): FUNDESCOLA I. Volume I, Orientações 
Page  12
Gerais. FUNDESCOLA, MEC, Brasília, 1998.  
Manual de Operação e Implementação do Projeto (MOIP): FUNDESCOLA I. Volume II, Orientações aos 
Estados e Municípios. FUNDESCOLA, MEC, Brasília, 1998.  
Manual Para Adequação de Prédios Escolares, Terceira Edição. FUNDESCOLA, MEC, Brasília, 2001.  
Normas Para Financiamento de Projetos Educacionais no Âmbito do FUNDESCOLA. FUNDESCOLA, 
MEC/FNDE, Brasília, 1998, 1999, 2000.  
“O Plano de Desenvolvimento da Escola e a Gestão Escolar no Brasil: Situação Atual e Perspectivas.” 
José Amaral Sobrinho, FUNDESCOLA, MEC, Brasília, 2001.  
Plano de Carreira e Remuneração do Magistério Público. FUNDESCOLA, MEC, Brasília, 2000.  
Project Appraisal Document: FUNDESCOLA I. World Bank, Washington, D.C., 1998.  
Project Appraisal Document: FUNDESCOLA II. World Bank, Washington, D.C., 1999.  
IMPACT EVALUATION STUDIES 
 
Sistema Nacional de Avaliação da Educação Básica, SAEB/99: Resultados 99. Instituto Nacional de 
Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais--INEP, Brasília, 2001.  
Avaliação de Desempenho: Fatores Associados, July, 2001 59 pps. National Institute of 
Education Research (INEP). Impact Analysis of Fundescola's School Development 
Plan program. 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Alberto Rodriguez 
Title: Sr Education Specialist. 
Tel: 55 61 329-1000 
Fax: 55 61 329-1010 
Email: arodriguez@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
Page  13
