Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
qrt No. 7663-STP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
MULTISECTOR PkOJECT
MAY 15, 1989
Infrastructure Operations Division
Western Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by redpient only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank nuthorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 31, 1988)
Cu-rency Unit        -     Dobras (Db)
US$1.0     -      100 Dobra
US$0.010   -      1 Dobra
US$1.00    -      SDR 1.301
(as of March 24, 1989)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)              -      3.28  feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         -      0.62  miles (mi)
1 square meter (m2)      -      10.76 square mile (sq mi)
1 liter (1)              -      61.02 cubic inches (cu in)
1 cubic meter (m3)       -      35.31 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter per capita
per day (lcd)          -      0.264 US gallons per capita
per day (gpd)
1 metric ton (m ton)    -       2,204.62 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB       -    African Development Bank
DC        -    Direct Contracting
EA        -    Executive Administrator
EEC       -    European Economic Community - Res. Mission
EI        -    Economic Improvements Subprojects
EMAE      -    Water and Energy Company of STP
GTZ       -    Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische
Zusarmnenarbeit
iDA       -    International Development Association
ILS       -    International and Local Shopping
IRR       -    Internal (Economic) Rate of Return
LCB       -    Local Competitive Bidding
LIB       -    Limited International Bidding
LS        -    Local Shopping
MEF        -    Ministry of Economy and Finance
MOE        -    Ministry of Education ar' Culture
MOH        -    Ministry of Health, Labor and Social
Security
MOW        -    Ministry of Public Works and Environment
NGO       -    Non-Governmental Organization
PMC       -    Project Management Consultant
PPF        -    Project Preparation Facility
SA        -    Social Assistance Subprojects
SAC       -    Special Account
SAP       -    Structural Adjustment Program
SI        -    Social Infras. Improvements Subprojects
SIF       -    Social and Infrastructure Fund
SOE       -    Statement of Expenditure
STP       -    Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe
UNDP       -    United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



7o3 mSaL mme oiT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
MULTISECTOR PROJECT - SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE FUND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT  SUMMARY  ............              ..      ................   iv
I.   PROJECT  BACKGROUND  ................................                         1
II.   INTRODUCTION  ......................................                          1
A.  Structural Adjustment  ..........................                        1
B.  Social  Impact  of Reforms  .......................                      2
C.  Public  Sector Overview  .........................                       2
D.  Public  Enterprise  Overview  .....................                      4
E.  Private  sector Overview  ........................                       5
F.  Financial  Sector Overview  ......................                       5
G.  External Assitance  .............................                        5
H.  Rationale  for IDA  involvement  ..................                      6
III.  THE PROJECT  .......................................                          6
A, Project  Objectives  ............................                        6
B.  Project  Description  ...........................                       7
C.  Institutional  Form  and Organization of  SIF    ....                   8
D.  Target  Beneficiaries  ..........................                       9
E.  Subproject  Classifications  ......                 ..............    10
F.  Community  Relations  ar.d Promotional  Campaign  ..    12
G. Fund Raising . ..................................  12
H. Manpower  and Training  .......                ..................    13
I. Monitoring of Efectiveness  and Results  .... ....    14
J.  Long-Term  Institutional  Sustainability  .... ....    15
K. Project Costs and Financing ...................    16
IV.  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ............               ...............    17
A.  Institutional Arrangements  .......                 .............    17
B.  Subproject Appraisal  ...........               ...............    18
C.  Subproject  Implementation  and Supervision                   .....    18
D   Subproject Appraisal  Criteria  .....                 ............    19
E   Onlending Terms and Cost Recovery .............    20
F. Action Plan  ...................................    22
G.  Procurement  ...................................    22
H.  Disbursment  ...................................    25
I. Accounting  and Auditing  ........                ...............    26
J.  Start Up Phase  . ...............................    26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



- ix -
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION .28
A. Benefits .28
B. Risks and Safeguards  ...2... 9. 29
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMIENDATION    .     .30
A. Agreements .30
B. Conditions of Credit Effectiveness .... ........  31
C. Conditions of Disbursement ......    ..............  31
D. Recommendation ...................  32
The project as well as this report were prepared on the basis of an
appraisal mission in January 1989 by Messrs. L. Pereira (Senior Financial
Analyst), F. Krantz (Senior Architect & Urban Planner), J. Upadhyay (Senior
Project Officer) and R. Jarquin (Consultant). The mission was assisted and
advised by Messrs. E. Schluger (Consultant), S. Kowalski (Consultant) and
Mmes. Anita Artaza and C. Machado (Operations Assistants). Secretarial
work was done by Mmes. H. Kofi and M. Boussaoud.



- iii. -
ANNEXES
1.   Urban Development and Housing - Issues and Recommendations
2.   Country Environmental Issues Papers Sao Tome and Principe
3.   Non-Governmental Organizations (GOO) In Sao Tme and Principe
4.   Presidential Decree (Decreto-Lei No.45188
5.   Description of Organizational Functions
6.   Action Plan of February 15, 1989
7.   Guidelines for SIF Training Programs
8.   Project Management Consultant - Terms of Reference
9.   Suggested Outline of Bylaws for Consideration by SIF Board of
Administrators - Regulations Pursuant to the Act
10. Procurement Arrangements
11. Disbursement Schedule
12. Flow of Funds Diagram
13. Guidelines for the Evaluation of Subprojects
14. Model for Preparation of Evaluation Report
15. The Education Sector Subprojects
16. The Health Sector Subprojects
17. Water Supply Sector Rehabilitation Subproject
18. Municipal Market Subproject
19. Documents Available in the Project File
AF4IN
April 17 1989



- iv -
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
MULTI-SECTOR PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe
(STP)
Beneficiaries:            Sponsoring agencies comprising central and local
government agencies, civic groups, cooperatives,
religious groups and private entrepreneurs.
Implementing Agency:      Social and Infrastructure Fund (SIF) - Fundo
Social e de Infrast uturas (FSI)
Credit Amount:            SDR 3.9 million .:U0$5 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard, with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:          The proceeds of the Credit would be passed on as
grant to SIF. In turn SIF would finance sub-
projects in Classifications I (Social Assistance
Subprojects (SA) and II (Social Infrastructure
Improvement (SI) on a grant basis; and
subprojects in Classification III (Economic
Improvement (EI) through loans. Loans for
capital improvements will be for a maximum
maturity period of 15 years including up to
5 years of grace and would bear an interest rate
set at 2Z above the long term inflation rate.
Loans for working capital would normally have
shorter maturities and interest rates would be
linked to the commercial rates charged by the
Banco Nacional de Sao Tome e Principe.
Project Description:      The Project would be implemented through the
recently established Social and Iilfrastructure
Fund (SIF) over a period of approximately six
years. SIF is an autonomous institution created
by Presidential Decree No. '5/88. It is
supervised by a Board of Administrators under the
chairmanship of the Prime Minister. SIF would
seek to mitigate the social and economic impact
of economic decline and structural adjustment by
generating social programs and income and
employment opportunities for low income
households. SIF would finance subprojects in the
indicated classifications. Typical subproject
sectors in the start-up phase would be health,
education, water supply, and markets. Other
sectors to be supported in subsequent phases
would be self-help housing, urban improvements,
and private enterprise. Subprojects would also



address the privatization of certain functions
currently provided by Government. SIF would
vigorously encourage private initiative by
providing investment capital and f.cilitating the
entry conditions for those capable of starting a
business or converting an unprofitable public
sector operation into a profitable private one,
though Economic Itprovement subprojects would
most .y come on stream after SIF's appraisal
capahilities have been strengthened under the
proposed Project. All sponsoring agencies,
including individual borrowers in the private
sector would receive technical assistance from
SIP, starting with the preparation of subproject
proposals. Subprojects would be required to meet
SIF's appraisal criteria and subsequently, its
supervision procedures during implementation.
SIF's operations would be monitored through
action plans, periodic reports and qualitative
surveys in order to ensure that its resources are
reaching target beneficiaries and achieving the
desired socio-economic impact. Onlending would
be controlled through terms and conditions
supporting the basic objectives of SIF, including
a limit of US$150,000 on loans to the private
sector.
Project Benefits and       Specific interventions in the most urgert health
Risks:                     care and education areas and better living
standards for the neediest among the population
would be combined with growth stimulation of the
private sector to increase the availability of
goods and services. Employment opportunities for
underemployed or unemployed beneficiaries would
increase. Strengthened through on-the-job
training, SIF staff would be in a better position
to utilize available resources efficiently and
coordinate the activities of the donor community
in STP. The Project's major risks relate to
SIF's untestPe ability to maintain an adequate
standard of s project appraisal and management
of the implemt -ation process; suboptimal use of
funds may also .esult from overriding concerns to
provide relief to target beneficiaries. The
selection of subprojects among the three
identified classifications could be out of
balance in deference to special interests. To
offset these risks, experienced, resident
consultants would be retained at an early stage
to work alongside local staff, while providing
on-the-job training. Furthermore, the continuous
dialogue between IDA and SIF would be maintained,
in order to detect problems early. Progress
would also be monitored against agreed action
plans and periodic reports. The Government has
already assured IDA that SIF's institutional
autonomy would be respected at all times.



- vi -
Economic Rate of Return: Subprojects in Category II (Social Infrastructure)
and Category III (Economic Improvements) couting
more than US00,000 would have to demonstrate an
economic rate of return of at least 122. In
connection with the start-up phase of the
Project, two subprojects have already been
appraised.  The Water Supply subproject has an
economic rate of return of about 142 and the
Municipal Market subproject has an economic rate
of return of about 232.
Estimated Project Costs: a/                                      Percentage of
Local     Foreign   Total        Total Cost
- ------(US$ '000)---
Start-up Phase Subprojects
Water Supply         124.9       505.3    630.3            8Z
Market               120.5       146.1    266.6            32
Textbooks             89.5       694.0    783.5           lO1
Education Planning   39.1        168.5    207.6            3Z
Endemic Disease      119.9       407.6    527.5            72
Health Planning       44.9       125.1    170.0            2Z
Subtotal                   538.9    2,046.7  2,585.5           32Z
Second Phase Subprojects        810.0       975.4  1,785.4           222
Third Phase Subprojects         820.0    1,260.0  2,080.0            26Z
Institutional Support           248.2       372.3    620.;            8Z
Technical Assistance            139.3       789.3    928.6           122
Total Project Cost            2,556.4    5,443.7  8,000.0          1OOZ
;                                S~~~~~~~~==-====    =s5=s==   ====5=   ==
Financing Plan a/
IDA                       1,600      3,400   5,000
Government                1,000               1,000
Cofinancing                          2,000   2,000
Total                     2,600      5,400   8,000
Estimated IDA Disbursements
. A Fiscal Year:           FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96
Annual                0.8    0.7    1.0    1.1    0.7    0.6    0.1
Cumulative            0.8    1.5    2.5    3.6    4.3    4.9    5.0
a/  Columns may not add due to rounding



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
MULTISECTOR PROJECT
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE FUND
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      The Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe (STP) consists
of two small islands in the Gulf of Guinea, located 250 km west of Gabon.
The country occupies an area of 1,000 square kilometers and has a
popuilation of 114,000 (1987). The island of Sao Tome is by far the largest
land area at 858 square kilometers. Thirty-two percent of the population
live in the capital of Sao Tome and other urban areas.
1.02      After 500 years of colonial administration, the country gained
independence in 1975. Agriculture, almost entirely based on cocoa,
remained the mainstay of its economy. Over the past few years, the country
has experienced negative export growth, increasing demand for foreign
exchange to stimulate agriculture and a widening budget deficit. Facing a
rapidly deteriorating financial situation, the Government moved to readjust
its economy in early 1987. A Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) with IDA
assistance was approved in June 1987. The estimated GNP per capita for
1988 is US$280, as compared to US$310 in 1986 and US$410 in 1975.
II. INTRODUCTION
A.        Structural Adjustment
2.01      STP is facing a major task in rebuilding its economy, social
programs and physical infrastructure which have been deteriorating for some
time. The combination of failing to maintain the cocoa states (rocas) and
taking unfortunate economic decisions in the past, has resulted in a
substantial decline in export earnings. This has in turn, precipitated an
economic and financial crisis. In reacting to this crisis, the Government
has adopted a comprehensive SAP the objectives of which include the
liberalization of domestic production and trade. Reforms resulting from
structural adjustment would result in higher consumer prices, due to the
devaluation of the national currency, the dobra (Db) and retrenchment in
the public sector. In addition, the Government has announced its
commitment to improve its fiscal performance, supported by appropriate
monetary policy measures and to reorient the public investment program
towards investments with high economic returns.
2.02      Notwithstanding setbacks associated with changes in the
Government's economic team in early 1988 and declining world market prices
for cocoa, measures introduced in mid-1988 have begun to put the program
back on track.



-2-
2.03      Since the start of the SAP in mid-1987, the Government has
devalued the dobra three times (increasing the foreign currency price by
2502), to maintain the profitability of cocoa exports, and to stabilize the
demand for foreign exchange. The gap between the official and parallel
exchange rates have been reduced so far from some 1202 to about 501 and the
emerging private sector is now permitted to import and export, except for
basic food commotlities.
2.04      Over the medium term, the country will continue to face a very
difficult economic and financial situation. Sustained implementation of a
broad range of policies is required to stabilize the economy and create the
conditions for self-sustained growth.
B.        Social Impact of Reforms
2.05      Because of the macro economic imbalances described above and
despite the Government's commitment to a program of structural adjustment,
the economic recovery program is not likely to benefit some of the most
vulnerable groups in the near term. These include the urban and rural
poor, unemployed or underemployed workers who were already suffering
economic hardship in the failing economy prior to the SAP, as weil as small
farmers in rural areas with low productivity. Furthermore, since its
independence in 1975, the prolonged deterioration of STP's basic physical
infrastructure has reduced these vulnerable groups' access to adequate and
safe drinking water, health care, affordable housing and other
necessities. Access to educatio-. has also decreased, given resource
constraints to rehabilita .e and expand school facilitics and provide school
supplies and teaching materials.
C.        Public Sector Overview
2.06 (a) Health: STP enjoys a higher status of health than most of Sub-
Saharan Africa. In 1988, STP's crude birth and death rates were
39.0 and 9.6 per thousand compared to 47 and 18 average for the
region; life expectancy at birth was 62 years compared to
48 years for the region. The macro-economic decline since the
early 1980s has been causing serious deterioration of the health
status. The Government tas been unable to finance programs to
check the resurgence of malaria epidemic, which affects two-
thirds of the population, or the prevalence of intestinal
infections and paradites that affect almost all children. There
is a chronic shortage of essential drugs and mnedical supplies
and the health infrastructure is fast deteriorating. A major
effect of the decline in health services is evident in the
growth of infant mortality from 62 per 1,000 in 1982 to 74 in
1987. Malnutrition, while less severe than most neighboring
countries, particularly affects children at weaning stage (6 to
24 months) and the population of remote regions (Caue District).
A large number of external donors are now assisting STP with
various programs, including those for maternal and child health
and for rehab_litation and operation of the district health care
facilities. However, STP lacks the capacity for effective donor



-  3  -
coordination and identification and preparation of priority
projects based on overall sectoral objectives and priorities.
(b.) Education: STP has made good progress in the expansion of
education since its independence in 1975. It has attained near
universal enrollment (971) in primary education and over two-
thirds of the age group attend basic secondary schools. Adult
literacy vas 57.4Z in 1981 and it is now estimated at 662. But
the country's educational system is now overstrained mainly due
to macro-economic problems, such as the lack of adequate
budgets. The classrooms are grossly inadequate--many schools
run three short shifts--and most facilities are dilapidated;
textbooks are virtually non-existent, educational materials and
supplies are very limited. Several external donors provide blts
and pieces of assistance, including those for school building
rehabilitation and for teachers' training, but there is no
capacity for effective coordination or preparation of priority
projects based on the overall sectoral objective and priority.
Government's capacity to plan and manage the educational program
or to administer the school system is very limited.
(c) Urban: The capital and a few other urbanized £reas have
experienced more rapid population increases in recent years due
to the migration of workers from rural areas. rhe population
density in the capital area is currently 1,962 inhabitants per
square kilometer. As a result, the deteriorating and
overstrained urban infrastructure has become more inadequate to
provide essential services such as drinking water, sanitation,
storm drainage, solid waste disposal and roads. Institutional
weaknesses are evident in all areas and there is virtually no
resource mobilization to fund solutions to urban infrastructure
problems (Annex 1).
(d) Housing: Legislation dating back to colonial days has
prescribed minimum standards for housing develcpments. However,
these minimum standards require access to infrastructure and
suitable buiiding materials, which have been available solely in
the capital area and in a few other urbanized areas. This has
led to a heavy concentration of low-cost housing developments in
urban areas. Other problems affecting housing development
currently are: severe shortages of domestic and imported
building materials, high construction costs and growing
inadequacies in infrastructure. More recently, the GovernmLent
has attempted to boost housing development through leasehold
allocations of plots averaging 400 square meters to eligible
households. In a few instances, housing cooperatives are being
formed to build self-help housing (Annex 1).
(e)  Environment:  The country's most serious environmental issues
relate to the use of chemical pesticides in agriculture and the
need to protect its natural resources from depletion. However,
the deterioration of infrastructure services especially with
regard to storm drainage and solid waste disposal has begun to



affect other environmental areas and the potential use of the
islands' great natural beauty for tourism (Annex 2).
D.        Public EnterDrise Overview
2.07 (a) Rocas: Almost half of the country's labor force works on
plantations (rocas). On rocas, extensive land areas are
cultivated under an organizational setup vhich has retained many
managerial features used in colonial times. Witnin its
boundaries, a roca is not only the job site of its workers but
provide. them with social services like schools, hospitals,
housing and basic infrastructure.  Since colonial times, food
availability on rocas haa depcnded very heavily on imports.  All
allocations to workers are handled by roca managers.  The rocas'
coverage of social responsibilities which are normally the
purview of government resulted in very weak national
institutional structures at independence.
Nearly all land was nationalized at independence and the rocas
became public enterprises. In 1976, the Ministry of Agriculture
and Land Reform was created and legislation benefitting
plantation workers was passed, i.e., the eight-hour workday, the
right to cultivate produce for private consumption and
substantially higher salaries.
Deficiencies in the administration of the rocas as public
enterprises were present from the beginning but did not become
an issue as long as export revenues were able to cover
production expenses. Production fell from 10,000 tons a year at
independence to 4,000 tons by 1985. This crisis arose mainly
from a lack of experienced managers among the government rank
and file. The production crisis was further exacerbated by the
worldwide slump in cocoa prices.
Since mid-1987, the rehabilitation of the major cocoa estates
has been a key element of structural adjustment. The operation
of two rocas by foreign enterprises is currently under
consideration.
(b) Water and Energy Company of STP - Empresa de Agua e
Electricidade (EMAE): Water supply service levels are low and
of poor quality. Only about 152 of the country's population are
served by house or patio connections and another 152 have access
to standposts. In the capital, about 40Z have house or patio
connections and the rest are served by standposts which are
increasingly out of service. Water sources are unprotected and
without treatment. Many communicable and water borne diseases
affecting the population are attributed to these problems in the
water supply. EMAE operates the water system as well as the
electricity supply. Metering is limited to about 382 of
connections. Moreover, the accounting system does not separate
collections for water from collections for electricity. EMAE's
operational deficit was Dobras 11 million in 1987 and is



- 5 -
expected to be even higher in 1989. However, tariff increases
in February 1989 would eventually tend to reduce this deficit to
the breakeven level.
(c) Cooperatives: Official recognition of the important role that
the cooperative movement has in the development of the country
came with the promulgation, in 1985, of the law that regulates
the establishment and functioning of cooperatives. To ensure
that cooperatives materialize through this initiative, access to
financial resources, guidance and technical assistance would be
essential to groups of people sharing a common interest. The
existing groups are by and large, not yet formally organized.
E.        Private Sector Overview
2.08      There are at present, very few private enterprises in STP and
even traditional forms of trade in public markets and through single-man
contractors are far more limited than in other African countries. Food
crops grown by small farmers on newly allocated plots of land are a fairly
recent change. Only recently have the emerging private commercial
enterprises been permitted to engage in import and export trade. The
country's limited physical infrastructure is barely able to support this
emerging sector. Once the private sector has begun to expand, it will also
take time for consumers to adjust to a market mechanism where, for the
first time, most prices are no longer controlled by Government.
Nonetheless, there is strong interest among potential entrepreneurs,
cooperatives and the Government in expanding the private sector and
privatizing services currently provided by Government.
F.        Financial Sector Overview
2.09      There are no financial institutions in STP besides the National
Bank of Sao Tome and Principe (Banco Nacional de Sao Tome e Principe) and a
small savings and loan institution (Caixa Popular). Both institutions are
in need of extensive technical assistance and training, before they can be
expected to play an effective role in the financial sector. It can be
presumed, that with increasing privatization, private sector development,
trade liberalization and other economic reforms, the country's financial
sector will in due time, undergo its own parallel development.
G.        External Assistance
2.10      The investment program of the STP Government is highly dependent
on concessional assistance from donors who are able to provide additional
resources for capital investment and rehabilitation of existing plant,
equipment and infrastructure.  During the period 1975-1979, external
sources financed almost 50Z of the country's development expenditures, and
by 1987 foreign fur.ds were financing 75Z of same. A sign Ificant portion of
the external financial support has come in the form of grants. In
addition, the country has been able to borrow on very favorable terms.
A major problem regarding external financial support has been the
Government's lack of capacity to coordinate this effort effectively.



2.11      Looking into the future for a solution to STP's debt problem,
along with the reformulation of its investment program and economic
reforms, further external borrowing on concessional terms will be a key
factor. On this matter, the Government has recognized the importance of a
cautious approach in the use of foreign financing and has decided not to
accept loans with a grant element of less than 50. The international
donor coumunity is expected to react positively to this mobilization of
resources.
2.12      With regard to assistance from non-governmental organizations
(NGO), it was not until 1977, two yea.s after independence, that the first
contact between STP and foreign NGOs took place. In that year, the Council
of Churches and the International Red Cross started a program of assistance
consisting mainly of donations of food and medical supplies. Presently, at
least five international NGOs are implementing projects and more are in the
process of starting operations in the country (Annex 3).
2.13      An evaluation of NGO projects shows varying degrees of success,
but overall, results are positive. There is room for significant
improvement in the coordination of NGO activities in the country. As the
number of NGOs offering assistance has increased, more and more operations
at various locations have been initiated. A coordinating unit is now
needed to monitor all ongoing activities, ensure pursuit of an overall
strategy and promote interagency coordination. Presently, there is a small
unit, within the Ministry of Cooperation that serves as a contact between
the Government and the NGOs.
H.        Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.14      In this small country, IDA's involvement is critical at this
juncture to help the country cope with economic decline, by protecting the
more vulnerable groups while the structural adjustment program takes
effect. IDA's involvement would help ensure that appropriate mechanisms
are in place for short-term recovery from the current crisis and long-term
economic development. Furthermore, IDA's lead in this multi-sector project
wouid further encourage involvement by the international donor community
and provide much needed planning and coordination of donor activities.
III. THE PROJECT
A.        Project Objectives
3.01      The proposed Project would seek to mitigate the social and
economic impact of economic decline and structural adjustment. It would
seek to generate income and employment opportunities for low income,
underemployed and unemployed urban and rural households to the maximum
extent through education: including the supply, storage and distribution of
text books; health: including provision of a facility to help support the
immediate phase of an Integrated Malaria Control Program; water supply
rehabilitation in the capital city of Sao Tome and construction of a
municipal market. Beneficiaries would include redeployed civil servants.



-7-
The proposed Project would also support the development of the country's
emerging private sector.
B.        Project Description
3.02      In order to carry out these objectives, a flexible and simple
organization is proposed as a means for rapid and effective implementation.
Under the proposed Project, a Social and Infrastructure Fund (SIF) has been
established. Although a flexible approach would be taken by SIF in
promoting its services, subprojects would be expected to address, by and
lar6e: (i) social needs compatible with national development;
(ii) deficiencies in infrastructure; (iii) privatization ol certain
functions currently provided by government; and (iv) access to capital for
the emerging small-scale private enterprise. All subprojects would be
appraised relative to criteria emphasizing high priority within the context
of the structural adjustment program and high rates of social and/or
economic returns. Income, employment opportunities and basic social
services would be given prominence. Typical subproject sectors in the
start-up phase would be health, education, water supply, and markets.
Other sectors to be supported in subsequent phases would include self-help
housing, urban improvements, and private enterpri.se, though economic
improvement sub-projects would mostly come on siream after SIF's appraisal
capabilities are strengthened. In pursuing this goal, SIF would promote
its services to established or potential sponsors, such as cooperatives,
civic groups, religious groups, government (central and local), private
entrepreneurs, etc.
3.03      The proposed Project would help provide the necessary financing
for the SIF I', support subprojects in the start-up phase (para. 4.34) and
assure funding of subsequent phases. The proceeds of the proposed IDA
Credit of US$5 million equivalent will be lent to STP which would pass them
on as a grant to SIF. As a Condition of Credit Effectiveness the
Government and SIF will execute a Subsidiary Administration Agreement,
acceptable to IDA, for transferring the IDA Credit. SIF, in turn, will use
the proceeds in conjunction with funds from the National Treasury of STP
and from other international donors to finance subprojects on terms and
conditions discussed ir. paras. 4.10 to 4.16. In the normal sequence of
events, subprojects would be proposed by sponsors or sponsoring
agencies 2/, appraised by SIF and implemented either by the sponsoring
agencies or other qualified units. SIF would provide assistance in all
1/   The proposed Project would finance 1002 of SIF's operating expenses
in the first year. This percentage would be gradually reduced in
subsequent years (802, 502 in the 2nd and 3rd years respectively).
The balance would be covered by income derived from onlending to the
private sector and government funds.
2/   Within the context of this Staff Appraisal Report, 'sponsoring
agencies" is used as a collective designation covering all borrowers
in the public and private sectors who would enter into a Subproject
Agreement with SIF. These borrowers may include individual
entrepreneurs in the private sector.



phases of subproject development, including the pre-appraisal stage and
monitoring of the entire process.
3.04      Without SIF, several separate projects and programs would be
necessary to bring the same relief to the target beneficiaries, resulting
in dispersion of control over the use of resources and weaker performance
measurement. This dispersion would also cause overall objectives towards
mitigating the impact of structural adjustment to be less clearly defined
and costs to rise. Furthermore, relief to target beneficiaries would be
much more susceptible to delays.
C.        Institutional Form and Organization of SIF
3.05      SIF would be an autonomous institution created by Presidential
Decree (Annex 4). As further defined in the Decree, it would have full
administrative, technical and financial autonomy in the following areas:
(i) resource mobilization on behalf of STP from the international donor
community; (ii) promotion of its services among potential sponsoring
agencies in STP; (iii) appraisal of subprojects proposals; and
(iv) complete managerial responsibility for all SIF activities. Its range
of operations would center on the channeling of mobilized funds to target
beneficiaries through interventions in support of high priorities and
employment generation. In doing so, it would ensure the social and
economic maximization of these funds through investment criteria which
reflect prudence as much as recognition of local conditions.
3.06      Agreement was reached during negotiations regarding SIF's
internal organization. A detailed description of SIF's proposed
organization shown in Annex 5 can be summarized as follows:
(a) the Board of Administrators consisting of the chairman and four
members will establish its own bylaws, rules of procedure and
policies, oversee the operations of the Fund, appoint its
Executive Administrator (EA) and department heads and approve
the funding of subprojects;
(b) the Executive Administrator will implement the policies
established by the Board and manage all Fund operations; and
(c)  four departments will carry out the work of the Fund.  Each
will be managed by a professionally competent department head
who will report to the EA. The Promotion Department will be
responsible for the promotion of SIF to potential sponsoring
agencies and fund raising from the international community. The
Subproject Development Department will be responsible for the
technical and economic evaluation of subproject proposals. The
Administration Department will be responsible for all
administrative functions, including procurement and contracting.
The Finance and Accounting Department will be responsible for
all financial management functions.
3.07      Agreement was also reached between IDA and STP concerning the
immediate staffing needs of the Fund at all levels, in order to commence



operations at the earliest possible date. If qualified candidates are not
readily available in STP, fixed-term consultants would be retained to fill
vacant positions and local candidates needing on-the-job training would be
recruited into parallel positions to work alongside the experienced
consultants.
3.08      The Presidential Decree already establishes that the Prime
Minister of the Republic would be chairman of SIF's Board of
Administrators. The Prime Minister has appointed the Ministers of Economy
and Finance (Economia e Financas) and Public Works and Environment
(Equipamento Social e Ambiente) as well as two representatives of the
private sector as members of the Board.
3.09      The Executive Administrator of SIF has already been appointed
and assumed his responsibilities. Besides being SIF's main proponent and
advocate relative to Fund promotion, the EA is in the process of organizing
the four departments which constitute the Fund organization. The EA
expects to complete this task by allocating to each department the
financial and manpower resources necessary to mobilize activities rapidly;
in the interim, the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$500,000
equivalent granted by IDA in October 1988 constitutes SIF's current source
of funds. Ongoing activities are part of an overall Action Plan for the
progressive development of the Fund.  This Action Plan was drafted and
agreed to for the guidance of the Executive Administrator (Annex 6).
3.10      As the Fund's start-up phase (para. 4.34) gets underway, the
Executive Administrator's close assessment of organizational needs and
resources would enable him to present to the Board his recommendations for
a training program to upgrade staff skills. Concurrently, he would present
his recommendations for the recruitment of consultants on fixed term
contracts to fill gaps in Fund capabilities and to provide on-the-job
training. As a step preceding the EA's close assessment of needs and
resources as well as the preparation of the corresponding training program,
guidelines were developed and agreed to, in order to accomplish this
objective efficiently (Annex 7).
D.        Target Beneficiaries
3.11      SIF would aim its services at several groups of beneficiaries.
The first group would include those who would fin,d employment directly
through the works or services created by subprojects; in some cases, these
employment opportunities may be of limited duration (e.g. in civil works
construction), while in other cases, the opportunities may be more
permanent (e.g. in the administration of health care programs). The second
group would include those who derive a benefit from the completed
subproject (e.g., the provision of textbooks in primary and secondary
schools or water supply rehabilitation). The third group of beneficiaries
would include those for whom the Fund represents a singular source of
financial and technical assistance. This would apply to beneficiaries who
wish to avail themselves of investment capital offe ed by SIF to encourage
private entrepreneurship (e.g. opening a bakery, shoe repair shop or a dry
cleaning plant).



_ 10 -
3.12      The information provided in Social Indicators of Development
1988 for the country supports the view that several distinct groups of
beneficiaries would be in need of the Fund's services and that therefore,
the proposed multi-sector approach is appropriate. The working-age group
of the population is growing, without a commensurate increase in employment
opportunities outside agriculture. Malaria has reached epidemic
proportions which are clearly reflected in health statistics. Education
requires substantial resources for progress. Sector reports further point
to worsening conditions in the areas of access to safe water, drainage,
solid waste management and availability of building materials.
E.        Subproiect Classifications
3 13      SIF would use a flexible approach in financing subprojects,
provided submitted proposals comply with the Fund's selection criteria.
Three major classifications of subprojects have been identified and at
least one subproject in each classification has been included in the start-
up phase, as further described in paras. 4.34 to 4.41. These three
classifications can be generally defined as follows:
Classification I: Social Assistance Subprojects (SA)
Subprojects related to nutrition, health care, and education,
including civil works to rehabilitate schools and clinics.
Classification II: Social Infrastructure Improvements
Subprojects (SI)
Subprojects related to the construction or rehabilitation of
water supply systems, sanitary and storm drainage, solid waste
management, urban roads, construction and repair of affordable
housing for low-income households.
Classification III: Economic Improvements Subprojects (EI)
Subprojects related to production activities including technical
assistance and financial support to local governments, for
example, in developing markets for local commerce, small
manufacturing cooperatives, private entrepreneurs and the
privatization of services currently provided by Government.
This classification would also be applicable to subprojects for
which counterpart financing has already been committed from
another source. Within limits established by the Fund, bridging
loans would also be considered under this classification, in
order to expedite the start of those subprojects which already
have financing commitments from other sources. As further
described in para. 3.11, subprojects in this classification
would stimulate the growth of the private sector.
3.14      The exact share to be financed under each classification cannot
be determined at this time, except that in the first year of operations,
subprojects in Classification III (Economic Improvement) would not exceed
an aggregate amount of US$300,000.   However, agreement was reached between



- 11 -
IDA and the Government, that SIF will present for IDA approval the FuAnd's
subproject targets, shown by classification, for the first year of
operations (para. 4.18). This will be in addition to the subprojects which
have aiready been identified and appraised for the start-up phase (para.
4.34). By November 30, 1990 and by November 30 of each subsequent year,
the Government, through SIF, will present for IDA's comments and approval,
a list of subproject targets for the upcoming year including a list of
proposed subprojects together with a suimary description of the financing
required and the sponsoring agencies. IDA's review would ensure a
reasonable balance among the three classifications and that investments in
subprojects under Classifications I and II are consistent with the total
investments agreed under the annual Public Expenditure Reviews (PER).
3.15      It is envisaged, that SIF would finance US$5 million worth of
multi-sector subprojects over the three-year period CY 1989-1992. This
three-year period would be the commitment period; the disbursement period
may add another three years, because subprojects approved in the third year
of SIF's operations may take as much as three years to implement. The
current estimate of employment generation expected from the six appraised
subprojects in the stdrt-up phase is 850 man-years. The number of
beneficiaries targeted to benefit from these subprojects is in the range of
8,000 to 10,000. Considering the volume and characteristics of potential
subprojects which are already in SIF's "pipeline", these estimated levels
of employment and benefit generation would be sustained or exceeded
throughout the three-year period CY 19R9-1992.
3.16      The six subprojects in the start-up phase have been appraised at
an aggregate value of US$2.6 million. While the commitment of funds to
these subprojects is expedited in the first quarter of the first year,
additional subprojects would be appraised and set up for rapid
implementation. The estimated total volume of commitments in the Fund's
first year of operations would be US$3.6 million.
3.17      The rate at which SIF can process commitments for subprojects is
expected to increase in the second year, as staff training progresses and
the operations of the Fund and its promotional activities become more
efficient. Second-year volume is expected to be US$1.69 million.
Allowances have been made in this estimate of the second-year subproject
volume for increased demand from sponsoring agencies seeking technical
services in preparing subprojects for appraisal. Some subprojects for
which these technical services would be provided, directly or through
arrangements made by SIF, are not likely to materialize until the third
year of operations.
3.18      The Fund would operate at f:ill capacity during the third year.
The estimated third-year volume would be US$2.08 million. Full capacity
means meeting subproject objectives and reaching operational standards of
efficiency commensurate with the Fund's raison d'Otre. Any efforts to
exceed this projected third-year capacity through funds solicited from
cofinanciers would be a function of SIF's ability to sus.ain its
operations.



- 12 -
F.        Community Relations and Promotional Campaign
3.19      Given the small size of the country and access to radio
broadcasts, the Presidential Decree establishing the Fund has already been
widely publicized and drawn attention throughout the country at all levels
of the community. However, since it is unlikely, that most target
beneficiaries would have a sufficiently clear understanding of what SIF can
provide for them and what it cannot, a promotional campaign would be very
important.
3.20      In the past, aid provided by the Government or international
donors has been more or less synonymous with handing out free goods and
services to those deemed to be in need of them. Because of this policy,
water supply systems have suffered from inadequate collections of revenue,
and capital improvements have been deferred until they could be financed
through donor funds. In a more recent case, plots of land were granted to
a few households for housing corstruction, but no plans were made to
collect even modest taxes or fees from these new leaseholders.
3.21      SIF would constitute a departure from this policy, very much in
line with ongoing economic reforms. In order to transform the SIF concept
into a unit for impreving the country's social and economic conditions,
the target beneficiaries would need to be made aware of its goals, methods
and procedures. This would require intensive community relations work by
the EA and his staff. Affinities among various target beneficiaries should
be identified and reinforced to form sponsoring agencies. Existing groups
sharing common interests should receive support in preparing proposals. In
all cases, the role of the Fund as an intermediary, i.e. as a source of
tecrinical and financial aid, rather than a purveyor of free goods and
services should be clarified, while the role of sponsoring agencies as
community-based implementers of their own subprojects should be emphasized.
Community relations work would also direct the attention of target
beneficiaries to determining what they want to accomplish through their
subproject and what additional resources they may need to sustain the newly
gained benefits.
3.22      The information campaign and the promotional activities of SIF
would be similarly extended to the emerging private sector. The
spontaneous and very positive reaction of the few existing private
enterprises and other aspiring entrepreneurs to the recent radio broadcast
of the Presidential Decree establishing SIF demonstrated the timeliness of
SIF's outreach to the private sector. As long as proposals to start new or
expand existing businesses meet SIF's subproject appraisal criteria, all
necessary services and assistance for the preparation of subprojects would
be offered to these private sector beneficiaries. SIF would vigorously
encourage private initiative by facilitating the entry conditions for those
capable of starting a business or converting an unprofitable public sector
operation into a profitable private one.
G.        Fund Raising
3.23      Considering the current shortcomings in coordinating the
activities of donor organizations, the Fund would be in an ideal position



- 13 -
to take on this responsibility by maintaining close liaison with
multinational and bilateral sources. To date, several donors and NGOs,
such as the African Development Foundation (USA), the Cooperative Housing
Foundation (USA), Shelter Afrique (AfDB), GTZ (Germany), Carefrance and the
EEC have expressed interest in participating in IDA's Multisector Project.
The Gulbenkian Foundation (Portugal) has already made a commitment to
participate. Cofinanced subprojects would fall under the same appraisal
criteria, rules and procedures as all other subprojects but separate
subproject accounts would be kept by SIF.
3.24      With assistance from IDA, SIF is currently entering into
negotiations with donors who have already indicated an interest in
cofinancing subprojects. However, donor funds are not expected to be
available in time to cofinance the subprojects in the start-up phase,
except for the Textbook Subproject (para. 4.36) assisted by the Gulbenkian
Foundation.
3.25     In order to coordinate donor activities in support of SIF's
objectives and focus public awareness on the Fund, agreement was reached
between the Government and IDA that no financial institution will be
established for providing credit for subprojects similar to Economic
Improvement Subprojects under SIF, without prior approval of IDA.
H.        Manpower and Training
3.26      In addition to the weaknesses found in the existing government
institutions of the country and the virtual absence of a private sector,
few Sao Tomeans residing in the country have experience in the managerial,
financial and technical fields covered by SIP operations. A number of Sao
Tomeans who are close to completing their studies at foreign universities
have been contacted with regard to joining SIF upon their return; although
these Sao Tomeans are genuinely interested, results are unlikely to
materialize in the near term.
3.27      To overcome this acute scarcity of appropriately trained
manpower in the start-up phase, a Project Management Consultant (PMC) will
be recruited to work for SIF. As a Condition of Credit Effectiveness, SIF
will ensure through expeditious handling of the recruitment, that the PMC
arrives in STP, joins the staff and assumes his duties in the shortest
possible time. The PMC recruitment will commence as soon as possible 3/,
on the basis of detailed Terms of Reference (Annex 8) and a fixed-term
contract. Candidates will be sought internationally in accordance with
3/   Due to extreme difficulties encountered in recruiting qualified
candidates for long-term assignments in STP and in light of
SIF's urgent need for the Project Management Consultant, a
short-term consultant has been recruited using PPF funds. He
has previously been under contract directly to IDA on projects
with similar technical assistance needs and has already started
work. This is an interim solution, while the recruitment for
the PMC proceeds on a high priority basis.



- 14 -
IDA Guidelines. The PMC would support the Executive Administrator in the
following main areas: (i) organization of the departments comprising the
Fund, including local recruitment, collaboration with NGOs and retention of
specialists from abroad; (ii) supervision of the subproject appraisal
process; (iii) compliance with monitoring and reporting requirements; and
(iv) on-the-job training of newly recruited staff. In addition to the PMC,
two specialist consultants would be recruited on an as-needed basis in
areas requiring specific expertise, such as accounting.
3.28      Every consultant recruited by SIF would be contractually
required to prcvide on-the-job training to less experienced local staff
working in parallel positions. The underlying principle would be to
maximize the residual value of work performed by outside consultants. The
performance of consultants would be evaluated to a large extent on their
ability and efforts in training local staff. The lion's share of training
would be provided on-the-job. other training may be provided in a
classroom setting in STP or abroad.
3.29      The submission of a comprehensive training program resulting
from an assessment of needs and resources during the start-up phase (see
para. 3.10) would also be carried out.
I.        Monitoring of Effectiveness and Results
3.30      The Board of Administrators would have primary responsibility
for monitoring the progressive development of SIF and for ensuring that
investments in subprojects conform to the objectives and criteria agreed to
by IDA and the Government. Most importantly, the Board would assure that
the Fund's available resources are reaching target beneficiaries and
achieving the desired socio-economic impact.
3.31      The Executive Administrator and his staff would prepare and
submit to the Board quarterly and annual reports on progress in all areas
of SIF operations. Progress would be measured vis-&-vis an agreed to
action plan for the period under review (para. 3.14). Formal reporting
would be in addition to the Executive Administrator's regular reports at
the bi-weekly Board meetings. Progress reports would indicate, inter al-'a,
basic data on the number of people actually employed through SIF-funded
subprojects, the estimated cost per job created, the results achieved
through new social programs and actions taken to provide for the
sustainability of new programs and physical improvements; where
appropriate, cost recovery would be included.
3.32      Agreement was reached with SIF that upon endorsement by the
Board, these progress reports will be forwarded to IDA within thirty days
of the end of each quarter.
3.33      In order to verify that SIF operations are reaching target
beneficiaries and are achieving the rapid socio-economic impact on which
the Fund was built, the Board would conduct periodic qualitative surveys
through an independent sou-ce, such as a local NGO or a consultant. These
surveys would be funded through the IDA Credit and made available to IDA,
along with the Board's plan for corrective action.



- 15 -
J.        Long-term Institutional Sustainability
3.34      It is anticipated that SIF's original raison d'etre would be
subject to change in the future because of significant improvements in the
country's economy. These improvements could affect in particular, access
to capital by the private sector through the emergence of commercial banks.
In recognition of this probable event, SIF would be given a finite life
span from the beginning. A time horizon of six years has been discussed
between IDA and the Government. However, given the number of variables
which would determine the useful life span of SIF, it is considered neither
possible nor meaningful to set a specific termination date at present.
3.35      General consideration has been given to the method by which any
surplus funds not committed for specific purposes or resulting from loan
repayments would be transferred to the successor financial intermediary, in
the event a thorough review of SIF's status vis-a-vis a significantly
improved economy leads to this decision. Depending on the aforementioned
variables, it is conceivable that this successor financial intermediary
would either be a strengthened government unit or a private enterprise in
the emerging financial sector. Should this event arise, SIF would, within
thirty days following the pertinent decision of its Board, issue a report
of an audit conducted by the Comptroller General of STP.
3.36      Furthermore, particular attention would be given to the transfer
of SIF staff to the successor financial intermediary. Not only would the
training received in SIF enhance individual qualifications but it would
just as much enhance the capabilities of the institution absorbing SIF
staff. Consideration would be given to multiplying this benefit to the
country as a whole by having transferred SIF staff act as trainers in the
successor institution.



- 16 -
K.  Project Costs and Financ.ng
Su.mry Proiect Cost Estimates 4/
(USS '000)
Percentagl. of
Local     Foreign   Total       Total Cost
Start-up Phase Subprojects
Water Supply         124.9       505.3    630.3        8Z
Market               120.5       146.1    266.6        3?
Textbooks             89.5       694.0    783.5       102
Education Planning   39.1        168.5    207.6        3?
Endemic Desease      119.9       407.6    527.5        7?
Health Planning       44.9       125.1    170.0        2Z
Subtotal                  538.9    2,046.7  2,585.5        j2Z
Second Phaoe Subprojects        810.0      975.4  1,785.4        222
Third Phase Subprojects         820.0    1,260.0  2,080.0        26Z
Institutional Support           248.2      372.3    620.5         8?
Technical Assistance            139.3      789.3    928.6        12?
Total Project Cost            2,556.4    5,443.7  8,000.0       1OOZ
3.37      With regard to the start-up phase, physical and price
contingencies are included in the costs of the proposed subprojects.
Detailed cost estimates for these subprojects are shown in Annexes 15
through 18.
3.38      The total estimated US$8 million cost of the Project would be
financed through a US$5 million IDA credit to the Government of STP on
standard IDA terms for 40 years with 10 years of grace. The Government
would contribute US$l million equivalent, or 13? of total Project costs.
This contribution would be in the form of waivers on import duties and
taxes relative to Classification I and II subprojects financed by SIF and
salaries paid to local staff emploved by the Fund. Cofinancing for
US$2 million is being sought but is unlikely to result in firm commitments
before Board presentation. However these funds are not required for the
start-up phase of the Project.
4/   Rounded tc the first decimal place.



- 17 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.         Institutional Arrangements
4.01      The Government of STP, through the office of the Prime Minister,
has enacted the Presidential Decree establishing SIP. The Decree was
published in the Government Gazette of December 1988 (Annex 4). 51
4.02      The Fund's Board of Administrators has already been appointed by
the Prime Minister but has not yet adopted bylaws and rules of procedure.
A suggested outline of the bylaws has been prepared for review by local
counsel (Annex 9). These bylaws would prwvide for compatibility between
the respective accounting systems of the Banco Nacional de Sao Tome e
Principe and SIF, among other things. Submission of the adopted bylaws for
IDA approval will be a Condition of Credit Effectiveness. The Executive
Administrator and three department heads have also been appointed. The
appointment of the fourth department head and junior staff will be
completed in accordance with the Action Plan of May 11, 1989 (Annex 6)
which was agreed to between IDA and the Government.
4.03      Responsibility for subproject identification, preparation and
implementation would remain with the sponsoring agency. However, all
sponsoring agencies whose subprojects have been included in the start-up
phase are expected to require substantial technical assistance. SIF would
either provide this technical assistance through in-house capabilities or
finance the necessary consulting services. Hence, in the start-up phase,
technical assistance would be provided free of charge in all subproject
classifications. In subsequent phases, Classification III (Economic
Improvements subprojects) would have to bear the cost of technical
assistance, unless the subproject loan is combined with a grant in which
these costs are covered (para. 4.13).
4.04      Regarding the subprojects in the start-up phase, the
implementation of the Water Supply subproject would be the responsibility
of the Empresa Nacional de Agua e Electricidade (EMAE); the Market Project
would be the responsibility of the Assembleia Popular Distrital de Agua
Grande; the Malaria Control and Textbook subprojects would be the
responsibility of the Ministries of Health and Education, respectively.
EMAE is currently also responsible for a project financed by AfDB which
focuses on the improvement of its internal organization. The Ministries of
Health and Education are currently implementing small projects with the
5/   During the appraisal mission, the newly appointed Executive
Administrator suggested clarifications and refinements in the wording
of the Decree. These changes would not alter the substance of the
original Decree but make it easier for the community to understand
its intent. These changes are currently under review by the
Government's legal counsel and the Decree will be revised after these
changes have been reviewed and approved by IDA.



- 18 -
assistance of NGOs, notably the Gulbenkian Foundation (Education) and
Carefrance (Health).
B.        Subproiect ADpraisal
4.05      SIF will carry out all subproject appraisals.  The scope of
economic appraisals carried out by SIF vill depend on the Subproject
Classification (para. 3.13). Only subprojects meeting the selection
criteria listed below in para. 4.10 would be eligible for financing. For
all subprojects, detailed information on benefits and, where applicable,
the cost per job created would be gathered. As a Condition of Credit
Effectiveness SIF will prepare an Operational Procedures Guide that will be
followed in appraising subprojects, including (i) the basic methodology to
be followed by SIF in the evaluation of subprojects; in establishing these
procedures, SIF would have at its disposal the methodology used by the
appraisal mission in appraising the subprojects in the start-up phase;
(ii) the countrv-specific parameters that will be used to evaluate
subprojects; (iii) the typical format to be used for appraisal reports; and
(iv) a profile of the qualifications of staff in charge of appraisal.
Guidelines for the evaluation of subprojects and the suggested format for
evaluation reports are shown in Annexes 13 and 14, respectively.
4.06      Agreement was reached between the Government and IDA tha.., as a
condition of disbursement, all sub-projects in connection with the use of
the first US$3.0 million of the IDA credit would be submitted to IDA for
review and approval prior to signing of relevant Subproject Agreements.
The subprojects in the start-up phase which have already been appraised by
IDA would not have to be resubmitted for IDA review. Thereafter, and
assuming satisfactory appraisals have been submitted previously, IDA would
perform only spot checks of appraised subprojects in Classifications I and
II whose total cost is less than US$100,000. Relative to subprojects in
Classification III, spot checks would be carried out where the total
project cost is less than US$50,000. As a condition of disbursement all
subprojects above these thresholds would continue to be reviewed and
approved by IDA, prior to signing of relevant Subproject Agreements.
C.        Subproject ImplementatiozL and Supervision
4.07      Agreement was reached between the Government and IDA on the
following supervision issues:
(a)  the sponsoring agencies will make all procurement decisions,
provided the agreed procurement procedures have been followed
(see para. 4.21);
(b)  construction projects carried out by private contractors will be
under the supervision of a competent civil engineer;
(c)  government units would be able to carry out construction and
other types of required supervision, provided the qualifications
of the supervising government personnel or consultant to be
hired are satisfactory to IDA; and



- 19 -
(d) self-help projects will be monitored periodically by an
independent third party with appropriate qualifications, who can
certify progress and results.
4.08      Once approved, each subproject would be entitled to a
mobilization advance equal to 101 of the subproject cost, upon signing of
the Subproject Agreement. SIP would advance this amount promptly to the
sponsoring agency to cover initial payments to contractors, NGOs,
supervising engineers, specialists, etc. Subsequent progress payments
would be made by SIP on the basis of a percentage of works completed, goods
procured or services provided. Progress payments would be released upon
receipt of written certification by the agreed supervising entity and the
sponsoring agency, that the contracted work, goods or services have been
performed satisfactorily up to the stated percentage. Ten percent of
progress payments would be retained until final completion of the works,
goods or services, as evidenced by the aforementioned documentation.
4.09      The submission of model agreements, acceptable to IDA, for
subprojects which comply with local law and custom, will be a Condition of
Credit Effectiveness. These Subproject Agreements between SIF and
sponsoring agencies will incorporate all terms and conditions to be
observed by the parties in a typical subproject under each of the three
classifications (para. 3.13).
D.        Subproject Appraisal Criteria
4.10      In order to establish eligibility for financing by SIF,
sponsoring agencies will be given advice on how to meet the appraisal
criteria for subprojects. Submitted subproject proposals will be
categorized into those for which a rate of return calculation is feasi)le
and those for which it is not. The Clas;ification I (Social Assistance
Subprojects) would not require a rate-of-return calculation but most other
subprojects costing over US$50,000 would have to demonstrate a rate of
return of at least 122. Agreement was reached with the Government and SIF
that except for this distinction regarding the rate of return calculation,
basic appraisal criteria for all subprojects shall include the following:
(a) the subproject shall meet social needs compatible with
national development;
(b) subproject work or services shall be expected to be
completed within three years;
(c) labor-intensive methods shall be used to the maximum extent
and capital-intensive methods shall be avoided;
(d) the subproject shall be technically feasible and
financially viable;
(e) appropriate consideration shall be given to the
technical and managerial capability of the sponsoring
agency;



- 20 -
(f) subproject proposals shall reflect the least cost
method of achieving the desired objective;
(g) existing capital assets shall be utilized to the
maximum extent; and
(h) subproject proposals shall address environmental concerns and
propose solutions.
4.11      These basic subproject appraisal criteria would be subject to
annual reviews by IDA and the Government with regard to actual effect and
appropriateness, as STF operations develop and expand.
E.        Onlending Terms and Cost Recovery
4.12      SIF would follow a multilevel system for onlending in which the
nature of the borrower, the loan and/or grant amount, the purpose of the
loan or grant, sustainability of the program or subproject through cost
recovery from the end user and changes in general economic conditions over
time would be taken into account. Particular attention viould be given by
SIF to ensuring close coordination between its lending policies and
operations and the country's Structural Adjustment Program.
4.13      Agreement in principle on the following guidelines for onlending
by SIF was agreed between the Government and IDA:
(a) subprojects in Classification I (Social Assistance
Subprojects) and Classification II (Social Infrastructure
Improvements Subprojects) would be financed on a grant
basis, without recourse to onlending 6/;
(b) subprojects in Classification III (Economic Improvements)
which are expected to produce income for the borrower would
be financed through loans. Financing would be available
for capital improvements and other fixed assets, as well as
working capital. Subprojects up to a total cost of
US$10,000 would be eligible for 10OZ financing by SIF.
Subprojects costing more than US$10,000 but less than
US$20,000 would be eligible for 95Z financing. Subprojects
costing mire than US$20,000 but less than US$50,000 would
6/   Subprojects sponsored by EMAE, the country's utility company
responsible for the supply of water and electricity, are included in
Category II (Physical Infrastructure Improvements) at this time, in
view of the company's existing institutional weaknesses and operating
budget deficit. As the company's situation improves, mainly through
the ongoing assistance of the African Development Bank, SIF's lending
policy with regard to subprojects in which EMAE is the sponsoring
agency would be reviewed. Moreover, cost recovery through improved
rate setting, billing and collection practices would be incorporated
into all appraisals of EMAE subprojects, whether financed by grants
or loans.



- 21 -
be eligible for 851 financing. In the range between
US$50,000 and US$100,000 of total costs, subprojects would
be eligible for 751 financing. The percentage of financing
for subprojects with a total cost above US$100,000 would be
limited by a ceiling of 601. Moreover, the maximum amount
which SIF would normally finance with regard to
Classification III subprojects would be US$150,000;
exceptions would require prior agreement between IDA and
SIF, following joint review of the subproject proposal.
4.14      The onlending interest rate applied by SIF to loans for
subprojects in Classification III (Economic Improvements) would be based on
careful consideration of current economic reforms and IDA onlending
policies. In the start-up phase and subject to intermittent evaluation of
changes in local conditions, SIF's interest rate on loans for working
capital will be equal to the rate of the Banco Nacional de Sao Tome e
Principe on commercial loans to the best customers, on the loan approval
date. Also limited to the start-up phase, loans for capital improvements
and other fixed assets will be charged fixed interest at 12! p.a. This
interest rate is based on forecasts of decreasing inflation, which is
currently expected to be stabilized at 10X by 1995. SIF will add 2C as a
service charge, hence setting its initial interest rate at 12Z p.a.
Agreement was reached between the Government and IDA that the onlending
interest rate will be reviewed by SIF and IDA every six months, beginning
on June 30, 1990 and maintained at 22 above the forecasted long-term rate
of inflation at the time of such reviews. SIF would also consider
capitalizing interest on loans. Grace periods would be granted up to a
maximum of five years, depending on the loan amount and specific
circumstances derived from the ability to pay off the enterprise - (cash
flow analysis). Maturities would range from five to fifteen years under
the same considerations.  As an illustrative example, a US$20,000 loan
would normally be considered for a grace period of two years and maturity
of five years.  Repayment terms will be strictly enforced by SIF.
4.15      Agreement was reached with IDA, that SIF's adopted onlending
policies would remain compatible with parallel initiatives to strengthen
the country's financial sector and that SIF would conduct periodic surveys
of financing alternatives available to domestic borrowers. All loan
agreements with borrowers would be expressed in dobras. At the time of the
loan approval, SIF would commit all foreign costs of the subproject in
dollars and all domestic costs in dobras. The actual loan amount would bf
the sum of the two components; the foreign component would be converted
into dobras at the prevailing rate of exchange on the day payments are made
to vendors.
4.16      Regarding cost recovery, there is at present, virtually no
tradition of cost recovery in STP for services provided by the government
to the public. Full cost recovery would be a long-term proposition in
light of current economic conditions in STP, but insisting on the
introduction of cost recovery in the public sector through sensible
provisions in subproject agreements with sponsoring agencies would serve
the dual objective of generating a modicum of operating funds to help
sustain new programs and improvements, as well as modifying attitudes



- 22 -
towards public services. Consequently, the model subproject agreements
referred to in par&. 4.09 would incorporate specific requirements for cost
recovery, customized to fit each appropriate subproject.
F.        Action Plan
4.17      Taking into account the Government's lack of experience with the
implementation of projects similar to the one being proposed, the schedule
on which this project is based can be achieved only if critical subproject
activities are monitored very closely. Furthermore, the particular
initiatives leading to the institutional development of SIF as the vehicle
for project implementation need to be monitored just as closely.
4.18      Two complementary steps have already been taken towards
achieving these goals: (i) a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) in the
amount of US$500,000 equivalent has been approved; and (ii) an Action Plan
(updated on May 11, 1989) for the start-up phase of the Fund has been
developed and agreed between IDA and the Government (Annex 6). This Action
Plan would be the first in a series of rolling action plans which SIF Vould
update quarterly as part of its standard operating procedures and reporting
requirements to IDA. Submission of an updated Action Plan for the balance
of the first year of SIF operations (i.e. beyond the start-up phase) will
be a Condition of Credit Effectiveness.
4.19      Relative to the subprojects appraised by IDA for the start-up
phase, the relevant implementation schedules can be summarized as follows:
Subproject           Preparation and Docimentation         Implementation
Water Supply         Oct. 1988 - Aug. 1989              Aug. 1989  - Dec. 1990
Market               June 1989 - January 1990           March 1990 - May 1991
Textbooks            Mar. 1989 - Dec. 1989              Dec. 1989  - Dec. 1991
Education Planning  Mar. 1989 - Sept. 1989              Sept. 1989 - June 1991
Malaria Control      Mar. 1989 - Dec. 1989              Dec. 1989  - Dec. 1990
Health Planning      Mar. 1989 - Sept. 1989             Sept. 1989 - June 1991
4.20      The concurrent institutional development of SIF, as shown in the
Action Plan would be substantially completed a year after Credit
Effectiveness which is presently programmed to occur on October 1, 1989.
However, the staff training program would be continuous throughout the
first three years of operations. The closing date for the Credit would be
on December 31, 1996.
G.        Procurement
4.21      The procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below
(details are given in Annex 10). A very large proportion of procurement
for works wc,.ld be small in terms of contract sum (less than US$75,000),
short in terms of implementation (less than one year) and scattered in
terms of location. The procurement process also needs to be simplified ir



- 23 -
light of training deficiencies and the urgent need for employment
generation and access to social programs. Moreover, with regard to
contracting for works, those few local contractors and suppliers who are
presently in business lack familiarity with anything more than rudimentary
procurement and contracting practices. For these reasons, a Schedule of
Standard Rates covering domestic materials and the labor component of works
would be developed and maintained by SIF with the assistance of
consultants. This would be the first step in assisting in the development
of the emerging private contracting industry in STP. This system would
also help train contractors so that in the future they would be able to
participate in more complex type of procurement such as small contracts
procured under LCB. Upon approval by IDA, this Schedule would be made
available to sponsoring agencies. Direct contracting will be permitted
with small local enterprises in the case of contracts: (i) for ordinary
civil works; (ii) to be implemented in a single action; and (iii) not
exceeding US$75,000 in value, up to a cumulative maximum of US$1.0 million
equivalent. For that purpose the sponsoring agency would be permitted to
engage in direct contracting by nominating the contractor. The contractor
would in turn, have to agree to accept SIF's Schedule of Standard Rates for
at least 70Z of the contract value (the balance may involve unscheduled
rates). Overseeing this process to ensure fairness would be a manageable
task for SIF, because there are few contractors and vendors in STP at
present. Furthermore, foreign contractors and vendors are unlikely to be
interested in these small contracts. Nonetheless, SIF would not approve
the award of any contract by a sponsoring agency pursuant to this
procurement method, if the amount of such contract, when added to the
aggregate amount of all prior non-competitive contracts financed by SIF
during the same calendar year and awarded directly or indirectly to the
same contractor would exceed the equivalent of US$100,000. As an interim
measure, until the Schedule of Standard Rates is available SIF would be
allowed to use a simplified schedule to be prepared and reviewed by IDA not
later than October 15, 1989. Contract for works estimated to cost more
than US$75,000 would be procured by LCB procedures acceptable to IDA, up to
a cumiulative maximun of US$500,000 equivalent.
4.22      The Schedule Standard Rates and model procurement documents to
be used by SIF would be submitted to IDA, for review and approval, in
accordance with tbe action plan for the first year of operations (Annex 6).
4.23      Goods involving estimated contract sums of less than US$100,000
up to a cumulative maximum of US$200,000 equivalent would be procured by
Local Shopping (LS), through contracts awarded competitively on the basis
of comparing price quotations solicited from at least three vendors.
Procurement involving estimated contract sums of more than US$100,000 but
less than US$250,000 up to a cumulative maximum of US$1.2 million
equivalent would be bid bv the sponsoring agency using Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) procedures. During negotiations, agreement was reached
between the Government and IDA regarding the LCB procedures that would
subsequently be incorporated into subproject agreements between SIF and
sponsoring agencies. SIF would monitor compliance with these procedures
which would be based on IDA Guidelines. All LCB procurement would be open
to foreign contractors and would be generally consistent with Bank's
Guidelines on Procurement and would at the minimum include: (i) local



_ 24 -
advertisvment in the STP Government Gazette and on public radio, and all
bid openings would be public; (ii) no preference to state owned
enterprises; (iii) bidding documents would specify the criteria for bid
evaluation; and (iv) contract awards would be made to the lowest evaluated
bidder.
4.24      Procurement involving estimated contract sums ranging between
US$250,000 and US$500,000 up to a cumulative maximum of US$700,000
equivalent would be bid using Limited International Bidding (LIB)
procedures invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers, all
in accordance with Sections I and II of the Proc"rement Guidelines. LIB
procedures would be best suited in this case, because the individual
contract sums would be relatively small and the number of suppliers would
be limited by the shipping and after-delivery-service constraints commonly
experienced by the country. The sponsoring agencies would be required to
submit a list of potential domestic and international contractors or
vendors which is sufficiently extensive to assure adequate competition with
reasonable geographic diversification; SIF technical assistance would be
made available for this purpose. Sponsoring agencies would be authorized
to proceed only, after SIF and IDA are satisfied that all conditions of LIB
have been met.
4.25      Procurement in excess of US$500,000  would follow International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) rules and all related documentation would be
subject to IDA approval prior to bid solicitation. There would be only one
procurement under ICB procedures in the start-up phase, at an estimated
contract sum of US$600,000. In order to assist SIF in carrying out the
project, consultants would be required. Such consultants would be selected
in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines for the use of consultants.



- 25 -
Summary of Procurement Arransents !/
(USI 'OQO)
Procurement Methods
Total
Direct          Voluo of
Project CatosrRiElement          ICS B LIS  LCS        Contracts Other Procurement
Start-Us Phase Subarolocta
EqIpment                                 121   34    100              2"
(121) (34)  (100)           (255)
Civil Works                              51i          277             705
(450)       (267)           (717)
Enginering, Supervision,                                     4U9      4e9
T.A. and Consultants                                     (469)   (469)
Educational Materials         600              62    67               719
(600)            (62)  (64)            (716)
Health Supplies, Equipment          S00               50              360
and Materials                  (300)             (SO}             360-
Subtotal                         eo   300   039  #       484    469
(600) (300) (671) (96)  (471)  (469)  (2507)
Irutituttonal Support                                            620     620
(300)   (300)
Technical Assistance                                             928     926
(928)   (928)
Subtotal                                                        1S48    14
(12)(1226)
Subtotal                    O     QO                   30 0 2           4
(600) (300) (671) (96)  (471)  (1697)  (3736)
Second and Third Phase Projects k/                                      3864
(1265)
Grand Total                                                             8000
(5000)
I/ IDA share in parentheses.
kf Procurement Methods to be determined
H.         Disbursement
4.26       Disbursement would be on the basis of 1002 of the amount
disbursed by IDA for subprojects in all Classifications. 7/  To alleviate
the hardship which would arise among small entrepreneurs who are short of
start-up capital and income, the Government would defer payment of these
obligations for a period of time equal to the grace period on the
corresponding loan approved by SIF. With regard to the Institutional
Support and Technical Assistance categories of project costs, IDA would
disburse 1002 of local and foreign expenditures (including payments to all
7/   The total cost of Subproject under Category III, to be financed by
IDA will depend on the size of the subproject as explained in
para. 4.13 (b).



- 26 -
consultants), except for local payroll expenditures which the Government
would bear, except as noted in para. 3.03. The project is expected to be
completed by June 30, 1996.
4.27      The total amount of IDA financing is expected to be committed in
three years. There is no disbursement profile for STP for this type of
project.
4.28      The flow of funds is shown in Annex 12.  The amounts of
disbursements by quarter over a period of six years are shown in Annex 11.
No disbursement would be made against land costs or taxes and duties levied
in STP.
4.29      To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account (SAC) would be
established for SIF in US dollars. On the Project Effectiveness, an
advance of US$500,000 would be deposited into the SAC upon receipt of a
withdrawal application. The Special Account would be replenished on the
bases of withdrawal applications with relevant supporting documents and
bank account statements.
4.30      Withdrawal applications for items under US$10,000 would be
accompanied by a Statement of Expenditures (SOE) in which all eligible
subproject expenditures on behalf of sponsoring agencies would be detailed.
I.        Accounting and Auditing
4.31      SIF would maintain consolidated accounts for the entire project
and detailed accounts for the lines of credit established for sponsoring
agencies upon approval of their subprojects. The accounting system would
be installed with technical assistance from consultants who would also
operate the system initially while training local staff. The establishment
of an accounting system in SIF will be a Condition of Credit Effectiveness.
Similarly, the sponsoring agencies will be required by SIF to establish
appropriate accounting systems through corresponding provisions in the
Subproject Agreement. SIF will assist .-,e sponsoring agencies through its
Finance and Accounting Department in organizing their accounting systems.
4.32      SIF's Finance and Accounting Department will prepare quarterly
and annual budgets, advise the Treasury of STP regarding disbursement
forecasts and complete disbursement applications required for the release
of IDA Funds.
4.33      Agreement was reached during negotiations that independent
auditors acceptable to IDA will be appointed to carry out audits of the
Special Account and of the entire accounting system on which SIF operates.
This audit report will be furnished to IDA within six months of the end of
each fiscal year.
J.        Start Up Phase
4.34      SIF and IDA have identified and appraised a start-up phase
consisting of six subprojects. This appraisal offered an opportunity to



-  27  -
test the proposed appraisal methodology and initiate on-the-job training of
local staff during the appraisal mission.
4.35      Current cost estimates for the subprojects in the start-up phase
are shown in Annexes 15 through 18. Each subproject is supported by an
economic and financial analysis based on available data and reasonable
projections. The following summaries outline the objectives and scope of
each subproject:
Textbook Printing and Distribution Subproject (Classification I)
4.36      The proposed subproject would finance printing, storage and
distribution -f textbooks for the primary grades (1 through 4) in
Portuguese, Mathematics and Social Studies and for the secondary grades
(5 through 9) in Portuguese, Mathematics, Geography and Science. The
textbooks would be loaned to students on payment of security deposits and
the books are expected to last for three years of repeated use. The
Gulbenkian Foundation (Portugal) would provide technical assistance.
Education Planning and Administration Subproject (Classification I)
4.37      The objective of this subproject is to strengthen the Ministry
of Education in the areas of educational planning, project preparation,
coordination and management. Two economists and a statistician would be
recruited locally and additional support would be provided by an
internationally recruited consultant.
Malaria and Endemic Disease Control Subproject (Classification I)
4.38      Insufficient financial resources and trained manpower are the
main constraints to carrying out an urgently required program to control
malaria and other endemic diseases. The proposed subproject would be the
immediate phase of an Integrated Malaria Control Program and would finance
environmental sanitation, a building for outpatients and epidemiological
and entomological activities, laboratory, and spray equipment and vehicles.
It would also include small labor-intensive drainage works for vector
control. Other donors have indicated their willingness to participate in
financing subsequent phases of the Integrated Malaria Control Program which
the Government is preparing with assistance of the experts from Portugal's
Institute of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
Health Planning and Management Subproject (Classification I)
j   4.39  The objective of this subproject is to strengthen the Ministry
of Health, so that it acquires the necessary capacity to plan, coordinate
and manage its programs.  A further objective would be to provide the
Ministry with qualified local staff (economists and statisticians) and an
internationally recruited consultant, to prepare subproject proposals for
specific areas which could be funded by SIF and/or other donors.



- 28 -
Water Supply Rehabilitation Subproject (Classification II)
4.40      The water supply system in the capital of Sao Tome is old and
deteriorated. The proposed subproject would finance: (a) the
rehabilitation of about 5,000 meters of pipe through labor-intensive
methods; (b) the installation of water treatment equipment; (c) replacement
of house connections along the rehabilitated section of the system;
(d) acquisition of essential maintenance equipment and materials;
(e) domestic water meters and production meters; and (f) operational
improvements within the Water and Electricity Company (EMAE). The African
Development Bank has made a commitment to provide technical assistance in
the administration of EMAE, especially in the areas of accounting and
finance.
Feira Do Ponto Market Subproject (Classification III)
4.41      The existing Mercado Municipal is the only public market with
walls and a partial roof in Sao Tome. It has been unable to accommodate
the increasing demands of vendors and consumers for several years. This
has led to the uncontrolled growth of a nearby open-air market. In this
open-air market conditions are unsatisfactory for vendors and consumers
and serious health hazards exist. The Assembleia Popular Distrital de Agua
Grande (local district council) has proposed the construction of a new
market close to the old one but lacks technical and financial resources.
The proposed subproject would finance institutional strengthening of the
local district council to manage the old and new markets efficiently, in
addition to site preparation and construction of a permanent structure
covered partially by a roof. This new market would accommodate about
420 vendor stalls in the first phase and about 400 additional stalls and
15 shops in two subsequent development phases. Construction would use
labor-intensive methods and local materials to a maximum extent.
Environmental requirements and safety would be given particular attention.
Sustainability would be assured through more systematic collection of fees
from vendors and provision of appropriate services and maintenance. Cost
recovery planning and other training in market facility administration
would be provided as part of technical assistance to the sponsoring agency.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A.        Benefits
5.01      Social benefits of the Project would be:  (a) specific
interventions in the most urgent health care and education areas;
(b) improved capacities in the Health and Education Ministries for planning
and program administration; (c) better living standards for the neediest
among the population; and (d) the Fund as a catalyst and source of funds
for community-based action to achieve improvements.
5.02      Economic benefits of the Project would be:  (a) increased
productivity through lower absenteeism caused by endemic diseases and
manpower with better education; (b) reduced losses in the water supply



- 29 -
system and more efficient collections of usage charges; (c) cost recovery
to sustain public services; (d) growth stimulation of the private sector to
increase the country's revenue base and availability of goods and services;
and (e) employment opportunities for underemployed and unemployed
beneficicries.
5.03      Institutional benefits of the Project would be:  (a) efficiency
ln utilizing available resources to achieve tangible results in the
shortest possible time; (b) on-the-job training opportunities for locally
recruited SIF staff under the guidance of experienced consultants in key
operational areas; (c) concurrent cross-fertilization of government units
in need of strengthening; and (d) coordination of the activities of the
donor community in STP.
B.        Risks and Safeguards
5.04      The major risks and the related measures taken to safeguard
against them are as follows:
(a) The capacity of SIF to maintain an adequate standard
of subproject appraisal and management of the
implementation process could be overtaxed by the
bunching effect of several high priority subprojects
in as many as four different sectors. To offset this
risk, subprojects would have to meet appraisal
criteria agreed between IDA and SIF and financial and
managerial provisions would be made to retain
experienced, resident consultants at an early stage
and to have them train and work alongside local staff.
The PPF provides adequate funds for the early
recruitment of consultants on fixed-term contracts.
(b) The experience of other donors in STP has shown that
the delegation of authority in Government can be very
limited, even among the higher echelon. Consequently.
there is a tendency to delay decision-making. Coupled
with a cautious approach to dealing with outsiders,
these trends could affect the effectiveness of
consultants and thereby impede the role of the
Executive Administrator and the SIF Board. While it
is not feasible to offset this risk completely, the
SIF concept places considerable emphasis on autonomy
and a business approach to management.
(c)  The use of funds could be suboptimal, because (i) the
overriding concern to provide relief to target
beneficiaries may lead to solutions that are not
efficient; (ii) importation and shipping costs to STP
are severely affected by the lack of docking
facilities and a very inadequate airport; (iii) common
financial transactions with foreign contractors and
vendors are constrained by the substandard condition
of domestic financial institutions; and (i-¢) the



-  30  -
selection of subprojects among the three identified
classifications could be out of balance in deference
to special interests. To offset this risk,
maintaining the continuous dialogue between IDA and
SIF would lead to early detection of problems,
especially while SIF is still new snd untested.
Progress would be monitored closely through joint
reviews of the quarterly updated action plans and
operational and financial reports specified under
Monitoring of Effectiveness and Results (paras. 3.30-
3.33).
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A.        Agreements
6.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from:
(a)  The Government of Sao Tome and Principe, that it will:
(i)  establish SIF's internal organization in accordance
with the proposed diagram shown in Annex 5 (para.
3.06).
(ii) establish no financial institution for providing credit for
subprojects similar to Economic Improvement Subprojects
financed under SIF, without prior approval of IDA (para.
3.25).
(b) The Social and Infrastructure Fund (SIF), that it
will:
(i)  take immediate action regarding its staffing needs,
and if qualified candidates are not readily available
in STP, retain fixed-term consultants (para. 3.07);
(ii)  beginning November 30, 1990 and by November 30 of each
subsequent year, submit to IDA for its comments and
approval, its proposed action plan covering its operations
for the following 12 months (para. 3.14);
(iii)  submit to IDA progress reports covering all areas of SIF
operations, including information on the effectiveness of
financed subprojects (para. 3.32);
(iv) ensure that all subprojects will be appraised,
implemented and supervised according to criteria
acceptable to IDA (paras. 4.05, 4.07 and 4.10);



- 31 -
(v)  maintain onlending polici6s and rates which are
compatible with parallel initiatives to
strengthen the country's financial sector and to
conduct periodic surveys of financing
alternatives avail'sle to domestic borrowers
(para. 4.14); and
(vi) appoint independent auditors acceptable to IDA,
to carry out audits of SIF and of its Special
Account, such audit to be furnished to IDA within
six months of the end of the fiscal year
(para. 4.33);
B.        Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
6.03      The following are conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
(a) Execution of the Subsidiary Administration Agreement,
satisfactory to IDA, between the Government of Sao
Tome and Principe and the Structural and
Infrastructure Fund for transferring the IDA Credit to
SIF (para. 3.03).
(b) Recruitment of a Project Management Consultant and assumption of
his/her duties (para. 3.27).
(c) Adoption of SIF bylaws acceptable to IDA (para. 4.02).
(d) Preparation and adoption of an Operational Procedures Guide for
appraising, processing and monitoring sub-projects (para. 4.05).
(e) Submission of a model agreement for each subproject
classification (para. 4.09).
ff) Submission of an updated version of the Action Plan
covering all SIF operations for the balance of the
first year of operations, i.e. beyond the start-up
phase (para. 4.18).
(g) Establishment of an accounting system in SIF (para. 4.31).
C.        Conditions of Disbursement
6.04      Before zigning of relevant sub-project agreements, prior review
and approval by IDA of:
(a) all subprojects up to an aggregate of US$3 million
equivalent (para. 4.06). (Subprojects previously appraised
by IDA would not be resubmitted);
(b) all Social Assistance and Social Infrastructure subprojects
with a total estimated cost of US$100,000 equivalent or
more (para. 4.06);



- 2 -
(c) all Economic Improvement subprojects with a total estimated
cost of US$50,000 equivalent or more (para 4.06).
D. Recommendation
6.05      Subject to agreement on the above, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 3.9 million (US$5 million equivalent) to
the Government of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe.
AF4IN
May 15, 1989



Page I of 14
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
MULTI-SECTOR PROJECT
URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND HOUSING
ISSUES AND RECOMMENDATIONS



Anne 1
34                                    Page 2 of 14
SAO TrOME AND PRINCIPE
Background
After five centuries of Portuiguese colonization, the
Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe (STP) gained its
independence in 1975. The distribution pattern of its population has,
by and large, remained in line with the previous model of development,
based on the cultivation of a single export crop (cocoa) on wide
expanses of land (latifundios). Approximately, one half of the
country's 110,000 residents (55,000) are engaged in plantation
activities (cocoa, copra, banana and coffee) organized through 15
State run enterprises (Rocas). The urban population is estimated at
30-35Z (about 40,000 people), while scattered rural settlements
(housing small scale independent producers) and coastal fishing
villages account roughly for 252 (27,500) of STP population. (Source:
wProgramme special de travaux publics pour l'amelioration des
infrastructures dans les plantations' ILO, Geneve 1965 p. 9 and 10).
The capital city of Sao Tome, which had a population of
20,000 according to the 1981 census, has experienced a more rapid
growth in recent years due to increased migratory flows from rural
areas as well as from smaller towns. Although no reliable data
exists, the present population of "Greater Sao Tome' including its
outskirts is estimated at 35,000. Migration rate to the Greater Sao
Tome area will certainly remain high while the surplus labor presently
found in smaller towns and in the plantation sector remains at present
levels. In addition, the high fertility rate (estimated at 2.82/year)
found in Sao Tome will contribute to the growing population pressure
on the existing urban infrastructure and basic services.
A comparative review of population densities of Sao Tome and
Principe indicates a heavy concentration in the country's Northeast
area and great variations among its other geographic regions. For the
Sao Tome capital area including its outskirts the present density is:
1,962 pop/ki2; whereas the geographic area adjacent to the capital
city, comprising the towns of Trindade, Madalena and Santa Margarida,
has a density of 202 pop./km2, the Southern portion of Sao Tome
island, including towns of Porto Alegre, Sao Joao dos Angolares and
Jou has 42 pop./km2. As for the island of Principe its present
density is 47 pop/km2. (source: UNDP-Table Ronde de Juin 1988
Document Provisoire, Mars 1988). The density pattern of RDST strongly
suggest that the prevailing population distribution will remain
unchanged in the foreseeable future.
Provision of public services in RDSTP is highly centralized.
The delivery and maintenance of basic services, such as water and
sanitation, drainage network, educational and health facilities are
carried out through the central governments institutions. The
exception to this setup are the state run plantation enterprises which
are responsible within their boundaries for the delivery and
maintenance of basic services and commissioning of works (e.g. roads,



Annex 1
Page 3 of 14
- 35 -
water/drainage and shelter). In addition, each town, through its
District Assembly, organizes and pays teams of workers for regular
daily sweeping of the streets and squares. With regard to solid
waste, res4dents of the capital city have their trash collected
virtually at no cost and transported to dump sites. However,
households located in remote locations as well as those located in
other towns and villages resort to burning their refuse and in so"m
cases dumping it on the seashore, with resulting effects on the local
environment and public health.
As a consequence of dumping trash in vacant plots and of
poorly maintained drainage systems, infestation of a variety of
vectors, including rats, mice and mosquitoes are found throughout the
city of Sao Tome and its periphery. Malaria epidemics and intestinal
disease including ameba, diarrhea and parasites, - which affect about
972 of STP population - are consequences of the poor environmental
sanitation. (Source: Projecto Global Integradc de Luta contra o
Paludismo, Fiche de Projet STP 16.5.88).
A project to upgrade solid waste removal and establish a
sanitary dump site as well as improvements of the storm water drainage
systems and latrines have been proposed in previous reports. (Source:
Fiche de Projet, UNDP-ADB-15/3/88).
The Capital City of Sao Tome
Although the capital city of Sao Tome has been endowed with
relatively good urban infrastructure, such as the water supply system,
electrical distribution system, storm water drainage, roadways and
sidewalks, parks, schools and hospital, it dates from the colonial
period and has been gradually decaying. This is largely caused by
inadequate maintenance. The main stormwater collector of Sao Tome is
in an advanced state of disrepair, many of its contributing channels
are silted or clogged, causing cracks and water seepage beneath the
pavement surface. Likewise, the urban roads network shows a
considerable amount of pavement distress and numerous potholes.
Sectoral studies by the African Development Bank (1986) and UNDP
(March 1988) have addressed these priority problems; however
rehabilitation works have yet to be undertaken by the local
authorities. The remaining towns (villas) of STP are, by and large,
inadequately served or lack virtually most essential urban services
(i.e. water/sanitation, roads, schools and health facilities).
The wide discrepLncy between levels of services found in Sao
Tome and smaller towns and settlements reflects the historic function
and the importance of the capital city as the primary market place,
major port and seat of government. This trend has persisted since
independence in 1975. New capital investments in the country have
mostly been located in the capital area e.g. a brick factory,
sawmills, construction of housing projects, hotel and public
buildings.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 14
- 36 -
Under the Division of Physical Planning of the Ministry of
Social Equipment, a National Physical Plan and a series of Master
Plans for urban settlements have been developed, including one for Sao
TomE. These master plans contain an inventory of urban resources and
activities as well as guidelines for infrastructure expansion, in
general, and for sectors such as housing, roads, transportation and
the environment.
Towns and Smaller Settlemer.ts
All towns of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and
Principe are small in scale, with a population size that ranges from
two to three thousand residents. Among the typical secondary towns,
Santo Antonio de Principe, Porto Alegre and Sao Joao de Angolares
constitute population centers along the coast. Their main economic
activities are fisheries, local commerce and the production of cash
crops. In these towns, urban infrastructure and services - such as
health, education, water and sanitation and housing - are available in
only the most rudimentary form, if at all. Despite the fact that
development of these towns is heavily dependent on rural production,
and the circulation of people and goods, the linkages between urban
and rural areas remain in a precarious condition due to poor road
maintenance and deficient means of transportation.
Public schools have been built in virtually every town and
village.  Howevar, due to neglect in maintenance, many of these public
structures have decayed and are closed. Presently, 34 Primary and
5 Secondary schools are being rehabilitated by the Ministry of
Education (MOE). However, according to MOE, the major problem with
the school system in the towns and villages is the high rate of
absenteeism among teachers, leading to poor school performance and a
staggering dropout rate. This absenteeism is largely caused by the
inability of teachers to find reliable transportation from their homes
to the schools, cr as an alternative, suitable housing near the
schools. In view of this problem, the teachers' union has organized a
housing cooperative and is seeking ways of building affordable houses
in selected locations that could attract teachers, giving them an
incentive to move to these locations and avoid the costly and
unreliable commute to which they have been subjected.
Spatial Development and Current Planning Proposals
Urban legislation, dating from colonial days, has
established certain minimum requirements for housing development,
including standards for the provision of water, sewerage, paved roads,
street lighting, and open space.
Presently, these requirements are still noticeable, mainly
in the way in which construction of new public buildings and
commercial enterprises is regulated in the central areas of the city
of Sao Tome. However, the consequent rise in the costs of



Annex 1
-37 -                                 Page 5 of 14
infrastructure and of residential construction has led to the
concentration of low income housing construction within the city
boundaries of Sao Tome. To a lesser degree, low income housing units
are being constructed in Rocas and other scattered settlements. The
Department of Physical Planning (Departamento do Plano Fisico)
regulates the construction of low income housing and issues
certificates for land occupation under concessionary terms (i.e.,
leaseholds). Under these terms, the beneficiary is obligated to
complete the construction of the basic dwelling unit within 18 months,
starting on the approval date of the request for the leasehold plot.
Also under these terms, a nominal tax is charged on an annual basis
for the land-use. Most of the new subdivisions are located near the
city of Sao Tome, and are accessible by the existing roads. Few
municipal services, at minimum levels, are available in these areas,
including drinking water through public standpipes and electricity
connected to some houses. Storm water drainage, safe sewerage
disposal and solid waste collection are largely inadequate in these
new residential areas.
Most of the urban single family plots, allocated to
beneficiaries for new housing construction, average 400 m2 in area,
(ranging from 300 to 500 m2) and often display rather inefficient
layouts, and land to dwelling proportions which could lead to
increased costs for the future provision of infrastructure. It is
conceivable that the Government could soon face a scarcity of
accessible urban land by so generously handing out plots which seem to
exceed customary ratios of land to dwelling size. It should be noted,
however, that in many of the new subdivisions, the unbuilt land left
between dwelling units has been used for vegetable gardening and the
raising of small domestic animals (e.g. chickens and ducks). These
"backyard" productive activities are an important supplement to the
diet of the urban low-income population and to some extent, may
represent extra earnings for these households who sell some of this
produce. Given these observed characteristics of the new residential
neighborhoods, simple guidelines for efficient plot layout which
incorporate the potential for vegetable gardening or other types of
domestic enterprises should be established, in order to support this
survival strategy of the poorer households in the urban center.
In the long run, the issue of land tenure and land-use,
together with a review of the criteria adopted for land subdivision,
would deserve more attention from policy makers and be subject to
specific regulations considering not only the social and economic
effects of urbanization but also its impact on the environment.
Housing Policies
Most shelter of the low income population consists of wood
structures. These dwellings have been traditionally built so that
they are elevated from the ground level to about 3 feet above grade as
protection measure against floods. Ceramic tiles have been



Annex 1
Page 6 of 14
- 38 -
commonly used as roofing material in the past. However, more
recently, the use of corrugated sheet metal ha ., by and large.
replaced ceramic tiles, due to financial considerations. Corrugated
sheets require lower initial expense for roof structure because they
are lighter than ceramic tiles. However, over longer periods of time.
corrugated metal may not be more economical due to greater maintenance
needs and replacement costs. Moreover, corrugated metal being an
imported item, is subject to greater fluctuations of supply and price.
Most of the housing needs in STP ar2ear to be met by the
population through the adoption of various forms of self-help
construction, ranging from self-initiated to government assisted
schemes. The recently established National Housing Directorate (NED)
(Direecao Nacional de Habitacao) of the Ministry of Social Equipment,
is formally in charge of managing the state controlled housing stock,
including rent collection, future development studies and formulation
of housing policies.
A strategy position paper and an action plan (*A
Problematica da Habitacao em Sao Tome e Principe - Proposta de
Estrategia" RDSTP Direccao Nacional de Habitagao, Oct. 1987) have
been developed as a basis for future policy action in the housing
sector. This document makes a number of important points.
Point 1: housing issues in STP cannot be solved by State
interventions alone and call for setting up joint partnerships among
private initiatives, peoples' cooperatives, enterprises (i.e. state
agro-enterprises) and individual initiatives to be financed by
construction credit funds and individual savings.
Point 2: Government housing policies will be targeted for
selected population groups, including those who return to STP from
studies abroad, and low-income households engaged in self-help types
of housing initiatives located on the periphery of the capital, in the
small towns and state agro-enterprises.
Point 3: the NHD mandate includes the coordination of
technical assistance from bilateral and multilateral organizations,
aimed at reducing specific gaps in housing production.
Point 4: NHD manages and maintains the housing stock
held by the State, representing approximately 850 dwelling units.
However, starting in 1987, NHD engaged in a campaign to sell the
housing stock, which it previously rented out. So far, 150 units
have been sold. High maintenance costs and high rates of rental
defaults have prompted this action. It is envisaged by NHD that the
money received from the sale of houses will revert to a fund for
shelter construction.



Annex 1
Page 7 of 14
- 39 -
Construction Material
State construction activities as well as individual building
initiatives suffer equally from critical shortages of construction
materials in STP, with the consequent high prices that these scarce
materials command in the market place. ComAon shortages of imported
building materials such as cement, reinforcing rods, tar, nails and
corrugated sheet metal are a serious problem. Insufficient local
production of blocks, bricks, pipes and lumber, severely hamper
production and progress in improving housing conditions and essential
infrastructure works.  The search for solutions and the development of
local construction materials will have to take into account the
availability of local raw materials and existing energy shortages, and
foreign exchange and transportation problems related to procuring
materials and equipment from abroad.
Lumber
Despite extensive forest reserves including a wide variety
of suitable trees, the local production of lumber lags behind present
consumption need,. Three types of hard woods have traditionally' been
used for construction in Sao Tome and Principe: (a) Acacia,
(b) Amoreira, and; (c) Acajou. Conversely, soft-woods which also are
abundant in STP have been largely under-harvested. Lumber production
in STP is organized through 23 existing sawmills operated by State-run
enterprises and private firms. However, all of these production units
are faced with an array of problems including old and aging machinery,
lack of available spare parts, in addition to the intermittent
shortages of electric power. At the same time, improvements in the
planning and management of natural resources in STP will require the
development of an inventory and in particular, guidelines for more
efficient and conservation-based exploitation of forest reserves.
According to a 1985 report of Direccao de Industria e Energia, the
estimated annual production of lumber was 58,000 m3 1/
of which state-operated enterprises produced 10,000-10,500 m3, private
firms 19,000 m3 and the State Construction Company (EE) 3,000 m3.
This report also includes a set of recommendations for upgrading the
sector's production; these are: (a) to commission a study of lumber
demand, at the national level; (b) to relocate saw-mills to better
locations (e.g. Agua Ize and Santa Margarida); (c) to restructure and
regroup smaller mills (e.g. Bela Vista) while promoting the expansion
of more successful units (e.g. Diogo Vaz); (d) to promote periodic
replacement of machinery and renewal of equipment, (in 7-10 years);
1/   Note:  These numbers are quoted as they are from the report
(Segundo Relatorio Da Visita Da FAO A STP - Dir. Industria E
Energia 12 Oct 1987). Need to be checked in STP.



Annex 1
Page 8 of 14
- 40 -
(e) to undertake a feasibility study of the above recommended actions.
Another recommendation is related to assessing the possibility of
establishing a vood-prncessing plant for the production of veneer
slices and plywood sheets which would bring about a substantial
reduction in lumber consumption due to the increased structural
properties of plywood and increased use of currently less harvested
species of trees (i.e., softwoods). In addition, the document
indicates that special attention ought to be placed on the expanded
production of less expensive alternatives to fire-woods (i.e.
charcoal), thus promoting uiore efficient uses of lumber by-products.
Promoting the effective use of wood in affordable housing
projects or infrastructure works, will also depend on establishing
local production capabilities for common metal products which are
essential in construction (e.g. screws, nails, hinges, and bolts), as
well as glues, adhesives and paints. All of these basic items
are presently being imported at high foreign exchange costs for
finished products and shipping, and more often than not, they are in
short supply because shipments are delayed. Sustained local
production of these basic items would greatly enhance the development
of affordable housing, ending the intermittent shortages and lowering
current prices. Local production would necessitate the importation of
machinery and periodic procurement of bulk materials, such as steel
wire from abroad.
Clay Building Products
Clay has been traditionally extracted and used to produce
blocks, bricks, tiles, pipes and similar construction materials
through the existing old kiln of Sao Tome. In 1982, a new and
completely automated plant from East Germany was installed with a
capacity to produce up to 1.7 million ceramic elements per year. In
1983, the factory produced 1.05 million bricks and 51,300 tiles
resulting in an overproduction which the market could not absorb and
prompting management to halt production in 1984. In 1985, with
orders placed by Hotel Miramar for its construction, the factory
resumed the production of bricks. However, since 1986, production has
fallen sharply due to problems of power supply, affecting the firing
of bricks in its kilns. In 1987, due to power failures, the annual
production was drastically reduced to 55.7 thousand pieces i.e., only
3Z of capacity. Presently, this plant continues to operate at
marginal capacity, solving its energy problem by transporting its
unfinished products to another location (old kiln) for firing with a
loss of 202 of this year's production. Production in 1988 was 28,700
bricks in the first 6 months. The rationing of fuel has precluded
adoption of alternative energy sources (e.g., on site generators) for
its kilns; currently the plant receives 1,000 litres/month whereas its
estimated fuel need is about 100,000 l/month. (The above information
was gathered during the visit to the factory STP - July 1988.)



Annex 1
-41 -                                    Page 9 of 14
Since the plant supplied by East Germany is otherwise in
good condition, albeit oversized, a technical study should be
commissioned to determine (a) cost-effective alternatives to met the
energy needs of the plant; (b) optimum production output and product
mix on the basis of realistic local demand projections; and
(c) appropriate plant and equipment modifications for more effective
operations at lower energy consumption levels.
Cement Products
STP does not produce Portland cement or hydraulic lime,
relying instead entirely on importation of these materials at high
foreign exchange and shipping costs. An on-site study, including the
collection and testing of deposits of local materials showing
potential for the production of hydraulic lime has been carried out by
an Austrian expert under a study contract with UNIDO. The local
production of hydraulic lime for use in poured concrete, precast
concrete and concrete blocks would be a highly desirable national
goal, which would substantially reduce current construction costs and
avoid costly delays in the completion of housing and infrastructure.
There are also a number of non-construction related applications of
hydraulic lime, e.g. agricultural uses.
Continued funding of this on-site study by UNIDO is under
review. If approved, it would include laboratory tests for chemical
and physical properties of the collected materials. This work would
be done at the university laboratory in Vienna. If indications
continue to be promising, the Austrian expert would carry out an
economic feasibility study on producing hydraulic lime in STP,
determine energy requirements for the necessary production facilities
and report his findings to the STP Government. Further financial
support of this attempt to gain self-sufficiency in an important
construction material could be undertaken in phases correlated with
periodic reviews of results. Potential economic benefits would be
very high and extend beyond the construction industry.
Institutional Structure and Issues
After independence, the former structure of municipal
councils was abolished, as were most forms of local taxation, the
MAssembleias Distritais das Cidades', became largely dependent on the
Central Government. This situation is now being reversed, with the
adoption in recent years of reforms in the government structure aimed
at increased decentralization of its executing functions (i.e.,
sectoral branches of government).  In the urban context the government
is faced with the urgent need to mobilize resources and generate local
revenues to finance urban infrastructure and services. A large
proportion of local administration expenditures are financed through
transfers from central government; except for Rocas, where a
semi-autonomous administrative system is responsible for allocations
to capital improvement projects. Nevertheless, both, in rural and



Annex 1
-42 -                                Page 10 of 14
urban areas there are no substantial land or property taxes and no
district taxes, although the district authorities are empowered to
levy charges for some services. These user charges are very low and
have not been adjusted to reflect the present reality.
The willingness of the STP Government to promote major
institutional and political reforms in the economy. in general, and in
the sectors related to urban development (i.e., housing, urban
services, health and education) in particular, by placing greater
emphasis on promotion and support of individual and cooperative
initiatives as well as of the private sector, is evident from reviewed
documentation and follow-up discussions. The search for a balance
between public and private sector investments in urban areas and the
attempt to establish inter-sectoral coordination among various public
agencies, as in the case of tackling the issue of affordable housing,
is a key element and will require strengthening of institutions.
Public institutions in STP are rigidly organized, autonomous and
stratified along vertical lines of command, with rather weak
horizontal linkages among various sectors. As with most LDCs, the
RLSTP has been a net recipient of foreign aid through various
bilateral and multilateral organizations as well as NGOs and PVOs.
This influx of aid in the form of technical assistance, equipment and
supplies, is channelled through the Ministry of Cooperation to
sectoral agencies. However, most of the aid has had limited effect on
the country's development efforts in urban sectors.
Two converging institutional issues are salient in the
housing and urban development sectors. The first issue is relatively
weak institutional capacity, stemming from the transition from
colonial days to independence, when about 4,000 Portuguese technical
and administrative personnel departed from Sao Tome. When the
Portuguese left at independence, there was virtually no trained
personnel left to run the cities. Since then, the government has
relied on expatriates (cooperantes) and foreign ,echnical assistance
to fill the gap left by these drastic changes. Progress has been made
in a few sectors such as primary education, but the shortage of
skilled personnel in technical and administrative areas is still one
of the most critical issues facing the country today. This shortage
has affected the use of foreign-aid and limited its coordination among
various government sectors, especially with regard to urban
development.
The second issue is intersectoral coordination among public
agencies. This is becoming essential given the process of policy
reforms backed by the government in recent months. As a result of
these policy reforms, strong emphasis is being placed on the promotion
of several housing cooperatives of workers and public servants. Some
have received support from Portuguese CARITAS or from German DESWOS to
develop affordable housing schemes.



Annex 1
Page 11 of 14
- 43 -
However, lacking previous experience in cooperative
organization, inadequate staffing and shortages of construction
materials, these cooperatives have not yet reached the implementation
stage of their projects. The teachers' housing cooperative (COOTRCC)
and the cooperative of employees of Planificacao Fisica (Planning
Agency)- QUITEMBU- have been established and their statutes approved.
They are presently in search of technical assistance and funding
support.
Summary of Urban Development and Housing Issues
The urban sector, including housing, is currently in a state
of dissrray, with progressively deteriorating infrastructure, weak
institutions and virtually no resource mobilization or independent
financial resources. The government has taken initial steps to remedy
the situation, but in addition to resource mobilization, a number of
difficult issues need to be resolved, some of which are described
below.
(i) Severe shortages and hign costs of basic construction
materials, equipment and spare parts.
(ii) Limited financial and credit facilities for the development
of housing units by entities, especially with regard to
low-income housing. Constraints in the development of
self-help housing due to supply shortages.
(iii) Inadequately trained human resources both in administrative
and technical jobs covering planning, design, financing,
procurement, maintenance and construction activities. This
applies both to the formal (public and private) and informal
sector.
(iv) Need to develop and strengthen public institutions to
coordinate and execute infrastructure projects in more
efficient and effective ways, with emphasis on
privatization.
(v) Need to develop appropriate planning, design and
construction techniques compatible with local materials,
climatic conditions and environmental conditions.
(vi) Need to increase overall housing stock in general and
homeownership in particular. Direccao de Habitacao is
considering a program to promote formation of private
housing cooperatives. The aim is to assist in the
production of moderate income housing for those presently
occupying rental dwellings units.
(vii) Need to establish local technical offices in the towns to



Annex 1
- 44 -                                  Page 12 of 14
cairy out design, construction supervision and maintenance
of small infrastructure projects, such as public water
fountains, stand-pipes, markets and day care centers. The
executing agency should be the District Assembly. The
envisaged technical staff, including a planner, a civil
engineer and a construction specialist would establish the
operation and provide on-the-job training for local junior
staff.
(viii) Develop and implement a basic sanitation pilot-project, with
promotion of health and hygiene education, in villages and
rural areas. The project would be aimed at improving
general health conditions of the poorer population living in
remote settlements through inter--entions in environmental
sanitation, improved water supply and solid waste
management. (Source: "Fiches de Project, Direction
National du Logement". RDSTP June 1987).



Annex 1
Page 13 of 1-
- 45 -
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND HOUSING
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE ON THE PROJECT FILE
TABLE RONDE DE JUIN 1988
Programmes Publics d'Investissemnt de Secteurs: Eau, Ehtergie.
UNDP, Mars 1988 (document provisoire).
TABLE RONDE DE JUIN 1988
Programmes Publics d'Investissement des Secteurs: Transports,
Telecommunications, Habitat. Information UNDP, Hars 1988
(document provisoire).
Sao Tome et Principe - Strategie d Intervention du Groupe de la
Banque (Memorandum) A.D.B. Sept. 1987.
Sao Tome et Principe - Propositon de Pret pour le Financement du
Projet l'Amenagement de l'aeroport de Sao Tome (Memorandum) -
A.F.D.B. Nov. 1985.
Sao Tome et Principe - Etude du Projet Education A.D.B. Mars
1986.
Programme Special de Ttravaux Ppublics pour l'Aamelioratien des
Iinfrastructures dans les Pplantatious - RDSTP.ILO, Geneve Nov.
1985.
Fiche de Projet:  (a) le Secteur de L'Habitat, (b) Evacuation des
Orduses et Dechets Urbains, (c) Assaimissement du Milieu
UNDP/A.D. Bank, June 1988.
'Rapport d'Evaluation Projet d'Entretien Routier - Republique
Democratiqe de Sao Tome et Principe." Fouds Africain de
Developpment A.F.D.B. Oct 1985.
"Sao Tome & Principe - Proposition de Pret pour le Financement
des Etades Pedagogiques et Techniques en vue de la Rehabilitation
des Etudes Primaires, Secondaires et Normale", Fends Africain de
Developpement, Jan. 1986.
Memorando - "A Problematica da Habitacao em Sao Tome e Principe
Proposta de Estrategia" RDSTP - Direccao Nacional de Habitacao
(p/A. Espirito Santo) Oct. 1987.
Fiches de Projet - Direction National du Logement (F. Silva
Alves) - Sao Tome, June 1987.
Aide Memoire - The World Bank Multisectoral Special Works Project
Identification Mission to Sao Tome and Principe, July 1988.



Page 14 of 14
-46 -
Estatutos da Cooperativa dos Trabalhadores da Educacao * Cultura
(COOTREC) MIMEO RDSTP, 1988.
-    Diario da Republice No. 16, Sao Tome e Principe, November 27,
1985.
-    Relatorio da Visita do Rep. da FAO. MIDO, RDSTP, Oct. 1985.
AF4IN
August 22, 1988



- 47 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 5
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
MULTI-SECTOR PROJECT
COUNTRY ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES PAPER: SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
I.   COUNTRY ECONOMY
1.        The Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe is made up of
two islands of great natural beauty, Sao Tome and Principe in the Gulf of
Guinea about 300 km west of Gabon, and covering a total area of 1000 km2.
Sao Tome, the larger of the islands has about 862 of the total land area
and 95Z of the estimated population of 108,000. About 402 of the
population is urban-based. 852 of the population are indigenous Sao
Tomeans while the remaining 152 are Cape Verdeans and Angolans. Population
is low.
2.        Sao Tome and Principe relies heavily on imported fuels from
Angola for electricity generation, transport and industry.
3.        Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy and the country is
endowed with good agricultural resources, good soils and microclimates
suitable for the cultivation of almost all tropical products. The
microclimates make production conditions widely different from one area to
another even within a plantation. Due to micor climates, there is need to
pay attention to even small changes in vegetation/cultivation. Rainfall
varies from 990mm in the northeast of Sao Tome to 7,000mm in the southeast.
The country has 40,000 ha of arable land and a significant unexploited
potential in fisheries and forestry. Cocoa is the major export crop.
Other cash crops include coffee, palm oil, and coconuts. Food crops
include bananas, breadfruit, palmoil, root crops and vegetables. Cocoa
production which peaked at 36,000 tons in 1920 had declined to 10,000 tons
in 1975, 6,000 tons in 1980 and only 4,000 tons in 1986. This decline can
be attributed to lack of management and knowledge of crop husbandry after
the Portuguese left following independence and the inappropriate policy and
incentive framework pursued by the Government.
II.  ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
4.        The soils are particularly well-suited for cocoa production, and
as already mentioned, the variety of microclimates makes possible the
production of a wide variety of tropical crops. Rainfall is ample and this
combination of factors imparts a high carrying capacity to the land.
Surface and groundwater are sufficient for agricultural and other uses,
although like other tropical areas the seasonality of rainfall may call for
irrigation.
5.        Forestry and fishery resources are abundant, but largely
unexploited. Fish is the major source of protein for the population. Fish
production received a boost in 1986 with the donation of 400 small motors



Annex 2
- 48 -                         Page 2 of 5
by the Japanese Government. The relaxation of price control for fish has
also stimulated production. Information on mineral resources is scant,
indicating the need for a geological eurvey. The country is endowed with
abundant hydroelectric potentials.
6.        The insular tropical nature of the country and its variable
microclimates are unique features that can make it a tourist attraction if
properly developed. An SPPF for a tourism industry has already been
prepared and the feasibility of such industry is under consideration. The
purpose will be to make use of STP's natural resources and tourist
attraction to promote the tourism industry.
7.        The colonial background of the country has profound impacts on
the population, particularly its social composition and farming practices.
For example, smallholders are a minority of the farming population and
plantation agriculture based on large holdings and initially developed
using labor from the African mainland, has been the norm. When the
Portuguese settlers left at the time of national independence some of the
large farms they left behind were consolidated into 15 EEAs run by the
government. Wages and living conditions of workers on the cocoa
plantations have deteriorated steadily due to management problems.
Education and health for the majority of the low income group is still
poor.
8.        There is need to improve the availability and flow of
environmental data and information. This responsibility should lie with
one agency with overall responsibility for environmental affairs, the legal
framework and coordination.
III. KEY ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
9.        Part of the problem with the cocoa sector has been inefficient
maintenance of the plantations which results in trees and shoots competing
with weeds and in bush encroachment. Depradator insects multiply and
provide infectious n4ches, especially for phytophotora, in the unpicked
rotten pods. Since all plantations grow under high forest canopy, shade is
not controlled and irregular sunlight spots favor weeds and depredator
parasites. However, the most severe problem is excessive pruning which
results in a lack of auto-shading for soil protection and photosynthetic
activity. Insufficient sucker removal results ir. growth of many shoots
which leads to occurence of numerous parasites and difficult harvest. The
inefficient plant protection is due to insecticides and pesticides applied
with old and disrepaired equipment which provides inadequate coverage.
Also tractcr-mounted spraying equipments used only along feeder roads
similarly fail to provide adequate coverage protection. Chemical treatment
is not efficient due to few sprayings and the inappropriate application of
fungicides. This state of affairs developed from lack of support to
private smallholders since independence, thereby forcing them to practice
cropping without inputs - especially plant protection producLs and small
equipments such as sprayers. Therefore, even though plantations are well-
maintained, lack of plant protection hampers production and degrades the
environment.



- 49 -                         Annex 2
_                         Page 3 of 5
10.       Most of the crops are old (25-60 years) leading to reduced
production. There is also insufficient tree density. Cropping on steep
slopes is laborious and there is need for elimination of crops on such
terrains.
11.       The key environmental issue in STP is to monitor and control
chemical residues from the Use of pesticides (and fertilizers). Chemical
pesticides are used primarily against cocoa pests and to prevent resultant
diseases such as black pod disease. Some of the chemical biodegrade very
slowly and can contaminate both air and water, endangering man, animal,
fish and plant life. It would be necessary to determine what are the
levels of chemical residues in soil and water (particularly drinking water
supplies and fishing areas); the levels of chemical residues on the crop;
and the degree of direct and indirect exposure of zpray applicators and
local residents. It would also be necessary to determine the impact on
non-target organisms, (beneficial or natural enemy species) such as fish,
other aquatic life and birds as well as the development of immunity and
pesticide resistance among the target pest population. Such an assessment
should be chemical or pesticide specific.
12.       Another issue involves enhancement of STP's natural resources
and beauty for the tourism industry. This would involve accentuating the
country's aesthetic beauty in order to attract tourists. This would
include all facets of environmental sanitation, the building and
maintenance of infrastructures, parks, historical sites, rivers, flora and
fauna, including rare species of birds and coastal areas. The location of
the tourism centers would have to be determined and developed accordingly.
13.       There is also the forestry inventory and fuel wood supply/demand
study aimed at assessing and documenting the country's forestry resource
endowment with the ultimate purpose of conserving these resources. Fuel
wood is used mainly for cooking. Some wood is also converted to charcoal
before use. The long term sustainable yields of forest resources in terms
of roundwood, timber and fuel wood will be studied. A forest regeneration
or tree planting program to replenish lost stock would be necessary.   The
final report of the study will include the physical and ecological details
of the classified forests along with the inventory in terms of species and
volumes. The fuel wood study will assess the effect on fuel wood of
planned expansion in cocoa production and drying. The desirability of
changing cocoa drying technology will be assessed. The consumption pattern
and export potential of fuel wood will also be assessed along with
desirable tree plnating/replenishment program. Information regarding
species of wood used for fuel, the areas and sites located, harvesting
method; measures to reduce furel wood consumption such as via improved
stoves, etc., training in forest protection and management, wood
processing, etc. would be provided.
14.       Other issues include land tenure/land use planning and control,
specifically the development of legal basis for usufruct practices in view
of existing land tenure and land ownership practices. Environmental
disease control, environmental education and data, wildlife conservation,
tropical forest management and population control are medium/long-term
issaes of relevance in STP.



50 -                  I~~~~~nnex 2
-50-                            Page 4 of 5
IV. PROPOSED BANK STRATEGY
15.       Sao Tome and Principe needs an environmental assesament and
action plan, and the first steps have already been taken for work program
to incorporate environmental issues relating to control and monitoring of
chemical residues in the lending program for the Cocoa Rehabilitation
Program. The government is quite receptive to the idea. Participation of
environmental experts in this aspect of the country economic and sector
work is already being implemented. This is an on-going project and it is
hoped that future projects would explicitly address environmental issues ab
initio.
Issues to be Addressed through Ongoing Proiects or Prolects in the Pipeline
16.       Apart from the environmental aspects of the cocoa rehabilitation
program, the other activities -- forestry inventory, fuel wood study and
inventory of fishery resources would be areas in which the Bank should
promote the gathering of information that will eventually lead to
conservation or regeneration/replenishment. In these activities the
participation of an environmental specialist would be worhtwhile and
advisable. One should therefore be included in any future dialogue with
the Government.
17.       The Government is quite interested in environemntal issues and
getting all the issues involved openly before them may help get them to act
fast in alleviating problems or potential problems in the environmental
area.
Possible Future Environmental Lending
18.       Future environmental lending can be envisaged with respect to
forestry, wood and fishery inventory and management/conservation as well as
in chemical control and monitoring. Also, environmental issues relating to
the tourism industry may necessitate future lending. Work on these
environmental issues should commence in 1990.
Aid Coordination Activities
10.       There is need to assess and coordinate the environmental impact
of various aid. This calls for cooperation with other international NG0s,
local institutions and foreign donors.



-51 -                        Annex 2
Page 5 of 5
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS OF ON-GOING PROJECTS IN SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE I
1.  Economic Rehabilitation and Modernization Project.
(1)  No environmental issues or problems.
2.   Cocoa Rehabilitation Project.
(3) Environmental issues relating to chemical residues from
pesticide usage. This is being substantially addressed
through monitoring and control of chemical residues.
3.   Structural Adjustment Credit.
(1) No environmental issues.
*/ Numbers in parenthesis are ratings.
AF4CO
1988



- 52-                          Annex3
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
MULTI-SECTOR PROJECT
hon-Governmental Organizations (NG08) In Sao Tome and Principe
The International Conference of NGOs that took place in Sao Tome
and Principe in November of 1986 represented official recognition by the
Government of the important role that these organizations have in the
country's development. Until a few years ago, NGO's assistance consisted
mainly of food and medical supplies donations. Presently their
participation in the country is growing not only in number of projects that
are being implemented or about to commence, but also in the quality of the
contribution that thesa projects will make to the country's development.
Listed below are the projects that various NGOs are implementing in STP.
NGO                                       Project
G.V.C. - Italy                         a)   Sanitary Education (completed)
b)   Training of Pre-school teachers
AFVP - France (Assoc. Francaise             Horticultural Crops in Mesquita;
des Volontaires de Progress)         dedicated mainly to production
of tomatoes and onions at five
different sites.
RADDA BARNEN - Sweden                       Family Planning
COOPAFRICA - Portugal                       Creation of small scale fishing
enterprises with emphasis on the
organization of fishermen
cooperatives.
AMI - France                                Studies to assess sanitary
(Aide Medicale Internationale)              improvement needs in the
District of Mezochi.
V.S.O. - Great Britain                      A resident representative has
(Voluntary Services Overseas)               been in the country since
September 1983. A broad co-
operation program is now
under preparation.
CARITAS INTERNATIONAL                  a)   Food Distribution
b)   Low cost housing construction.
The project provides technical
assistance and small loans to
young families.
c)   Skills upgrading and training
to social workers.



Annex 4
Page  i of  10
- 53 -
i-trox'a m.b 23. Doseuk  1o168                                            Nd..,. 28
DIARIO DA                                                      REPOBLICA
s. romTM. E PfR C1PE
* afa(Wm is "no*., de".sI" ti*is,&a, mI Dss is .......... .  uSs,"e "s0.o    I".1
L. Tes.                            rawt -.......-.. 0. M siL lsta ils  tOP %"Owo
we-dmmmmum.f s  U 6 &*em. stui-is s..Xb. fd M.    an ewmsisi F- li   imba 4
UNS e   as. eslsi mess DM* . P is .de   .ssssass. usiauus.           iii p.sis b'.0 mew      Omshs lass
SUJPLEMENTO.,
.1 Atigo D I     l_=1,
SUMARIC                                                 rao
Conselho 'do Ministros                   It sprovado * pasta em vigor a Repla_omnto du
. -  Consoiho 'de Ministros            Cam". de HLbitsoao do Estsdq quao fax parts iniegmiont
be5i,5WW a ., 42/U.                               do preunts D.croto-lei.
Aprwo o RgWa1aeo de. ses de N aqo do W_sdo.                        Ai   3 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fc, r.vgtl     R*_egulamt,d  dtrib v- _o de
0501   5 Soe.dade AMa s ~  ~   ~*'~ cesm do Estao aprovado polo Dsor.tolmi n0 20/75
D.e,st.-Le~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3Ati,5.
a.*                              ~~~~~~~~~Visto eaprovsdoemConiShods Miflistroaesm S.Tom6,
Sopw  de            V.elaia           E        ao2               198 _-0 X Primeiro Ministr *_*C_e
_ eu..Iadaatulal.                            do Govomo. Cdu_tsa Rook  o Go". -.0  M.nitr_
d-   -    .  O.d.   IntamtnaJT.Ro   W  Erw
Consdho de/$                           donr  1:  o Ndo   - poro0   inistre dio. Noegdioi zetawn-
CtW   0  1mtm P01 66sW*e %i* doado d pefl   neurk  Adbrto donkqo De de ir           o
dads a Io  edidads juL(deim. sob a iuSsle do vmags-  _   J      o Ad.s o PfbIioa, Ptaw
*~~~~~~~W  45 241944 C-                                          Fiex Fressagodo o Re 0luto  de di  Ztrnbu is a
F n... - T.1a Awed. d Am2u. -0 MWI*.-
_______    -----------_ ------_ ---_ -- -----  tro   di   Agricultum  *  P.m..,  dewa    Aguiur  o   Sm rt..
m| Dlo R.ovs.-0  Mi.istro-D,lgado do Polmdro
Minato prm oDiatrito de .Pop4. NMasd Quw*wus
CONSELHO  DE MINISTROS               d. |    Z:o eeto   O.-O e    ientro   da C.qmq% Oiu.
Meimo Pew  &do CoW..- 0 Msinixtro mlg.ode d
Dmstol-Id  . 43JS8                  Primeiro Ministro. NoM ad         Afmo.e Y.r a.
-0 MmiaRAo do EdaOno * Coulter. U& alli rep
Torondo-e  n*rio istobosr sgo  disipi.   Eap4rb Sawd   h       Oad"   0 Mintern  d.   as*&, Tss)aulb.
dAO_  As stililgi. does. do Patrim6nio Imobl-   *   prona  Sotial. Ai.do   N cV.s d5mWe-0
tiod do Fdatd. d..tinadas a hbiaglo.   .          Minmto de 3qupamsnto.SoosslO AzmbIs.t.. Oa&.
_ mdgedo_e so     * Dmubfdo - do I
Umwido- d*  f-eu cdadesf-or  1in te$do    do d.o 4       -                *          -.  'V.
*        CONEL 47.*o &Nu& #)do oDtig. 42.e:di C -. *o"o ,  .
00Tovrd. iopdblies 'Dumoea-tie  dO &. Tod                      d          *
1i4P% do    d     o   reeidgo    wsinto.          0 Pr; mMilt a& nte lledel *              .



54 -                                              Annex 4
Page 2 of 10
NCNtEltO  28-23 DE DEZEMiBRO DE  198S                                                            293
Capitu  I - Do Comtituti o               receita ontreouo. to Fundo redeo identificedA   soerILo
Artigo 1.0I  e   institucecnoliode o Futrdo Social 9 d    mantidOm subcontM  nao tormse requcridos por contratos
Infraestrututrs (f Sl) cono ent'dedo juridiea. sob tutelo  espocAficcs. As contas sel.o morimnentodsa per mcio de
do P1rimoiro Ilininro. ecm personal drd, iuridies plena   cheques, usinadao pslo Dioetor Executive e p.r urn
*uttcntmnia edminist etive. te n     e16weirs con   membro do Corwiho Adminitrtivo, e stlarle sjo 't
osseguintes objectivooeotribui5esoefung6es:         a preo    dO cont" so aw-T0 r,oflnta .
a) Receber as Fundes Orauentois quo lhe sjoj      mente compotent.
proporciwsdos poleTsT.m. National;                          Cspitsk m  &a ?.dm.s-Dmm
8) Captar sceurse provenient.s do cantribuigdes nio  Art 7J -Pais IuiOr ufs r   prorinda pleoge doe
reembols4weis. de Goeoee  aigs, orgWnisos inter-   ous rwOatoUiU deTdoYre daFSI:
raciono. o utreos doAdcm intirnnoso extemos;                       L Cop e deo Impige
c) NegoCior empreotiMoN ConaM_ionix, noc tormos
que correspordern sa. equiitts a on objectivos do FBI;  A. Idonta lco rorgnroeco            rojecteso
programs. corn alto india. do rontabil= social o
d) Acoitoro recebertd*4em eap"ci ou em dinheiro   msAimo potenceildeg.raooddemprego;
* distribui.loe atrnrds do. orgonismos critAo ou a or
criodos por o efeito;                                 B Financi r prciol ou toWmente progrem s a pro-
e) Administrar cm furdo. referidos nos parigrafos   jectos quesatisfoqom asseguntescondig6es:
precedentes, stribuirda-as so financtamento de progra-  a) Inicio imediato;
mas . projoetas de execuglo imediat- ou de curto prezo.    b) Concluslo no prazo mdiAzno de tres ano e maio;
Copitule 1 ds O7ga,zaoo e Gostlo              c) UtilizasAo extensiva do mro-de-obro locol, em veT
Art. 2.0   1. 0 FSI 6 gerido por um Conselho dt Ad-   desolugoescapitalinteasivosemequipsmentas;
ministrasoo composto de cinco membroe: um presidente.  d) PreviLo dos empcifiaq6es t6cnicas aswim como
umn vice-prcsd'snte e totrs vgiS.                   supervisao e acompaenhamento de ezecug&o por Ag6ncias
2-0 Conselho de AdmninistrecLo A presidido polo   Publicas e Privada;
Primeairo Ministro. quo d-signarA oS quatro membros   e) Roeponsabilidado do oxeeuplo a cargo deoentidodes
fmstontoo.                                          Pdblicas entidades privads. cooperativas. grupoa co-
3.-OVie-Presicdntetprsidirt oConselho na ousn-   munitSrioc grupos civicos a religioso. ou associagts
cia oupor do1ogaio do Presidents.                   expresornentecontrotsduperoesteprop6sito;
Art. 3.0   1. Sori nomeado polo Presidente do FSI    f) Montanto de controtos individuais resultantos de
para dirigir as actividad. do Fundo um Director Exe-   progmmra ou project.. espocificos. nho suporior a US$
cutivo.                                             100.000; scsim, os progremas ou projectos particulame
2.- 0 Direetor Executivo participa neo rouni6es do   k:iso subdivid doe so mAximo, par habilitar o maior
Conselho doeAdrninistra^lo, oem diroito*voto       tnaemrozI onivl do conrtrutores e fornecodores a compe-
Conseho deAdminstrs~fia,mom dreitoa vot.  tmrom oo  duioa
Art. 4.0-0 Conselho de Adminiitryoo aprovxr       t
no prazo do 30 diss o regulamento quo roger& as suas  g) Todo. os deemboloe do F8I torSo par boa  urn
actividedes a ae norms . procediment.o du oper      cronogroma de anno das obri. fornecido polo cons-
soeernm obrigatoriomento obeervedo. na formularAo   trutoreaprov dopolo superviiord ontidodooxeeutoro;
o ap'entacio de projecto. ao Fundo Socir.l e do Infraos-  A) 0. .bjcctivos sociais o escn6micos do FSI do *tin-
truturas na esecurAo do projectoe, no gestlo dos fundo.  gidos polos program" ou molboris fisic";
atribuldoe a crd% projecto, no supervisAo do oxocu;ilo
de3te, nt emnortizeq6e, no eaaliades ex antseeex poet  Cd in timula    ciarprojeet n  fg e peeif
a em qualquer outrofs spoct.. colovontes quo poem   dra seguir. observadas as condi5de odisnto estobolo
fector a realizwlo doe sus objectivos.              cidua:
Art. 8.0 - Compote so Director Executivo:           a) Construggode com"shrusts.para fomilia do bhixo
rndirnkento;
a) Preatar contas dos Fundoe looi. nos termot dt
LAi. No ceo de fundoe estrfngeiroee prestr contm nos  bJ eparsodoinstco          ore;
tormos das rcspectivex clAuulws contratuosi; estee   c) Construelo, reporaOoo zm&-tInz de instalagas
controL. podomn incluir ciLu ules do supervisto poal    Goveraemonteiacm poquenos locided-is;
organiz&Oo ou entidade doodor. tnrers quo pode Gabor  d) Conrtrulgo ou rore.o do sitema de *b,stoi-
b pr6pria organizsa4o dorAdors ou e torcoiros;      mento'.. dgue potiLvel * de otgotos com o omprmgo do
b) Prestar contas enu ie sobre a fonte o a plipisTo   metodoe de utilioao  intenivs do mlode-obm;
doe furA.. obtidoe o tribufdoe, ublicando.as na gazota  p)Mnutenoe   homtao  viepEblioso o d
cA301  '.  . .           ostrr.d t   rursi. o de ae_o. eor o emprego do andds
e) Publicer o volit6rio d- aunitorin rnual. ide acrdo   ,dentdusalointivdedelddohro;
eom as norm  loosis o as roquilit4c da. organizag8qs 'a  { -        eo a.1,As. am
doed.rAo.                                           ur    adoitoedo           ntopluviol;
Art. 6..'- o: FBI abrlrA.. no Bone.o Nocional do        aro          ossed   a4sMsias
S&* To" e Principo, uns conta &'nomindAie. FundCidp
Social * de Infraostrutures (FSI) no quel d   itAk \ D. Inetiaro  utr* opo toa                   ,
tod..a m*et quIo lhe sojom afeetada polo Tsouro        oed  pn                 i_    's
Xaei.asb. seda as fund. quo soeebor a tituo 4. doF.     n         gips l i        - a     s"
iss, mpl        . admisi*te. Ot.As font" da           td q_            a       *           



Annex 4
-55 -                                             Page 3 of 10
292                                                                 DIARIO DA REPOBLICA
Ar& 22.0 - A Sciedade obrip-e pou  eisrtoas                        CAPITULO  VI
ejunts' do dais mministradoeo. ou de umn adminLi-               udaw Lam., Resum  s  D1 ds
[ ~~~~trmior o d, procurador. ml un downtles repre tnto do R _*_
.6.1maaorstAio. mes prejuso do dispoeto porn rtigeo  Art. 27.-Oanoeoial o a an eivil. En wlk9"&dft
15°,. in. 2* 20.*, n.e 2 doetes ostatut ns.       ano  mi feito ur balsng, quo enoorrri - 31 do Do-
AVt 22.- 1. Afi cfizaq&odo activldads social corn-m bo
pw a urn Comelbo Fil coupeto dce  tis mombreo        Art. 28.6 -So prfmjusododipo neartigep 1.0.*2
ofectivs* d      poi  t  que p      l Me  oie-   lne s) dote.oest tuto. an lucrom lguidao todo a *a-
aimOsa, Iit  tri" t     ps  A    blwia G     .    gui-to aplicaoo:
twmac da Lmi.                                        a) o% pa to fundo bd mttra Igql;
s. As atribuipee do Coalbho Fiesi s*c as co5ntm    6) As quantias votedas pds An blwhis Goad pus a
das I.                                             Esaotituig6o de qussquer fundo de resrva;
CAPITULO V                          c) 0 saldo, depois do aplisoso a quaisqu@r outros
O    _mmsIhe Cmoultsv  -            fwn  detorminadam phk Assombleis Geral. par  divi-
Art. 24.0- 1. Como 6rgLo do consult do Coraelho do   dondo
Admini.trf4o. 6 constituido o Conslho Consultivo                    CAPITULO Vil
composto por pet onali4ades antomenee  estrangesiroe             Dssolu*  o eLuidao
corm reconhecida capacidade o compet6nci, nos domei-
nio abranglicoe polo objecto social, s6cios ou nlo d1  Art. 29.@- Pars ol6m dispoeto no artigo m  alnn.
sociedsds.                                         1) as ociedade pcd3r& dissolver-e nos termos da Lei.
2-0 Conselho Consultivo e deeign do pals Asm-      Art. 30.0   I. A liquidsqo da sociodaode mer fet
bleis Gesl ob propoets do Con elbo de Administraio,  extrsjudicisImento no. termos lagp a das dalibereq6o
o pods er largado por doliberslo do Conselho de Ad.  tomadas em Aswmbleis Geral.
ministraoo no perlodo entre dues Asembloass Gerais   2 Se4lo liqridatUrim oe sdmin-stradore em exetrleio
*ujeito A ratificoso pebl iUtimn.                  & data da diesolujL,3 slvo me a Aemsmblba nommar ou-
3.-O ntmero do membroe do Conmelto Consultivo   troe liuiduatrios.
A variivol, ul o podondo exeeder vinte e o repectivo                CAPITULO VIII
mardato 6 vUiido por trhs anoe a contar da data de As-
embleia Gral quo oc drignar.                                       Dig      Paa   c
4.- 0 mandato doe membroe do Conselho Consultivo   Art. 3L.°- As pemoss colectivas quo mejam accionistas
designados posteriormente polo Conselho de Admzini-   podom ser eleits pars o deeempenho de cargo. ac iss
traoo find& eom a mandato do. membro. oloitoi noe  fazendo-se repremontar no exerciclo doe moemo. por um
tormoc do n.0 2 anterior.                          doe eous adminiatradores ou par mandatkrio par o efeito
deeigndo, caujos podereo. no entanto, eriLo a tod. o
5.-OConselhoConsultivo6presididopolop; -idento  tempo rovogveis pela rmpectiva ropmrtada.
do Conselho de Administrsqlo o ncas eus reunioee po-
dem participar o. deoaie momrbro. do Conselho de Ad.    Art. 3S2. -  1t admit:d a* realeiplo para as dife-
ministragIo.                                       rentes 6rglo. sociaic.
Art. 25.0 -Ao Conselho Consultivo compete:         2. Oc membro. doe 6rgoe *ociaie parmanoo.i1o no
*x rcicio doe meus cargo. *te  eleiglo daquelos quo me
a) Dar perecer sobte o program, da *ctividIde dA   devam  substituir.
Empress quo vonha a mer olaborado polo Coneelho de
Administrao,d Art. 33. -Todo. oe litigioemogentme    doete ontruto
e   cisdide d mtto Lefluitivaomte resolvidoa mspedo
b) Pronunciar-m sobre projecto. de desnvolvirento  ao Regram de Conoiliaoo o Arbitrgem  da COtars de
de trasportee quo intore    so Governo da Repgo:    Com6rcio Intomaoional. par um on v&nrie irbitro. no-
e) Dar me partomree quo Ie hoejem solicitados peal   meado. de harmonis con as reforidas Regras.
Amembleia Geral, polo Conmelho  Administraqo ou
polo eu Presidents sobre todas am quesadms quo Ibe _
jam mubmatideas integradm no exoreloie do objee                            Zso 4'
cisl;                                                Conmiderando as limitais depoibllWdAs de metes
d) Propdr a Amembleia Goral am inloistivas quo jul   de nanceireo do Governo pam fer fam h orie oeo6nmio,
adequadu pars, a promeou9o do objeot. da mociedade;  e weilda & recometruo dos infrstrtum 0sseomn6ioa
e) Pretar so Conho do Ainimtraoo  a eolabora-   elAmain quoe eanontrasmoiiL elln
p1o por edn solicitda.                               Oonidersndo quo me toe  somnfire, griet urn 6glo,
Art. 26.-1.O Cosslho Coamutivo rounir6 obriga-   amofiSeem fndde  sgleooilia mledm q .
doriment6 ums ves eDati&o nanterxo dau   mgma" pars   umn alto indi d e
co ogda lips ) o atio ateiorc omre queo ~Jo   g.fam - grands mime.d  mep  uo dea oa
do Adrninistra*l por iocativa prpria on hblotg.otvinpoonindtmieoss
do Asmemblela Coralue do CoeAeho de  drnmtsl,        Nest.. ternee:     
*@rneaDseits papt me fi isdlcadie soe aitigo anterior.    Usedo des famlidlo saa  As Pd. wO 2  Ai
IL As 4aibs.sgles de Ceemeke Ceosdutivo d6 por* tPg. 4760 sul l ) do   4_e            t     
sr tomades dude. qo . ja paint. a maLiorua des  So. e Oomwm d_                D.mas a l
evs asbre  umov.                  ,                 lrm4po. doieta one                           '



Annex 4
-56  -                                             Page  4  of  10
-4                                                                 D1 RIO DA REPCBLICA
E Pr.,nover e %poir matoriintrnntc a form-aKio do   sade. per ewrnto directamente entre an boneofiiLries
usoeiaqoe do riucleos humanos. coop3rativas ou org-  a es contrOtanteu ou * entidade executors. 0 FSI as
niz.&-ea que busquem o d-sonvolrimento de octivid6dss   gurarA quo todts Os cuos. pwe    e proesdisoatoo do
prcdnivrase a darrunuiAododsmmprego.              comprs incluidos no     eotra*e p.. oeerite wjm
correctas e rO vzei5 a eumptm as vrquimitee dw
It - Seetar da gS"s, e Ed.catdo           orgauaaq        de Ladeors  iDternocioeaie reevbntee.
Proporcinanr recursee parkprogrrna desoAdeeedo-                 xv -v         * C     d
ca;io nas segu&ntes Aroeas:-Vol,I      460     acdd
a) Aumentodontinwoded.mbade oulo;                  Aft. IO.s-A viknein do FBI eeongra  m data de
puLlieco dets Deeto. A  o ceesAo subsequent.
b) Habit*4&o pars professores em Are" remotas;  r:    oujeita a   prococronto  roferido  no artigo
aeguinto.
c) Uelhorio dos serigo. de transportes escolr;
d) Melhoria do oforto doe liros didicticos o material    Art. 11. -O  FSI extinruir-se*1: caom a rorifioo
escolsr;                                           das seguintes condiq&3 cumiulatirr,s
e) Assisthncianaorradieapiods msliria;             a) As octividodes do FSI srio trnsforidrs a um
f) 3lehoria do conheeimento popular era materia de   6riio *ucessor do Gorerno ou h urnn lnstitui;&o Finrn-
nutriVAo, sonoamentota lisgione;                   ceir&Autdnimana ditadz coosawlo;
9) Alivio da f?± __teso       n to*4znciais.       b) Quisaquer excedentoa de Fumnas nii compromotidc3
pore prop6sitos ospocificoa otu resultaatcs de imobiliva-
mII _ Sectoe do Fodusl-               4iSo ou recuporeglo serio trensferidos oo Tesouro Pui-
blico ou Instituicio Finr&coirm Sucessora. o Tesouro
A. Proporcionar financiamento de contropartids a en-   ou Institui9bo Financoimr Buresora sora respons6vel
tidades piGblicas a privodi do Seetor do ProdueLo, pora   pola recupereiSo de fundo. cujo pagartonto e toje pen-
projectos e programns em relepqo aso quois ii tenhim   dentenadote dextincio. Qusisquerffu doecoroprome.
sida comprooietidos recursos estrongeiroe desdo quo:  tidoe parr prop8sitoe especifics serio desembolasdoe ha
entiddes exoecutoras;
'a) A entido de em questio nbo disponba de fundo. pr6-
prios pare cobrir seus requisiteo  de cootropartida;    c) 30 dias op6s a notifi5caeo do extinvao, do FSI
0 t o tontnha   sprosentarb urn relatirio de auditoria *obre as suas ope-
b) O projecto soja alt mente prioritArio a conteDh   rar3e a o uso doe fundoes. relioao pets Inspeogo de
um *lto griu de rentabidliode social. slem de er com-   Finanoe. Este relt6rio observrfi os tormos dos con-
p&tivel com oe objectivoe do FSI incluindo objettives do  trotas formulizadoe con orgsnisde * doedorsw Inter-
Governo em privatizor olguns doe empreondimento4 e   rAcionaioe
funeos pdblicas;
c) 0 montante do pedido nbo exoeda de 20% do usft.    Art. 12.0 -0 proente doereto-li entrn em vigor no
total do projecto e o equiwoleato de USS 150.000;  data do eua publicsIo.
B. Proporcionnr a entidcdes pilibliceas e privodos do  Vieto e oproredo em  Consulho de Ministroe *m
setor do produ;bo unms opontec finoncirs pars pro-   S. Tom6r soe 22 do Novenbro de 198g. -0 Primeiro
jectoe em relo9bo *ae quoie exista comproraisso de fin-  Ministro, Clano, Rrce la Coma. -0  MinistrO dz
ciomento, deede quo:                               Defesoe; Ordain Intrna. Rail Wagr Brgsa9  do
a) Tanho sid* obtids a autorissoo do entidade fiin    Coae4do Nuto. -0 Ministro doe Neg6cioe Eetmngeire,
ciadlors;                                          Cn40oeMbedo Nowie Diaide Orapa.- Polo Ministro
- ~~~~~~~~~do Justigs * Adminise0  PdWibs CeXno Aoais
b) 0 perlodo da oponto finanoeim n mo ezoedo 13   Cot. -0 Mimisro do Economis * Fimonpe. Agpibo
meoes o 0eu montante nbao eis superior a 20% do ousto   Mendes Dies. - Pdol Minireo do Atriculturo  Poe_.
total do project.e o equiralent.a US$ 60.000;      M.uuld  V. A..   eresnwl - Polo Minwoo-Dleo-
gedo do Primeiro Mminitro ers o Distrito de Pegu6.
c) 0 projct. eostbjo soeisimente juetifitcdo * a   CddWiaoRocA.deCoil.-P elionhstrodo C.opeeno.
vlo de obra intensive;            _                 Mand Vat Afon. Irido.. -0  Ministro-d;
do Prieiero Miitre. Masud ra_ s       P
8) Seo etompativl sea ao  objectives do Funds.  - o Ministro do E eAoOqe * CslturSJ. ;14.   o.rep,
intir ds-  q*e Seat Cook.-O Y init tre o   deS* Trlh-eo
Art. 8. .- Em qualquer moment o** n sb& soiro de-   Eeprn*  8ociol. -0  Vai trdAleOdib. -   rsielo
ribo 7o FSI pcderb inspeerionor. por meio do muo Pr&a           al. nt e    Vei    lmeiedOMiai  e
pria pseaol ou de terairs a ozeeu$go de teds a quol-   d            e
qura perte do program  a pPremuigdm ado Dmbrodje 1s
cisf e bm asi  erir e eaprionto des ebr4igldod _bod 1
emnmsids por eoshdadmpdblios ou privade.                                      
Publiqlae-es-
Adt. .0 -A  exss   doe program" doe proe                -       -
pele   FBI sy  rogida pot etrsta formal-   0 Pr,mid.t, da *Fdhuse * M  P0    l



Annex 4
Page 5 of 10
[Official Gazecte, No. 28, 23 December 19881
Decree-Law No. 45/88
Whereas limited avellabilicy of financial means an the part of the
governent to cope with the economic and social crisis and reconstruction of
the economic and fiscal infrascructures that are in deterioration;
Whereas it has become necessary. to establish an organization with
specific responsibilities for acquisition and use of resources, the financz.ng
of projects offering a high rate of economlc and social yield, and generating
a large number of jobs and thac can be implemented In a maximum period of
three and one-half years;
Therefore:
By virtue of the authoricy granted by No. 2 of Article 47 and Subpara-
graph g) of Article 42 of the Political Constitution, the Government of the
Democracic Republic of S. Tome and Principe, decrees and I promulgate the
following:
Chapter I - Chartering
Article 1 - The Social and Infrastructures Fund (FSI) is institutlonal-
ized as a legdl entity, under the purview of the Prime Minister, with full
legal status, administrative, technical and financial autonomy, with the
following objectives, responsibilities and duties:
a) Receive the Budget Funds allocated to it by the NationaI Treasury;
b) Acquire resources coming from nonreimbureible contributions, from
friendly Governments, international organizations and other internal and
external donors;
c) Negotiate corcessional loans, on terms reflecting the requirements
and objectives of the FSI;
d) Accept and receive donations in kind or in cash and distribute them
tthrough the organizations created or to be created for this purpose;
e) Admiuiscer the funds mentioned in preceding parag-iphs allocating
E Cm ra financing of programs and projects for Immediate or short term imple-
muiic^ation.
Chapter II - Organization and Management
Article 2 - 1. The FSI is managed by the Board of Directors consisting
of five members: a chairman, a vice chairman and three voting members.
2 - The Board of Directors is chaired by the Prime Minister, who shall
appoint the other four members.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 10
- 58 -
3 - The Vice Chairman shall chair the Board In the absence or upon
delegation by the Chairman.
Article 3 - 1. An Execucive Director shall be appointed by the Chairman
of the PSI co head up the activities of the Fund.
2 - The Executive Director shall cake part in the meetings of the Board
of Directors, vlthout voting privileges.
Article 4 - The Board of Directors shall apprcve, within a period of 30
days, the regulations that shall govern Its activities and the norms and pro-
cedures for operations to be observed obligatorily in formulation and submis-
slion of projects to the Social and Infrastructures Fund ln the implementation
of projects, in the management of the funds allocated to each project, In
overslght of the implementation of the latter in amortizations, In ex ante
and ex post assessuents and In any other pertinent aspects that may affect
realization of its objectives.
Article 5 - It is the responsibility of the Executive Director:
a) To render an accounting of the local Funds, under the terms of the
Law.  In the case of foreign funds, to render an accounting under the terms
of the respective contractual clauses: such contractos may include clauses for
oversight by the donor organization or agency, a function that may devolve
upon the donor organization itself or third parties;
b) Render yearly accounts on the source and application of funds
obtained and allocated, publishing them in the official gazette;
c) Publish the report of the annual audit, In accordance with local
standards and the requirements of donor organizatlons.
Article 6 - The FSI shall open, at the National Bank of Sao Tome and
Principe, an account designated as Social and Infrastructures Fund (FSI), in
which it shall deposlt all revenues allocated it by the National Treasury and
all the funds that it receives as donations, loans, administration, etc..
The sources of the revenues turned over to the Fuud shall be Identified and
subaccounts shall be maintained under the terms required by specific
contracts. The accouncs shall be accessed by means of checks, signed by the
Executive Dlrector and by a member of the Board of Directors, and shall be
subject to an accounting to the legally competent Government agency.
Chapter III - Authorities - Responsibilities
Article 7 - In order to assure prioritized application of Its
resources, the responsibilities of the FSI shall be:



Annex 4
59 -iPage 7 of 10
I. Creation of Employment
A. Identify and organlze lmplementation of projects and programs having
a high rate of social profitability and maximum potential for creating employ-
ment;
B. Partially or tctally finance programs and projects satisfying the
following conditions:
a) Immediate start up;
b) Conclusion within a maximum period of three and one-half years;
c) Extensive use of local labor, instead of solutions that are capital
intensive iu equipment;
d) Providing technical specifications, as well as oversight and monitor-
ing of implementation by Public and Private agencies;
e) Responsibilicy for implementation under the responsibility of Public
agencies, private agencies, cooperatives, community groups, civic and
religious groups, or associations expressly contracted for this purpose;
f) Amount of individual contracts resulting from specific programs or
projects not to exceed US$ 100,000; therefore, programs or specific projects
shall be subdivided as much as possible, to enable the greatest possible
number of constructors and suppliers to compete for the awards;
g) All FSI disbursements shall be based on a schedule of progress of
the work, supplied by the constructor and approved by the supervisor of the
implementing organization;
h) The economic and social objectives of the FSI shall be accomplished
through programs or physical improvement.
C. Stimulate and finance projects in the following specific areas,
observing the above laid down conditions:
a) Building of cheap housing for low income families;
b) Repair of school facilities;
c) Building, repair and maintenance of Government facilities in small
locallties;
d) Building or repair of drinking water supply and sewerage using
methods making intensive use of labor;
e) Maintenance and improvement of public roads and rural streets and
access roads using methods intensively resorting to labor;



-60 -                                  Annex 4
Page 8 of 10
f) Maintenance and improvement of payments in urban areas and ralnwater
drainage syscems;
S) Building or repair of Municipal sarkets.
D. Stimulate and orient participation of interests In Implementation of
social projects such ad comunity assoclations, labor groups or representa-
tives of organlzations that should manage the projects thac are concluded.
E. Promote and materially support formation of human nucleus associa-
tions, cooperatives or organizatlons seeking to develop productive activlties
or reduclng unemployment.
IT - Health and Education Sector
Provide resources for health and education program in following areas:
a) Increasing number of classrooms;
b) Housing for teachers in remote areas;
c) Improvement la school transportation service;
d) Improving supply of instructional books and school equipment;
e) Assiatance in elimination of malaria;
f) Improving people's awareness in matters of nutrition, cleanliness
and hygiene;
g) Alleviating severe shortage of essential medicines.
III - Productive Sector
A. Financially provide a counterpart to public and private organiza-
tions of the Productive Sector, for projects and programs regarding which
they have already committed foreign resources, provided:
a) The organization in question does nor have own funds to cover its
counterparc requirements;
b) The project is top priority and contdans a high degree of social
- itability in addition to being compatible with the objectives of the FSI
-liuding objectives of the Government to privaclze some public enterprises
acu responsibilities;
c) Amounc of the request does not exceed 20 percent of total cost of
project and/or the equivalent of US$ 150,000.



- 61 -                                  Annex 4
Page 9 of 10
B. Provide public and private organizations of the productive sector
with a financial "bridge" for projects regarding which there is a finance
commitment, provided:
a) Authorization of the finance agency has been obtained;
D) The period of the financial "bridge" does not exceed 12 months
and/or its amount is not in excess of 20 percent of the total cost of the
project and/or the equivalent to USS 60,000;
c) The project is socially justified and labor intensive;
d) It is compatible with the objectives of the Fund.
Article 8 - At any time and at its entire discretion, the FSI may
inspect, by means of its own personnel or third parties, implementation of
any and all parts of programs or projects that it is financing, as well as
verify fulfillment of the obligations assumed by public or private organiza-
tions.
Article 9 - Implementation of the programs of the projects financed by
the FSI shall be governed by contracts formalized in writing directly between
the beneficiaries and the contracting parties or the implementing organiza-
tion. The FSI suiall ensure that all costs, prices and purchasing procedures
included in such contracts are in writing correct and reasonable and fulfill
the requ1.rements of the respective international donor organizations.
Chapter IV - Applicability and Expiration
Article 10 - Applicability of the FSI shall begin on the date of publi-
cation of this Decree. Its subsequent transfer shall be subject to the proce-
dures indicated in the following article.
Article .1 - The FSI shall terminate with verification of the following
cumulative conditions:
a) The activities of the FSI shall be transferred to a successor organi-
zation of the Governiment or to an autonomous financial institution on the
date of cessation;
b) Any excess of the Funds not committed for the specific purposes or
r sulting from immobilization or recovery shall be transferred to the Public
. .%sury or Successor Financial Institution, che Treasury or Successor Finan-
'..<Ltnstirution shall be responsible for recovery of funds whose payment is
pciiding on the date of terminacion. Any funds commlited for specific pur-
poses shall be disbursed to the implementing organization;
c) Thirty days after notification of termination, the FSI shall submit
an audit report on its operations and use of funds, done by the Controller's
Office. This report shall comply with the terms of concracts formalized with
International donors and organizations.



Annex 4
62-                                 Page 10 of 10
Article 12 - This decree-law shall enter into effect on the date of its
publication.
Seen and approved by the Council of Ministers In S. Tome on 22 November
1988. -- The Prlm. Minister, Celestino Rocha da Costa. -- The Minister of
Defense And Internal Order, Raul Wagner, Braganca da Conceicao Neto. -- The
Mlnister of Foreign Affairs, Carlos Alberto Monteiro Dias da Graca. -- For
che Minister of Justice and Public Administration, Celestino Rocha da Costa.
- Th. Miniscer of Economy and Finance, Agapito Mendes Dias. -- For the
Mlnister of Agriculture and Fishing, Manuel Vaz Afonso Fernandes. -- For the
Minister-Delegate of the Prime Minister for the District of Pague, Celestino
Rocha da Costa. -- For the Minister of Cooperation, Manuel Vaz Afonso
Fernandes. -- For the Minister-Delegate of the Prime Minister, Manuel Vaz
Afonso Fernandes. -- The Minister of Education arnd Culture, Ligia Silva Graca
Espirito Santo Costa. -- The Minister of Health, Labor and Social Security,
Armlindo Vaz d'Almeida. -- The Minister of Social Equipment and Environment,
Carlos Ferreira.
Promulgaced on 8 December 1988.
To be published.
The President of the Republic, MANUEL PINTO DA COSTA.



- 63 -                         Annex 5
Page 1 of 5
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
MULTI-SECTOR PROJECT
Social and Infrastructure Fund (SIF)
Description of Organizational Functions
A. Prime Minister:
The Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and
Principe is the ultimate authority of the Social and Infrastructure Fund.
He is chairman of the Fund's Board of Administrators and all appointments
to the Board are subject to his approval.
B. Board of Administrators:
The Board of Administrators consists of four voting members and
the Prime Minister as Chairman of the Board. The Board epproves the
appointment of the Executive Administrator of the Fund. The Executive
Administrator of the Fund attends Board meetings but does not vote. The
four voting members are appointed by the Prime Minister from the private
sector and government. The Board establishes its rules of procedure and
bylaws which govern all activities of the Fund. In azcordance with the
Presidential Decree establishing the Fund, the Board's bylaws cover
policies and regulations concerning subproject formulation, appraisal,
raising and administration of funds, supervision, repayments, evaluation
and other relevant aspects which may affect the accomplishment of the
objectives. The Board reviews and approves the Fund's quarterly reports on
its fund raising and allocation of funds received, prior to public
dissemination. Meetings of the Board are held at least twice a month.
C. Executive Administrator:
The Executive Administrator is the highest ranking administrator
within the operations of the Fund and directly accountable to the Board of
Administrators. The Executive Administrator serves on a full-time and
exclusive basis, subject to annual performance reviews by the Board. The
Executive Administrator renders account in accordance with local legal
requirements and agreements with IDA and other donor organizations. These
accounts address the source and application of funds raised, received and
allocated. Annual accounts of the Fund are published in the Government
Gazette. The Executive Administrator is responsible for reconciling
deposits into and withdrawals from the SIF account with the National Bank
of Sao Tome and Principe and has signature authority over the account by
authority of the Board of Administrators.
Especially in its start-up phase, the Executive Administrator is
the Fund's main advocate and proponent and primarily responsible for
ensuring that the Action Plan agreed to between the IDA and the Government,
is pursued according to schedule and that all actions are accomplished.



- 64 -                         Annex 5
Page 2 of 5
Concurrently, the Executive Administrator organizes the four departments of
the Fund, allocates financial and manpower resources to mobilize activities
and actively pursues interventions by Government, the Board and IDA to
eliminate shortfalls and obstacles impeding the successful development of
the Fund.
The Executive Administrator makes an initial, and subsequently
periodic, assessment of the existing and potential capabilities of Fund
staff and presents to the Board and IDA a training strategy and a staff
training program. The Executive Administrator also initiates and
supervises the recruitment of consultants, especially, the principal
Project Management Consultant (PHC) under Terms of Reference agreed by the
Government and IDA. All SIF consultants report to the Executive
Administrator while on assignment to the Fund. Staff and consultant
performance and progress in training are subject to periodic review by the
Executive Administrator.
The Executive Administrator attends all Board meetings and
executes the decisions of the Board. Policies either originate with the
Board or are formulated by the Executive Administrator, in response to
operational needs, for the approval of the Board. The Executive
Administrator further ensures that the Fund's four departments adhere to
established policies and procedures, especially, appraisal methodology. He
signs off on subproject approvals, contracts and disbursements, within the
limits of the authority delegated to him by the Board.
The Executive Administrator leads the promotion of the Fund to
the community, including private enterprises, in order to ensure that the
services of the Fund are widely publicized, understood and used. The
Executive Administrator similarly leads the promotion of the Fund to the
international donor community.
The Executive Administrator familiarizes himself and ensures
compliance with IDA's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants and Guidelines
for the Procurement of Goods and Services by making appropriate
recommendations to the Board and by overseeing actions taken by staff and
consultants.
D. Fund Administration Department
The Fund Administration Department is responsible for all
administrative functions, including the following areas:
-    management of records and statistics on the Fund and the
country;
-    preparation and distribution of minutes of Board meetings;
-    preparation of operating reports and follow up on Board
decisions;
-    procurement of works, goods and services;
-    preparation of bid tabulations, unit price schedules, and
evaluations;



- 65 -                         Annex5
Page 3 of S
processing of subproject agreements vith sponsoring and
executing agencies;
personnel records and services;
coordination of staff training; and
vehicles, office equipment, communications and travel.
E. Finance and Accounting Department:
The Finance and Accounting Department is responsible for all
financial management functions, including the following areast
-    setting up financial records and accounting procedures;
-    bookkeeping and computing services;
-    preparation of quarterly and annual financial reports to Board;
-    preparation of annual operating budget;
-    preparation of annual financial plan and cash flow requirements;
-    payments to sponsoring/executing agencies, foreign suppliers,
contractors
-    collection of loan payments
-    preparations to meet auditing requirements of IDA;
-    preparation of disbursement applications to IDA, its control and
its reporting;
-    credit portfolio management
-    loan/grants disbursed and credit collection; and
-    payroll
F. Fund Promotion Department:
The Fund Promotion Department is responsible for the promotion
of the Fund to potential beneficiaries and fund raising from the
international donor community, including the following areas:
-    assessment and monitoring of market for Fund services;
-    community relations work;
-    publication of information about the Fund;
-    presentations to potential donor organizations;
-    follow-up on contacts initiated by Executive Administrator;
-    initiation of contacts witn potential beneficiaries;
-    organizational assistance to emerging sponsoring agencies; and
-    identification of executing agencies.
G. Subproject Development Department:
The Subproject Development Department is responsible for
technical services and economic analysis of subprojects, including the
following areas:
-    selection, evaluation and appraisal of subproject proposals;
-    interpretation of established subprojects financing criteria;
-    guidance to sponsoring agencies in subproject preparation;
-    drafting of terms of reference for required specialty
consultants;



-66-                          Annex5
Page 4 of 5
-    tracking of social benefits and employment generation
accomplished by Fund;
-    recommendations to Executive Administrator on competing
subprojects proposals;
-    monitoring of subproject implementation by sponsoring/executing
agencies;
-    recomendations to Executive Administrator on payment
applications;
-    review of subproject specifications and other documentation; and
-    liaison with Government units in facilitating subproject
implementation.
H. Staffing of Fund Departmentst
Each department is managed by a professionally qualified department
head who reports to the Executive Administrator. If qualified individuals
are available, department head positions are filled locally. Otherwise,
fixed-term consultants are retained to fill vacant positions, until local
staff hired in parallel positions can assume the necessary responsibilities
through formal and on-the-job training. Support staff, in numbers
corresponding to the actual workload, are similarly hired locally to the
extent available and augmented as necessary, by expatriates who provide on-
the-job training. Intensive training programs at all staff levels maximize
employment opportunities for local candidates as the Fund grows and
minimize expenditures for consultants, as trained staff with particularly
high aptitudes eventually assume the training functions too.



- 67 -                       Annex 5
Page 5 of 5
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
---------.---.------------------------------
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE FUND PROJECT
-------------_------------------------
Internal Organization
_____________________
PRIME MINISTER
BOARD OF ADMINISTRATORS
EXECUTIVE ADMINISTRAO
| Fund       |  Finance and|             Fund    | |Subproject         l
Administration     Accounting            Promotion       Evaluation and
Department       Department            Department      Management Dept.
AF4IN
April 17, 1989



- 68 -                                         Annex 6
Page I of 4
DEMOCTIC REPUBL2C OF SAO TOME AID PRINCUE
jMLTI-SECTOR PROJECT
Action Plan of May 11, 1989
RESPONSIBILITY
Too                                                 -     ----------- START FINISH
e.o                 Tosk Description                SIF iEF IDA Other DATE  DATE              COMMENTS
1. :Pr.eldent.il Decree/Establishment of Fund
-- --------------------------------------
Updated Draft                                       : X                      :DONE
Co_nt  fron Govornmnt to IDA                      X :                        :DONE
IDA response to Government                        :  X                       :DOME
Signature of President                            X          :               :DONE
Publation in Governmnt Gazette                    X       :                  :DONE
Notification to IDA                           X            :                 :DONE
Revisions - Review by Governmnt and IDA   X           X X    X  :01/03:01/04 :IDA responoo by 16/06
2. :Appointment of Board of Administrators
------ ----------------------------                     
Nomination of Board mmbrs                                    X               :DONE
Drafting of bylaws                                           X  :16/03:30/06 :By SIF
Coments from IDA                                      X        :16/07:01/08 :
Enactmnt of bylaws                                         X  :01/08:01/10 :By the Admin. Council
3 :Appo7ntm.nt of Executive Admini;rtrator
--------------------------------------
Appoint head of Proj. Office and notify           X                          :DONE
Govt. units                                   :
Assumption of duties as full-time head            X                          :DONE
of Project Office 
Regularization as Executive Administrator:                 X                 :DONE
4. :Appolntment of Department Heads
:-------------------------------: : : :                          :      :      :
Selection and appointment of hoads for   :                 X                 :DONE
aPromotiona and "Subprojects.
Selection and appointment of hoads for            *        X                 :DONE, except
'Finnnc-' and aAdlinistrationg                                             :Administration
Notification to IDA                           X                              :DONE
S. :Selctlon of Junior Staff
:-------------------------                    :    :    :    :
Staffing plan and job descriptions            X                :01'103:
Comments fron IDA                                 X            :01'04:       :By Telex
Board approval                                X                :1S/04:
Hiring for high-priority positions            X                :2C/04:       :By Department Chiefs
Hiring of other staff                         X :0':/06:                     :Depending on work load



-69 -                                         Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
|                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~RESPONSISIUTY
E  Task                                            ----------------- START FINTSH
No.               Taok Description                 SIf MEF IDA Other DA1U  DATE            COMMENTS
. :Recruitment of Consultants to Assist Fwud
:---------------------- --- --------- ------: : : :             :     :      :
Term  of reference of Prinetpel Consult.             X                     :DOSE
Short-list and selection criteria -        s         X :     :15/02:01/07
Principal Consultant                        s
Review and approval of short-list           X   :            :01/07:15/07
Selection of Principal Consultant           X      :         :16/07:01/06
Draft consulting contract                   X        o:   :  :07/07:01/06 :With assist, of IDA
Comments froe IDA                                    X :     :01/0:15/0t
Cont3act award                              X :              :15/06:01/09 :
Commencement of work by Principal Cons.    X       :         :01/09:01/10 :
Assessment of specialty consulting nes d    X      :         :01/10:01/11 :With  assistance of
of Fund                                 :                                 Principal Consultant
Comments froe IDA                                    X       :01/11:01/12 :By Telex
Board approval of consulting needs          X                :01/12:01/01 :1990
assessment
Terms of Reforence for specialty cons.      X                :30/10:01/12 :With  assistance of
Principal Consultant
Short-list and selection criteria           X                :16/11:16/12
Reviow and approval of short-list                    X       :22/12:20/01 :By Telex
Selection of specialty consultants          X        * :     :20/01:01/03
Draft consulting contracts                  X        * :     :20/01:16/03
Comments from IDA                                    X :     :16/03:31/03
Contract awards                             X                :01/04:15/tM
Commencoment of work                        X                :16/04:06/06
7. Staff Training Program
:---------------------- :: 
Assessment of staff training needs          X                :16/07:16/08
Comments from IDA                                    X       :22/08:12/09 :By tolox
Staff training plan and cost ostimate       X                :16/09:30/09  Revised by Council
Comments from IDA                                    X       :01/10:16/10
Implementation                              X                :22/10:CONTD :According to noeds
8.:Un;t Rate Schedule for Civil Works
Draft unit rate schedulo                    X                :01/01:01/03 :1990, after study of
Manpower costs
Commnts from IDA                                     X       :01/03:01/07
Test unit rate in small pilot projects      X                :01/02:16/07
Evaluato results of test                    X        e       :16/06:01/10
Devolop procedure for use of unit rate      X                :01/10:16/11
schedule
Implementation                              X                :16/11:CONTD :According to needs



- 7C -                                        AnDBLw
Page 3 of 4
REUPONSSU LTY
Task                                                       - ------- START FSNISH
No.               Task Doeriptl.on                 sIF Nr IDA Otebr DATE  DATE             COMMENTS
as blr jeet Evaltlo ti    idal i               s l o w                  :
: rmllarimat.lo  with Soliviam guldelin   : X : * : *           :     a       aDONE
: Adpt uld.lise  to loal e.eitte _            X a : s   s       15/03:15/07 s
I Fia.l drOft of Sr  ealuatelon guidelnles  X I   s             :01/07a11/06 s
Coenate from  IDA                              s   s X       :01/09:01/10 :
Implementation                              X s   sO1/10:CONTD :Wlth  assistaneo of
: : : Pricip elC.eltaet
10.:Office Space, Equlpment and VoeIicloe
---------------------------------                 : 
Allocation of office space                                 X               :DONE
Ronovation plan and cost   tites t               *        X  :01/06: 1/06
Coemonte from IDA                                    X       :22/06:30/OS :By Telex
Renovation work                                      :   X  :01/07:01/10
List of equipment requirements (furniture:       a        X                :DONE
t lIphon, tolox)                                   X:
Conwntu from DA                                  * :X:  X                  :DONE
Procurement through competitivo shopping   X   X   :         :16/04:01/07
(min. 3 quotations)
Puchasr  orders based on evaluation         X        X       :01/01:16/07
Arrival of equipmnt                         X                :16/07:16/11
Specification for two all-terrain vohicl.:      X          :               :DONE
Comonts from IDA                           :X      :X                      :DONE
Procurement through competitive shopping :X                  :1S/04:01/07
(sin. S quotations)                           X
Commentu from IDA                           X        X       :01/07:15/07
Arrival of vehicloe                         X        X       :1/0S:i5/09
11.!Promotlon of Fund and Subproj. Identificat.:
------------------------- ------ :::::::
List of potential bn ficiaries             :X                :01/06:15/11
Dovelop promotional materials              :X                :01/06:01/08
Print promotional material                 :X             *  :01/08:01/09
Informtion camplgn                        :X   *             :1/02:CONTD :Continuoo operation
Strategy for contacting targt benefic.  :X   *               :01/07:15/11 :
Promotional goals - first yoer             :X        *       :15/11:1 /12
Promotional goals - second year            aX   *            :1*/06:15/07 :1990
Contacts and prosentat.to target benefic.: X   *             :0I/03:CONTD :Continuos operation
Subproj. proposal properat.- future proj.: X                 :15/01:01/06 :19O
Comments from IDA on future subproject               X       :16/06:01/07 :1990
proposals                               :   :   :   :



71 -                                     Annex  6
Page 4 ot 4
RESWNSIDILITY
Tok                                               -- --------- START FINISH
NO.               Teok Description                SIF  EF IDA Ohr DATE DATE               COMMENTS
12. :Cmpl ioam with Ceeditite  of Eff etmes:   :   :   :
:-             _    _ -~~~~~~~-:    :   :   s        :     :      :
Draft Subtldiary Adititsration Agreemet        :   :          :01/06:01/00:
:Review     Sub. Aie. AS         by IDA          :   :   :     :01/0:01/0:
a Rtifleet. of Sub. Admim.Agromt.by SIF/MEF:   :               :01/00:01/10:
: Select Ace"atet/Coecitet                                    l:01/06:01/U@:
: IDA revew e  A       t" Selection                  a         :01/06:15/0 :
eContrac" with Accen  tnt/Con Iltant                        :1:/06:01/09
Eatbtlish SIf Acomunting System                              :01/09:01/10
Draft Subproe. Agreement SIF/Spone.Agencie:   :   :           :01/06:01/09 :
Review of Subproj. Agreement by IDA                           :01/09:01/10 :
Ueo of Subproj ct Agreemnt                                   :01/10:CONTD
Expianatione:
SIF         * Social and infrestructure Fund
MEF         u Ministry of Economy and Finance
IDA         u International Development Association
OTHER       a Another government or non-government unit (se coments)
X          z Primry responsibility for toak
-Responsibility to assist in executing tack
START DATE  * All conditions relating for this toek have been met
end can now be started
FINISH DATE a The task should be completed no later then this deadline



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
ULTI-SECTOR PROJECT
Institutional Technical Assistnce Program i99-91
PROJECTED COALS AND ACTIVITIES                             CONSULTANTS STAFF MONTHS AND COSTS PROJECTIONS
OBJECTIVES/SUBJECTS            ACTIVITIES             RESULTS                 INPUTS               CONSULTANTS
S/N-                  TOTAL
I                        I                     I                      I                      No. 
a) Organization of          a) To design and     a) Establishmnt        a) A prof..-                       6                  79,453
the SIF.  Deign of          produce draft        of adminis-            sional with
its basic frameork         documents             trative                experi-nce in
and operating               related to SIF's     reorganization         dsvelopinq
procedures.                organization,         of SIF. Prepare        banking; design
start-up phase,      documents for          of framework for
by laws,             IDA Credit             credit institu-
policies and         negotiations and       tions and
operational          effectiveness.          related
manuaIs.             Ensure lon-             operating
Formulat  TORe       schedul-' start        procedures.
for consultants.     -f SIF
operations.
Ensure that
SIFPs procedures
comply with
Multisectoral
Project's
requir_mente.
Formulate
criteria for
oelection of
Project's
Pr1ncip l
consultant and
his/her working
plan.
N
-. X
o0
I.,
'a



PROJECTED COALS AND ACTIVITIES                                CONSULTANTS STAFF bNtON    AM  COSTS PROJECTIONS
OBJECTIVES/SUBJECTS           ACTIVITIES             RESULTS                 INPUTS               CONSULTANTS
S/.                  MTOTAL
No.
II                       II                    II                     II
a) Follow-up               a) To assist          a) Establishment       a) A prof.o-                      12                250t69
assistance.  The           SIFPs Executive       of SIF as a            sional with
Principal Consultant       Director in the       devolopmnt             experience in
would assist in the         implementation       institution            the development
SIFPs institutional        of the                based on a solid       and implemen-
and operational            Institutional         edministr4.v-          tation of an
consolidation              Support and           organization and       organization
process.                   Technical             a high technical       such as SIF with
Assistance           capacity.              managerial
component.           Optimization of        *xperience in
Elaboration of       *ubproject'n           dealing with a
TOR's and             economic and          group of
progress             social output.         professionais In
report.              that would make        tho fild of
Develop SIFos        significant            *ngineering,
capacity to          contribution to        economicc,
prepare,             the country's          busines
evaluate and         development.           administration,
supervise                                   financial
projectes.                                  analysis,
Assist the                                   institutional
executing                                   devolope nt,
agencies In                                 project
Improving                                   prpaoration,
project                                     evaluation and
lmplementation                              supervslon.
by Identifying
problems and
reoe _ndi ng
remdial actions
whe necessary.
Organize
promotional
capaigns,
seminars and
activities to
help consolidate
SIF at Its
Inception and In
It. future
0p
'0



PROJECTED GOALS AND ACTIVITIES                              CONSULTANTS STAFF  ONTMHS MS COST PFOJECTIONS
OBJECTIVES/SUBJECTS           ACTIVITIES             RESULTS                INPUTS               CONSILTANTS
VPU -.TOrTAL
No.
1III                     III                  III                    III
a) Setting up the          a) Design snd         a) Idontificn-         a) Professionals                  4                117eoo
technical capacity,        excution of six       tion of priority       with academic
within SIF for             *hort-term            subproj;cto            training in
subproject                 seminars (two         taking Into            project
prepration,                per year) to          account its            analysis, with
evaluation and             train SIF staff       economic,              knowledge of
supervision.  To            in project           financial and          internal rate of
strengthen sponsoring      design,               social impct.          return
genci,                    analysis,             Identification         calculation and
monitoring and       of subprojects'        analysis of
suporvision as       risks.  Training       social-economic
well as the          of 18 SIFs and         benefits.
implementation       about 98  staff        Training could
of SIF policios      of public and          be provided by
and operating        private                acad" ic
procedures.          sponsor ng             institutions.
agencies'
beneficiaries. 
'0b



PROJECTED GOALS AND ACTIVITIES                                   CONSULTANTS STAFF MOTrHS AI  CUTS PROJECTIONS
OBJECTIVES/SLUJECTS            ACTIVITIES              RESULTS                 INPUTS                CONSULTANTS
-   5/1               TOTAL
NO.                   iWE
III                       III                   III                     III
b) S    objectives as       b) On-the-job          b) SIF'n and            b) Expert In the                   2                  U?,7w
111(a) above.               training to be         sponsoring             technical field
compI mented by       agenc;Ie' bone-         relevant to
short-term            f;icirin                specif;ic
seminars              capacity will be        projects under
organized and         strengthened by         evaluation.
supervised by         the direct              Specialities in
the main              participation in        the economic and
Technical             these training          financial
Assistance            seminars.               analysis of sub-
Consultant.                                   projects.
This training
will focus on
specifict;s of
actual
*ubproj cts'
preparation and
evaluation.
IV                        IV                    IV                      IV
a) Design of                a) Elaboration        a) Expedite             a) Expert(s) in                     2                  46,460
methodologies for the       of mnuals,             project                project
preparation,                guidelines and         preparation,           preparation,
evaluation and              formts for             facilitate             design
supervision of sub-         projects              evaluation and          evaluation and
projects.                   preparation,          supervision             preparation of
evaluation and        reports and             manuals and
supervision in        project                 guidelines.
line with credit     processing.
agreement and
World Bank
requirments.
It is expected
that the
Institutional                                                                                                        it
Consultant                                                                                                           0
(Roman I) and                                                                                                          0
the Project                                                                                                           4 
Permanent Main                                                                                                        0
Consultant would i`
prepare basic                                                                                                        %D
manuals and
guidelines.



PROJECTED GOALS AND ACTIVITIES                                        CONSULTANTS STAFF MONTHS AM  COSTS PROJECTIONS
OBJECTIVES/SUBJECTS           ACTIVITIES              RESULTS                 INPUTS                CONSULTANTS
No.                   im
V                        V                     V                       V
a) To assist SIF in         a) Evaluation of      *) "o establish        a) Expert in                       2                  27,10
the deoign and              the existing          modern                 accounting and
implementation of its       accounting            accounting             record keeping
accounting and              system; revision      system to keep         syst ems.
recordkoeping.              of this system        records up to
in line with         date. Prepare
project's            timely monthly
requiremnts.         financial
SIF's accounting      statements and
system should be     annual balance
computerized and     sheet and income
staff should be      statement.
trained to
operate it.
V                        V                     V                       V                                                               -
b) To asmist SIF in         b) Dosign and         b) Provision of        b) Expert in                                          6 6,46            0'
the design and              implemntation         timely informa-        project
implementation of its       of a Control and     tion regarding:         administration
accounting and              Management            (i) The                with experience
recordkeeping.              Information          monitoring of           in computerized
System.              execution of the        information
Training of          Multi-Sector            system,
SIF's staff in       Project; (Ii)           including
its operation.       Data and                accounting.
information on
specific sub-
projects; and
(iii) reports to
the World Bank.
0o
%0



PROJECTED GOALS AND ACTIVITIES                              CONSULTANTS STAFF  NIf  NS  D  COMTS PROJECTIOS
OJECTIVES/SUBJECTS            ACTIVITIES             RESULTS                 INPUTS               CONSULTANTS
S{V.                  TOTAL
D.                    m
V                        V                     V                      V
c) To assist SIF in         c) Design and        c) To establish         c) Financial                     1.1                 29T,7
the design and              implementation       short and              expert with
lmplI_mntation of its      of operational        mdi um-term            experience in
accounting and             and financial         operational and        operational
recordkoeping.             planning              financial              planning.
systems.             planning systems
to be adjusted
periodically.
To assist in th-
financial
programming and
budget execution
of SIF to
facilitate
decision making.
V                        V                     V                      V 
d) To assist SIF in        d) To review and      d) Additional          d) experience In                  1.5                86,626
the design and             update existing       T.A. to SIF for        credit and
implementation of its      project               credit                 portfolio
accounting and             monitoring and        operations that       "mnag mnt
recordk-sping.             portfolio             will increase          systes.
controls to          after the first
improve credit       year, since most
operations.          transactions at
the beginning
will be grants
to Government
Institutions.
mel
0'
-a



PROJECTED GOALS AND ACTIVITIES                                        CONSULTANUTS STAFF UOTHS AM  COST  PROJECTIONS
OBJECTIVES/SUBJECTS           ACTIVITIES              RESULTS                 INPUTS               TCOTALTANTL
S/U.                   TOTAL
VI                       VI                    VI                      VI
a) To assist SIF in         a) To carry out       a) Set up an           a) Profossionals                   4                  92,19
determining its role        sector studios        inventory of           with expertise
and uodus operandi          to determine the      pre investment          in areas covored
and to decide on a          T.A. that SIF         *lternatives to        by the studios
methodology by which        can more              facilitate SIF's       to be conducted.
lnvestment and social       effectively          future
noeds priorities will       provide to            activities.
be determined,              sponsoring            Sector studies
agencies.  To        to redefine, if
analyse              necessary, SIF's
aIternatives to      future
improve STP'c        operations.
credit system.
VII                      VII                   VII                     VII
a) Strengthening of         a) SIF's              a) To improve          a) SIF's would                     5                  44,M
SIF's personnel             executivos and        SIF's capacity         implement a
skills in banking           technical staff       to formulate           program of
operations.                 visits to other       policies and           visits, assisted
countrios'           procedures that         by its main
development          will result in          consultant would                                                        o
institutions         bettor project          design and
that have            execution.              organize the
objectivos                                   visits to ensure
similar to                                   their effective-
SIF's.                                       ness.
VIII                     VIII                  VIII                    VIII
a) To assist SIF in         a) Reviw of the       a) To have w*ll        a) Expert in                       1                  19,669
the organization of         initial program       designed               promotional
ito promotional             prepered by          promotional             campaigns with
activities.                 SIF's Promotion      tools that will         experience in
Dept.                help introduce          promotion of
Formulation of a     SIF to the              credit insti-
strategy to          national and            tutions.
promote the          international
utilization of       commnity with
SIF's resources.     the purpose of
The progrm           attracting
should include       technical and                                                                                  oo
annual promotion     financial
plans and a          support.                                                                                        0 
longer term
promotional
program.



PROJECTED GOALS AND ACTIVITIES                                  CONSULTANTS STAFF dMOtHS AND COSTS PROJECTIONS
OBJECTIVES/SUBJECT.S          ACTIVITIES             RESULTS                 INFUTS               CONStLTANTS
17C.                   TOAL
No.
VIII                     VIII                  VIII                   VIII
b) Revi-u of progrm         b) Preparation       b) To make SIF         b) To contract                     S                  1CS
initially prepared by      of written            known to               specialists in
SIF's Promotion             material like        beneficiaries          the field of
Deportm_nt.                 brochuroe  and       and clients that        publications
Formulation of a            manuals to           can benefit from       design and
strategy to promote         pres_nt SIF's         its prograom  and      production.
the utilization of          objectivoe  and      to attract fund.
SIF's resourceo.  The       procedures to        from donor and
program should              public institu-      cofinancing
includ  annual             tions, entr*pre-      institutions.
promotion drives and        neuru and the
a longer term               international
proootional schem.         developmont
institutions.
ViII                     VIII                  VIII                   VIII
c) To assist SIF in         c) Working           c) Better                                                 *11,
its promotional            meetings, with        understanding of
activitie.                  entrepreneurs,       SIF's
executives from      objoctivoe,
public               policies and
institutions,        mechanisms   To
private groups       provide  orien-
and r*pre.en-        tation on SIF's
tatives of           procedures
international        regarding
agencios or          presentation of
governments.         subprojecto and
loan or grant
approval.
I o 



PROJECTWD GOALS AND ACTIVITIES                                     CONSULTANTS STAFF MONTNS MN  COSTS PROJECTIONS
OBJECTIVES/SUIJECTS          ACTIV'ITIES            RESULTS                 INPUTS               CONStLTANTS
rlg-.-          ~~TOTAL
No.                   V
IX                       IXE                  IX                     IX
a) Acquisition of          a) Decide; on the    a) To improvo          a) Thre                           0                  22,65
computer equipment,        equipm nt             the efficiency        personal
software and other         necossary for         of SIF                computers,
offico equipment.          SIF's opera-         Porsonnel.             printors,
tions. Pnop ro                              softoaro, telex
po eifictions                               and fax equip-
for equip wnt                               mont, telephone
pfrchaeui                                   switchboard and
telephones.
IX                      IX                    IX                     IX
b) Acquisition of          b) Decide con the    b) To equip            b) Offico                         g                  J7,S0
office equipment.          equ _pmnt             SIF's officos         equipment,
necessary for        with necessary         vohicles, and
SIF'u *id- and       furniture and          other office
long-term            equipment.            supplios.
operations 
Prepare
specifications
for equipment
purchase.
ACCUMULATED TOTAL                                                                                       42                 92U.623
Sl
11
%0



- 81 -                      Annnx 8
Page 1 of 3
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
MULTISECTOR PROJECT
Project Management Consultant
Terms of Reference
A.        Introduction
1.        The Social and Infrastructure Fund (SIF) was created by
presidential decree as an autonomous organization to promote, appraise,
fund and monitor the implementation of subprojects in several sectors.
Funding is provided through a credit agreement with the International
Development Association (IDA). The objective of subprojects funded by SIT
would be to establish or improve the country's social programs and physical
infrastructure. Subprojects would be aimed at target beneficiaries
affected by economic decline and the short-term impact of structural
adjustment measures to achieve reforms. Wherever possible, these
subprojects would seek to generate employment and income opportunities for
low-income people. SIF would also provide loans to the private sector to
assist small business entrepreneurs and cooperatives in expanding this
sector and the privatization of services currently provided by the
Government.
2.        SIF is headed by an Executive Administrator (EA) who reports to
its Board of Administrators chaired by the Prime Minister of the Democratic
Republic. The Fund has four departments, as shown in the attached
organization diagram and description of departmental functions.
B.        Obiectives of the Assignment
3.        Two critical issues confront SIF at this time: (i) social
programs and physical infrastructure improvements are urgently needed to
solve, inter alia, high-priority problems in health, water supply and
education, as well as to provide employment for increasing numbers of
unemployed people, and (ii) as urgent as it is, the resulting task would
presently overwhelm this newly created Fund, as well as other existing
institutions. Hence, during the start-up phase, which would last about one
year, outside expertise is essential to making rapid progress. The Project
Management Consultant (PMC) and two specialists in high priority fields
would constitute the core team needed to support the Executive
Administrator in this phase. While the Fund initiates the necessary
action, this team, led by the PMC, would stand in for local staff, until
the capabilities of the latter are equal to the task at hand. In view of
this approach, it is the Fund's ultimate organizational goal to develop its
local staff resources to acceptable levels of competence, and the PMC would
play an important role in supporting the EA in manpower development and
training.



82 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
C.        Scope of Services
4.        The Project Management Consultant (PMC) would report directly to
the EA and be his principal adviser and deputy in the following main areast
(a) Organization of the departments comprising the Fund,
including local recruitment, collaboration with non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) and recruitment of
fixed-term specialists from abroad;
(b) Subproject appraisal;
(c) Monitoring and reporting;
(d) Manpower development and on-the-job training.
5.        The current description of departmental functions is conceptual,
because both the Fund and the subprojects planned in the start-up phase are
new ventures for which no basis for comparison exists in the country;
adjustments are still feasible. SIF and IDA have agreed that rapid
progress with subproject implementation and concurrent SIF manpower
development and training are equally important goals. The PMC would
therefore, perform in the dual role of subproject expediter and training
coordinator. Additionally, specialists would be recruited on fixed-term
consulting contracts to provide further assistance to the EA in areas which
are particularly critical to progress in the start-up phase. The PMC would
advise the EA regarding the recruitment of specialists for these critical
areas.
6.        In his role as subproject expediter, the PMC would follow up on
the subprojects which have already been appraised by IDA for the start-up
phase. Using his expertise, he would verify possible changes in previous
appraisals and re-evaluate action plans. He would also support the
respective sponsoring agencies, in order to assure sustained progress
during implementation. He would assess the conditions under which
implementation would take place in the sponsoring agency and the possible
need for outside assistance. He would monitor accounting for subproject
expenditures and procurement actions within the Fund and within the
sponsoring agencies and provide advice as needed. Where deficiencies are
identified, he would tale remedial action either on his own or with
assistance from specialists.
7.        In supporting the EA in his promotional and community relations
work during the start-up phase, he would assist sponsoring agencies in
preparing additional subproject proposals and develop an action plan for
subsequent phases. He would give particular attention to the application
of the established subproject criteria in appraising additional proposals
and provide the EA with feedback on the actual use of these criteria. This
feedback would be reflected in SIF's periodic operating reports.
8.        In his role as training coordinator, the PMC would assist the EA
in the recruitment of local staff and the employment of expatriate
specialists on fixed-term consulting contracts. In this task, the PMC



- 83 -                       Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
would be guided by the Fund's main training objective of raising the levels
of competence of its staff through the continuous transfer of know-how from
fully experienced consultants to less experienced local staff, in the
shortest possible time. He and all other consultants would be expected to
work in parallel with local staff, in order to make training as effective
as possible. Where appropriate, the PMC would suggest broadened training
for some local staff e.g., through formal coursevork in STP or abroad.
9.        After assisting the EA in the recruitment of local staff during
the start-up phase, the PMC would develop a comprehensive manpower
development and training program for further review by the Board and IDA.
It would take into account the capabilities of newly recruited staff, the
necessary upgrading of skills, local shortages in required professions,
continued dependence on expatriate consultants and formal training needs:
all these parameters would be compared to the Fund's operational
projections. This program would also be accompanied by an estimate of
probable costs and a cost-benefit analysis.
D.        Timing of Assignment
10.       The PMC should commence his services at the earliest possible
date following his appointment by SIF. His consulting contract would
comply with local requirements and the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Group Borrowers and be based on an initial fixed
term of one year. The contract would include a renewal option to be
exercised at the discretion of SIF, subject to concurrence from IDA. The
decision to exercise the option would be made no later than 90 days prior
to the end of the initial term.
E.        Facilities
11.       The PMC would be accommodated within the offices of SIF and have
the use of equipment and vehicles owned by the Fund, so that his work can
proceed efficiently. In consultation with the EA, he would be given access
to all SIF records.
F.        Reports
12.       At the end of the initial term and at the end of all subsequent
terms of his consulting contract, the PMC would be expected to prepare a
retrospective review of his work for the Fund, identifying major
institutional, financial and technical issues from his perspective as a
management expert. This report would be addressed to the EA and include
the PMC's recommendations for the future development of SIF. The PMC's
report would be shared with IDA after review within SIF.
AF4IN
April 17, 1989



- 84 -                      Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
MULTI-SECTOR PROJECT
INFORMAL TRANSLATION
Suggested Outline of Bylaws for Consideration by SIF Board of
Administrators
Regulations Pursuant to the Act
General Provisions
To complete the documents for legal organization of the Fund, it
is necessary to issue regulations on the Organic Act by means of a
Regulations Document, which, as provided in the Draft Revision of Decree
No. 45/88, must be approved by the Board of Directors of the Fund. The
following is a summary of the topics that should be covered in the
Regulations:
I.        Purooses of the Fund
This Chapter should discuss with greater detail the objectives
and goals of the Fund, and, if appropriate, widen them within the spirit
and purposes contemplated in the Organ.c Act of the Fund, relative to its
policies and financing mechanisms.
II.       Resources
This Chapter should deal with the Fund's resources, elaborating
on the provisions of the Act in greater detail. It should include
provisions on raising funds and fund administration in accordance with the
various types of bank accounts or other mechanisms, and setting out the
provision governing authorized signatures and establishment of the imprest
fund, as most appropriate for Fund operations. In preparing the
Regulations, the drafters should incorporate and regulate all the
organizational structures and mechanisms needed for Fund operation, even if
they do not need to be implemented immediately.
III.      Basic Organization of the Fund
This Chapter should deal with everything relating to the
management and executive staff of the Fund, as well as that of related
bodies that should be established to aid decision-making (principally for
the approval of projects) such as Credit Committees, setting forth the
composition of these entities and the limits placed on their decision
making authority. These Committees should be set up to include members of
the Board of Directors, along with participu.ion by the Executive Director
and other officers, depending on importance and amount involved in the
projects.



- 85 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
IV.       Project Approval and Supervision
The Regulations should elaborate to some degree on the
techniques and procedures for approval of programs or projects, because the
specific modes and requirements should be set forth in the guidelines and
manuals of each program or line of credit in particular.
V.        Powers and Functions
This Chapter constitutes the essential part of the Regulations
and the one that requires the greatest time, since it must be done in great
detail. This is a matter of designating and regulating the entire
management, executive and operational structure of the Fund. The powers
and functions of each component body should be described in detail, such as
the Board of Directors itself, as well as those of the Departments,
including the powers, authorities and responsibilities of the officials in
their posts, down to the positions of the lowest rank. In this task, the
drafters should attempt to describe the working relationships among the
various Departments and operating units.
In essencc, these are the basic Chapters of the Regulations. It
must be borne in mind that the regulations should not include provisions
that exceed the purposes and spirit of the Fund's substantive Act, or that
contradict its purpose.
VI.       Recommendations on Organization
It is recommended that two units be ircorporated into the
organization of the Fund--the Technical Assistance Unit and the Statistics
and Computation Unit. In order to integrate these activities, the
Technical Assistance Unit could be incorporated into the Promotion
Department, so that the Promotion Department could be renamed: Department
of Promotion and Technical Assistance. The Statistics and Computation Unit
could be in the Department of Administration, as a service to the other
Departments, irrespective of the computation teams that are assigned to
them for their own operating processes. In this Unit, all the financial
and economic-social data generated for the programs and projects financed
could be accumulated and processed on the basis of a Management Information
and Contr3l System, the design and start up of which should be included in
the Institutional Techxiical Assistance Component for the Fund.
AF4I1
April 17, 1989



- 86 -                                                   ANNEX 10
OS40>ATIC W1ALIC Of SAO TOME AN  PRDCIPE
ILTI-S6TOf POJET
Procurement Arranento a/
------------------------
cmr '@00)
frocuruent Method
Prencipul                                                                                 Tdel
Reopenil It IDirect                                                                      Volvo of
Preject Cat.ry / Eleent                 Agency/Dept.         Ica        LII        LCS        LS       Contract.       Other    Procurem"t
StAart-W Ph.e. Subhprojet-
Water supply                             B4AE
Equ i pnt                                                                      121                    lOO                         221
(121)                  (100)                      (221)
Civi I Works                                                                   3U                                                3S5
(300)                                             (200)
Supervision A Consult. Servicos                                                                                      S4            54
(84)         (54)
Mriaret                               Oietrict of
______                                Agua Grand.
Equ.ipant                                                                                  34                                      34
(34)                                    (34)
Civil Works                                                                    163                                                163
(150)                                             (150)
Engineering, Superviaion and                                                                                         70            70
Technical Ass itance                                                                                               (70)          (70)
Tethoobka                                MOE
Materiala                                                600                               62                                     662
(600)                            (62)                                    (662)
Civil Works                                                                                            50                          SO
(40)                       (40)
Conaultent Services and                                                                                              75            75
other *er.icem                                                                                                     (75)          (75)
|   Eduation Planning                    MOE
Materials                                                                                              57                          57
(54)                       (S4)
Consultants                                                                                                         1SO           150
(150)        (150)
Endemi c DOeease                         MO
Cv;il Works                                                                                           227                         227
(227)                      (227)
Equipment and Materials                                             300                                                           300
(300)                                                        (300)
Health Planning                          MO4
materials                                                                                              s0                          s0
(50)                       (50)
Consultents                                                                                                         120           120
(120)        (120)
Subtotal                                                   600         300       639         96          484          A69         2,5.S
(600)      (300)      (671)      (96)        (471)         i#¶9)      (2.507)
Institutional Support                      SIF                                                                          620           620
-~---~~-------~~---- -                                                                                                 (3SCO)        (300)
Technical Aeiatance                        SIf                                                                          926           928
____________________                                                                                                   (928)         (926)
Subtotal                                                                                                            1,543         1.54
(1,220)      (1,228)
Subtotal                                                     600         300       639         96          484        2,017         4,136
(600)      (300)      (571)      (96)        (471)       (1,697)      (3,735)
Second and Third Phaee Project. b/                                                                                                  3,654
(1.263)
Crand Total                                                                                                                         8,000
(5.0w)
a/ IDA share in parentheeee.
h/ Procurement Methods to be determined.



- 87 -                                         AN=   11
DEMOCRATIC RtWILIC OF AD TOME AND PRINCIPE
--------------------------------------------
MULTI-SECTORt MOJECT
Disbursemet Schedle a/
_____________________
Cumulative Dishro_.mente
I~~~~~~~~~~~C Els *IlIIon)
Quarter      Appraisal          Appe. Estim-t
Ending       Estimate                 X
FY90
September      0.0                 O.OX
Decmber       0.3                 6.OX
March          0.6                11.01
June           0.8                16.08
FY91
September      1.0                20.0X
Docember       1.2                24.0X
March          1.4                27.OX
June           1.6                80.OX
FY92
September      1.7                 A.JOX
Docember       2.0                39.01
March          2.2                44.01
June           2.6                5.OOX
FY93
September      2.8                56.0X
December       3.1                61.01
March          8.3                66.OX
June           3.6                71.01
FY94
September      3,                 75.OX
December       4.0                79.0X
March          4.1                82.0X
June           4.3 J6.0O
FY95
September      4.4                883.0
December       4.6                91.0X
March          4.7                94.0X
June           4.9                97.0X
FY96
September      5.0               10O.OX
*/ Cr-dit effoctiveness Is asrumed in October 1969.



Annex 12
-88 -
OEMOCItATIC MN 3UC OP SA TOE AND PSItCIPE
ULTI-SECTOR PUSACt
Flow of Fuods Dagram
GRANTS         ~~IDA CtEDITLAN
RI>STP Governmnt
(Ministry of Economy and Finance)
Orant,s for:LonorLaspuGatsf:
-Social Assistance Programs                    -Economic Inf rastructure Iaprov.eamts
-Physical Infrastructure Improvements            (Private Sector)
------"-- Loans/Grants disbursemnts
-          Loans repyment.



- 89 -
Annex 13
Page 1 of 4
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO roMZ AND PRINCIPE
MULTISZCTOR PROJECT
Guia.lines For the Zvaluation of Subprolect.
1.        These guidelines are mainly directed at the evaluation of
subprojects under Classifications II and III, which require rate-of-return
calculations (para. 4.14 (b) of main text). However, these guldelines are
equally applicable to the evaluation of subprojects under Classifications I
and II (para. 4.14 (a) of main text) in which the rate of return is not
pertinent.
2.        In the preparation period of subproject evaluation SIF's main
task consists of two steps: Initial Selection and Appraisal. Initial
Selection means a tentative decision on subprojects that are deemed worth
considering based on a preliminary study of the proposals submitted.
Appraisal includes a careful analysis of the *feasibility study report'
described below, plus a final decision on the subproject. These two steps,
particularly the latter, play a decisive role in the future results of the
investment. If work is not carefully done for these two steps and
unsuitable subprojects are selected, completion of the subpi.oject and the
expected benefits are at best, questionable. For example, in the private
sector, when completed, products will be difficult to market, or the supply
of raw and processed materials and energy will be short, or technology will
not be up to standard, or the quality of the products will be low, or the
economic returns will be inadequate. If any of the above happen, the
expected benefits cannot be fully realized and a waste of investment funds
and human and material resources will result. The state and the enterprise
will both suffer, and eventually SIF will also encounter financial
difficulty.
3.        The 'subproject proposal" is the basis on which Initial
Selection is made. The proposal outlines the subproject to be undertaken
and offers a preliminary analysis of the necessity and feasibility of
implementing the subproject. The content is much more succinct than that
of the 'feasibility study report' and the data quoted are often based on
preliminary calculations. Generally speaking, a subproject proposal should
include the following:
(1)  Description of the sponsoring agency submitting the subproject
proposal and other considerations to allow SIF to have
sufficient knowledge of the financial and managerial capability
of the sponsoring agency;
(ii) Main features of the proposed subproject (ix.cluding its scope,
beneficiaries, location, content, objectives and expected
benefits and risks;



- 90 -
Annex 13
Page 2 of 4
(iii) If applicable, major products and scale of production;
preliminary projection of market to be served and demand,
including export and domestic sales;
(iv) Sources of supply of essential raw and processed materials and
energy consumed in production;
(v)  Types of technology and equipment to be acquired, quantity of
equipment; and reasons for use of equipment instead of labor (if
applicable);
(vi) Civil works, construction or renovation, starting and finishing
dates;
(vii) Preliminary estimates on total amount of investment (foreign
exchange and Dobras);
(viii) Financing available from sponsoring agency and other sources;
(ix) Preliminary estimates of economic benefits to be generated year
by year (output value, profit, taxes, gereration or saving of
foreign exchange) and the requested loan period.
4.        On the basis of the "subproject proposal", SIF decides whether
to make a visual inspection and on-site verification of the viability of
the subproject.
5.        Because of the limited nature of the data collected during this
period, a "broad scanning" approach may be adopted, but all aspects shoule
be covered. Through economic investigations, analysis should include the
subproject's possible role in the national economy and its expected
economic benefits.
6,        If the results of the Initial Selection are positive, SIF would
proceed to the more comprehensive 'feasibility report."
7.        The "feasibility report' makes an in-depth analysis of the
proposed subproject in terms of its technical, financial and economic
feasibility. It is the basis on which the final decision by the Board of
Administrators and IDA to approve a loan and/or a grant rests. Therefore,
ir t',e feasibility report the following aspects should be thoroughly
an.alyzed:
(i)  Further details on the sponsoring agency and the subproject to
supplement the information available from the subproject
proposal;
(ii) Updated market projections in specific relation to the
subproject;
(iii) Actual availability of resources, raw and processed materials,
fuel, buildings and infrastructure;
(iv) Transportation to and from production and/or sales facilities;



- 91 -
Annex 13
Page 3 of 4
(v)  Design plan (including technical design, introduction of
technology and equipment from abroad, justification for such
measures, etc.);
(vi) Environmental protection;
(vii) Training needs and employment opportunities generated through
the subproject:
(viii) Proposed schedule of implementation (including major
construction works and importation of goods);
(ix) Investment estimates and financial projections (including total
amount of investment, annual investment and sources of
financing, working capital available and required, expected new
output, production cost, sales, income, profit);
(x)  Social and economic benefits (based on the data obtained from
investment estimates and financial projection, an analysis is
made of the expected investment benefits, both from the
standpoint of the enterpris6 itself and from the position of the
national economy);
(xi) Legal provisions necessary to secure loan (collateral, lien on
fixed assets, etc.);
(xii) Conclusions: overall assessment of the proposed subproject and
recommendation of appraiser(s).
8.        If the "feasibility report' is borderline, SIF would advise the
sponsoring agency what additional information is required before SIF's
appraisal can be completed. Correct and accurate information would be
pivotal in coming to a fair and reasonable judgment concerning the proposed
subproject. Some general questions need to be addressed as follows:
(i)  Do the stated subproject objectives justify undertaking the
subproject as proposed or should it he modified?
(ii) Where should the location be? What technology, equipment and
design plan are appropriate?
(iii) What are the expected social and economic benefits to the
country?
(iv) Does the subproject fit within the framework of SIF's objectives
and its selection criteria?
(v)  Is the sponsoring agency a viable entity with regard to this
subproject?



92 -                       Annex 13
Page 4 of 4
(vi) Does the subproject have a sensible work schedule?
(vii) Would this subproject help mitigate unemployment?
(viii) Wou'ld this subproject improve the quality of life in the
community 
AF4IN
April 17, 1989



- 93 -
Ane  14
Page 1 of 5
DD4OCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
MULTISECTOR PROJECT
Model For PreDaration of Evaluation Regort
Contents
I. CONCLUSIONS AND RBCOEKFDATIONS
II. SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION
III. SUBPROJECT COSTS
IV. SCHEDULE OF SUBPROJECT ACTIVITIES
V. SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
VI. TECHNICAL VIABILITY
VII. SOCIOECONOMIC ANALYSIS
VIII. MARKET ANALYSIS
IX. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
X. ECONOMIC BENEFIT ANALYSIS
XI. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF THE SUBPROJECT
CONTENT
I. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
1.   The main conclusions resulting from the evaluation should
be briefly summarized, addressing: technical viability,
socioeconomic analysis and reasonableness of costs.
2.   External factors or contingencies that may affect the
success or failure of the subproject in terms of its size,
cost, and duration should be stated.
3.   Recommendation on total or partial financing of the
subproject.
4.   Recommendation for control, supervision and monitoring of
the subproject.
II. SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION
A description of the components of the subproject should be
included in this section.
This part should concentrate on the following:



- 94 -              Anne  I
Page 2 of 5
1.   General description of the subprojects the basic aspects,
scope and nature of the subproject and how it was selectedg
proposed operations, activities, products and quantities;
whether it is epansion of an existing service or facility.
or a completely new subproject.
2.   Objectives and rational*s An examination should be made of
the objectives and rationale of the subproject as presonted
by the sponsoring agency; judgment needs to be made on the
following: are the objectives of the subproject ccopatiblo
with SIP's operational objectives, reasonable and in
accordance with the general economic objectives of the
DRSTP? Juigmsnt is also required regarding the actual
capacity of the sponsoring agency to achieve the objectives
through the subproject.
III. SUBPROJECT COSTS
1.   Prepare a complete cost estimate itemizing, interalia, the
following components:
1.1 Unskilled labor (type, cost and man-hours)
1.2 Skilled labor (type, cost, man-hours, domestic or
foreign)
1.3 Specialist labor (type, cost, man-hours, domestic or
foreign)
1.4 Administrative payroll and expenses
1.4.1 Sponsoring agency management
1.4.2   Subproject management
1.4.3 Accounting
1.4.4   Administrative expenses
1.5 Domestic materials and inputs
1.6 Imported materials and inputs
1.7 Domestic tools, equipment, and vehicles
1.8 Imported tools, equipment, and vehicles
1.9 Consulting services and Technical Assistance
1.9.1 Domestic providers
1.9.2 Foreign providers
2.0 Lease and rental costs



_ 95 -              Anneol4
Page 3 of 5
3.0  Su mary of estimated *ubproject costs
3.0.1 lace costs in domestic and fortlgn currencies
3.0.2  Subtotal - Base costs + Physical contingencies
3.0.3 Subproject Total - Subtotal (3.0.2) + Price
contingencies
IV. SCHEDULE OF SUbPIOJECT ACTIVITIES
The implementation plan covering all activities needed to carry
out the subproject, from planning to start-up of services,
occupancy, production, etc. This schedule is an essential
element for control and monitoring of the subproject, and
therefore, needs to be appraised with special care. The time
scale used in preparing the schedule of activities should be
appropriate to the proposed subproject.
V. SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
It is necessary to take into account, along with the schedule of
activities, the disbursements needed in successive phases of the
subproject and then state the periodic payments (bi-monthly,
quarterly) in accordance with the scheduled activities.
VI. TECHNICAL VIABILITY
1.   Description of the specific subproject activities to be
executed, including methods, volume, magnitude and rate of
use or production.
2.   Local availability of unskilled, skilled and specialist
labor.
3.   Local availability of materials, equipment and other inputs
4.   Description of the technical complexity involved in the
subproject and extent and cost of foreign technical
assistance to overcome local shortfalls.
5.   Conclusion on techmical viability of subproject.
VII. SOCIOECONOHIC ANALYSIS
1.   Physical details of the subproject location.
2.   Identification of target population, estimated number of
beneficiaries and description of direct and indirect
benefits anticipated.
3.   Detailed description of the socioeconomic situation at the
subproject location.



-96-                Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
3.1 Demographic and social characteristics of the
beneficiaries.
3.2 Average household income.
3.3 Employment and income opportunities for women.
3.4 Principal economic activities of beneficiaries.
3.5 Other now subprojecta oy activitioe planned or made
available to beneficiaries.
3.6 Use of existing services (if any) by beneficiaries,
including fees collected.
4.   Overall number of jobs created during the execution of the
subproject and cost per job created.
5.   Foreseeable complemntary subprojects following completion
of the proposed subproject (if any).
VII. MARKET ANALYSIS (Classification III Subprojects)
1.   Demand forecast per service or product created by
subproject (short, medium, long-term).
2.   Supply forecast - capabilities of sponsoring agency and
other sources to meet market demand.
3.   Price trends (past, current, future).
4.   Marketing and distribution of service or product.
IX.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
1.   Investment sources and investment expenditures by year, in
local and foreign currencies.
2.   Depreciation charges by year after the newly acquired fixed
assets are put into operation.
3.   Income from sales and other revenues.
4.   Costs - capital investment, recurrent expenditures, taxes,
import duties, etc.
5.   Expected profit margins.
6.   Debt service.  Repayment of SIF loan and other obligations
of the sponsoring agency.
7.   Cash flow (inflow and outflow) by year: during subproject
implementation and after subproject tecomes operational.
8.   Financial rate of return.
X. ECONOMIC BENEFIT ANALYSIS



- 97 -
Aniem 14
Page 5 of 5
1.   Not present value and economic rate of return (cost-benefit
analysis).
2.   Sensitivity analysis for alternative scenarios.
S.   Risk analyitle.
4.   Cost recovery (if applicable) and pricing of outputs.
5.   Zffect on mployment and low-income hcuseholds.
XI.  ENVIRONMZNTAL DMPACT OF THC SUBPROJECT
(a)  Specific actions to be taken as part of tho subproject
to protect the natural environmnt of the area.



-98-                      Anne  15
Page 1 of 7
DEMOCRATIC REPUBL'C OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
MULTI-SECTOR PROJECT
TSE EDUCATION SECTOR SUBPROJECTS
1.        Background
The Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe (DRSTP) has
made remarkable progress in the expansion of education since its
independence in 1975. Ninety-seven percent of the age group children
attend primary schools, over two-thirds attend basic secondary level and
over two-thirds of the adults are literate. However, the country's
education system is now overstrained, mainly due to resource constraints.
The classroom facilities are grossly inadequate and mostly dilapidated,
textbooks are virtually non-existent, and there are serious shortages of
trained teachers and educational materials.  The Government has very
limited capacity in planning and managing its education programs or in
administering its school system.
2.        Objectives and Priorities
The Government's main sector objective at present is to
alleviate the major constraints described above. Hence, the main objective
of the proposed project would be to finance tho6a high priority schemes
which are likely to have quick and maximum pedagogical impact at reasonable
costs and those which lay a base for a sustained future development. Under
its first phase, the proposed Multisector Project would support a textbooks
subproject and an educational planning subproject, as described below.
Subprojects for the second phase would be developed by the strengthened
education planning office. Investments in other priority areas, like
teacher training and classroom facilities, are not considered at this stage
because of the current involvement of other external donors in these areas.
A. TEXTBOOKS PRINTING AND DISTRIBUTION SUBPROJECT
3.        Subproject Objective.  Textbooks are virtually non-existent in
STP schools at this time. Therefore, the Government has been developing
new books based on new curricula for the primary and basic secondary levels
(Grades 1 to 9) with assistance of Portugal's Gulbenkian Foundation. This
subproject would finance printing and distribution, thereby helping improve
the country's basic education quality very significantly.
Description. The proposed credit would finance printing and
distribution of textbooks in Portuguese, Mathematics and Social
Studies for Grades 1 to 4 and in Portuguese, Mathematics,
Science and Geography for Grades 5 to 7. Textbooks for Grades 8
and 9 will be reproduced by photocopying since their numbers are



- 99 -
Annez 15
Page 2 of 7
too low for printing. The textbooks will be printed in three
phases (in 1989, 1990 and 1991) based upon their readiness. The
credit would also finance expansion of the Ministry of
Education's central warohouse to store books upon arrival and
the services of specialised consultancies in the textbooks
design and other pro-printing activities.
(In Thousands US Dollars)
5.   Estimated cost                            Local       Foreign       Total
Textbooks Printing (Grades 1 to 7)                       480          480
Textbooks Copying (Grades 8 and 9)           5            45           50
Special Consultancies                        2             8           10
Warehouse Expansion                          15           25
Internal transport, Distrib. Storage        50             -           50
BASE COST                         72          558          630
Physical Contingencies                        7           56           63
Price Contingencies                         10            80           90
TOTAL SUBPROJECT COST            89           694          783
6.   Financing Plan                            Local        Foreign      Total
IDA                                    34           694          728
Government                             55                         55
89          694          783
7.   Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY 89    FY 90    FY 91      FY 92
Annual                         36        255       219       218
Cumulative                     36        291       510       728
8.        Implementation.  The Directorate of Educational Research and
Studies (Gabinete de Estudos e Pesquisa Pedagogica) in the Ministry of
Education and Culture (MOEC) would be responsible for implementing this
subproject. The Directorate would be provided with technical assistance
from the Gulbenkian Foundation (Portugal) and the Social and Infrastructure
Fund. The Foundation would also provide a teacher's guidebook for each
textbook. Local transportation, distribution and school storage of books
will be MOEC's responsibili;y.



-100-                     Annex 15
Page 3 of 7
9.        Procurement.  Textbook procurement vould be divided into two
parts. The first part would cover pre-printing services and would consist
of book designing, type setting and page-filming. Since this part would
need close coordination among the suppliers, authors and production staff,
it would be procured by means of Local Shopping in Portugal through the
joint effurt of the MOEC representatives and the TA consultants provided by
the Gulbenkian Foundation. The second part would involve printing, binding
and shipment of books to Sao Tome. This would be carried out on the basis
of Limited International Bidding, by inviting quitations from a number of
printers from different countries (e.g. Portugal, Spain, Italy, Brazil and
a few countries in the Far East) who are known to have necessary experience
and would be competitive and reliable. Expansion of the MOEC varehouse
($40,000) would be carried by local contra_tors selected under Local
Competitive bidding. Specialized consultancy would be procured in
accordance with the World Bank Guidelines.
10.       Affordability and Sustainability.  Books will always be costlier
per unit in Sao Tome than in most other countries because of the very small
number of students. There are no suitable alternatives since impo-ts from
overseas would either be unsuitable for the country's pedagogical need or
would have no cost advantage due to design and production quality reasons.
Therefor!, efforts have been made to minimize the cost of printing without
unduly affecting pedagogical quality. Books would be loaned to students
against substantial security deposits, which would be retuLned at the end
of the school year with reasonable penalties for any improper care. The
books are expected to last two to three years and the proposed credit would
provide enough books for four to five years. The Government feels that
full recovery of textbooks' costs can only be a longer-term goal
considering the country's macro-economic situation and that, for the near
future, it would have to subsidize at Jeast part of the costs from its own
resources or through external financir.g. The proposed project
significantly contributes toward the longer-term goal, by introducing the
concept of low-cost production and a system of book-lending with security
deposits.
11.       Benefits and Risks.  It is well established that provision of
appropriate textbooks is among the best investments in education quality.
This subproject would directly benefit nearly 25 percent of STP's
population who currently attend primary and secondary schools. The main
risks are the Government's inability to implement the project efficiently
or to train teachers in the use of the new books. The responsibility
assumed by Portugal's Gulbenkian Foundation in providing technical
assistance and in supplying teacher's manuals would be significant
safeguards in offsetting these risks. Furthermore, the Government has
already decided to schedule the teachers' training before the arrival of
each set of new books.
B. EDUCATION PLANNING SUBPROJECT
12.       Subproject Objective.  The Ministry of Education and Culture
(MOEC) seriously suffers from the absence of up-to-date data, inadequate



- 101 -
Annex 15
Page 4 of 7
planning, programming and project analysis and almost non-existent
monitoring and evaluation. There is also a dearth of an overall national
framework and of an effective coordination mechanism within which the
activities of a large number of external donors can appropriately fit. The
proposed subproject would ondeavor to strengthen the Planning and Finance
Directorate of HOIC and help reduce these constraints. It would also help
develop subprojects for implementation during the second phase of the
proposed project.
13.       Description.  The existing Planning and Statistics Sections of
the Directorate of Planning and Finance of MOEC would be combined into a
strengthened Education Planning Section by adding three local
economists/statisticians to the existing staff of one statistician and
three clerks. The proposed credit would finance the services of one
international consultant (to be recruited for periodic visits for a total
of about three months), incremental staff salaries, staff training, office
equipment and materials and one four-wheel drive vehicle. Draft terms of
reference for the international consultant are attached.
(In Thousands of US Dollars)
14.  Estimated Cost                             Local         Foreign   Total
Staff Salaries and Allowances                19              -       19
International Consultancy                     3              45      48
Local Consultancies                            5               -      5
Equipment and Materials                        2             16      18
Staff Training                                3              57      60
Vehicle                                        -              20     20
BASE COST                               32
Physical Contingencies                   3              14      17
Price Contingencies                      4              17     21
TOTAL SUBPROJECT COST                   39             169    208
15.  Financing Plan                               Local         Foreign  Total
IDA                                      25            169
Government                               14             -       14
39           169      208
16. Estimated Disbursements
IDA FY 89      FY 90      FY 91   FY 92
Annual                          10           96         68        20
Cumulative                      10          106        174       194



- 102 -
Annex 1s
Page 5 of 7
17.       Implementation.  The Directorate of Planning and Finance (MOEC)
would be responsible for the implemertation of this subproject with
assistance from the Social and Infrastructure Fund. Prospective local
econoJ.stu/statisticians have already been identified and their recruitaont
would be completed before the arrival of the international consultant.
Staff training program and the procurement of equipment and naterials would
be finalized after the consultant's arrival.
18.       Procurement.  Equipment and materials ($18,000) and a vehicle
($20,000) would be procured by Local Shopping. The consultant would be
recruited in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines.
19.       Benefits and Risks.  The subproject would greatly improve the
planning capacity and the management information system in MOE resulting in
greater benefits from the investments in the education sectors. There are no
major risks.
20.       Agreements to be Reached.  The following agreements would be
reached concerning the Textbooks Subproject:
(a) As a condition of IDA approval of this subproject, DRSTP to
confirm that (i) the technical assistance to implement the whole
subproject would be available from the Gulbenkian Foundation or
any other source acceptable to IDA; (ii) arrangements to supply
teachers' guidebooks before the students' textbooks had been made
in a manner satisfactory to IDA; (Aii) settlement of any issue
regarding writers' royalty would be the Government's
responsibility.
(b)   By September 30, 1989, DRSTP to complete teacher's training for
the use of new books.
(c)  By August 31, 1989, DRSTP to provide IDA with its plan to lend
books to students with deposit in a manner satisfactory to IDA
21.       The following agreements would be reached concerning the Education
Planning Subproject:
(a)   As a condition of IDA approval of this subproject, DRSTP would
identify the international consultant.
(b) By August 31, 1989, the international consultant would be
appointed.



Annex 15
-103 -                              Page 6 of 7
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
EDUCATION PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CONSULTANT
DRAFT TERHS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1.        The Ministry of Education (MOE) seriously suffers from the absence
of up-to-date data, from weak planning, programuing and project analysis and
from an  almost non-existent  program monitoring  and evaluation.   There is
also a dearth of an overall national framework and of coordination of a
large number of external donors' activities. These shortcomings result in
poor management and wastage of scarce resources.   They also  handicap MOE's
ability to identify problems and bottlenecks within the sector to design and
prioritize  the  remedies   and   to   prepare   appropriate   projects  for
implementation.
2.        To remedy  this situation,  the proposed  project would strengthen
MOE's planning, management information and project coordination capacity by
providing qualified local staff (e.g. and Economist, and Educator and a
Statistician), office equipment and materials, vehicles, overseas training
and the services of an internationally recruited consultant for a total of
about three man-months.
Planning and Coordination
Although there is a Directorate of Planning and Finance within the MOE,
it is admitted that its organization, staffing and equipping do not allow it
to fulfill its functions of data gathering and analysis, planning and donor
coordination.   For a  lasting improvement  in the situation, however, it is
necessary to thoroughly investigate the problems and needs to make a
detailed recommendation regarding the roles, staffing and equipping of the
planning  and   coordination  unit(s).       Therefore,   under  the  proposed
multisector project this organization would be improved in two stages.
In the first stage, a nucleus would be created in the MOE's Planning
and  Finance   Directorate  with   a  small   staff  (an   educator  and  an
economist/statistician), a modest amount of equipment and materials and the
recruitment of an  international  consultant.    The  final  stage  would be
implemented   after   the   consultant   carries   out  the  above-mentioned
investigation,  with  the  help  o0   the   Directorate   staff,   and  his
recommendations are reviewed by the Government and IDA.
Terms of Reference of the International Consultant
4.        The   main   responsibilities   of   the   consultant   (in  close
collaboration with local staff) would be to:



Annex 15
- 104 -                              Page 7 of 7
(a)  Identify the deficiencies in the present planning
and project preparation capacity;
(b)  design a comprehensive program for immediate and longer
term improvements in planning and implementation and in
project coordination;
(c) design and establish an appropriate system of manageoent
information and prc'ect evaluatLon;
(d)  identify staff training and any future technical assistance
needs;
(e)  initiate preparation  of sub-projects  to be  included in the
second phase of the proposed multisector project.
A  major  facet  of  the  consultant's responsibility would be to train
local counterparts to become increasingly self-reliant and independent of
external technical assistance.
Mode of Operation
5.   The  international  consultant  will  provide  a  total  of about three
months'service spread over three or four visits. His/her first visit would
be scheduled within two months of the project appraisal but only after the
Government  has  made  formal  decision  to  establish  the   nucleus  unit,
identified staff and provided suitable office space. During the first visit
the consultant, in close collaboration with MOE and the Social and
Infrastructural Fund (SIF), would carry out the following tasks:
(a)  complete the establishment of the necessary units within
the Directorate and arrange for the procurement of
necessary office equipment, materials and vehicles;
(b)  produce a plan of action for the unit(s) for the immediate
and the longer term;
(c)  initiate implementation of the Dlan in (b);
(d)  explore with the local staff ways and means of identifying
and   preparing   sub-projects   (for   example,  educational
materials and supplies); and
(e)  agree on the schedule of his/her future visits and
the work program for the unit(s) for the following months.
6.        The  work  program  and  schedules of the consultant's subsequent
visits will be based upon his/her accomplishments during the first visit.



- 105 -
Annez 16
Page 1 of 7
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
MULTI-SECTOR PROJECT
THE HEALTH SECTOR SUBPROJECTS
..   Background
The Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe (DRSTP) enjoys
a better status of health than most of sub-Saharan Africa. In 1988, STP's
crude birth and death rates were 39.0 and 9.6 per thousand compared to 47.0
and 18.0 average for that region; life expectancy at birth was 62 years
compared to 48 for the region. However, the macro-economic decline since
the early 1980s has been causing serious deterioration of health services
and, consequently, a decline in the country's health status. The
Government has been unable to finance programs to check resurgence of
malaria and other endemic diseases. There Pre shortages of drugs and
medical supplies and the Government has inadequate capacity to plan,
coordinate and manage health programs.
2.   Objectives and Priorities
DRSTP subscribes to the Alma Ata Declaration of health-for-all
based on a primary health care system. Its stated sectoral objectives
include the rehabilitation and rationalization of health care system, the
strengthening of malaria and endemic disease control program and
improvements in the operations efficiency of health delivery services. In
line with Government objectives, the project accords priority to those
programs which would benefit a maximum number of people, quickly and cost-
effectively, and, at the same time, would lay a base for a more durable and
sustainable health care system. In the first phase, the project would
support a subproject covering urgently required malaria and erAemic disease
control activities cnd a subproject designed to improve planning and
management capacity of the Ministry of Health. A number of other external
donors are assisting STP in areas like the rehabilitation of the health
facilities, maternal and child health (MCH) and immunization.
A. MALARIA AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL SUBPROJECT
3.        Subproject Objective.  To control malaria and other endemic
diseases, like schistosomiasis, filariasis, intestinal verminosis, etc.
This would be accomplished by upgrading facilities to treat patients as
well as by implementing a number of measures to fight against mosquitoes
and other vectors. This subproject would also be the forerunner of an
integrated and comprehensive malaria eradication program which is currently
being prepared for implementation in the near future.



- 106 -                      Annex 16
Page 2 of 7
4.        Description.  The proposed credit would finance construction of
a modest new building (to accomodate patient examining rooms, laboratories
and other facilities for epidemiological and entomological work),
laboratory equipment and materials, sprayers, transportation equipment and
small drainage works to ellminate vector breeding grounds.
5.   Estimated Costs
(In Thousands of US Dollars)
Local        Foreign       Total
Medical Building                 50             100          150
Lab Equip.& Materials           11             105          116
Sprayers                          4              35          39
Jeep, Pick-up & Motorcycles    10               95          105
Drainage                         25               5           30
BASE COST            100             340         440
Physical contingencies           10              34           44
Price contingencies              10              34          44
TOTAL SUBPROJECT COST    120              408          528
(In Thousands of US Dollars)
6.   Financial Plan                       Local         Foreign       Total
IDA                              67             408          475
Government                       53             ---            53
120            408           528
7.   Estimated Disbursements            IDA FY 89         FY 90        FY 91
Annual                           47              309         119
Cumulative                      47              356          475
8.        Implementation.  Malaria Eradication Mission (Missao de
Erradicacao do Paludismo, MEP) in the Ministry of Health would be responsible
to implement this project.  MEP would be assisted in the project
implementation by an experienced consultant, acceptable to IDA. MEP's
cooperation agreement with Portugal's Institute of Hygiene and Tropical
Medicine would assist STP in the use of the facilities that would be provided
under this project.



- 107 -
Annex 16
Page 3 of 7
9.        Procurement.  Construction works of the medical building
($150,000) and small drainage works ($30,000) would be procured under local
competitive bidding. Laboratory and transportation items (totalling
$221,000) and sprayers ($39,000) would be procured based on international and
local shopping.
10.       Environmental Zffects.  The proposed project emphasizes improved
sanitation and drainage for vector control with a limited and supervised
chemical spray program. This approach is environmentally preferable and much
safer than conventional, widespread spraying.
11.       Benefits and Risks.  This subproject is expected to lead to
substantial control of malaria and other endemic diseases resulting in
reduced mortality and morbidity. While the improved clinical facility would
most directly benefit about one-half of the country's population concentrated
in and around the capital area, the epidemiological and entomological
activities would benefit the national program as a whole. Main project risk
is the limited implementation capacity of the Ministry. This is expected to
be minimized with the help of project consultants.
B. HEALTH PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT SUBPROJECT
12.       Subproject Objective.  The primary objective would be to
strengthen the capacity of the Health Planning Directorate in areas of
planning, programming and project analysis and to improve its management
information system. This is expected to lead to the design of an overall
national framework and an effective mechanism for management and coordination
of sectoral activities. As a result, the Directorate would also gain the
capacity to prepare new subprojects for financing under subsequent phases of
this Credit or by other external donors.
13.       Description.  The Directorate staff would be increased, by
internal transfers and by adding one economist, to the level of at least four
economists/statisticians and one public health specialist. The proposed
credit would finance services of one international consultant (to be
recruited for periodic visits for a total of about three months), incremental
staff salaries, staff training, office equipraent and materials and one four-
wheel drive vehicle. Draft terms of reference for the international
consultant are attached.
14.  Estimated Costs                       (In Thousands of US Dollars)
Local        Foreign        Total
Staff salaries and Allowances        22              -            22
International Consultancy             3              45           48
Local Consultancies                    7             _              7
Equipment and Haterials               1              10           11
Staff Training                        2              28           30
Vehicle                               2              20           22



- 108 -
BASE COST                  37             103           140
Physical Contingencies                 4              10            14
Price Contingencies                    4              12            16
TOTAL SUBPROJECT COST            45             125          170
15. Financing Plan
Local          Foreign        Total
IDA                              15               125        140
Government                       30                           30
45               125        170
16.  Estimated Disbursements
IDA FY 89    FY 90      FY 91       FY 92
Annual                       14          70         40         16
Cumulative                   14          84        124        140
17.       Implementation.  The Planning Directorate under the Ministry of
Health (MOH) would be responsible for the implementation of this subproject
with assistance from the Social and Infrastructure Fund (SIF) Host local
staff have already been identified and would be in place before the arrival
of the international consultant. Staff training program and the procurement
of equipment and materials would be finalized after the consultant's arrival.
18.       Procurement.  Equipment and materials ($11,000) and a vehicle
($22,000) would be procured by international and local shopping. The
consultant would be recruited in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines.
19.       Benefits and Risks.  The subproject would greatly improve the
planning capacity and the management information system in MOH resulting in
greater benefits from health related investments. There are no major risks.
20.       Agreements to be reached.  The following agreements would be
reached concerning the Malaria and Endemic Disease subproject:
As conditions for IDA approval of this subproject, MOH to submit
IDA with (i) the final design and the revised costs estimates of
the new MEP building; (ii) final list of equipment and materials
and their cost estimates; (iii) description and cost estimates of
the small drainage works; (iv) the confirmation that the technical
assistance for project implementation has been arranged; and the
confirmation that the chemicals and the supplies required for the
full utilization of the facilities have been arranged from other
sources.



- 109 -
Annex 16
Page 5 of 7
21.       The following agreements would be reached concerning the Health
Planning and Managemsent subprojects
(a) As a condition of IDA approval of this subproject, MDR would
select the international consultant.
(b) As a condition of disbursement under this subproject, the
international consultant would be appointed with the terms of
reference and work schedule acceptable to IDA.



110 -                           Annex 16
Pege 6 of 7
SAO TONZ AND PRINCIPZ
HEALTH PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CONSULTANT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1.        The Ministry of Health (MOH) seriously suffers from the absence of
up-to-date data, from weak pianning, programming and project analysis and
from an  almost non-existent  program monitoring  and evaluation.   There is
also a dearth of an overall national framework and of coordination of a
large number of external donors' activities. These shortcomings result in
poor management and wastage of scarce resources.   They also  handicap MOH's
ability to identify problems and bottlenecks within the sector to design and
prioritize  the  remedies   and   to   prepare   appropriate   projects  for
implementation.
2.        To remedy  this situation,  HOH would  strengthen its planning and
management  information  capacity.    The  proposed  project  would  finance
qualified local staff (e.g. an Economist, a Public Health Specialist and a
Statistician), office equipment and materials, vehicles, and overseas
training and the services of an internationally recruited consultant for a
total of about three man-months.
The Planning and Management Information Unit (PMIU)
3.   A PMIU would be created in  the  MOH's  Directorate    of  Planning and
Finance. Its exact organizational links and staffing would be
finalized  during  the  project  appraisal.   Broadly, the PHIU would become
MOH's main arm for: identifying and analyzing major areas of problems and
constraints within the health sector and designing appropriate sector
policies, plans and programs; preparing individual projects (by its own
staff  or   through  contracting);   establis}ing  a  system  of  management
information to help monitor health status of the citizens as well as to
monitor  programs'   and  projects'   performance  and   their  impact;  and
establishing  a  system  of  effective  coordination   of  external  donors'
activities.    PMIU  would  become  the  depository  of  all  statistics and
information relating to the health sector.
Terms of Reference of the International Consultant
4.        The main responsibilities of the fixed-term consultant would be:
(a) To identify the deficiencies in the present planning
and project preparation capacity and to design a
comprehensive program for immediate and longer term
improvements;



- 111 -                            Annex 16
Page 7 of 7
(b)  To design and establish an appropriate system of management
information, including a system to measure the health
status and the performance of sectoral programs and projects;
(c) To identify future technical assistance and staff training
needs, and to prepare necessary proposales
(d) To initiate preparation of sub-projects, by the use of PMIU
staff or outside contracts, to be included in the second
phase of the proposed projects: and
(e) To train local counterparts so that the PMIU staff are
increasingly self-reliant and independent of external
technical assistance.
Mode of Operation
3.   The international consultant will provide a total of about three months
services spread  over three  or four  visits.   His/her first visit would be
scheduled within two months of the project appraisal but only after the
Government has made formal decision to establish PMIU, identified staff and
provided suitable office  space.    During  the  first  visit  and  in close
collaboration with HOH and the Social and Infrastructural Fund (SIF), the
consultant would carry out the following tasks:
(a) complete the establishment of PHIU (with the staffing
and facilities agreed during the project appraisal)
and arrange for the procurement of necessary office
equipment, materials and vehicles;
(b) identify, based upon an overview of the sector, major
deficiencies in planning and management information        areas
and prepare a plan of action for the immediate and the
longer term;
(c) initiate establishment of a system for regular reporting
and information gathering;
(d)  guide PMIU staff to initiate the preparation of sub-projects
(essential drugs and medical supplies sub-project and any
other as agreed with MOH); and
(e) agree on the schedule of his/her future visits and
the work program for PMIU for the following few months.
6.        The work program and schedules  of  the  consultant's  subsequent
visits will be based upon his/her accomplishments during the first visit.



- 112 -
Annex 17
Poge 1 of 14
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
MULTISECTOR PROJECT
I. Water Supply Sector Rehabilitation Subproject
A.        The Water Supply Sector
1.        Water supply service levels in Sao Tome and Principe (STP) are
low and declining ir. quality. From a country population of 118,000 by mid-
1988, only about 15Z was served by house connections, and another 151 by
public water standposts. Nation-wide, there are about 4,500 house or patio
connections, and about 230 public standposts. The major water system
serves Sao Tome, the capital city; other nine smaller systems serve other
urban and rural communities near the capital city. On the whole, water
systems flow by gravity from spring sources. Intakes at water sources are
unprotected and without disinfection. In Sao Tome, the capital city, water
service is widely rationed, and presently most public standpost servicing
low income people in populated peri-urban areas are unfunctioning due to
water shortage. These shortages are mostly attributed to high system
losses, inadequate operation and maintenance practices, and acute scarcity
of human and material resources.
2.        The inadequacy of the existing services is associated with
poverty and poor health with a high prevalence of communicable and water
borne diseases. There is a high prevalence of parasitic diseases and
intestinal infections which are presently the main causes of mortality.
Infant mortality is now estimated at 74 per thousand live birth. Though
this indicf.tor is better than the ones in many sub-saharan countries, the
high prevalence of intestinal diseases remain at alarming high levels. On
the whole, more than 802 of children under four years of age suffer from
any kind of intestinal infections.
B.        Sector Organization
3.        The Water and Energy Company (EMAE), attached to the Ministry of
Energy and Industry, manages nation-wide all public water systems. EMAE's
general manager heads jointly the electricity and water supply systems. The
organization is divided into three departments: an economic department, in
charge of treasury, accounting, billing and collecting; an administrative
department, managing personnel, purchasing, control,and monitoring; and the
technical department with two separate operational units, one for
electricity, and the other for water.  EMAE employs a total of 364 people,
of which  18 work in the water supply unit.  The water unit lacks of basic
equipment and tools for an adequate operation and maintenance of the water
systems.
C.        Sector Issues and Constraints
4.        The sector faces major operational issues and constraints of
institutional and technical character which are associated with the general
country's trend in economic decline. First, the water system of the



- 11i -
Annex 17
Page 2 of 14
capital city is fast deteriorating due to aging and poor operational and
maintenance practices; EMAE's institutional capacity is insufficient to
absorb frequent operational problems that the existing water systems
demands. Lastly, VIAl's operational performance is also constrained by its
low level of revenues from water services, which presently are about one
tenth of the electricity revenues.
5.        Consequently, at the capital city, about 401 of the city
population suffers from heavy rationing or absolute lack of water. A large
proportion of these people, served with patio connections or public
standposto and living in outskirt city areas, is not presently receiving
water service due to operational problems. The water systems in the
interior suffer somewhat les of these problems, but are not properly
controlled and monitored by EMAE due to constraints in personnel auad
transportation.
D.        The Sao Tome Water Supply System
6.        The Capital City water supply system is old and fast
deteriorating. Sao Tome's mid-1988 city population is estimated at 32,000
and growing at about 3.OZ per annum. The water system, built in 1955, is
supplied by two main spring sources with an estimated combined flow of
about 120 lps. The water transmission and distribution system has 18 km of
asbestos cement pipe of which about 10 km is in bad condition. Total water
storage capacity of is about 4,000 cubic meters. The system has not grown
much since its inception. Presently, the system serve 3,400 connections
equivalent to about 65Z of the present population. The remaining
population mostly living in shanty peri-urban areas is served through about
80 public standposts. Most of these public standposts, however, are
presently out of service.
7.        The system faces serious operational problems as follows:
(i) Intakes at spring sources and transmission main pipes
suffer from frequent flow obstructioG   originating from
root growths inside the intake structures and pipe joints.
These root growths from nearby trees proliferate to a size
that blocks the water flow;
(ii) The distribution system operation is affected by frequent
leaks, now reporting more than 50 leaks per month. Most of
the leaks originates in pipe joints corroding and weakening
the pipe thickness. EMAE's practice is to replace damaged
pipe segments with short pieces of spare pipes, resulting
in proliferation of pipe joints which in turn originates
more leaks.
(iii) Metering of services in downtown areas is low. Only about
800 house connection have functioning meters. The lack of
metering contributes to a high per capita water consumption
in existing house connections that pay on a fixed rate
basis;



- 114 -
Annex 17
Page 3 of 14
(iv) Low water rates encourages water waste; and,
(v) Lack of operation and maintenance procedures, added to
inadequate operational equipment and lack of tools
contribute to operational shortcomings. The distribution
system has unfunctioning valves for day to day operations.
Meters are poorly maintained with inadequate meter shop
facilities and lack of spares. EHAEs water uwit has only
one vehicle to cover its mnltiple operational needs in Sao
Tome and other water systems in the interior.
I.        Sector StrateRg
S.        The Government water supply strategy is aimed to improve the
present service level of the Sao Tome water supply system by rehabilitating
and making an optimum use of the existing facilities. It also promotes the
enhzncement of EMAE's management. The strategy agrees with the overall
public health policy to rehabilitate health related services and to seek
emergency solutions for major environmental parasitic diseases, like
malaria and intestinal infections. To this end and as a first stage, the
Government is launching a program to improve planning and management in
public enterprises. The initial Government program, estimated in UCF 1.2
million with the finacial support of the African Development Bank, (AfDB)
is ready to start in three major institutions: Ministry of Planning, the
National Insurance Company, and EMAE. RMAE's technical assistance with ADB
is focussed on operational and financial improvements.
II. THE PROJECT
A.        Proposed Subproject Objectives
9.        The proposed subproject would be a first main step in assisting
EMAE become an efficient organization, capable of providing good water
service with minimum recourse to operating subsidies from the Government.
The proposed subproject objectives comprise:
(i) to improve services in areas with irregular water service
and rehabilitate standpost water services in populated
marginal city areas;
(ii) to help improve public health by decreasing the high
prevalence of water borne diseases by means of water
quality enhancement and by implementing sound operational
and maintenance practices; and,
(iii)  to help strengthen EMAE's financial position in managing
its public water service.



Annex 17
Page 4 of 14
B.        Proposed Subproject Description
10.       The subproject would mainly improve the functioning and
efficiency of the existing water system though a program of rehabilitation
and operational improvements. The subproject comprises the following
components:
(i) Rehabilitation of about 5,000 meters of main pipes in sizes
from 100 mm to 400 mm;
(ii) Acquisition of equipment including vehicles, operating
equipment, including quality control equipment, tools and
spare parts;
(iii) Acquisition and installation of domestic water meters and
production meters;
(iv) Replacement of house connections; and,
(v) Other urgent operational improvements including procedures
for maintaining the water intakes obstruction free.
C.        Subproject Cost
11.       The Subproject cost amounts to the equivalent of US$ 630,000
including physical risk, and price contingencies (see Attachment 1).
Physical contingencies represent 10? of the base cost. An inflation factor
of 5.3Z per annum was used for foreign and local contingencies. The rate
of exchange was assumed as presented in Attachment 3.
D.        Status of Subproject Preparation
12.       EMAE is presently carrying out flow measurements at the water
sources and a detailed evaluation of the water distribution network and
system's performance. Under the PPF, consulting services would be further
provided for preparation and engineering design. IPA assisted EMAE in
preparing sample terms of reference for an engineering consultant (copy in
project files). EMAE should hire the consultant in May 1989.
F.        Subproject Justification and Benefits
13.       More than 58? of the proposed investments under the subproject
would be to repair, rehabilitate and replace existing infrastructure, the
rest would be for acquisition to improve operations such as water meters,
vehicles and other equipment. The Credit from the African Development Bank
to EMAE that will assist in its institutional and financial strengthening
will set firmer bases for the operation of EMAE and consequently of its
Water department. The subproject will finance components of high priority,
with immediate and medium-term impact which are consistent with EKAE's
long-term objectives. The subproject component represent the least cost
solution for achieving the subproject's objectives and would not involve
the use of unusual or unproven technologies. The subproject benefits would
include both direct (reduction in unaccounted for water, increased income)



- 116 -
Annex 17
Page 5 of 14
and irdirect benefits (such as improved water quality, increase
availability of water principally to the poor, and in general improve
system reliability with consequences in improved sanitary conditions for
the population). Due to the nature of the proposed subproject, not all
benefits can be quantify reliably. However an attempt has been made to
estimate the subproject-related benefits as compared with the case that no
subproject is executed. Under this circumetances the subproject would have
an indicative overall economic rate of return of about 14Z. (see attachment
2).
The benefits from each of the components of the subproject would accrue
from two key activities : (i) the replacement of certain portion of the
water lines; and (ii) the installation of meters. The replacements of mains
would result in higher system pressures to consumers, reduction of leaks
and potent:al increased revenues for EMAE. The proposed subproject expects
to benefit about 60Z of Sao Tome's population, meaning that about 2,400
customers would enjoy full day service, and about 1,000 marginal families
would have access to clean water in public standposts.
Affordability of water supply services by the poor have been evaluated.
Assuming the Feb 1989 tariffs structure, the evaluation showed that, based
on a "life-line"monthly consumption of about 10 cubic meters, a poor family
spends about Dobras 420, representing about 3.OZ of estimated family
income. Furthermore, in those places where water is not available, the
urban poor buys water of doubtful quality from vendors at 10 to 20 times
the cost of piped water supplied by EMAE.
The main subproject risk is the possibility of delays in the implementation
of the Technical Assistance from the African Development Bank that may slow
the implementation of the subproject. Also the inherence difficulties of
importing material on time to Sao Tome could also delay the implementation.
With such delays the subproject expected benefits will be realized at a
later date. This risk should not be overrated, however, considering the
commitment shown by the Government to the subproject by giving to it its
highest priority. Subproject risk would also be reduced by the follow up
and the technical assistance that SIF will provide.
G.        Financial Impact
14.       The proposed subproject targets that EMAE becomes a self-
financing company. EMAE's finances would be strengthened by increased
sales and revenues. Jointly with the AfDB technical assistance, the
subproject intends to improve EMAE's financial position to cover operation
and maintenance, debt service, and working capital needs. These objectives
would be achieved by stages as the actions to respond to the technical
assistance's findings can be can be timely implemented. In early 1989,
EMAE demonstrated an initial effort by increasing water tariffs by more
than 1002.
Financial projections with their corresponding explanatory notes are in
attachment 3.



- 117 -
Annez 17
Page 6 of 14
H.        Environmental impact
15.       The subproject would result in improvemnt in the sanitary and
*nvironmental conditions in Sao Tome by increasing access to adequate
quantitles of clean water and by improving operation and maintenance. The
existing s*verage system in the downtown area would dispose of most of the
incremental water produced by the subproject. Environmental conditions in
marginal area would substantially improve when clean water becomes
available in existing public standpipes, precluding the current use of
polluted waters.
I.        Monitoring Indicators
16.       Tables with monitoring indicators in the operation financial and
economic areas are shown in attachment 4. These indicators will be used for
supervision purposes. The compliance with these indicators will guarantee
that the objective of the subproject are met, and they would be included in
the subloan agreement between EMAE and SIF.



- 118 -
Annex 17
Attachment 1
Page 7 of 14
DEMOCRATIC REPULC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
-------------------------------------------
MILTI-SECTOR PROJECT
____________________
COST TAML
TOTAL
- ---- -_ ---------------  Percentage
COMPONENT                   LOCAL   FORtEON    TOTAL  of BLas Cost
Subprojoct: Water Supply Re,abilltatlor
__________
Operational lmprovomnte Acquisitions
Motore                                      0.0       50.0       60.0       111
Vehilelo                                    0.0       40.0       40.0        9X
Operating Equipmnnt                         0.0       75.0       75.0       16i
Subtotal                                      0.0      165.0      165.0       36X
Rehabilitation Works
Pipe Installation                          82.0      183.0      265.0       6ox
Subtotal                                     32.0      183.0      265.0       61x
Engineering and Supervision                  12.0       28.0       40.0       91
Total Base Cost                              94.0      376.0      470.0      100%
Physical Contingency (101)                    9.4       37.6       47.0
Risk Allowance Contingency */                10.3       41.4       61.7
Price Contingency b/                         11.2       W0.4       61.6
Total Subprojoet Cost                       124.9      606.3      680.3
wzxa
a/ The risk allowance contingency covers very
difficult tronsportation conditions to Sao Tome.
b/ Based on a compounded annual growth rate (1989 - 1991) of 6.3X.



-  119  -                                              Annex  17
Attachment 2
Page 8 of 14
OBcTIC 1_11C Of S  TS  Me ftDCIP
buume Am.IieI
------ ----------
NHdS Costs       Teal CIsta         Tariff Reveatee    Na-tei'.re.v.      Not beneiqt
198       o.o0              0.00              0.00               0.00               0.00               0.00
109   3181.36             620.61            396.97            4.70                  0.00             291.73
1990  21871.90            672.76           22044.66            648.1i               0.00          -1O9.54
1991  31357.49            716.22           1206.71            660.21                0.00          -2892.50
1992      0.00            716.22             716.22           "90.21                0.00            7973.ss
1993      0.00            716.22             716.22           690.21                0.00            797.99
1994      0.00            716.22             716.22           690.21                0.00            7973.9
1995      0.00            716.22             716.22           "90.21                0.00            797s.9s
199e      0.00            716.22             716.22           U90.21                0.00            7973.99
1997      0.00            716.22             716.22            690.21               0.00            7973.99
1998      0.00            716.22             716.22           U90.21                0.00            7973.99
1999      0.00            716.22             784.13           6690.21               0.00            796.01
2000      0.00            715.22             784.13             690.21              0.00            7936.06
2001      0.00            716.22             754.13            6690.21              0.00            79Ud.08
14.441



- 120 -
Annex 17
Attachment 3
Page 9 of 14
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOM AND PRINCIPE
KULTISECTOR PROJECT
Notes to the Financial Statements
GERNRAL
1.        The income and cash flow statements shown in this attachment
were derived from non-audited statements of EMAR based on assumptions
summarized below. EMAE's accounting system is run manually and its
reliability is questionable. There are no separate cost centers for Power
and Water, therefore it is impossible to identify the direct costs related
to the operation of the water services. Only the revenue accounts are
segregated for each one of the different services.
REVENUES
Water Revenues
2.        The average water tariff for 1988 is derived from actual income
as reported in EMAE's financial statements. The estimated income for the
year 1989 assumes the implementation of tariff increases authorized in
January 1989. From then on, it is assumed that EMAE would increase its
water tariffs every year in line with the estimated annual inflation rate.
OPERATING COSTS
Personnel
3.        In 1988 income from water represented 102 of the total income of
EMAE, therefore personnel costs for the water department for 1988 were
estimated at 102 of the total personnel cost of EMAE. For the future years
it is assumed that personnel  costs would increased at a higher rate than
normal. It assumed that an increased number of staff will be needed in the
water department to meet increased needs of specialized personnel
(engineers, laboratory specialist, specialist for the repairs and
calibration of meters and more efficient plumbers and mechanics) to improve
maintenance and water quality and to reduce the unaccounted for water.
Under the reorganization scheme the water department would have its own
accounting system that will lead to improved accounting practices, reliable
cost information and better financial controls.  It is expected that the
*          number and quality of personnel in the commercial department will be
enhanced. As a result the reading of meters and the billing and collection
of water bills will imprcve. The detection of illegal connections will
increase. The total number of personnel will increase in line with the
number of additional water connections and the total cost of salaries .
adjusted for inflation.



- 121 -
Annex 17
Attachment 3
Page 10 of 14
Chemicals
4.        At present vater is not treated or chlorinated.  Starting in
1991 water will be chlorinated. Cost of chemicals are projected in
function of water produced and will increase in line with infl*^lon.
Operation and maintenance
S.        These costs include the estimated costs of materials for the
maintenance of the water network, meters and vehicles.
Losses on receivables
6.        During 1988 these losses were extraordinary and significant in
recognition of poor collection from long outstanding inactive accounts
dating back to 1976-1988. From 1989 to 1992, losses on receivables are
projected as lOZ of total income. In 1993 and thereafter, losses are
projected as 5? of total income.
Depreciation expenses
7.        At this time it is not possible to segregate the fixed assets
account between those assets used by the Power and the Water department.
The assumed depreciation is based on the best estimate of the total
replacement cost of the gross fixed assets. The assumed depreciation rate
is 3.01 of total fixed non-revalued fixed assets.
INVESTMENTS
Investments cost, IDA prolect
8.        Include the expenditures under the IDA-rinanced Multisector
project. Financed by SIF under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
Other Works
9.        Estimated in line with the technical assumptions made by the
project engineer for the financing of future expansion and improvements of
the water system not contemplated in the scope of the project.



-122 -                                                Annex 17
Attachment 3
Page 11 of 14
D_l>TIC WULC O SAG TW N  PRICIPE
"AI eml PrejeetI
ACT--       4--  -  ----
water    rnsl impewo         r t                wo      un       i
--------    --- -  ------ -__ _ _.__ _ _ _ _
w m          lo       lu      1"0      1"l       t"9      to       1"4
SASIC ATUTIOS
DLATION FACIOR. WUL, LOAL                Cm,ataft      1.500    1.80   1.20       1.210    1.200    1.180    1.150
DILAtION FACV      ERAE.WLCA'            Cuat           1.40    1.575   1.518    1.211    1.22       1.11"    1.170
PRICE OELATOR (I95 * ASE)                Cwentant       1.00    0.727   0.154    0.441    0.         0.800    0.211
SOWE RATE. YEARS  Qe                     Dd.           100.0    187.5   1P0.5    26.7   2fM.4    55.1         07.2
EO4AS  RATE, AVOtACE                    D0.6           100.0   11.0   159.0    205.6    212.4    804.6    519.1
PEOPLE. AVtACE. PER WATER CONN                          a. 00    S.00    6.00      1.00     0.00      0.00     *.00
POPUkATION, TOTAL                        (000)         32.00    52.0   35.95    34.97    SS.02    57.10    30.21
CONNECTIONS, WATEt. NS                    (000)         0.00     0.00    0.30      0.50     0.20     0.20      0.20
CO"ECTIONS, WATt. VENAD S                 (000)         3.42     3.42    3.72      4.02     4.22      4.42     4.62
CONECTIONS. WATEt, AVAE                   (000)         5.42     5.42    3.57      5.0?     4.12      4.52     4.82
VOUJE OF WATOt CONS'. Pgt CONN-. Pt #0TH   S            3.10     3.20    5.50      8.75     4.00      4.16     4.35
VOLUME OF WATt BIILI. TOTAL YEAR         (000)0S      127.22   131.53  149.94   174.15   197.76   215.14   256.94
UNACOUNTED FOR WATOR RATIO               S Constant     0.50     0.60    0.35      0.40     0.40      0.30     0.50
VOUME OF WATOt PROUCED. TOTAL YEAR        (OOO)ms     318.06   826.32  283.20   290.26   529.60   507.24   557.06
AVmtACE TARIFF. WAT                      Ob/S           4.63     6.91   11.70    14.70    10.06    21.45    26.56
AVOtAE TARIFF, WATER                     Les"           0.06     0.00    0.07      0.07     0.07     0.07      0.06
UNIT FEE Pmt N.I CONNECTION. AVYbME      Ob.(000)       4.00     4.00    4.00      4.00     4.00      ..00     4.00
REV84JES, TOTAL WATOR SAC                Ok. (000)    5590.47  11704.94 1755. 5  26592.57 55691.77  4168.5S 6100.92
REVS65, OTHER                            Ob. (000)      0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
REV4JES, CONNECTION FES                 Ob. (000)      0.00     0.00  1200.00  1200.00   000.00   600.00   000.00
REJES,OTHER                              Ob.(000)       0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
REV96JES, OTHE                           1Ok.(OOO)     25.00    25.00   25.00    25.00    25.00    25.00    25.00
0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
INET#elTS                                US (OOO)               30.40  242.60   849.30      0.00
OCVERHET CONTRISJTION TO INVTME          Ob.(000)       0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
WACE ;R0TH RATE                          Constant       0.00      1.00    1.50     1.10      1.02     1.02     1.02
EELOYEs. PM 1000 W. CONN.                Constant       6.00     7.00    6.00      9.00    10.00    10.00    10.00
POtN    COSTS                            Ob.(000)    2600.00  594.75 6111.00  15369.16 20254.02 26756.45 52150.40
COST OF CHEICALS, TOTAL                  Ob. (000)      0.00     0.00    0.00  2000.00  245.25  292.6   5415.77
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  ............................................................ . ............................ . ............................ .................. . . .    . .~



- 123 -
Annex 17
Attachment 3
Page 12 of 14
DiATIC i8LC OF AO T   no PRNCIE
------_-----_-_-------------_----------_----
IA.TI-Tat  GiwJFT
6tar Sm" y SProject
Finacil PrJwioo
-LML    4          ----------OTW
tlS          196      IWO      19"0     191    1i"         19       1994
CA  P.W _TITW                             Ob. 10..
DICE         O OEIATION                               1947.57  5069.66  t14.16  7S75.16   10.51  120".17 25140.16
OITH  MOPRATDIN  DICOE                                 100.00   100.00  L. i.00   12t.00   125.00   126.00   125.00
DITVtAL CASH 0BOATION                                 2047.67  5119.15 6119.15  7100.16  645.61  12173.17 265.15
AIORTIZATIONi                                            0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00  10282.67
PERET OSEM                                               0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     9.00  16508.*0
TOTAL DE8T SitVICE                                       0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00 28791.47
WqIN   CAPITAL N                                       500.00   750.00  750.00   750.00   750.00   500.00   500.00
OT     S ASSES AND LIABILITIES                           0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
CONtRIMlJTION TO INVE5TMT                             1647.57  4409.55 5409.15  6750.16  6195.51  11673.17  -4026.32
INVf6TEST COST, Iw PROJECT                               0.00  4560.00  86569.61  71114.44    0.00     0.00     0.00
INVESTMENT COST                                          0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
OTHE WORKS                                             700.00   1429.00  1500.00  1650.00  2760.00  3000.00  3000.00
INVESTHW4TS SUBTOTAL                                   700.00  5969.00 40069.61 72764.4   2750.00  3000.00  3000.00
CAPITALIUZD INmEST                                       0.00   273.60 2U61.86  9442.42  15709.29  15709.29      0.00
TOTAL DVESTM4Sr COSTS                                  700.00  6262.60 429S0.99 82206.U6 16459.29  16709.29  3000.00
REOUIRD FINANCIY0                                     -847.57   1586.05 57521.64 7546.71   6S2.78  S036.12  7026.32
DISa.TS, SIF FINANCING                                  0.00  4560.00 56569.61  71114.44     0.00     0.00      0.00
DISIUESNJTS (CAPrTALIZD INTEES:TS)                       0.00   273.50 261C.S8  9442.42  13709.29  13709.29      0.00
0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.OU
DI5&rSE4TS. (TFERS)                                      0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
TOTAL LOANS                                              0.00  465.60 41430.99 80556.6  18709.29  18709.29       0.00
CEtWIWJTIoNS                                             0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
TOTAL FDNANCIC                                           0.00  4655.60 41480.99  W1056.U6  13709.29  13709.29    0.00
CMANOE IN CASH                                         847.57  2980.55 3909.15  5100.16  5445.51  5673.17 -7026.32
. _.____._____----......-......-----.____-_   __ _--_-...--...------....-..  _-___-_.--_  .-..---..-..---....  --_____.------...-..  _ _--_-___-__---.-..--._ _ _



- 124 -                                                 Annex 17
Attachmnt 3
Page 13 of 14
OMTIC REPBLC eF b1 TOV NO MDC1
VLTI-mT6 iCT
AC'IML  -------- ~           W-
L     ----- -------- --Mie=D ----------------------------->
umm          im        16      1i"0      1to1     16"2      166      1t6
DlCs STAT1WT                               Ob. to's
WAT     lE@ 550.47  11704.64 176."6  2552.3?  35661.77  44156.   55 4100.62
0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
CONNITWil  F                                              0.00      0.00  1200.00  1200.00   600.00   600.00   6O.00
RE36ITION .I   ND 0rN                                     0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
OTH  INCM                                                25.00    25.00   25.00    25.00      2S.00    25.00    25.00
OPMTPC REES62                                          5915.47  11726.64 16764.f  26617.37  36816.77  4663.55  6825.62
PERSO       COSTS                                      2300.00   664.75 6111.06  13666.16 20254.82 28756.45 32150.40
OCMICAL COTS                                              0.00      0.00    0.00  2000.00  2466.26   2920.63  5415.77
Pa   COSTS                                                0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
OPATIW4 NC I'AIM84CE                                    S".60   625.15  1120.00   1825.24   1664.16  2466.32  3042.48
0.TMS                                                     0,00     0.00    0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
LOSS  014 REEV^A3                                       920.00  1756.46  2614.74   1340.67   1628.54   2846.5"   3446.30
0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
ur S                                                    100.00   125.00   160.00    162.00   230.40   24.66   304.70
AOMINISTRATIVS COSTS                                     64.00    170.00  525.00   714.96    64.77   1165.46   1426.15
TOTAL OP2TIC COST                                     3867.60  6670.39 12730.61  16442.22 27666.27  34945.81  437S6.77
INCOE  9WORE OECIATION                                 1647.57  8086.8  6034.18  7375.16   520.51  12046.17  26140.18
EWPEIATION                                              244.00   260.00  270.00   1557.63   1000.00  1027.00   1040.00
OPEATDIC OINCE                                         1703.57  4766.55  5764.18  5517.23  7820.31  11021.17 24100.15
ItEST Et4S5                                               0.Oft    0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00  16506.10
IDRT IEAD ON DIWETHfS                                    0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
OT0  NON OPWATDI  I?CE                                  100.00   100.00   128.00   125.00   128.00   125.00    125.00
0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
NET INCOME                                             1603.87  466.    66U .18  5642.23  7945.81  11146.17  5716.84
WOm(INO RtATIO                                           67.06    56.671  67.USI  72.80O    75.68S   74.361   63.58M
OPATZNO RATIO                                            71.201   69.061   69.261    76.317   76.551    76.551   U6.031



Annex 17
- 125 -                                                  Attachment 4
Page 14 of 14
YUWTIC  WUItC V 64 TM NO S 5INIo'
tLTEYT -       0.00 P
---WL- ------------        98~
YATR CO~~~~~~~~~~~NE                      C    T to      is"  S.42  .4                  2      Is. *.2 *2 444S
NOMIT0N    0 DOAT6                         NOT: U T160   ".
OPlATION
WATE  PROUCW (000 ES)                                    312.06   326.82 .    .20    290.26   229.60   207.34    37.06
WAT     AT SOLD( 000 EN)                                 127.22   181.2   149.94   174.17   197.76   218.14   268.94
wAACCOMED FM TATER()                                      .         80o00  0.0    aa.o5  40.00    40.00    30.00    30.00
WATt SMD PM CMNEC`I0N(   03 AIT)                          3.10       3.20    S.0    lll.75       4.00      4.15      4.35
wATE C05mT/ U Om YEAR ENDCOOO)                             3.42      3.42    3.72      4.02      4.22      4.42     4.62
MErM   WATEPt CONNETOST/WATR CONECTIONS M)                50.00    20.00   50.00    83.00    88.00        U.00    85.00
WWINC  EERS/MEn(s)                                        10.00    10.00   10.00    10.00    40.00    80.00    70.00
BTIYNC/1000 WATER CNNTION                                  6.00      7.00      .t00    9.00     10.00    10.00    10.00
FINANCIAL
--AC  TARIFF REVEUEA/ U SOLW(CLOM6 Ob.)                 44.20    09.13   116.98   141.9    160.48   214.60   298.68
AcE TARIFF REveNL/ U  SOLD(CONSTANT 1967  b.)         44.30    6.62   64.2S2   64.62        64.92     6.62    74.54
AoE wATR TARIFF/ U (CLARNT D.)                         4.88    16.91    11.70     14.70    t6.06    21.34       2J.64
AOE WATt TARIFF/ UI SCLD(CONSTANT 1967 Db.)            4.68      S.  6.48 6.42     6.4            6.48 6.4       7.45
ACE COST/ U SOCW(O.84T Oh.)                           31.19    50.79    64.91    111.64    140.08    162.48    168.56
ACE COST/ U SOLD(CONTANT 1967 Ob.)                    81.19    26.94    47.06    49.24    80.20    49.06       47.98
AOE PWMSN. COST/ U SOLD(CMIRE,T Ob.)                  18.00    20.04   84.10    76.49   102.42    119.78    184.26
AGE PmSW42 COST/ U SOLDCCOTA.) T 1967 Dh.)            16.0S     22.07   29.97    34.62    26.76    36.16    38.19
.INC RATIO                                             0.67     0.87    0.08       0.72      0.76      0.74     0.64
-.~.ATIN0 RATIO                                            0.71      0.59    0.69      0.76      0.79     0.77      0.65
ECONOMIC
AV9tACE AN68JA INFLATION RATE(%)                          40.0 0    37.50 6  31.258   25.68    22.810    18.913   16.95U
AVERAOE EXO*4CE RATE__b./U)                              100.00    118.7 1428.94    203.59   262.57    204.78   359.14
s&ELcTeD rIPoOE AND CASH FLOW DATA
- --     ~~~~) 6018.47  1 1629.94 16669.96  26942.37 26641.77 47116.68  69080.92
T Oh. (000))                    3967.90  6470.39 1272.61  19442.22 27698.27  84948.81  43768.77
Pi000))                            244.00   260.00  270.00   1887.93   1000.00   1027.00   1040.00
---  Oh. (000))                     1706.67   01.79.8  5764.15  6617.25   7320.851  11021.17  24100.18
---- ) )                 ls*~~163.87  4699.88  869.18  8942.25  7948.81  11146.17  5716.34
.4i. Oh.)                        44.30    69.13  116.96   144.96   160.44   214.60   266.63
-TART 1967 Oh.)                  44.30    64.62   64.6   .2 64.62      6,2    64.62    74.84
-r Oh.)                           31.19    80.79   64.91   111.64   140.05   162.43    168.86o
.;ANT 1947 Dh.)                     21.19    26.94   47.08    49.24    80.80    49.06    47.98
700.00   626.60 42930.99  62206.868  16489.29  16709.29  8000.00
__    Dh. (000))                                    0.00  4833. 60 41420.99W 608.66  13709.29  18709.29       0.00
... ... ... ... .. ... ... ... ... .. ... .___ .__ .. .. ... .._... .. ....__... ... .. ... ... ... ... .. ... ... ... ..



- 126 -
Amex 18
Page 1 of 6
DEMOCRATIC RZPUbLIC OF SAO TOMN AND PRINCIPE
MULTI-SZCTOR PROJZCT
Subproject: MERCADO FEIRA DO PONTO (MUNICIPAL MARKET)
Sponsoring Agencyt Assembleia Popular Distrital de Agua
Grande (Local District Council)
Subproject Category III (Economic Infrastructure Improvements)
Background:
1.        The two existing municipal markets in the capital city of Sao
Tome were placed under the jurisdiction of the Agua Grande People's
District Council by the Ministry of the Economy and Finance which continues
to handle receipts and payments resulting from market operations. The
original market was built about 50 years ago. It is enclosed by masonry
walls and covered partially by a roof. The other market (Mercado Feira do
Ponto) developed informally over the years, as the demand for space
exceeded the capacity of the covered market. Feira do Ponto is an open-air
market in an unimproved lot of about 4,000 square meters in the center of
the city. Sanitary conditions in the open-air market are very poor,
although the Agua Grande District Council provides trash disposal in the
open-air market as well as the covered market. Market operations are
severely affected by rain and sun which tend to spoil food and exacerbate
health hazards.
2.        Both markets operate six days a week from sunrise to sunset.
Market traffic varies from season to season, depending on the availability
of fruits and vegetables. Other products sold in the market are clothing
and household goods. The markets are the main shopping facilities not only
for consumers in the capital city but also from the rest of the country.
No statistics exist on market usage by consumers.
3.        Vendors are required to purchase a daily ticket from the Agua
Grande District Council, at a flat rate of Dobras 50 per day per market
stall. Average daily receipts are about Dobras 20,000 which are regularly
turned over to the Ministry of the Econmy and Finance. During peak seasons
market traffic rises to over 1,000 vendors per day. Since a maximum of
only 200 vendors can be accomodated in the covered market, the overflow is
forced to sell goods in the open-air market under unsatisfactory and
unsanitary conditions.
4.        The Agua Grande District Council wishes to constrict a new Feira
do Ponto market with an appropriate enclosure, partial roof and other
environmental amenities. This will enable the Council to eliminate the
existing open-air market and the hazards it poses. The District Council's
approach is fully endorsed by the Ministry of the Economy and Finance.
Institutional strengthening of the District Council for improved management
of the market and enhanced control would be a concurrent goal.
5.        This subproject meets SIF's selection criteria for Category III.



127 -                     ~~~~~Annex 18
- 127 -                             Page 2 of 6
Subproiect Description
1.        Obiectives  (a) To provide a new municipal market in the capital
city of Sao Tome, in order to satisfy the unmet cad steadily growing
demands of consuare and vendors for environmentally sound shopping
facilities at a convenient location; end (b) to ensure that market
operations would be sustainable through systematic collection of vendor
fees, financial management and provision of efficient services and
maintenance.
2.        Scopes  The market would be designed for an ultimate capacity of
800 vendors who would occupy 3,600 square meters of market stalls and about
15 permanent shops. Public facilities and a child care center would also
be provided. This ultimate capacity would be achieved in three phases over
a period of at least six years. The scope of this subproject would be
limited to Phase I. i.e. the institutional strengthening of the local
district council and the construction of facilities serving the essential
needs of approximately 400 vendors who are currently using the unsanitary
open-air market. Construction would be based on labor-intensive methods
and maximum use of local materials.
3.        Location and Environment:  The proposed site is a pu licly owned
vacant lot in the center of the capital, adjacent to the main public
transportation area (Avenida Giovani) and close to the old covered market.
Road access for delivery vehicles would be satisfactory following traffic
safety improvements. The existing utility infrastructure in the vicinity
would require upgrading. Environmental design would provide for public
toilets, storm drainage and appropriate waste holding and disposal
facilities.
4.        Estimated Costs  The estimated total project cost is US$266,000
equivalent. The estimated local component of US$110,000 equivalent would
be spent mostly on local labor and local materials used in construction.
The estimated foreign cost component is US$156,100 equivalent. Details are
shown in Table 1.
5.        Financing:  SIF would finance 100Z of the total project cost as
a grant to the local district council (Assembleia Popular Distrital de Agua
Grande). Recurrent expenditures and expenditures for further development
would be borne by the district council through income derived from vendor
fees etc. as shown in Table 2. Planning, design and other preparation
activities would be started prior to IDA Credit Effectiveness using P?F
funds.
6.        Economic Rate of Return:  Approximately 23Z.
7.        Employment Generation:  About 100 man-years; average cost per
job (man-year) generated is approximately US$300 equivalent.



- 128 -                                Annex 18
Page 3 of 6
8.        Cost Recovery:  The average cost of a vendor ticket would be
gradually increased from the current Dobras 50 per day per market stall to
about Dobras 250 per day in 1995. This would be achieved through fee
increases within affordable limits and differential pricing of market
stalls according to size, type and locatJen.  Recovered costs would be
reinvested in subsequent development phases.
9.        Implementation Schedule:
Selection of Architect/Engineer ............. June 1989
Selection of Market Management Specialist ... July 1989
Selection of Accountant .................... Sept. 1989
Commencement of Staff Training .............. Oct. 1989
Completion of Planning and Design ........... Dec. 1989
Bidding and Contract Award ................. March 1990
Commencemeait of Construction ............... April 1990
Completion of Construction ................... May 1991
Opening of Market ........................... June 1991
10.       Disbursement:
Item                       Amount         Z Loc/Frgn
Site Worn                     20             75/25
Construction                  98             47/53
Equipment                     24             12188
Consulting Services           21             67/33
Institutional Development    29              31/69
Unallocated                   74             46/54
TOTAL                       266
Schedule                        Est.$      Cum.2
FY 90  September ..............  15.         6
December ..............    10 .     10... 
March ..............        15 .    16
June ..............        35 .     30
FY 91  September ..............  45 .       48
December ..............    25 .     58
March ..............        40 .    74
June ..............        40 .     90
FY 92  September ..............  32 .      100Z
11.       Procurement: Construction of the market (US$118,000) would be
procured under Local Competitive Bidding (LCB). Equipment (US$24,000)
would be procured through International and Local Shopping (ILS).
12.       Benefits and Risks:  The main benefit of this subproject would
be the establishment of an appropriate shopping facility for food, clothing
and household goods through which the growing demands of the country's
consumers and its emerging private sector would be substantially satisfied.
A further benefit would result from the strengthening of the institutional
capabilities of the Agua Grande District Council to manage the old covered
and the new market efficiently as a profitable enterprise.



- 129 -                             Annex 18
Page 4 of 6
13.       The present institutional weaknesses of the Council would be the
main risk of this mubproject, as the expectations of conoumers and vendors
regarding services and maintena _e would have to be met as a prerequisite
to increasing vendor fees and proceeding with further development plans.
Substantial provisions would be made to eliminate these institutional
weaknesses through training and technical assistance.



Table 1                                        - 130 -                                   Annex 18
Page 5 of 6
DEMOCRATIC REPUBIUC Of SAO TOM AND PRDNCIPE
UULTI-SECTOR PROJECT
COSt TABLE
(Us$ '@00)
TOTAL
----------------------        PerceentC
COWPONENT                    LOCAL    fON         TOTAL   of Bose Cost
Subprojoet: Mercado Fi rs do Pont*
__________
Sit. Work
Cloaring and Grading                         S.0        0.0        5.0         aX
Off-sit. Infrastructure                      5.0        2.0        7.0         4X
On-Sit. Infrastructure                       8.0        1.0        4.0         2X
Paving                                       2.0        2.0        4.0         2X
Subtota l                                     15.0         .0       20.0        10X
Construction
Footings and Fou-cJtions                     8.0       13.0       21.0       llX
Reinf. Concrete Structure                   20.0       30.0       50.0        2CX
Tlmber Roof Structure                        9.0        1.0       10.0         5X
Ceramic Tile Roof                            4.0        0.0        4.0         2X
Interior Walls                               2.0        1.0        8.0         2X
Mechanical and Plumbing                      2.0        3.0        5.0 X
Electrical and Lighting                      1.0        4.0        5.0        38
Subtotal                                      4C.0       62.0       98.0        s1X
Equipment
Waste Disposal Sine                          0.0       10.0        10.0        5X
Clooning and Maint.nance                     1.0        6.0        7.0         4X
Fire Protection                              1.0        2.0        8.0         2X
Child Care Area                              1.0        2.0        3.0         2X
Vendor Fee Collection                        0.0        1.0         1.0        1X
Subtotal                                       3.0       21.0       24.0        13X
Consulting Servieos
Architect / Engineer                        11.0        0.0        11.0        aX
Market Manager Specialist                    0.0        7.0        7.0         4X
Accountant                                   8.0        0.0         3.0        2X
Subtotnl                                      14.0        7.0        21.0      llX
Institutional Development
Manpower Training                            0.0        6.0        6.0         aX
Administrative Improvements                  9.0       14.0        23.0       12X
Subtotal                                       9.0       20.0        29.0       1SX
Total Base Cost                               87.0      106.0       192.0      10-0
Physical Contingency (15X)                    18.1       15.7        2S38
Risk Allowance Contingency */                  0.0       22.1        22.1
Price Contingency b/                          10.5       1J3.       28.3
Total Subproject Cost                        110.5      156.1      266.6
*/ Tho risk allowance contingency covors very
difficult transportation conditions to Sao Tome.
b/ Based on a cospoundod annual growth rate (1999 - 1901) of 5.8.



Table 2                                                                                      Annex 18
- 131 -                                      Page 6 of 6
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PINCIPE
iULTI-SECTOR POECT
Subproject: MERCADO FEIA DO PONTO (Municipal Market)
Spoeefring Agecy: Ae--Iolea Peoular Dlstrltal de Ago eGrands
Forecat Of Incom  and Expenditurs 1900  - 1906 On Mark e Operations
1990     101      1002      1993     1904      1996
INCOME  /a
Vendor Fe e        s o      81      101       127      159       199
Delivery vohicloe parking         S         a        I        10       1S        1S
Other Income         0        0         2        2         2        S
TOTAL INCOME               89       87       111      189       174      216
RECURRENT EXPENDITURES /b
Water        1         1        1         1        2         2
Electricity         1        2        2         8        4         4
Waste Removel         a       16        22       26        82       89
Painting & Ropairs         0        0         1        2         3        3
Cloaning       14        26       81        80       40        65
Ticket printing         1        1         1        2         2        2
Security        S        10       22        27       82        89
Maintenance supplies         1        3         3        4         4        4
Admin. slaries A expenses          7        1C       10        22       26        82
Subtotal (Recurrent)           41        e6      102       126      161       160
DEVELOPUENT EXPENDITURES
Phase II studies         0        0         0        S        10       10
Equipment replacements         0         0        0         0        a         8
Institutional strongthening         0         0        6         6        C         6
Subtotal (Devolopmnt)            0         0        6        11       18        16
TOTAL EXPENDITURES            41        65      106       186      169       198
ANNUAL SURPLUS/DEFICIT          -2         8        2         2        5        20
I R R a 2 S X
AVG. COST OF VENDOR TICKET
Dobrao/day/market *tall          s0       100      126       153      106       246
(Cost (1989) - Dobras 50)
/a Inflation aossum at 15X, growth at 9X.
/b Inflation assumed at 16X, growth at SX.



- 132 -
Annex 19
Page 1 of 2
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
MULTISECTOR PROJECT
Documents available in the Project File
1.   Report on Urban Infrastructure in ST?
Steve Amoaning Janhson, Consultant, Accra, Ghana
(July 1988)
2.   Preparation de la Table Ronde - Elements d'Analyse
Sectorielle, UNDP-SEDES (June 1988)
3.   Rapport d'Evaluation, Projet d'Entretien Routier
STP, African Developn at Bank (October 1985)
4.   Renovacao Do Sistema de Distribuicao de Agua da
Cidade de Sao Tome, VIAK AB,
Stockholm, Sweden (1982)
5.   Etudes Preliminaires pour une Usine d'Agents Liants
a partir de Cendres Volcaniques et de Chaux sur
l'ile de Sao Tome, Institut fur Technische Messungen
Prof. Ing. F. Sobek, Vienna, Austria (September 1988)
6.   Etude et Mise au Point de Produits en Argile Stabilisee
UNIDO (November 1988)
7.   Project PNUD/BIRF-RAF/86/038 Report 'Alimentation en Eau
de la ville de Sao Tome"
8.   Diario da Republica - Decreto - Lei no. 1-89
Dated Feb. 11, 1989
9.   Financial Statements (Partial) fo EMAE
10.  Financial working papers for EMAE,
Water Supply Depattment
11.  TOR - Consultant for the preparation of Water Supply Component
12.  Social Infrastructure Fund of Bolivia.  Evaluator's Guide
(Spanish and English version)
13.  Bureau International du Travail - Nov. 1985
Programme Special de Travaux Publics pour l'amelioration
des infrastructures dans les plantations - Description Generale



- 133 -                      Annex 19
Page 2 of 2
14. SIF's Operating and Financial Program (1989-1991)
by Rene Jarquin (consultant) - Working Papers
15. SIF's Institutional/Technical Assistance Program (1989-1991)
by Rene Jarquin (consultant) - Working Papers
16. Rapport Final our Transcolmar Terrestre
UNDP/UNIDO (December 1988)
17. Project Proposal, Projecto Piloto, Construcao de Estradas e
Reabilitacao de Passeios em calcada
Ministry of Public Works and Environment (February 1989)
18. Project Proposal, Integrado de Communicade Regional de Praia
Cruz e. Gamboa (August 1988)
19. Project Proposal, Aproveitamento Hidroagricola do Rio
Manuel Jorgc (February 1989)
20. Notes on additional private sector Proposals including
food canning, productions of spices, drinking water bottling,
fish conserves, chickenfeed production, paper and cardboard
from waste products, local transportation, shoe repair and bakery.
21. Working papers on health and education sectors.



