Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repowt No. A    e2o 
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COTE D'IVOIRE
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2189-IVC)
NOVEMBER 20, 1989
Industry and Energy Division
Africa Technical Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
K



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEICIP    BUREAU D'ETUDES INDUSTRIELLES ET DE COOPERATION DE L'INSTITUT
FRANCAIS DU PETROLE
DH        DIRECTION OF HYDROCARBONS
EDPP      EARLY DEVELOPMENT AND PRODUCTION PROGRAM
EPT       EXTENDED PRODUCTION TEST
GOR       GAS OIL RATIO
MM        MINISTRY OF MINES
OROIP     ORIGINAL RECOVERABLE OIL IN PLACE
PETROCI   SOCIETE NATIONALE D'OPERATIONS PETROLIERES l_ LA COTE D'IVO .E
SIR       SOCIETE IVOIRIENNE DE RAFFINAGE
SMB       SOCIETE MULTINATIONALE DE BITUMES



IFOR OmCUIL USE ONLY
THE W ORLD SANK
Washmgton. DC 20433
U.S A
O~e i ow.smGuwv
Oft* uw tOMW Itrn
November 20. 1989
MEHORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs   Project Completion Report on Cote d'Ivoire
Petroleum Exploration and Development Proiect (Loan 2189-IVC)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled *Project
Completion Report on Cote d'Ivoire - Petroleum Exploration and Development
Project'(Loan 2189-IVc)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II
of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department.
Attacbment
| Thb document hastjgj disuitbutia and my be use by  nu oay in the p.rfa6ea |
of their offci dute  Its conuets may not othwws be dixcod without Workd Daub authorIton.



FM (WFICIAL Use OLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COTS D*ZVORE
PETROLEUN EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN-2189-IVC)
TAM.! OF CONTINTS
Page No.
Preface  ..........................................................    i
Evaluation  Summary                        ..................................................  ii
PART I
1.    PROJECT IDENTITY             .....................................1.......... 
II.   BACKGROUND          ....................................................    1
IlI. GENESIS OF THE PROJECT                      ...................................              2
A.    Preliminaries .            .............................................              2
B.    Description of the Project  .......                .........................    4
IV.   IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJE'^T ................................. . .                        7
A.    Exploration  ............................................. .                          7
B.    Development  ............................................ .                           7
C.    Technical Assistance  .. ............................  ..   ........  .
D.    Financial Aspects   .................... ....................... .....                9
E.    Costs and Disbursements  .... ............... .O.-. ......  .........   11
F.    Procurement  ............. ..... ....................    11
G.    Audits  ............................. ............ 6.............   11
V.    COMMENTS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE  PROJECT                       ..................  12
A.    General Comments            ....................        ......................   12
B.    Performance of the Bank                  ..................... *   ............   12
C.    Performance of the Borrower  .......                 .......................  12
D.    Performance of Consultants  ...............  .                .................   12
E.    Performance of the Operator  ...................atr...........   13
VI.   CONCLUSIONS  .........................................................   13
PART II
BORROvER' S COMIENTS
I.    Evaluation of the World Bank's Role vis-a-vis
the Borrower and Project  'Espoir'  ....................                  .....  15
II.   Evaluation of the Role and Performance of the
Borrower vis-a-vis the Loan and the Project  ....                      ...........  15
III. The Nature of the Relationship between the Bank and
the Borrower and its Impact on Project Effectiveness                        ......  16
IV.   Borrower's Comments  about Parts I and III  ...*                       ...............    16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rcipients only in the performnuce
of their offilcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



Table of Contents (Cot'd
PAR! III
1.   Project Timetable ...       ....................................... 17
2.   Cumulative Loan Disbursements ........... . ...... ............... . 18
3.   Project Costs and Financing ...............        ...  16
A.   Project Costs..          ..................................... 18
B.   Project Financing ....................................... 18
4.   Project Results .........................................  19
A.   Indicators .........................................  19
B.   Direct Benefits  .......... ... O  .......................  19
C.   Economic Impact ........................................  20
D.   Financial Impact ......................................  20
E.   Studies .................................  20
5.   Status of Covenants ...........................................  20
6.   Use of Bank Resources          ..........................            21
A.   Staff Input ......       ........ .                             22
B.   Missions .................................   23
Annex 1 - Map of Exploration and Development Permits
Annex 2 - Borrower's Original Comments (in French)



±
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COTE D'IVOIRE
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2189-IVC)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Petroleum
Exploration and Development Project in Cote d'Ivoire, for which Loan 2189-IVC
in the amount of US$101.5 million was approved on June 29, 1982. The loan
closed on June 30, 1986. The loan was 40Z disbursed and the remaining part
(US$58.2 million) was cancelled in early 1986.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Division,
Tec!nical Department, Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Sumnary,
Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervisioa mission of the project in February 1988, and is based, inter alia,
on the Project Brief, Issues Paper, the Loan, Guarantee, and Project
Agreements; President's and Supervision Reports; correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COT! D'IVOIRE
PETROLKUM EXPLORATION AiD DEVELOPMHUT PROJECT
(LOAN-2189-IVC)
EVALUATION SUIMMRY
1.        In late 1979, the discovery of the offshore oil field ESPOIR
brought to the forefront the importance of offshore petroleum exploration
for the Cote d'Ivoire development. The oil company Phillips was the
Operator of the field. The initial Operator's estimate of the Original
Recoverable Oil In Place (OROIP) in the ESPOIR field was over half a
billion barrels of oil. PETROCI held a 102 working interest in the field,
and the initial evaluation of the discovery led the company to consider
increasing this interest to 602. The prime objective of the Bank's project
was to provide direct financial assistance to PETROCI to help it finance
its share of the oil companies' consortium exploration and development
cost.
2.        The preparation of the project was made difficult by (i)
Phillips' sensitivity towards confidentiality issues, which compelled the
Bank to sign a confidentiality agreement and prevented it from prepar-Z& an
appraisal report; (ii) the Bank's request for a negative pledge, which
could have hampered cofinancing by commercial banks, and was smoothened by
the Bank's agreement that its claim on a floating share could be
substituted, if necessary, by the guarantee of a suitable Ivorian bank; and
(iii) the ongoing negotiation between the Government and the Consortium
regarding the extension of this latter's Development Permit. First
mentioned in the files on December 1, 1978, the Loan eventually became
effective on September 22, 1982.
3.        The appraisal by tne Bank's specialists of the ESPOTR field
OROIP was, at 90 million barrels of oil, much lower than the Operator's own
evaluation. The actual value, as demonstrated by the development program,
was 70 million barrels. Furthermore, the production was hampered by
unforeseeable geological conditions, making the development of the field
more costly than had been forecast. This misfortune led PETROCI not to
increase its participation over 1OZ, and Phillips to elude, until the
closure of the oil field, changing the field's provisional facilities into
permanent ones. These technical factors jeopardized the profit which
PETROCI expected from its participation in the field.
4.        Furthermore, the time chosen to sign the Loan turned out to be
the worst possible one for PETROCI: the value of the US dollar was at its
peak, and its subsequent fall resulted, through the recently adopted
*Currency Pooling System", in a US$22 million positive adjustment of the
amount of the Loan. Also, the Loan carried an 11.6Z interest rate, and, at
the time, the Bank had net yet introduced variable rates. Besides, a fresh
1.52 front-end fee was applied to the full amount of the Loan, while this
parameter was decreased by the Bank during the following months to first 1Z
then 0.5Z, and eventually entirely cancelled. Finally, the ESPOIR field
was developed at a period when international petroleum equipment costs were



iii
at their highest, while production took place during the ensuing period of
the sharp drop in oil prices.
5.        PETROCI's foregone income through its 10  participation in the
ESPOIR field totalled approximately US$18 million. Since PETROCI had not
elected to increase this participation, the National Agency requested the
Bank to cancel the amount of the Loan which had been earmarked to finance
such an increase, i.e. US$58.2 million. The aggregate financial cost of
the Loan for an actual disbursed amount fo US$43.3 million, was US$73.5
million. PETROCI resentfully remarked that they would have expected better
advice, regarding the Loan conditions, from such a reputed financial
institution as the World Bank.
6.        The undisputable failure of the Project resulted from (i)
unforseeable technical factors, and (ii) unfortunate timing of the Lo"i
with the evolution of both the Bank's financial guidelines and petroleum
market.
7.        The findings made during the implementation of the project and
the preparation of this Project Completion Report led to the following
recommendations:
(a) The success of the Bank in maintaining close confidentiality
regarding Phillips' petroleum operations during the whole life-
span of the project could be used as an example to any private
company involved in a Bank project and sensitive to
confidentiality issues.
(b) Any government considering taking a working interest in an
oilfield development program, should be advised to (i) have the
most probable OROIP in the field appraised by two different
highly-qualified specialists, and (ii) have a precise clause
included in the Production Contract, regarding the field
development process, and in particular, the setting up of
permanent production and development facilities.
(c) PETROCI's foregone income resulting from its 10? interest in the
ESv)IR field evidences the rick run by a government taking a
working interest in a yet unproven field. Concession regimes,
as well as oil-sharing contracts, may allow any levels of
government revenues without any risk being involved. PETROCI
indicated, with regard to this issue, that other than strictly
financial arguments may incite a government to take a werking
interest in a petroleum exploration and development contract.
(d) Within the envisaged Gas Project, which would on its own have a
significant impact on the country's economy, it is recommended
that further technical assistance to PETROCI be included.



PROJECT COMPLUTION REPORT
COTE D'IVOIRZ
PITROLUI UPLORATION AND DEVELOPMCNT PROJECT
(LOAN-2189-IVC)
PART I
I. PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:       Petroleum Exploration and Development Project
Loan Numbers         2189-IVC
RVP Unit:           Africa Region
Country Department I
-    Country:             C6te d'Ivoire
- Sectors           &rergy
Subsector:          Petroleum
II. BACRGROUMD
1.        Between 1960 and 1980, Cote d'Ivoire experienced an impressive
economic growth, with GNP per capita increasing from US $200 to US $1200
during the period. Main sources of income were from a diversified
agricultural production, and commercialization of timber. The evu.lution of
energy demand followed the course of economic development, and in the early
eighties, total energy consumption had reached 2.5 million TOE, giving a
per capita energy consumption of approximately 0.45 TOE per inhabitant.
2.        The local sources of energy being exploited were hydroelectric
power and fuelvood. A rapid deforestation already limited the prospects of
increasing the use of local forests. Although a significant hydroelectric
power potential was still largely untapped, substantial hydroelectric
generation capacity was on stream. To meet peak demands for electrical
power, however, hydro generation had to be supp'Lemented by a thermal power
plant situated at Vridi near Abidjan. Local hydrocarbon resources remained
to be developed. The total oil bill amounted to US $550 million in 1980,
or over 122 of total imports, as compared to US $25 million or 52 of total
imports in 1972. This increase in cost no doubt restricted necessary
investments in other sectors in Cote d'Ivoire.



2
3.        The hydrocarbon subsector is under the Ministry of Mines and is
supervised by the "Direction des Hydrocarbures'. The parapublic agency
Societe Nationale d' Operations Petrolieres de la Cote D'Ivoire-
(PETROCI), wholly owned by the State, manages the Government interest in
Joint Vlentures with international oil companies for petroleum exploration,
production, refining and distribution. PETROCI thus detains a 472 interest
in the refining company SIR and is a 502 shareholder of two distributing
companies operated by SHELL and BP respectively.
4.        The sedimentary basins in the Ivory Coast cover an area of
approximately 11,000 km2 onshore and 53,000 km2 offshore, out of which
11,000 km2 represent the continental shelf area. Petroleum exploration
activities started in the early fifties. During the following decade, the
'Bureau de Recherches Petrolieres' (BRP) and the "Societe Africaine des
Petr,les' (SAP) carried out geophysical surveys onshore, drilled ten wells,
which were all dry, and departed. From 1975 on, Petroci joined oil
companies (Esso, Total AGIP, Phillips) in carrying out exploration
activities. In 1174, the Esso-led consortium discovered the Belier
oilfield, in the offshore CFP 1 block. (Map of oil exploration blocks,
Annez 1).
III. GENESIS OF THE PROJECT
A. Preliminaries
5.        Following initial contacts regarding petroleum issues between
the Government and the World Bank, the main objective initially
contemplated under a potential petroleum project, identified in January
1980, was the financing of PETROCI's share of the development of the
Belier oilfield. However, it soon appeared that PETROCI had already
obtained financing from commercial banks to cover its share in the
development of the Belier oilfield, and, in a general manner, was showing
a cool attitude towards Bank involvment in the petroleum subsector. The
Government's attitude changed in early 1981, when, according to the
agreement with the Phillips-led Consortium, PETROCI was about to have to
pay its share of the costs of the development of the recently discovered
ESPOIR oil field. In January, the Government and PETROCI requested the
Bank's assistance in financing the corresponding amount.
6.        The ESPOIR field is located about 50 km south of Abidjan, in
waters ranging between 500 anJ 2,000 feet. Two wells of about 12,000 feet
had already been drilled, one of which was tested. According to Phillips,
estimated recoverable reserves could be estimated at a range of 450-1000
million barrels. The Bank's specialists, judging from the analysis of
limited information, estimated proven recoverable reserves at
approximately 90 million barrels. The confidentiality issues precluded
contracting a qualified specialist to estimate the most probable Original
Recoverable Oil In Place (See Paragraph 14-a below). In any event, it
seemed certain that ESPOIR would satisfy in full the country's hydrocarbon
needs, and would permit Cote d'Ivoire to export surplus oil.



3
7.        Consortium members had agreed to drill a total of five wells as
soon as possible, and to put them in production for a period of about two
years (Extended Production Test - EPT) before designing the definitive
development program of the field. However, technical information on the
geology of the field which became progressively available, indicated that
contrary to the initial assessment, production testing of a limited area
would not provide a full understanding of the field.  The Consortium
decided to carry out an Early Development and Production Program (EDPP),
simultaneously conducting further exploratory drilling in the yet
unexplored area of the field.
8.        The ESPOIR field straddles one block in shallow waters (Cl), and
two deeper blocks (A and B). The same companies participate in the
explorationlproduction contracts in all blocks (Phillips:57.5% ; AGIP:
22.52: SEDCO: 102; PETROCI: 10X). The contractual system is basically the
same for all blocks. It conslsts of production shar4ng type of agreement
where the Consortium recovers its investments out of 40? of total
production. The remaining production is split between the Goverunent and
the Consortium. PETROCI retains a 102 working interest. In blocks A and
B, the Government is entitled to 42 - 45? of the profit oil. Furthermore,
the Consortium is obliged to sell to PETROCI up to 10 percent of total
production at 15 percent of market value, to the extent that this is
necessary to meet the country's domestic needs. The contracts for blocks
Bl and Cl were negotiated after the ESPOIR field discovery; as a result,
they contain provisions more favol ble to the Governments (i) the
Government's share of profit oil increases to 49 -52Z; (ii)) PETROCI's 1O0
interest is carried by the foreign partners through the exploration phase
on a non-reimbursable basis; and (iii) within six months of the Government
granting a production permit, PETROCI had the option to increase its
participation to a maximum of 602, on the condition that PETROCI would
reimburse the private partners for past costs relating to the incremental
participation beyond 102, and paid its full share of all future development
and production expenses.
9.        The exploration work program of the Consortium for 1982 included
the drilling of 10 exploratory wells; another 10 wells were tentatively
planned to be drilled thereafter, half of which were to be drilled in 1983.
The average depth of the wells would range between 7000 and 12,000 feet,
and the wells would be located in waters ranging from 500 to 1,500 feet in
depth. The drilling was carried out by two semi-submersible rigs and two
drillships. The estimated cost per well was in the range, usual at the
time, of US $10-20 million. At the present time, wells of this kind would
cost about US$ 7 million.
10.       The early development and production program (EDPP) was aimed at
evaluating the original recoverable oil in place (OROIP), and designing a
tailored development program. It consisted of four to five production
wells. Each well would be linked by flowlines to a jack-up drilling rig,
the 'Dan Duke", converted for use as a temporary production platform. From
there, the oil would be pumped to a moored tanker converted for oil
storage. The first oil production was anticipated in the last quarter of
1982, or early 1983. Projected EDPP expenditures werez



4
Facilities                          US$163 million
Contractual and rental costs        US$118 million
TOTAL                               US$281 million
11.       In answer to the January 1981 request by the Ivorian
authorities, the Bank agreed to grant a loan, intended to assist the
country in developing its petroleum resources in three ways: (i) by
providing financial support to PETROC!, so as to enable it to participate
in the initial investment for the development of the ESPOIR field; (ii) by
facilitating PETROCI's future access to commercial financing if and when
further development plans were firmed up on the basis of reserves to be
proven by the Project, and on the assumption that the optimal increase of
PETROCI's share in the Consortium would prove to be in the best interest of
the Ivory Coast; and (iii) by upgrading the Agency's institutional strength
and technical capabilities through an integrated technical assistance
program, with a view to helping PETROCI transform itself into a viable and
competent counterpart of its foreign partners and potential financiers.
B. Description of the Project
12.       The Project included the following components:
Ce) Financing of PETROCI's share of an exploration program including
carrying out detailed seismic surveys, and drilling about 20
exploratory wells, for an amount of US$32 million.
Cf) Financing of PETROCI's share of the development program
including drilling of three production wells, and providing and
installing production facilities, for an amount of US$40
million.
(g) Technical assistance in the monitoring of exploration and
development activities of the Operator (Phillips), for an amount
of US$6.5 million.
(h) Training: US$1.5 million.
Ci) Feet US$1.5 million.
(j) Unallocated: US $ 20 million.
Total amount of the Loan: US$101.5 million.
The amount allocated in (a), (b) and (e) above were determined
on the expectation that PETROCI would elect to increase its participation
in the Consortium's rights, and would later need to seek substantial
cofinancing from commercial sources. It was stipulated that, should
PETROCI exercise its option so as not to increase its share to the
permissible maximum, the Bank and PETROCI would discuss the utilization of
the amount of the loan not required as the result of such a decision.



5
13.       The Project, as it was conceived, contained four unusual
factors, either justified in the interest of the Borrower, or rectifiable
through appropriate adaptations to Bank procedure:
(k) The Project included financing of an exploration program, which
implies an important element of risk. However, the Ivorian take
of the anticipated production would exceed its share in total
project costs, including exploration costs.
(1) The Loan was made to PETROCI, while the Project would be
executed by the Operator, Phillips, which was also the
Consortium's majority holder. This required the Bank to adapt
its procurement and disbursement procedures to those of
Phillips. Furthermore, the implementation pace of a petroleum
exploration and development project is faster that of an average
Bank Project. Bank management initially verified that Phillips'
procurement procedures were in line with generally accepted
industry practices, and substantially compatible with those of
the Bank. It then agreed to the principle that PETROCI's share
of expenditures would be financed by the Bank through payment of
cash-calls issued by the Operator. No problem was expected due
to (i) the control exercised by the foreign partners on the
Operator expenditures, and (ii) Bank's access, through PETROCI,
to the Operator's accounts.
(m)  As was mentioned above, when the Project started, PETROCI's
percentage share of the Project's costs was still undetermined.
(n) Since the development operations started before the Loan was
effective, a substantial amount of retroactive financing and
advance contracting had to be provided for. However, the Bank
verified in due time that the EDPP was well adapted to the
characteristics of the reservoir and its location in deep
waters, that its cost were reasonably estimated, and that the
procurement procedulres followed by the Operator had been
consistent with industry practices and compatible with the
Bank's.
14.       The preparation of the Project was delayed by various factors:
(o) Phillips' Sensitivity to Confidentiality Issues:
The company feared that the premature dissemination of
incomplete technical data might (i) infringe SEC regulations,
and (ii) jeopardize the Consortium's chance of obtaining
financing on a non-recourse basis. Phillips initially insisted
on explicit acknowledgment by the Bank of its liability to
indemnify Phillips for any damage resulting from information
leaks due to Bank's negligence. Following lengthy negotiations,
Phillips agreed to have to present the proof of Bank's
responsibility in a detrimental confidential information leak,
before claiming any indemnification. A confidentiality
agreement was signed accordingly and the Bank adopted



6
appropriate internal procedures to minimize the risk of
information leaks.
(p) Bank's Request for a Negative Pledge:
It was necessary to avoid that the Bank's standard negative
pledge would defeat one of the key objectives of the Loan,
namely, facilitating cofinancing. A literal reading of the
negative pledge, under which the Bank share evenly in any lien
on the Borrower's assets, would have prevented PETROCI from
offering future cofinanciers a floating charge on its
unencumbered share of expected production as security for a non-
recourse financing, in parallel with what Phlllips and other
Consortium members were planning. It was eventually agreed, by
a side letter, that if such a lien was created, the Bank would
accept the guarantee of a suitable Ivorian bank in substitution
for its claim to share in the floating charge.
(q) Negotiation of the Development Contract in Block Cl:
The main issue of this negotiation was the extension of the
Consortium Development Permit. The Consortium had applied for a
permit covering 750 km2. The Government proposed to limit the
area to 250 km2, which was already a very large tract, the other
part of the block remaining under the exploration contract.
PETROCI would have the option to limit their increase of interest
to field development within the boundaries of the development
permit, without extending this increase to the exploration work
planned in the rest of the block, thus decreasing their financial
commitments. Following lengthy discussions, Phillips agreed to
the Government's proposal.
(r) Environmental Issues:
Before agreeing to the Project, the Bank requested to be
satisfied that all environmental issues were correctly addressed
by the Operator. After a certain delay, Phillips provided the
Bank with full documentation, demonstrating that both pollution
and safety issues had been satisfactorily addressed.
15.       A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of US$ 1 million
was granted by the Bank in September 1981. It was intended to finance the
initial cost of urgently needed technical assistance to PETROCI, mainly
aimed at helping the Agency to prepare the decisions regarding its
involvement in the Consortium's exploration and development program.
16.       The proposed Project was presented to the Board on June 29,
1982. The Loan Agreement was signed on June 30, 1982, and became effective
on September 22, 1982.



7
IV. IPLMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
A. Exploration
17.       The Consortium carried out an exploration program well in excess
of the contractual commitments, and in conformity with the work program
initially presented by Phillips to PETROCI and the Bank. This program
included ti) a three-dimensional seismic survey, and (ii) the drilling of
15 exploration wells between 1981 and 1984, (9 wells were drilled in the Cl
block, and 6 in the A block). In spite of the opposition of one of the
Partners (AGIP), the Operator started the well drilling campaign before
having obtainad the results of the three-dimensional seismic survey. The
results of the wells were very disappointing: although many wells detected
oil and gas shows, only one well (B1 X, or Foxtrot) brought to light a
possible commercial hydrocarbon accumulation In block Bl. Oil and gas were
present; the very low permeability of the reservoir however, precluded oil
production. A gas evaluation well (B1 2X) was drilled by the Consortium.
The reservoir permeability was even lower, and the differences observed
between the two wells made it necessary to drill one or two more appraisal
wells to fully evaluate tho economics of the discovery. In the absence of
an agreement with the Government regarding the financial conditions of
developing the field in order to supply the local market, these wells were
never drilled. Phillips finally withdrew in January, 1989.
18.       The drilling of the exploralion wells resulted in a good
definition of the geological pattern. The hydrocarbon bearing sands, of
Albian age, were deposited in an area fragmented by faulting, and which was
subsequently eroded, before the following transgression. The hydrocarbon
accumulations are governed by (i) the degree of erosion of the Albian sands
in a given structure; and (ii) the local quality of the seal provided by
the transgressive section. This particular pattern of hydrocarbon
entrapment accounts for the poor results of the Consortium's exploration
program. It also explains the initial over-estimation of the LSPOIR
discovery: the large single anticline, controlled by a large seismic grid,
was actually two separate culminations, with completely different erosional
features.
B. Development
19.       The Consortium carried out the Early Development and Production
Program, (EDPP), according to plan. The development unit, as described
above, was set up on the field, and production started on August 29, 1982.
Eight development wells were drilled, out of which four were located in
block Cl, and four in block A. The results of the appraisal program were
highly disappointing. On the one hand, for reasons mentioned above, the
Original Recoverable Oil In Place, (OROIP), was shown to be slightly under
the lowest estimation. (Approximately 70 million barrels, as compared with
initial Bank evaluation of 90 million). On the other hand, sand build-up
in some wells, related with the poor consolidation of the locally porous
Albian sands, and premature increase of the gas-oil ratio (GOR), led to (i)
the closing of two producing wells, and, (ii) adopting a low production
level, in order to prevent these problems. The ESPOIR field development



a
was thus thwarted by both lower than anticipated reserves and production
problems.
20.       The production profile of the ESPOIR field was the following, in
thousands of tons per years
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
318     677     777     787      697     598     490
These lower than expected production figures led PETROCI, and
its Associates, to make the following decisions:
(s)  the Agency did not increase its participation in the Cl block
beyond 102; and,
(t) the Partners of the Consortium gave up their intention to seek a
commercial syndication to finance the project.
21.       As early as 1983, when the Government was still inclined to
totally trust Phillips' decision process, the Bank alerted PETROCI
regarding the necessity to draw independent conclusions from the results of
the EDPP, and to define a final development program. In 1985, the
Consortium requested the Operator to study a secondary recovery process,
involving gas and/or water injection. The reservoir simulation studies
were hampered by (i) uncertainties regarding the reservoir characteristics;
and (ii) lack of reservoir pressure data. However, Phillips carried out
the study with the available data, and presented the obtained results to
the Consortium partners in March, 1985. According to the conclusions
obtained by Phillips, permanent facilities could only become attractive to
the Associates, if the Government would agree to a substantial increase of
the share of production covering development costs (cost oil). The
Operator requested to change the existing contract to that effect. No
agreement was reached with regards to this issue.
22.       In 1986, quite aware by now of the urgency to carry out a
secondary recovery program, PETROCI contracted the French company FRANLAB
to carry out a study of the ESPOIR field and of the optimal method to
produce it. FRAlrAB's report concluded that a secondary recovery program
through water injection would result in optimizing the recovery factor.
Following lengthy discussions Phillips eventually agreed with this
technical recommendation. They submitted however their agreement to
proceed with the required development to modifications of the existing
contracts. The requested modifications would have resulted in cancelling
the major share of Government fiscal revenues from the field. Again, no
agreement was reached and the field was produced until the end using the
initial provisional facilities. During the last period of the Operator in
the country, the wells were produced in excess of the reservoir's capacity,
which resulted in a premature breakthrough of water. Future recovery of
the remaining reserves will require a higher cost than would have been
necessary, had secondary recovery been put in place before abandoning the
wells. It should be noted that, while the Consortium's exploration and
development results were increasingly disappointing, the international oil
prices kept declining. Furthermore, it must not be excluded that Phillips'



9
reluctance to change the field provisional facilities into permanent ones,
originated from the the company's financial stringency, resulting from debt
incurred by Phillips to oppose a take-over bid from a "raider". These
issues may also account for the Operator's lack of agressiveness in
attempting to produce and market the gas from the Foxtrot field.
23.       The ESPOIR field was shut down on December 31, 1988, after an
accumulated production of 36 millions barrels of oil, or approximately 502
of minimum recoverable reserves. It is estimated that a further 40 million
barrels could still be produced through a secondary recovery process. The
ESPOIR field is therefore available for redevelopment by a new operator to
recover the remaining reserves at the present time.
C. Technical Assistance
24.       PETROCI's technical staff needed to be trained in exploration
work. The Agency also urgently needed technical assistance from
exploration consultants to analyze the data generated by the Consortium's
operations, in order to support itc decisions regarding their degree of
financial involvement in the Consortium's exploration and development
program. Following proposals received from many consulting firms, the
French company BEICIP was selected to provide this assistance, both in the
interpretation of the Consortium exploration data, and in training PETROCI
staff. Five technical consultants from the company were contracted in
March, 1982, and started to work effectively in the summer of the same
year. Furthermore, in early 1983, an expatriate geologist formerly with
BP, Mr. Holroyd, assumed responsibility for PETROCI's technical staff, and
for the coordination with BEICIP's specialists. These latter contributed
substantially to the evaluation of the Consortium's work.
25.       In addition to the technical work, a training program was
carried out by the consultants from BEICIP. Additionally, Phillips trained
the PETROCI technical staff both in its headquarters in Houston, and in
Abidjan, in various skills related to oil field operations. Furthermore,
an amount of US$ 65,700 was financed under the Loan, to provide
complementary training to PETROCI's staff. This latter received a very
satisfactory technical training overall.
D. Financial Aspects
26.       Since the Consortium had decided not to undertake joint
commercial financing, the Bank's loan to PETROCI remained the only source
of external financing for the Project. However, the Loan was granted at a
time when the interest rates were very high, and before the Bank introduced
variable rates. The Loan carried a fixed 11.62 interest rate while
international rates significantly decreased over the following years.
Furthermore, under the "Currency Pooling System", adopted by the Bank in
September 1980, the original amount of the Loan was revaluated by a factor
over 1.5, in terms of US$. This issue aroused considerable discontent
within PETROCI's management, and did not influence favorably the quality of
relations between the Agency and the Bank.
27.       The financial balance sheet of the Government's and PETROCI's
involvement in the development of the ESPOIR field may be summarized as



10
follows. The Government obtained from the production of the ESPOIR field,
an aggregate amount of US$279 million, including their share of the profit
oil, and taxes over the Consortium share. PETROCI's benefits expected from
its lOZ working interest were jeopardized by the lower than expected OROIP,
disappointing production rates, and soft oil prices. PETROCI's foregone
income is evaluated at US$17.9 million, to which should be added the
financial cost of the Loan. (Revaluation adjustment : US$22 million.
Interests: approximately US$60 million, out of which US$30 million were
already paid - value as of July 31, 1988).
28.       As was mentioned in paragraph 3 above, PETROCI is shareholder of
SIR and of two distributing companies. SIR, which exports approximately
502 of its refined products, is currently making substantial operating
profits. On the other hand, the retail prices of petraleum products, which
are among the highest in Africa, offer a comfortable margin on internal
sales. However, PETROCI does not receive a proportionate revenue, because
of: (i) SIR's heavy endebtment contracted to finance the modernization of
the refinery, which precludes the distribution of substantial dividends;
and (ii) arbitrarily low dividends authorized each year by the Government
to the shareholders of the distributing companies. PETROCI receives
further revenues from (i) its share in the Societe Multinationale des
Bitumes (SMB); (ii) rentals from a privately owned loading/unloading wharf;
(iii) apartment rentals; and (iv) financial income. Excluding the
financial balance of PETROCI's involvement in petroleum production, its
total revenue from 1980 to 1988, both years included, amounted to US$12
million equivalent.
29.       PETROCI also detained a 1OZ equity share in the EXXON operated
Belier oilfield. During the life of the Project, the Agency obtained
through this participation a US$28 million net income before tax.
PETROCI's present assets are estimated to a total of US$ equivalent 126
million, constisting of:
(u) Current assets:
Financial investments                     US$90 million
(v) Fixed assets:
Shares in local petroleum companies       US$26 million
Real estate assets                        US$10 million
30.       As mentioned in the paragraph 28 above, PETROCI is currently
reimbursing the Loan. The outstanding principal total is approximately
US$50.7 million. As part of the understandings reached in the context of
ESAL negotiations, PETROCI is undergoing a reorganization, together with
the redefinition of its corporate objectives and work program. Although no
decision has been made on whether it was advisable to reimburse the Loan in
advance, PETROCI does not foresee any difficulty in reimbursing the
contractual amounts to the Bank, either in advance or according to the
contractual schedule.



11
E. Costs and Disbursements
31.       The total amount of the Loan (US$101.5 million), was calculated
under the assumption that the Borrower would increase its share in the
Consortium for Cl block. However, the Loan Agreement stipulated that,
should the Borrower waive its right to increase its share, the Borrower and
the Bank would exchange views on further disbursements under the Loan.  As
mentioned above (paragraph 20), the Borrower did not increase its share in
the Consortium Cl, and subsequently chose to request the Bank to cancel the
remaining amount of the Loan (US$58.2 million). The last disbursement was
made on December 13, 1985. The following table includes the Bank's
disbursements by category, as compared with the corresponding amounts
allocated in the Loan.
US$             USS
Initial          Amount
Category                        Allocation        Disbursed
Cat 1     Borrower's share of the         32,000,000      13,854,497.65
exploration program
Cat 2     Borrower's share of the         40,000,000      26,071,074.72
development program
Cat 3     Technical Assistance             6,500,000       1,820,'58.81
Cat 4     Training                         1.500,000          65,696.63
Cat 5     Fee                              1,500,000       1,500,000
Cat 6     Unallocated                     20,000,000                0
TOTAL                          101,500,000      43,311,327.81
F. Procurement
32.       The process of monthly disbursements against cash-calls had been
agreed by the Bank, under the condition that the Borrower furnish to the
Bank the cash-call reconciliation for a given month before issuing the
cash-call for the second following month. This condition was always met.
Furthermore, PETROCI had also to furnish the yearly audit reports of the
expenditures billed by the Operator to members of the Consortium, prepared
by an independent consultant. In spite of the insistence of the Bank, this
was never done. However, the bulk of the disbursements were related to
equipment rental contracts, and the Bank had, as a prior condition to the
Loan, fully verified the adequacy of the corresponding costs with
international market prices. Furthermore, the procurement of consumable
products was carried out, according to the audits performed by the
internal auditors from the participating companies, in conformity with the
industry current practices.
G. Audits
33.       The audit of the Project accounts were carried out by Price
Waterhouse. The audit reports were not always delivered on time.
According to the auditor's report, PETROCI's accounting procedures are
functioning quite satisfactorily.



12
V.  COMMENTS ON THE IMPLPYENTATION OF TdE PROJECT
A. General Comments
34.       The Project seemed very promising at its beginning, but soon ran
into trouble, for reasons which could hardly have been foreseen: the
development equipment was provided when the prices of petroleum drilling
and production equipement were at their peak, while international oil
prices started to slump only three years after production was started.
Furthermore, the Loan was granted at a time when international interest
rates had reached a summit, and one year before the Bank adopted floating
rates. At the present time, more than half of the recoverable reserves
still remain to be produced, which may occur under much better conditions.
B. Performance of the Bank
35.       The contractual framework, the work program, the purchase
orders, and the equipment rental contracts for the exploration of the area
and the development of the ESPOIR field, were already in place when the
Bank got involved in the project. This situation resulted in many hurdles,
which the Bank succeeded in overcoming satisfactorily. Additionally, the
Bank's specialists were the first to warn PETROCI that recoverable reserves
were probably lower than had been initially estimated by the Operator.
Furthermore, the Bank made its best efforts to assist PETROCI in inciting
the Operator to conduct a secondary recovery process in order to increase
oil production. Finally, upon a request from the Government, in 1985 the
Bank forwarded, to the Ministry of Mines a report entitled "Some
Suggestions Regarding Petroleum Exploration in the Ivory Coast". This
document addressed both exploration aind contractual issues, and may have
assisted the Government in developing its new contractual framework for any
further petroleum exploration activities in the country. The new
contractup.l framework has since been drawn up in consultation with the
Bank, under the Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL).
C. Performance of the Borrower
36.       The Ministry of Mines, and PETROCI, followed the activities of
the Operator closely, and swiftly adapted their policy to petroleum
exploration and production developments. For instance, they modified the
model contract for the Cl block upon the discovery of the ESPOIR field,
declined Phillips proposal to increase PETROCI's share to 601 considering
the disappointing results obtained, and cancel the remaining amount of the
Loan as soon as it was possible. They failed, however, to reach an
agreement with the Operator on the implementation of secondary recovery
program of the ESPOIR field, which would have permitted a higher recovery
rate.
D. Performance of Consultants
37.       BEICIP, the only exploration consulting company involved in the
Project, carried out their work in a very satisfacto'ry manner. They
contributed substantially to PETROCI's exploration activities by: (i)
training the Agency's technical staff; (ii) analyzing the exploration data



13
generated by the Operator's activities; and (iii) assisting PETROCI's
exploration staff in carrying out a synthesis study of the sedimentary
basins of Cote d'Ivoire (a component of the Energy Sector Adjustment Loan).
E. Performance of the Operator
38.       Phillips carried out the planned exploration and development
program in agreement with the contractual commitments, according to
schedule, and in accordance with established industry practices. However,
in 1984, partly due to the poor results obtained by their exploration and
production activities and partly as a consequence of the Company's
financial difficulties, Phillips' operations in Cote d'Ivoire lost their
initial momentum and the Company lost its aggressiveness in conducting the
development of the ESPOIR field and the appraisal of the Foxtrot gas
discovery.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
39.       The confidentiality agreement, signed with Phillips, was
scrupulously observed by the Bank. This case history ray be presented to
any private entity involved in a Bank project, and sensitive to
confidentiality issues.
40.       The process of disbursements against cash-calls did not result
in any irregularity in procurement procedures. However, the process is
risky, and it is recommended to restrict its use to exceptional cases.
41.       In any similar Project aimed at financing a Government's share
in an oilfield development program, the Government should be strongly
advised to (i) contract one or more highly qualified specialists to
evaluate the most probable OROIP, before envisaging any decision regarding
its involvement in the project; and (ii) include in the Production Contract
a specific clause, regarding the manner in which the provisional early
production system will be replaced by a permanent one.
42.       Since both the OROIP and the production rates were lower than
expected, PETROCI never broke even on its 1OZ interest in the ESPOIR field,
taking into account its share of the Consortium's investment and operating
costs, as well as interest on loans to finance this participation. This
experience shows that, as long as a prolific production is not established
in a given country, the Government's direct or indirect participation in a
joint venture with multinational oil companies is not necessarily in the
Government's best interest, even when the Government's share is carried
through the exploration phase. Whenever a Government revises its
legislation and model contract to promote the petroleum exploration of non-
productive, or poorly productive, sedimentary basins, the Government's
participation in exploration and/or development activities should remain
strictly optional. Concession regimes, or oil-sharing contracts may allow
any levels of Government revenue, without involving any risk. The
contractual framework may provide the Government with any control of the
operations desired, provided the necessary expertise exists within the
Government.



14
43.       As a follow up to this Loan, a Gas Project is presently being
envisaged. It would provide for appraising, developing, and marketing, the
gSa from the Foxtrot fiald, andlor the associated gas from other oil
fields. The availability of natural gas in Cote d'Ivoire would have a very
favorable impact on the economy of the country: (i) in saving imported fuel
costs for power generation; and (ii) as an asset for local industrial
development. It is recommended to extend the objectives of this proposed
project, to provide technical assistance to PETROCI's staff.



iS
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COTE D'IVOIRE
PETROLUN SEXPLORATION AND DEVELOPKMNT PROJECT
(LOAN-2189-IVC)
PART II
BORROVER'S COSNTS
I. EVALUATION OF TEE WORLD BANK'S ROLt VIS-A-VIS
THE BORROWER AND PROJECT *ESPOIR'
1.        When the agreement for the loan to PETROCI was signed in 1982,
the dollar was climbing strongly. To guarantee borrowing countries against
this rising trend the Bank indexed its loans against a basket of
currencies.
2.        Unfortunately, the subsequent turnaround in financial markets
led to a decline in the dollar in relation to the other currencies in which
the PETROCI loan was indexed.
3.        The consequences were that the sums repaid by the Borrower as
principal were revalued in the proportion 1.376 to 1.585, entailing very
high financial charges; the effective interest rate paid by the Borrower in
1988 was in the range of 16.47Z to 18.93?, compared with the initially
established rate of 11.60?.
4.        Thus far no ways have been found of absorbing the impact of the
cost of the loan on the project cost. The Borrower would like the Bank to
consider measures to alleviate this situation.
II. EVALUATION OF THE ROLE AND PERFORMANCE OF THE BOURROVEM
VIS-A-VIS TEE LOAN AND THE PROJECT
5.        The Borrower has attempted to limit the excessive financial
charges resulting from indexation of the loan to a basket of currencies
whose value then rose in relation to the dollar, in particular through the
cancellation in April 1986 (two years before the end of production from the
ESPOIR reservoir) of the undisbursed balance (US$58.2 million).



16
III. THE NATURE OF THC RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN TEE BANK AND THE
BORROWE AND ITS IMPACT ON PROJECT ZFECTIVENESS
6.        The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower included a
satisfactory rhythm of visits by World Bank experts aid regular transmission
to the Bank of various documents, specifically the PETROCI Plan.
7.        The Borrower particularly appreciated the technical and economic
advice received from the Bank, especially as regards the size of the
reservoir and the decision concerning the nonincrease of PETROCI
participation in the consortium.
8.        Nonetheless, the fact that the Borrower is not at the same time
the operator of the field had undoubtedly somewhat hampered the Bank.
IV. BORROWER'S COMMENTS ABOUT PARTS I AND III
9.        Chapters I and III, as incorporated in this report, have received
the Borrower's input, which was accepted by the Association.



1I
PROJECT COHPLUTION REPORT
COTS D'IVOIRB
PVEROLW( EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPRDER PROJECT
(LOAN-2189-IVC)
PART III
1. Proiect Time-Table
Date Planned  Date: Revised   Date: Actual
First mention in files                                            12/01/78
Initial project brief                                             04/16/79
Revised initial project brief                                     01/08180
Project brief                                                     05/04/81
Issues paper                                                      08/10/81
Board presentation                   03/79          11/81         06/29/82
Loan negotiation                                   04/13/82       04/13/82
Board approval                                                    06/29/82
Signing Date                                                       06/30/82
Loan effectiveness                                                09/22/82
Loan closing                         06/85          06/86         06/30/86
Loan completion                      12/85                        06/30/86
N.B. - No appraisal report was prepared, because the agreement entered with
Phillips made it impossible to gather and publish the indispensable
information (see Part I, paragraph 14-a).



1s
2. Loan Cumulative Disbursements
FY 83    FY 84    FY 85    FY 86
Appraisal (cumulative)    46.0      79.5     101.5    101.5
Actual (cumulative)        30.7     37.0      41.0      41.8
Actual au Z of appraisal   672       472       40Z       40Z
Date of Final Disbursements January 13, 1985
N.B. - The low percentage of actual versus appraisal disbursements results
from (i) PETROCI's decision not to inerease participation share in Cl block
beyond 10Z; and (ii) Consortium's agreement not to have PETROCI involved in
the implementation of the exploration program in the same block.
3. Pro1ect Costs and Financing
A.   Project Costs
The Disbursements Table, as presented in Chapter I, paragraph
38, is repeated below. Phillips' invoices, paid upon cash-calls,
were not broken down between foreign and local costs.
Initial          Amount
Category                       Allocation        Disbursed
Cat 1     Borrower's share of the         32,000,000     13,854,497.65
exploration program
Cat 2     Borrower's share of the         40,000,000      26,071,074.72
development program
Cat 3     Technical Assistance             6,500,000       1,820,058.81
Cat 4     Training                         1,500,000          *5,696.63
Cat 5     Fee                              1,500,000       1,500,000
Cat 6     Unallocated                     20,000,000               0
TOTAL                          101,500,000     43,311,327.81
B.   Project Financing
Following the disappointing results of the EDPP, no commercial
syndication was organized. The development of the ZSPOIR field was
financed Ci) by the Consortium for an estimated amount of more than
US$400 million, and (ii) by PETROCI, under the Bank Loan, for an
amount of US$39,925,572.37. The total cost was significantly lower
than expected (original estimate was US$1.233 million), because the
Operator never changed the provisional development facilities for
permanent ones.



19
4. Proiect Results
A.   Indicators
Appraisal
Estimate           Actual
- Employmeut of initial group
of exploration consultants          03182              03/82
- Action plan for training            05182              05/82
- SIR repayement to PETROCI                              No longer relevant,
since PETROCI is no
more involved in
selling petroleum
products to SIR
- Commencement of EDPP production    08182               08182
- Agreement on interpretation of Cl
contract by Consortium members      09/82              01183
- Decision regarding Cl option        10/82              PETROCI did not
increase its share
in Cl block
- Cofinancing arranged                01/82              07/84
(Suppliers Credits
only)
B.   Direct Benefits
Appraisal                  Estimated
Potential results of        Potentially                PETROCI eventually
the Exploration             important, although        did not participate
Program                     risky                      in the Exploration
Government share in         Potentially important      Lower than expected;
the anticipated                                        the Government*s
production                                             benefits, however,
were substantial
Institutional               Indispensable to           Objective
upgrading of                participate in oil          satisfactorily met
PETROCI's staff             companies' activities



20
C.   Economic Impact
Appraisal                  Actual
Economic rate of           Not evaluated during        Evaluated to
return                     appraisal                   approximately IZ
increase in GNP
D.   Financial Impact
No financial rate of return was evaluated during appraisal due to the
high uncertainties (i) related to the ESPOIR field OROIP and production
rates, and (i1) regarding PETROCI's decision as to their share in the
Consortium's exploration and development program. For details regarding
the financial results, see Chapter I, paragraphs 26 to 30.
E.   Studies
Purpose as definea on       Status                     Impact of Study
appraisal or later
Study of tne               Carried out under           Results obtained too
remaining recoverable      PETROCI's own               late to have been
reserves in the             financing                  useful during the
ESPOIR field                                           Project.  May prove
valuable however in
the course of further
development in the
Petroleum Sector
Synthesis geological        Satisfactorily             Would be of
study of CMte              implemented                 significant value for
d'Ivoire sedimentary                                    (i) any further
basin                                                  promotional efforts;
and (ii) negotiation
of hydrocarbon
exploration and
production contracts
with oil companies.
5. Status of Covenants
Covenants                              Status
A.   PETROCI will seek the Bank's         Contract changes for Cl block were
consent to any changes in the       submitted to the Bank and approved
Production Sharing Agreement        in 02/83



21
B.   After cofinancing                   Cofinancing Vag limited to
arrangements have been              suppliers' credit, finalized in
completed, Bank's                   07-08184
disbursements will be
accordingly limited
C.   PETROCI will submit as soon          Covenant met
as possible the monthly
statement of expenses for
prior cash-calls
D.   PETROCI will submit to the           Covenant met
Bank as soon as is available
the year-end audit report
prepared by the Constoritum's
Audit Committee
E.   PETROCI will furnish the Bank        Covenant not met
with the yearly audit reports
of the expenditures billed by
the Operator, prepared by an
independant auditor
F.   PETROCI will recruit foreign         Covenant met
&md local staff
G.   PETROCI will maintain a ratio        Projected ratio met
of current assets to current
liabilities of no less than
1.2:1
H.   PETROCI will take all                Condition met because the
measures necessary to ensure        Government allowed net PETORCI to
that its projected internal         retain part of the proceeds of oil
cash generation will be at          sales allocated for 'National
least 1.5 times the aggregate       Needs', and due to the revenues
amount of interest expenses         obtained from the Belier oil field
plus amortization of long-
term debt
I.   PETROCI will take all               Projected ratio met
measures necessary to ensure
that the ratio between its
long-term debt and its equity
shall not exceed 60:40
J.   PETROCI will prepare and            Condition met
update five-year financial
projections by June of each
year



22
6. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Input
79   80   81   82   83   84   85   86   87   88   89   Total
Identification 9.1 17
Preparation
Appraisal                 30.5 79.7
Negotiation                    10.5
Supervision                     0.3 27.6 38.8 12.0  8.7  2.2
PCR                                                                  5.8
Subtotal       9.1  17   30.5 90.5 27.6 38.8 12.0  8.7  2.2          5.8 242.2
B. Missions
Stage of   Month/  No. of    Days in   Specialization                  Place
Proiect    Year    Persons    Field      Represented    Performance  Visited
IDN        03/79      2           5      F.A.                1         Abidjan
IDN        10179      3          10      Gl F.A.             1         Abidjan
IDN*       03/80      1           7      G1                  3         Abidjan
PREAPP**   06/81      2          17      Gl F.A.E            2         Abidjan
POSTAPP    01182      3           6      Pe F.A.E            1         Abidjan
SPN        12182      4           5      Pe Gl F.A.E         1         Abidjan
SPN        03/83      1           4      Pe                  1         Abidjan
SPN        06/83      3           4      PE F.A.E            1         Abidjan
SPN        02/84      4          18      Pe F.A. Gl Ds       1         Abidjan
SPN        09/84      3           8      Pe F.A.             1         Abidjan
SPN        03/85      2           7      F.A.                1         Abidjan
SPN        03/86      2           9      Pe F.A.             1         Abidjan
SPN        02/88      1           1      Lw                  1         New York
Notes:
* Mission of 03/80: Untimely, and did not result in useful
recommendations.
** Mission of 06/81s This mission visited Abidjan at a time when (i) the
plans of the Consortium were not yet ready; and (ii) some changes were
occurring in PETROCI's management. It succeeded, however, to prepare
the initial issues paper in a very satisfactory manner.
Mission Table Codes
Specialization Represented                    Performance Status
Gl:    Geologist                              1: Successful
Pe:    Petroleum Engineer                     2: Untimely, however successful
Ds:    Distribution Specialist                3: Untimely and successful
F.A.: Financial Analyst
F.A.E Financial Analyst and Economist
Lw:    Specialist in Petroleum Legislation



U        1     ~~~~~23                  Annex 1
'~ ~ ~~~~~               -    .~
0C)2                           Ii.'



24                          Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
C H A P 11' T               1  I I
LE RAPPORT DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
SUR L'EVALUATION DU ROLE ET DES PERFORMANCES DE LA BANQUE
MONDIALE VIS A VIS DE L'EMPRUNTEUR ET DU PROJET ESPOIR.
Au moment de l'tablissement de la convention de pret & PETROCI en
1982, le dollar etait en pleine ascension. Pour garantir les pays Emprun-
teurs contre cette evolution ascendante du dollar, la Banque indexait les
prets sur un pamer de plusleurs devises.
Malheureusement, il y a eu depuis, un retournement du maretA finan-
cier, caract6risd par une chute du dollar par rapport aux autres devises
sur lesquelles le pret PETROCI se trouve indexe.
Resultats : les sommes rembours6es par l'Emprunteur au titre du prin-
cipal ont ete rd6valudes dans une proportion de 1,376 & 1,585 entratnant
ainsi des charges financieres tres elevees ; les taux dmint4rOt effectifs
pay6s par l'Emprunteur se situent en 1988 dans une plage de 16,47 % a
18,93 % contre un taux conventionnel flxe & 11,60 %.
Jusqu'& pr6sent aucun moyen nta ete trouve pour amortir l'impact du
coftt de l'emprunt sur le coat du projet.
L'Emprunteur souhaite que la Banque envisage un processus permettant
de palier cette situation.
II - SUR L'EVALUATION DU ROLE ET DES PERFORMANCES DE
L'EMPRUNTEUR VIS A VIS DU PRET ET DU PROJET
L'Emprunteur a essay6 de circonscrire les charges financieres excessi-
ves dues & une indexation dui pret sur un panier de devises en evolution
croissante par rapport au dollar, notamment par une annulation en Avrll
1986 (2 ans avant la fin du gisement Espoir) du solde non tir4 (58,2 mil-
lions dollars).



Annex 2
25                         Page 2 of 2
III - SUR LA QUALITE DES RAPPORTS ENTRE LA BANQUE ET L'IEAPRUNTEUR
ET L'IIPACT DE CES RELATIONS SUR L'EFFICACITE DU PROJET
Lee relations entre la Banque et l'Emprunteur ont connu un rythme sa-
tisfaisant de visites des Experts de la Banque Nlondiale et une transmission
r4guliIre & celle-ci de certains documents, notamment le Plan PETROCI.
L'Emprunteur a partlcult&rement appr6ci4 les avis tant techniques
qu'%conomiques de la Banque, notamment sur l'limportance du gisement et la
d4clsion concernant la non augmentation de la participation PETROCI dans le
consortium.
N&anmoins, le fait que l'Emprunteur n'est pas en mime temps
I'Operateur du champ, a certainement quelque peu g6n6 la Banque.



