Document of
The World Bank
I -        .
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-3208-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'OPERATIONS PETROLIERES
DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 3, 1982
I This documet has a restricted distiWbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World BDnk authorization.



CURRENCY
Currency Unit        =         CFA. Franc (CFAF) 1/
Exchange Rates
1982          US$1.00        CFAF 300          CFAF 1000   =   US$3.33
1981          US$1.00         CFAF 270         CFAF 1000   =   US$3.70
1979-80       US$1.00        CFAF 210          CFAF 1000   =   US$4.76
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
BD                   =     barrels per day
m3                   =      cubic meters, equivalent to
6.3 barrels of oil
toe                  =     tons of oil equivalent,
equivalent to about
7.4 barrels of oil
GWh                  =     gigawatt hours, equivalent to
i million kWh
kWh                  =     kilowatt hours
MW                   =      megawatts, equivalent to
1000 kilowatts
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EDPP                 =     Early Development and Production
Program
EECI                 =     Energie Electrique de Cote
d'Ivoire
JOA                  =     Joint Operating Agreement
PETROCI              =      Societe Nationale d'Operations
Petrolieres de la Cote d'Ivoire
SIR                  =     Societe Ivoirienne de Raffinage
SMB                  =     Societe Multinationale de Bitumes
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Ivory Coast  =                  January 1 - December 31
PETROCI                                     October 1 - September 30
1/ The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc in the ratio of 1 French Franc to
CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower              :  Societe Nationale d'Operations Petrolieres de la Cote
d'Ivoire (Petroci)
Guarantor             : The Republic of the Ivory Coast
Amount                : US$101.5 million, including capitalized front-end fee
Terms                 : Repayable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at
11.6 percent interest. Petroci would pay the
Government a guarantee fee of 1.2 percent, raising the
cost of Bank funds to Petroci to 12.8 percent p.a.
Project Description      The Project would help the Ivory Coast participate,
through Petroci, in the exploration and development of
hydrocarbons offshore by a consortium of oil companies
headed by Phillips Petroleum Company. The loan would
finance part of Petroci's share in the consortium's
expenditures, as well as a program of technical
assistance to strengthen Petroci's technical
competence. The Project includes three components:
(a)  Exploration consisting of the drilling of about
24 new exploration wells within the consortium's
offshore concessions (blocks A, B, B1 and Cl) at
depths ranging from 7,000 to 12,000 feet, in
waters 200 to 3,000 feet deep.
(b)  EDPP, or Early Development and Production
Program, to obtain an initial, limited production
of petroleum from the Espoir field, where
hydrocarbon reserves have been proven to exist
and to test the performance of the field. The
EDPP will include four or five production wells
and temporary offshore production and storage
facilities.
(c)  Technical Assistance to Petroci including the
*hiring of experienced technical staff, consulting
services from specialized firms and training of
Petroci's personnel.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Petroci has a 10 percent share in the consortium's
concessions; it has the right, however, to increase to
up to 60 percent its participation in one of the
blocks (block Cl). Exercising its option to the full
extent would entail large financial requirements for
Petroci, which the proposed loan would help meet. The
amount of the proposed Loan has been determined on the
assumption that Petroci would exercise its option to
the full extent. Should Petroci decide to do
otherwise, the Bank would cancel the unneeded portion
of the Loan.
The Project's main benefits to the Ivory Coast are (a)
the potential results of the exploration program,
which consists of drilling in already identified
formations of the same type and in the same geological
horizon as the Espoir structure where encouraging
hydrocarbon shows have been found; (b) Petroci's and
the Government's shares in the anticipated production
of EDPP; and (c) the upgrading of Petroci as the
institution responsible for petroleum development in
the Ivory Coast. The principal risks of the Project
are (i) the possible failure of the exploration
program; (ii) poor performance of Espoir which might
lead to the decision of abandoning the field on
completion of the EDPP program; and (iii) the possible
financial strain on Petroci in carrying the Ivorian
share of project costs while most of the Ivorian share
of revenue would go to the Government. These risks
are justified because the total Ivorian share of
anticipated production froml EDPP should significantly
exceed Petroci's share of project costs.



- iii -
Project Cost Estimates (US$ million)
Foreign   Local     Total      Petroci Share
60%    10%
Option Option
Investment Program of Consortium through 1983
Development                    260.8     5.3       266.1      90.7   25.5
Exploration                    437.1     8.7       445.8      87.5   28.2
Other General and Adm. Costs   64.3      1.3        65.6      18.7    5.0
Sub Total                 762.2    15.3      777.5      196.9   58.7
Physical Contingencies          75.1     1.4        76.5      20.5    6.2
Price Contingencies             57.3     1.2        58.5      14.6    4.5
Total                     894.6    17.9      912.5      232.0   69.4
Tentative Investment Program of
Consortium, 1984-1985
Exploration                    147.7     3.0       150.7      31.4   11.0
Other Gen. & Adm. Costs         79.0     1.6        80.6      20.1    5.8
Sub Total                 226.7     4.6      231.3       51.5   16.8
Physical Contingencies          41.5     0.8        42.3       9.1    3.1
Price Contingencies             35.7     0.7        36.4       7.9    2.7
Total                     303.9     6.1      310.0       68.5   22.6
Technical Assistance to Petroci
270 man-months of
consultants services           5.4     0.5         5.9       -      -
Training Expenses                1.2     0.3         1.5       -      -
Sub Total                   6.6     0.8        7.4        -      -
Physical Contingency             0.7     0.1         0.8       -      -
Price Contingency                0.7     0.1         0.8       -      -
Total                       8.0     1.0         9.0       9.0    9.0
Total Project Cost      1,206.5    25.0    1,231.5      309.5  101.0
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan       1.5     -           1.5       1.5    1.5
1,208.0    25.0    1,233.0      311.0  102.5



- iv -
Financing Plan:         World Bank Loan              US$  101.5 million
Export Credits               US$   50.0 million
Commercial Syndication       US$1,081.5 million
TOTAL                   US$1,233.0 million
Estimated                                            US$ Million
Disbursements:                               FY 83      FY 84    FY 85
Annual                    46.0       33.5          22.0
Cumulative                46.0      79.5           101.5
Rate of Return:    N/A
Appraisal Report: N/A
Map                 IBRD 16278



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO SOCIETE NATIONAL D'OPERATIONS PETROLIERES DE LA
COTE D'IVOIRE (PETROCI) WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC
OF THE IVORY COAST FOR A PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Societe Nationale d'Operations Petrolieres de la Cote d'Ivoire (PETROCI),
with the guarantee of the Republic of the Ivory Coast for the equivalent of
US$101.5 million to help finance a petroleum exploration and development proj-
ect. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including four years of grace,
with interest at 11.6 percent per annum. The Government of the Ivory Coast
would charge PETROCI a guarantee fee of 1.2 percent per annum on the outstand-
ing amount of the Bank loan, bringing the cost of the loan to PETROCI to 12.8
percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        "Ivory Coast:  A Basic Economic Report" (1147b-IVC) was circulated
to the Executive Directors in May 1977. It was published in 1978 by the Johns
Hopkins University Press under the title "The Challenge of Success". Its
assessment of the country's economic prospects, updated by Bank missions in
each subsequent year, is reflected in the following paragraphs.
Introduction
3.        Since 1960, when GDP per capita was US$145, the country has experi-
enced a 7 percent per annum GDP growth rate, a pace of development that has
surpassed that of most non-oil exporting countries and which resulted in a
1980 GDP per capita of US$1,200, the second highest in sub-saharan Africa.
From the outset, the Government has pursued economic growth as its primary
objective. A political framework was established that promoted an open and
stable economy. Political ideology played a secondary role to practical
considerations in promoting growth and development. The open economy proved
to be a strong attraction to foreign factors of production. As a result,
there has been a massive immigration of both unskilled labor from poor
neighboring countries and skilled technicians and managers from Europe.
Today, immigrants (mainly non-Ivorian Africans) constitute about 30 percent
of the country's population. Neighboring countries enjoyed substantial
benefits from the outflow of workers' remittances from the employment that
their surplus labor force was able to find in the Ivory Coast. Close rela-
tions with France through, inter alia, the West African Monetary Union,
ensured currency convertibility and a relatively stable balance of payments
framework.
1/   This section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's
Report on the Structural Adjustment Loan, dated November 4, 1981.
Some parts of the presentation have been updated.



4.        From Independence, agriculture was identified as the key to the
country's growth potential. Tropical rainforests covered large areas in the
South, and their successful (if excessive) exploitation gave the country
foreign exchange resources for investment. These areas were suitable for
growing coffee, cocoa, and other crops. The agricultural potential of the
North was more limited, and it therefore was developed more slowly and to a
lesser extent. But food crops, cotton, and livestock were successfully
promoted. Value added in the agricultural sector grew by an average of over
5 percent per year.
5.        In support of this agricultural development, Government developed
physical infrastructure. For example, access to transportation was assured
through a good network of feeder roads linked to a well-developed and main-
tained secondary and trunk road network. An excellent and well-managed
deepwater port was developed at Abidjan, the capital, and a second port more
recently at San Pedro in the West.
6.        Other sectors of the economy also grew rapidly.  Industry, parti-
cularly agro-industry, grew at 12 percent per year. Most investment exploited
import substitution potential such as in cotton textiles. The tertiary sector
grew rapidly based partly on demand generated by agriculture and industry, and
partly on demand resulting from government policies to provide infrastructure
to support development.
7.        The combination of decisions to promote government investment in
both infrastructure and the parapublic sector led to a growing public invest-
ment program. Although investment rates increased from 14 percent of GDP in
the early 1960s to well over 20 percent by the mid-1970s, large public sector
savings and increasing external borrowing were available to finance the
expanded program. Moreover, through the mid-1970s, the balance of payments
position remained strong, as coffee and cocoa prices continued to increase.
8.        Under the impetus of the boom in coffee and cocoa prices in late
1976 and 1977, Government expanded the public investment program in 1978 to
more than $2 billion, almost one-fourth of the GDP, under the erroneous
assumption that prices of these commodities would remain high. With the
increase in public investment, its quality declined. Thus, the 1976-80 Plan
experienced a 40 percent overrun in real terms, in contrast to the 8 percent
overrun of the previous Plan. High unit costs as well as excessive scale
especially of sugar, transport and education programs accounted for the
overrun.
9.        External debt provided 40 percent of the financing.  Debt service,
therefore, rose rapidly and reached $700 million in the late 1970s. But
because of both lower-priority projects, particularly in the public enter-
prise sector, and projects with very long pay-off periods (in education, for
example), export earnings did not increase commensurately, so that debt
service ratios rose to over 25 percent by the end of the decade. In addition,
current expenditure also increased and public expenditure (current plus
capital) reached 41 percent of GDP. This reduced Government's ability to
react to changing economic circumstances.



10.       Coffee and cocoa export earnings declined precipitously after 1979,
and, by 1981, had lost over 50 percent of their peak (1977 and 1978) prices.
Furthermore, import prices continued to increase with inflation. Thus terms
of trade declined by about 35 percent from 1978 to 1981, and the balance of
payments entered a period of stringency.
11.       Public finance problems also emerged.  Savings fell sharply as
government marketing surpluses from coffee and cocoa were reduced by about
$600 million from 1977 and 1978 to the present. The claims of debt service,
of recurrent costs from completed projects, and of a few large cost overruns
generated strong fiscal pressures. The public enterprise sector began to
incur large deficits because of higher current costs which were not matched by
returns on investment.  The recurrent costs of the education sector, which
account for 46 percent of the current budget, have become particularly burden-
some.
12.       Finally, although agriculture had been the key sector in the Ivory
Coast's rapid development, over the last four or five years the sector has,
with few exceptions, lost much of its dynamism. This has been a contributing
cause to the above problems, although changing world market conditions have
also contributed substantially. For example, foodcrop production is apparently
stagnant, requiring increasing imports to meet needs. This can be traced to
growing financial problems, a decline in institutional effectiveness, and
inadequate price and other policies.
Prospects
13.       Three important elements stand out in a discussion of the country's
economic prospects. First, the country still has a strong agricultural growth
potential. Although diminishing returns and changes in world market conditions
make the choice of future investment more difficult, the country's underlying
productivity remains. The period of bold large investment projects in agricul-
ture may be over. What is needed is judicious planning, careful investment
preparation, and better management of the state enterprises, particularly
those in the agricultural sector.
14.       The second factor is oil which is discussed in Parts III and IV of
this report. Recent developments in the off-shore exploration program which
started in the mid-1970's are encouraging. Production in the Belier field
began in 1980 at a rate of 9,000-10,000 barrels per day through 1981, declin-
ing to 8,000 barrels per day in 1982. Under the proposed project, production
in the Espoir field would start in 1982, and data so far gathered indicate
good prospects for further findings. There are, however, two problems asso-
ciated with petroleum development. The first is the very costly type of
drilling and development required in the Espoir field. Secondly, development
to date has required a long period of time for technical reasons, and future
development is therefore difficult to predict.
15.       The uncertainty associated with petroleum development requires that
immediate action be taken to reduce the balance of payments and fiscal defi-
cits to keep the short-term situation manageable. In the medium term,
improved government planning will be essential to restore growth in agricul-
ture and other sectors. These improvements will ensure that, when large



- 4 -
petroleum revenues become available, they are put to productive use. More
efficient use of resources to meet government objectives is all the more
important since there is a possibility that oil revenues will be available for
a fixed and relatively short period. Income creation based on petroleum will
need to generate self-sustaining growth, including diversification from the
current high dependence on a few primary products.
16.       Thirdly, the country has embarked on a program of financial rehabi-
litation designed to ensure adequate allocations for essential programs sum-
marized in the Extended Fund Facility Agreement with the IMF, and a program
of structural adjustment to overcome the weaknesses described above. The
program calls for strengthening of mechanisms for macro-economic planning and
programming of resources, improvements in agricultural sector planning and
program execution, and identifies programs to be implemented in the public
enterprises and the industrial sector. A key financial objective of the
program is to keep debt service manageable and to maintain creditworthiness
for borrowing on IBRD terms. Very recent indications suggest that as a result
of external factors, principally the strengthening of the dollar vis-a-vis the
CFA Franc, the rise in international interest rates and deteriorating terms of
trade, the pace of the financial recovery program may be slower than envisaged
when the structural adjustment program was defined. These developments will
be carefully monitored over the next few months. Until the full impact of the
financial rehabilitation and structural adjustment program is felt, the Ivory
Coast public finance and balance of payment position will remain weak and
vulnerable, and the country will have to rely on increased amounts of private
capital and external aid inflows to provide balance of payments support and
finance a high proportion of carefully selected public investment projects,
including local costs in appropriate cases.
17.       Of the total external public debt outstanding at the end of 1980,
14.5 percent was provided bilaterally by governments, 17.1 percent by inter-
national aid agencies (of which 57.5 percent by the Bank Group), and 57.8
percent by private banks and bond issues, while 15 percent came in the form of
suppliers' credit. About half of the total capital not supplied by interna-
tional aid agencies came from three countries: France (34.5 percent), USA
(12.6 percent), Lebanon (5.6 percent). France and the European Communities
remain the principal source of development assistance in grant form, account-
ing for about 1 percent of the flow of foreign assistance to the public
sector.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
18.       Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in the Ivory Coast started,
lending has expanded rapidly and now includes forty-five loans totalling
US$931.3 million (including US$14 million from the Third Window), and an IDA
credit of US$7.5 million. Of these loans, sixteen have been for agricul-
ture, supporting cotton, cocoa, rubber, oil palm and coconut development,
and rural development in the North-East Savannah and Center-West regions.
There were six road projects and a highway sector project. The remaining



- 5 -
twenty-one loans were for education, telecommunications, the Abidjan sewer-
age and drainage system, water supply, urban development, power distribu-
tion, tourism development, small- and medium-scale enterprises, a regional
cement project, a regional railway project and most recently for structural
adjustment and related technical assistance. IFC's involvement includes
participation in the Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel amounting
to US$423,500; a 10 percent equity investment, equivalent to about US$880,000,
in Etablissement R. Gonfreville (ERG), the largest textile plant in the
country; and a US$6.4 million investment in Societe Ivoirienne d'Engrais S.A.
(Siveng) to double the company's fertilizer plant capacity to 120,000 tons per
year; on March 1980, IFC Board of Directors approved an equity investment of
US$446,600 and a US$2.9 million loan for MSO, a flour milling company. Annex
II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. Generally satisfactory implementation of
projects in the Ivory Coast is reflected in better than average disbursement
profiles; however, speedier submission of withdrawal applications to the Bank
is possible, and means to streamline the procedures are being considered by
Government.
19.       Bank operations in agriculture have been in support of the Govern-
ment's policy of crop diversification and promotion of exports and giving
more emphasis to developing smallholder production. A smallholder rubber
project was approved by the Board in October 1978, and two rural development
projects for the North-East and Center-West in March 1980 and June 1982,
respectively. In June 1979, the Executive Directors approved the first Bank
forestry project in the Ivory Coast which consists of a 20,000 ha plantation
program of short- and medium-rotation hardwood species. The structural
adjustment loan, approved by the Board in November 1981, supports a program of
macro-economic reform and of adjustment focussed on agriculture including
far-reaching interim and long-term reforms of agricultural public enterprises.
The technical assistance project, approved together with SAL, provides much of
the technical manpower needed for policy reorientation and implementation of
new programs. In the future, the Bank is considering assisting integrated
rural development projects in the North and North-West regions which will be
primarily designed to execute the integrated crop strategy to be developed
under the structural adjustment program. The Bank is also associated with the
preparation of a mechanization study and pilot scheme, carried out by the
French CCCE, to determine the feasibility of introducing light mechanized
farming.
20.       Bank involvement in the transport sector started in 1969 by carrying
out, as executing agency, the UNDP Transport Survey of the Ivory Coast, which
has served as a basis for determining future priorities among transport
investments. Thus far the Bank has granted loans for six road projects
totalling $123.3 million, and for a highway sector project in the amount of
$100 million, which was approved in November 1980. The first project was
completed in December 1974 with final costs falling within appraisal estimates.
The OED report on this project dated June 28, 1977, recommended inter alia,
that more emphasis should be given to road maintenance. This was addressed
in the Third Highway Project. The Second Road Project was satisfactorily
completed in September 1975, after an initial delay caused by project modifi-
cation and subsequent poor work organization for the construction component.



- 6 -
The Third and Fourth Highway Projects, which are completed, incurred substan-
tial cost overruns which the Government has covered; otherwise, execution
proceeded satisfactorily. The Fifth Highway Project, which is near completion,
will contribute to a further improvement of the primary road network of the
country. A feeder roads and highway maintenance project was approved in
December 1977. The highway sector loan to finance a lportion of the country's
highway investment program for 1981-83 is now operative. A railway project,
focusing on the improvement of the Bouake-Petionara siection of the Abidjan-
Ouagadougou rail line, renewal of rolling stock, technical assistance and
training, was approved in FY78.
21.       The Bank has been closely associated with the Government's efforts
to modernize the education system, in particular, at the primary, secondary
and vocational levels, through two education projects. A Third Education
Project covering primary teacher training, vocational training and informal
education in rural areas was approved by the Executive Directors in December
1979.
22.       The Abidjan sewerage and drainage project, approved in FY75, covers
the first phase of a ten-year government program to improve sanitation in
Abidjan. The Board approved, in FY78, a second project which includes the
second phase of the program and studies for the third. An urban development
project, whose primary aim is to help meet some of Abidjan's low-income hous-
ing and transport needs, was signed in December 1976. A second urban develop-
ment project, approved in August 1981, aims at improving the living conditions
of populations in low-income urban areas and by assisting Government in
carrying out its regional development policy of shifting rapid urban growth
from the capital cities to regional centers. With respect to the smaller
towns, the Board approved in FY78 a secondary centers water supply project. A
further project for water supply in Abidjan, secondary centers and villages
was approved in April, 1982.
23.       In the energy sector, a First Power Project was approved in July
1980 to finance power distribution facilities in rural areas, technical
assistance and the preparation of the Subre hydropower project which the Bank
is now appraising (see para. 28). The proposed petroleum project, which is
discussed below would represent the first Bank operation in the oil subsector.
24.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management
in the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing
high priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this
policy, the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale enterprises
in FY76, which has been followed up by an artisans, small- and medium-scale
project approved in March 1979. The Bank Group also provided support for
medium-scale enterprises through another local development finance company
and two lines of credit for hotel financing and technical assistance in the
tourism sector. In June 1976, the Bank extended a loan to the Ivory Coast
in support of the CIMAO project which is sponsored jointly by the Govern-
ments of Ghana, Ivory Coast, and Togo. CIMAO utilizes limestone deposits
in Togo for the production of clinker for the cement market of the three
countries.



25.      The Bank Group's lending in the Ivory coast has increased steadily
from a yearly average of below US$20 million during the early years to an
average of US$84.7 million annually in the 1977-81 period. The average annual
lending rate is expected to continue to grow substantially over the next few
years.  The Bank Group's share of the Ivory Coast's external debt at the end
of 1980 stood at approximately 9.7 percent (including undisbursed). Its
portion of external debt disbursed is expected to rise from the present 7.2
percent to about 10 percent in the next ten years; its share of total debt
service, 3.5 percent in 1980, is expected to go up to about 6.0 percent in the
mid 1980s.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Demand and Supply of Energy
26.      The Ivory Coast's domestic energy demand amounted to 2.1 million toe
(tons of oil equivalent) in 1980, more than double the demand in 1972. The
Ivorian authorities project that energy demand will more than double! again (to
4.6-5.0 million toe p. a.) by 1990. A breakdown of Ivorian energy demand by
sources of energy is as follows:
1972        1980         1990         2000
(in thousands of toe)
Sources of energy
Firewood, charcoal and
other                            400          590          960        1,420
Hydroelectric power                 52          305         1,115      2190-2470
Hydrocarbons                       555         1,222      2495-2925   4590-6110
(Of which, for thermal power)    (123)         (122)        (50)         (50)
1,0072,117            4575=T 0oo   820-o000
27.      Firewood and charcoal obtained from the Ivory Coast's extensive
forests represented 40 percent of total energy consumption at the beginning of
the decade, reflecting the absence of any other domestic source of energy
apart from the small amount of hydroelectric power then available. Demand for
fuels of vegetable origin is projected to increase at only half the rate (five
percent p.a.) of total energy demand (ten percent p.a.) through the end of the
1980s; this will include increased consumption of biomass, primarily from
sugar cane plants.
28.      The vast hydroelectric potential of the Ivory Coast, estimated at
about 12,400 GWh, was largely untapped until the 1973 petroleum price
increases, when only three hydrostations producing about 300 GWh/year were in
operation, representing only 30 percent of total electricity produced. Since
then, Energie Electrique de Cote d'Ivoire (EECI) 1/ has launched an
aggressive program of construction of hydroelectric plants. With the
1/ EECI is an autonomous, mixed-economy company, whose main shareholders are
the Ivorian government and local authorities, two French public agencies and a
few private share holders (5% of capital). It operates under the supervision
of the Ministry of Planning and Industry.



commissioning of the Taabo plant (960 GWh year) in 1980, hydroelectric power
reached over three-quarters of total electricity generation. Another major
hydroelectric project, Buyo (830 GWh/year), came on-stream during 1981. At
present, less than 10 percent of total electricity produced in the country is
thermal-generated. Growth of electricity demand until about 1992 will be met
by a new hydroelectric project to be built at Soubre, which will produce about
1600 GWh/year. The project will cost over US$500 million. The Bank is
currently appraising this project, for which it plans to contribute financing,
and is actively assisting EECI and Government in organizing co-financing from
other lenders.  Further hydro projects have been identified, which could meet
load growth to about the year 2000.
29.      A rural electrification program now underway, which the Bank has
helped finance with a loan approved in 1979, on completion in 1982 will raise
electricity service coverage to over 60 percent of the Ivorian population,
compared to 50 percent in 1980. In the context of that project, agreement was
reached with the Government and EECI to eliminate a fuel price subsidy and to
adjust electricity tariffs periodically taking into account increases in
production costs; that commitment has been honored.
30.      Petroleum, which constitutes more than half of total energy
consumption, was completely imported until 1980 when production from the
Belier field began (para. 32).
Imports and exports of petroleum
31.      Imports of crude oil amounted to 1.7 million tons in 1980 (compared
to 1.1 million tons in 1972). In addition, 350,000 tons of petroleum products
were imported to make up for the shortfall in specific white products of the
local refinery. The total oil bill amounted to US$550 million in 1980, or over
12 percent of total imports (compared to US$25 million or 5 percent of total
imports in 1972). The bulk of crude imports have been bought under long term
contracts from Nigeria and Venezuela; some of the crudes, in excess of the
Abidjan refinery's capacity, has been toll-processed abroad. The Ivory Coast
exported about 750,000 tons yearly of petroleum products in 1979 and 1980, so
that net yearly imports averaged about 1.3 million tons in the two year
period. Exports took place through three channels: (a) about 250,000 tons/year
of white products were sold to nearby Mali and Upper Volta; (b) about 280,000
tons of fuel/year were accounted for by international bunkerage, mostly in the
busy port of Abidjan; and (c) about 220,000 tons/year represented excess heavy
fuel produced by the Abidjan refinery, which was sold in the open market.
Current Production of Crude Oil
32.      The only production of crude oil in the Ivory Coast at present comes
from Belier, an offshore field operated by a consortium headed by Esso (63.75
percent of shares ) and including Shell (21.25 percent) and the Ivorian
national oil company, Petroci (15 percent). Belier's production started in
1980 and currently averages about 400,000 tons per year of high-quality crude
from eight producing wells. Investments in secondary recovery planned between
1982 and 1984 will help sustain Belier's output, but production is expected to
decline to about 130,000 tons per year by 1988. These investments are
estimated at US$80 million, of which Petroci will contribute about US$12
million. Belier's production will meet about 20 percent of total domestic



- 9 -
demand for petroleum in 1982, declining to less than 5 percent by the end of
the decade.
Petroleum Processing and Distribution
33.      The petroleum refining requirements of the Ivory Coast, Upper Volta
and Mali will be fully met by the Abidjan refinery through the 1980s, once a
major revamping project is completed in late 1982. The project, which will
cost over US$500 million, will double the refinery's capacity from 1.7 to 3.4
million tons/year and will improve its yield of light and middle distillates
through hydrocracking and hydroskimming. The refinery is owned by Societe
Ivoirienne de Raffinage (SIR) whose major shareholder is Petroci (42 percent
of shares). Other shareholders are the Government of Upper Volta (five
percent of shares) and the Ivorian affiliates of seven multinational oil
companies (Shell, BP, Esso, Texaco, Mobil, Total and Elf) which, together with
AGIP, assure the internal distribution of petroleum products. Petroci, in
turn, is a shareholder, with 50 percent of capital, of the Ivorian affiliates
of Shell and BP. It is also the main shareholder (93 percent of shares) of
Societe Multinationale de Bitumes (SMB), which operates an asphalt making
plant which produces between 200,000 and 400,000 tons of products/year,
depending on demand.
34.      Storage of crude oil and finished products is mainly assured by the
refinery's tank farm, which has a capacity of 865,000 m3. It will be
supplemented in the future by three tank farms (total capacity of 372,000 m3)
located in Abidjan, Bouake and Yamoussoukro, which were completed in 1981 by
Petroci on behalf of the Government, at a cost of US$80 million, to ensure a
minimum reserve of two months supply of products. Transportation of refined
products is partly by road tankers operated by the distributing companies and
partly by rail.
Petroleum Pricing Policies
35.      Prices of petroleum and refined products are periodically set by
Presidential decree following the recommendation of a technical commuission.
The price of crude sold to the refinery by its shareholding companies is
determined by actual CIF prices, augmented by a 50 US cents/barrel
intermediation margin. Production from Belier is sold to the refinery at the
average cost of imported crude over the previous 12 months.
36.      Ex-refinery prices of products are set at the beginning of each year
on a projected cost-plus basis. A special fund (Fonds de Compensation),
administered by the Ministry of Commerce and fed by a levy on the retail sale
of products, compensates for the refinery's losses, or absorbs its windfall
profits, due to fluctuations of crude prices. Final retail prices of products
are set by adding to the ex-refinery prices (a) fixed margins for the
distributing companies; and (b) Government taxes and levies, includ-Lng a
special petroleum activities tax and a security stock tax which are collected
by Petroci to finance petroleum exploration and development, and thie
construction of petroleum products depots, respectively (Annex IV, para. 8).
37.      The Government has consistently promoted energy conservation by
setting prices of petroleum products at levels among the highest in the
world. In August, 1981, these prices were further increased by about



- 10 -
15 percent on average, as part of a package of austerity measures. Their
current structure is summarized as follows:
Retail prices        Premium      Regular   Kerosene       Diesel      Heavy
(US$ equivalent)    gasoline    gasoline  (home use)        fuel      fuel oil
--- (per US gallon) ---                (per ton)
ex-refin. price 1/    1.36         1.32         0.76       1.29        335.00
distributor's margin  0.40         0.36        0.31        0.30         25.74
taxes, and levies      1.71        1.60        0.42        0.79         43.94
Retail price           3.47        3.28         1.49       2.38        404.68
Government Institutions Responsible for Petroleum
38.      The Ministry of Mines is responsible for overall supervision of
exploration, production, refining and marketing of hydrocarbons. Key
decisions related to petroleum are taken at the Cabinet level following the
deliberations of a recently constituted Petroleum Committee which includes the
Ministers of Mines and of the Economy and Finance and the Secretary General of
the Government.
39.      The Ministry of Mines relies to a large extent on Petroci for
implementation of Government policies related to petroleum. Petroci was
established in 1975 as a fully Government-owned company. Although its Board
of Directors, President and Director General are appointed by the Government,
the company enjoys considerable autonomy in its decision-making and is
financially accountable.
40.      Petroci was created as a vehicle for the Government to participate in
joint ventures with foreign oil companies for oil and gas exploration. It
holds exclusive exploration rights on all prospective areas not yet assigned
to oil company consortia. In the late 1970s, it undertook some exploration
onshore on its own, before concentrating on the more promising offshore areas
through joint ventures. In addition to its exploration activities, Petroci
imports crude oil and refined oil products for domestic needs and participates
in joint ventures in processing and distribution (para. 33).
41.      Petroci's organizational structure has been recently revamped, in
line with the Bank's recommendations, to better cope with the growing
importance of exploration and production activities. Its staff includes 60
professionals, 20 of whom are expatriates. Most of the local technical staff
are well educated but inexperienced; the more experienced expatriate staff is
not large enough and needs to be supplemented with more specialists and with
external consultancies. These deficiencies are being addressed under the
technical assistance component of the proposed project. The company's
financial situation and the effects of the proposed Project on its finances
are discussed in depth in Annex IV, and conclusions are summarized in
paras. 83-86 of the project section.
1/ also applicable for exports to Mali and Upper Volta.



- 11 -
Government Strategy
42.      The Government's objectives in the energy sector are to attain self-
sufficiency in energy resources, to insure that the sector contributes to the
overall socio-economic development of the country and to generate foreign
exchange from exports of any surplus energy produced. Developments in the
electric power field are consistent with these objectives. Recent itnvestments
in hydro-electric plants have made the country largely non-oil dependent as
regards electricity. A transmission line to Ghana, which will permit the
sharing of generating reserve and interchanges of electric power, is now being
built.
43.      The success of the Government's energy development plans hinges,
however, on the fostering of foreign investment in exploration for hydrocarbon
resources. The 1970 petroleum code provides a suitable legal framework and
adequate fiscal incentives to attract foreign venture capital. Since 1975, the
Government has opted not to award exclusive exploration and development rights
to entirely foreign-owned companies but to maintain in Ivorian hands, through
Petroci, a minimum stake in all petroleum-related activities.
Geology of the Region
44.      The sedimentary basins in the Ivory Coast cover an area of ibout
2,000 km2 onshore and about 53,000 km2 offshore, of which 13,000 kma
represent the continental shelf area (water depth of less than 200 VI) while
the remaining 40,000 km2 are under deep waters of up to 3,000 m depth. The sea
floor reaches about 150-200 m water depth at between 15 and 25 km from the
shore; then it plunges rapidly to reach 2,000 m at about 40 km from the coast.
This means that a large portion of the potential oil-bearing areas lies beyond
the reach of current offshore technology. Exploration has thus concentrated
along the coastline, in the shallower waters and onshore.
45.      The sedimentary basins are characterized by a sequence of Quaternary,
Tertiary and Cretaceous age deposits directly overlying Precambrian basement
rocks. Oil has been discovered offshore in Cretaceous sediments, probably
Upper Albian to lower Senonian in age, at depths of 6,000 to 9,000 feet. The
oil-bearing reservoir rocks consist of unconsolidated sands with compacted
sandstones and several limestone and shale streaks and, in some cases, of
channel sands. The reservoir beds are complicated by faults and shale breaks
which render the interpretation of geophysical data extremely difficult and
highly dependent on the results of well tests.
History of Exploration
46.      Onshore exploration for petroleum in the Ivory Coast dates back to
the turn of the century, with the involvement of the French-owned Societe
Africaine de Petrole, which finally withdrew from the Ivory Coast in 1962
after drilling 10 dry wells. Onshore drilling was not resumed untiL the late
1970s when Petroci drilled three dry wells onshore before abandoning these
efforts in favor of the more promising offshore prospects. Offshor,e
exploration was first undertaken in 1970 by Esso, which held a vast concession
along the eastern coast. In 1974, Esso discovered the Belier structure, which
generated great hopes, later stifled by the modest proportions of the
reservoir. Thereafter, Esso relinquished the bulk of its concession,



- 12 -
retaining a small area surrounding the producing field, plus another small
area at the border with Ghana, where gas in non-commercial quantities had been
discovered.
47.      No further exploration rights were awarded to foreign oil companies
until 1975 when the Government entered into a production sharing contract with
a consortium led by Phillips Petroleum Company, which originally included
AGIP, Getty Oil and Hispanoil and was joined by Petroci in late 1975.1/ The
exploration permit (blocks A and B) covered an area of 24,000 km2 immediately
south of the Esso concession, 20-30 km from the coast in water depths going
from 200 m to over 3,000 m.  After carrying out seismic surveys, the
consortium started exploration drilling in 1976, discovering the "Espoir"
field in late 1979 with well A-1X at the northern edge of the permit, about
60 km southwest of Abidjan.
48.      Since the Espoir field appeared to extend northward beyond the limit
of the A-B blocks, the Phillips-led consortium bid for and was awarded
exploration permits on two other tracts (block B1 and Cl) north of the
discovery well. These blocks had been part of concession earlier relinquished
by Esso (para. 46). Through 1981, 11 wells, including the discovery well,
have been drilled by the consortium: 6 in the original permit area, 3 in
block Cl and 2 in block Bl. All but two of these wells produced hydrocarbon
shows.  The AI-X discovery well was spudded in 1,150 feet of water (350 m) and
tested 33 degrees API oil at a depth of about 6,600 feet below sea level. Well
A-2X, drilled southeast of A-lX, confirmed the discovery. A number of other
wells tested substantial volumes of gas in association with oil. Furthermore,
drilling of these wells led the consortium to appreciate the geological
complexity of the area. Since mid-1981, up to five leased drilling rigs have
been in operation in the area, and the consortium plans to continue
exploration over the next two years.
49.      Following the consortium's declaration in May 1981 that the Espoir
discovery was presumed commercial, the Government granted (on June 13, 1981)
development and production permits covering 750 km2 along the northern borders
of the A-B blocks and about 233 km2 km in the southwestern corner of block
Cl. The consortium's work program includes four to five production wells in
the Espoir structure to permit initial, limited production to start in the
second half of 1982, using temporary production facilities (Early Development
and Production Program - EDPP). The results of the EDPP are expected to
contribute significantly to an understanding of the characteristics of the
reservoir and to establish a basis for possible future development of the
field.
50.      The Government entered into three more production sharing contracts
in 1980 and 1981 with two joint ventures headed by AGIP and one by TOTAL, all
of which include Petroci as a minority shareholder. Ihese contracts cover the
remaining blocks off the eastern half of the Ivorian coast as well as an
onshore block in the southeastern corner of Ivorian territory (see Annex V
1/ Getty Oil and Hispanoil withdrew from the consortium in 1978. Their shares
were partly absorbed by Phillips and partly granted to a new member, SEDCO, a
Texas drilling company.



- 13 -
anid the attached map).  Exploration drilling in those tracts is to begin
within the next six to 24 months (depending on the block).
Contractual Arrangements on Blocks in the Espoir Area
51.      The first production sharing contract signed in 1975 for deep water
blocks A and B grants the Phillips consortium exclusive exploration rights
over the area for up to five years, extendable to eight years provided that
the consortium carries out certain minimum exploration expenditures within
specified periods at the consortium's sole cost. Petroci is a full-fledged
member of the consortium, sharing all expenses to the full extent of its ten
percent quota. In case of a proven commercial discovery the Government grants
the consortium a 25 year (extendable to 35 years) production permit covering
the proven extent of the reservoir discovered.
52.      Once production starts, it is split between the Government and the
consortium according to specified percentages which vary over time, EaS the
consortium is initially entitled to a larger share to recover its
investment. The consortium is obligated to sell to Petroci 15 percent of its
share of production at 15 percent of market value to the extent that this is
necessary to meet the Ivory Coast's domestic needs. Under this contract, the
total Ivorian take of future production (i.e., the combined share of the
Government and Petroci) would amount to 47 percent initially, until the
consortium recovers initial investment costs, and would increase to 68 percent
thereafter.
53.      The production sharing contracts for blocks Bl and Cl were negotiated
after the discovery of the Espoir field in late 1979; as a result, they
contain provisions more favorable to the Ivory Coast. They differ from the
1975 contract on blocks A and B as follows:
(a)  The consortium's obligation to carry out minimum investments during
the five-year exploration period is greater.
(b) Until a commercial discovery is acknowledged by the Government,
Petroci does not contribute to exploration expenses, as its initial
10 percent interest in the consortium is fully carried by the foreign
partners on a non-reimbursable basis.
(c) Within three months of the Government granting a development and
production permit the consortium must submit to the Government a
detailed plan for the development of the field and for its
production.
(d) Within six months of the Government granting a development and
production permit, Petroci has the right to increase, at its
discretion, its share in the consortium to up to 60 percent. It must
then reimburse the foreign partners in the consortium for that
portion of exploration costs which corresponds to the difference



- 14 -
between its new share and its initial, gratis share of 10 percent.
Subsequently Petroci would contribute to all costs in proportion to
its new share.-
(e)  The production sharing arrangements are modified in the Government's
favor as (i) up to 10 percent of total yearly production must be sold
to Petroci at 15 percent of market price to meet domestic demand,
(ii) the Government's share of production is slightly higher than
under the contract for blocks A and B. As a result, if Petroci does
not increase its quota beyond the initial 10 percent the combined
share of the Government and Petroci would be 54 percent initially,
gradually increasing to 72 percent.  If Petroci exercises its option
to the full extent, however, its share combined with that of the
Government would rise to almost 80 percent of expected production
initially and to over 87 percent after initial costs have been
recovered.
54.      Petroci and the Government intend to postpone their decision on a
possible increase in Petroci's quota in block Cl (to which they have a right
because the consortium declared a presumed commercial discovery there) until
additional technical information is obtained from further drilling. The
foreign partners have agreed to a first postponement of the contractual
deadline for Petroci's exercise of its option and are willing to consider
further extensions, if necessary, to allow development: of sufficient
information for Petroci to make an informed decision. For this reason
Petroci's share in the consortium's investment costs in block Cl requiring
funding cannot be determined at this stage, as it may vary within a wide
range, from a minimum of 10 percent of development costs only to a maximum of
60 percent of all costs (excluding only the 10 percent: of costs incurred
before the Government's acknowledgement of a commercial discovery, which is
gratis under the contract). The postponement of the exercise of Petroci's
option is not affecting the advancement of work.
Role of the Bank in the Energy Sector
55.      The Bank has been supportive of the Government's general policies
with respect to energy sector development. Until the discovery of the Espoir
field, the Bank's strategy consisted of focusing on institutional and
subsector issues, notably the strengthening of EECI (including extensive
training of technicians under the first Power Project), providing financial
support for the rural electrification program, restructuring electricity
tariffs and generally introducing financial discipline in the institutions
operating in the sector. Continued Bank support for the electric power sector
is being considered for the forthcoming Soubre project and, in the longer run,
for further interconnection links to neighbouring countries.
1/ Reimbursement of past exploration costs would be over 10 years, with
interest on the outstanding amount at a rate of 2 points above the minimum
discount rate of the Central Bank (the latter was 10% p.a. as of December
1981).



- 15 -
56.      The discovery of Espoir in late 1979 brought to the forefront the
importance of offshore petroleum exploration for the Ivory Coast's development
and, particularly, the urgency of Petroci upgrading its technical and
financial capabilities in order to become a viable and competent counterpart
of its foreign partners.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
57.      The proposed Project was identified during the visit of a Bank
mission to the Ivory Coast in February 1981 and appraised in Septembier 1981.
Loan negotiations were held in Washington D.C. and Abidjan in April and May
1982. The Ivorian delegation was headed by Paul Gui-Dibo, Minister of
Mines. A loan and project summary appears at the beginning of this report.
Because of the confidentiality of much of the information received in
analyzing this project, no staff appraisal report has been prepared. However,
the Bank's technical staff, including a geologist and a reservoir engineer,
have reviewed all information available on the Project to date and are
satisfied that the design of the Project is technically sound. Moreover, as
new information periodically becomes available, Petroci has agreed to submit
this data to the Bank for review.
Project Objectives
58.      The prime objective of the proposed Bank project is to help the Ivory
Coast benefit fully from the petroleum resources being developed by the
consortium led by Phillips Petroleum Company, in which Petroci is presently a
minority participant. The Bank would pursue this objective in three ways:
(a) it would provide direct financial assistance to Petroci to help it finance
its share of the consortium's exploration and development costs; (b) it would
support Petroci's efforts to raise additional financial resources from
commercial banks; and (c) it would provide technical assistance to Petroci to
help it strengthen its technical capabilities and thus become a more effective
and competent counterpart of its foreign partners and financiers.
Project Description
59.      The Project comprises three components: (a) exploration activities to
be carried out by the Phillips consortium in blocks A-B, Cl and Bl; (b) the
Early Development and Production Program (EDPP) on the Espoir structure, which
straddles blocks A and Cl; and (c) a program of technical assistance to
Petroci.
Exploration
60.      The consortium's work program and budget for 1982 include the
drilling of 10 exploratory wells; another 14 wells are tentatively planned for
drilling thereafter, 7 of which would be drilled during 1983. The average
depth of the wells will range between 7,000 and 12,000 feet; they will be
spudded in waters ranging from 500 to 1,500 feet in depth. The locaLtions of
these wells have been selected on the basis of available geological
information; the drilling program, however, is continously adjusted to new
data as they are obtained from ongoing drilling and well testing. The



- 16 -
exploration program also encompasses a series of detailed seismic surveys,
including three-dimensional work, intended to reduce the risk of dry holes.
61.      The drilling is currently being carried out by two semi-submersible
rigs and two drillships. Three rigs have been leased from SEDCO and one from
IRO-FRIGG Ltd. As is customary in the industry, the rigs are operated by
crews of the lessor's service companies under the consortium's supervision.
Leasing costs range from US$75,000 to US$100,000 per rig per day, which is in
line with prevailing industry averages. The estimated cost per well is in the
relatively high range of US$10-20 million, which is reasonable given the
complexity of deep water operations.
Early Development and Production Program (EDPP)
62.      This component of the Project is intended to obtain initial oil
production from the field, test the production performance of the Espoir
structure and obtain information on the reservoir to determine whether the
field should be developed for long-term production and, if so, how best to
proceed with this development. Such information would also be relevant to the
possible development of other oil fields which may be discovered nearby. The
EDPP will consist of four production wells (possibly five, if one of the
exploration wells planned for 1982 proves suitable to be put in production
immediately) linked by subsea pipelines to a temporary production platform;
from there, the oil will be piped into a converted 250,000 ton tanker
permanently moored to a buoy near the platform. Two of the production wells
will be in block C1 and two in block A. Production is expected to begin in
the third quarter of 1982. Adequate insurance arrangements have been made.
If the EDPP and the simultaneous exploration program prove to be successful,
then permanent production facilities will be considered as part of a
subsequent, future phase of field development.
63.      None of the exploration wells already drilled will be usable for
production purposes because of the depth of water where they were spudded.
All EDPP wells will be drilled using advanced deviation (i.e., slanting)
techniques to permit their subsea completion with the wellheads in water less
than 600 feet deep. The overall well depth will average about 7,500-8,000
feet. One of the EDPP production wells was drilled in December 1981; it has
been tested with satisfactory results and is now in the process of being
completed for production. The cost of the four production wells is currently
projected at US$85 million but could be significantly greater, in view of the
technical difficulty of drilling deviated wells and of completing them on the
sea floor in comparatively deep waters.
64.      In late 1981, a Japanese shipyard completed the construction of a
leased jack-up drilling rig, 1/ modified for use as a production platform
through installation of separation, pumping and other facilities needed for
production. The completed platform is currently being towed to the Ivory Coast
and is expected to be operational on location by mid-1982. Contracts have
been awarded for the conversion of the tanker intended for storage and
1/ The leasing contract runs for four years, with an option to renew the lease
for a fifth year and to buy the rig at expiration.



- 17 -
transfer of oil production at sea and for the construction and installation of
the single buoy mooring point to which the tanker will be attached. Finally,
on-shore loading, unloading and storage facilities are being constructed.
Technical Assistance
65.      The aim of this component is for Petroci to acquire the expertise
needed to monitor this project effectively, as well as others in the future,
and to participate competently in the consortium's collective decision-
making. To achieve this objective, Petroci will need to build up the
technical staff of its exploration and production departments, each of which
should eventually have ten professional technicians (geologists, reservoir
engineers and petroleum engineers) and ten assistants. In addition, Petroci's
existing financial, marketing and legal staff will have to widen their
experience in matters relating to international petroleum operations and
obtain outside expert advice as needed.
66.      Given the scarcity of local experts, initially Petroci will have to
rely on expatriate personnel to fill the key posts in the technical
departments and to train, on-the-job, young Ivorian technical graduates who
will eventually take their place. An agreement was recently concluded with a
French consulting and engineering firm, BEICIP, for the secondment to Petroci
of four experienced technicians for two years. At least another five
expatriate experts will have to be hired on a long-term basis. The Bank will
review the qualifications and terms of reference of these expatriates, whose
cost will be eligible for Bank financing. Simultaneously, Petroci will
recruit young Ivorian graduates as needed to meet future staffing requirements
and will organize comprehensive training programs, both on-the-job and abroad
with foreign oil companies, for both new recruits and existing personnel, in
accordance with time tables to be periodically reviewed and agreed with the
Bank. It will also ensure that the remuneration it offers to technical staff
is sufficient not only to attract but especially to retain young Ivorian
technicians after they have been trained (Section 4.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The costs of staff training programs, estimated at US$1.5
million, will be eligible for financing under the loan.
67.      The building up of sufficient in-house expertise within Petroci will
require at least two years. In the meantime, Petroci will resort to
specialized consulting firms to meet its short and medium-term requirements
for expert advice related to the Project. In the short-term, consultants will
carry out an independent study of the Espoir reservoir, its production
potential and the consortium's investment program for the purpose of helping
Petroci and the Government make an informed decision concerning the
desirability of increasing Petroci's share in the consortium for block Cl.
Terms of reference for this study have been prepared in agreement with the
Bank. The consultants would also assist Petroci in its discussions with the
foreign partners on current operational issues. Furthermore, in March-April
1982 the Government and Petroci entered into agreements with three
institutions of international reputation who specialize in financial and legal
consulting. Petroci and the Government intend to rely on these companies for
analysis and advice, especially concerning the implications of Petroci
exercising its option in block Cl and its participation in the consortium's
collective borrowing.



- 18 -
68.      Over the medium term, Petroci will continue to require the assistance
of external consulting firms in both technical and financial/legal fields for
the following purposes: (a) to assist Petroci's management and decision-makers
in the Ministry of Mines in decisions concerning the consortium's operations;
(b) to contribute to on-the-job training of young Ivorian professionals and
technicians and help identify and recruit both expatriate and local technical
experts for the organisation on a longer term basis; (c) to assist the Ivorian
government and Petroci in working with private oil companies for the
exploration and development of other fields; and (d) to help Petroci's staff
review and synthesize existing geological studies.
69.      About 270 man-months of consultant time is expected to be needed over
two years, at an average cost of US$22,000 per man-month. This includes the
nine experts to be seconded for two years to Petroci by qualified consulting
firms (216 man-months), the financial and legal consultants mentioned in para.
67 (estimated to cost about US$1 million over the two year period) as well as
specific studies to be contracted out to specialized firms, including
reservoir engineering studies and modeling. The high cost of such consulting
services is justified by the advanced degree of specialisation required in
terms of manpower and needed technical support, as well as by the premium
commanded by experienced industry specialists for their long-term secondment
to West Africa. The foreign exchange cost of such consulting services will be
eligible for financing under the proposed loan. The selection and appointment
of consultants will be carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines, and
their terms of reference will be agreed upon with the Bank in advance (Section
3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
70.      The implementation of the exploration and EDPP components of the
proposed project are the responsibility of the consortium's operator, which,
for each of the blocks, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Phillips Petroleum
Company. Phillips is uniquely qualified for the exploration and development
of oil fields in deep water, thanks in particular to its EKOFISK project in
the North Sea. In accordance with the Joint Operating Agreements (JOAs) among
consortium partners, the Operator submits all key decisions on the Project for
approval to the other consortium members during meetings of the formal
Operating Committee or one of its subcommittees, at which all participants are
represented. The JOAs contain fully adequate provisions to protect the
interest of minority partners. They require a 65 percent majority for all
important decisions (including all procurement matters). De facto, however,
all consortium decisions have been made unanimously sC) far. Thus Petroci,
although not directly executing the Project, is in a position to monitor and
influence its execution, especially if it increases its participation in the
consortium. In addition to its responsibilities as a consortium partner,
Petroci is expected to monitor the Operator's adherenc:e to the terms of the
production sharing contracts between the consortium and the Government, which
in turn provide adequately for the protection of Ivorian interests. The Bank
will be consulted on any changes in both JOAs and the production sharing
contracts, and any such changes which in the opinion of the Bank would
materially and adversely affect the Project would be an event of default
(Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement and Section 3.05 and 6.01(c) of
the draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
71.      Like other consortium members, Petroci is kept informed by the
Operator on a regular basis of the advancement of work, of the results of well
tests, of procurement practices and of actual disbursements. It is also
entitled by the JOA to verify at all times the physical advancement of work
and to participate in the Operator's activities. Petroci intends ta, use the
consultant services provided for under the Project's technical assistance
component to follow closely the Operator's activities and to contribute
actively to decision-making.
72.      The Operator handles all expenditures for execution of the Project;
the other consortium partners advance their share of each month's projected
expenditures on the basis of the Operator's monthly cash calls. After the end
of each month, the Operator submits detailed statements for its actual
expenditures during that month and credits or debits the other consortium
members' accounts for any cash overcalls or undercalls. At year-end, all of
the Operator's expenses are audited in detail by a committee composed of
representatives of non-operator consortium members. The Committee then issues
a report which, once agreed with the operator, serves as a basis to settle any
pending accounts among consortium members. Petroci has agreed to haLve this
report reviewed and certified by independent auditors (Section 5.07 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimates
73.      A cost table is in the Project Summary.  The total consorti.um
investment from 1980 through 1985 is estimated at US$1,223 million. The costs
incurred during 1980-81 totaled US$333 million; they are included in the cost
table because the consortium expects to obtain their refinancing out: of the
planned Eurodollar loan from commercial banks (para. 75). Remaining
expenditures through 1985 are estimated at US$890 million; of this amount,
US$310 million represents investments planned for 1984-85, which are estimated
on a very tentative basis at this stage. Assuming Petroci exercises its
option to take a 60 percent share in the investment in block Cl, Petroci's
share of total exploration and development costs from 1980 to 1985 woul /be
US$300.5 million of which Petroci has already paid about US$17 mill:Lon.-. If
Petroci maintains its ten percent share in block Cl, its investment share will
be US$92 million. These cost estimates include price contingencies of 10-15
percent and physical contingencies of 15-20 percent, depending on tlle cost
item, as estimated by the consortium in line with industry practice. About
98 percent of the costs will be in foreign exchange.
1/ The estimates of Petroci's share in total consortium costs have been
computed assuming that (a) the common costs in the EDPP investment would be
allocated to blocks A and Cl on a 50/50 basis; and (b) Petroci would
contribute to all costs in block Cl including exploration costs outside the
area authorized for development, in proportion to its share. The final
allocation of costs and share of revenue cannot yet be determined; it will be
influenced largely by the distribution of reserves among blocks. The above
estimates represent the maximum potential costs to Petroci, based on present
cost figures.



- 20 -
74.      The total cost of the technical assistance component is US$9 million,
90 percent of which represents foreign exchange costs. This represents
chiefly the cost of the 270 man-months of consulting services including
salary, travel, subsistence and overhead. Also included in this component are
training expenses totaling US$1.5 million. Price contiLngencies and physical
contingencies of 10 percent each have been added to the base cost. Therefore,
the total project cost through 1985, including all three components, is
US$1,232 million.
Project Financing
75.      To date, all consortium expenditures have been advanced by each
member, including Petroci, out of its own resources. In late 1981 the
consortium initiated discussions with commercial banks and export credit
institutions to secure financing for the entire projecit cost, including
refinancing of past expenditures. Export credit agencies of the main
countries supplying equipment and services for the Project are expected to
provide up to US$50 million in suppliers' credits. The consortium hopes to
raise about US$1 billion through a Eurodollar syndication. The loan would
have a maturity of about 10 years including 3 years grace, and carry interest
at a floating rate pegged to LIBOR. Four major commerc-ial banks (Citicorp,
Bankers Trust, Societe Generale and Banque Nationale de Paris) have submitted
a preliminary proposal as possible lead managers of the syndication. The
syndication is not expected to be organized and negotiated, however, before
the end of 1982.
76.      According to the consortium's plan, the commercial bank loan would be
channeled through a financial intermediary, jointly owned by all consortium
members, which would then on-lend its proceeds to the different members of the
consortium according to their respective needs. Initially, each member of the
consortium or its parent company would guarantee its share of the loan on a
several basis, but the loan agreement would contain provisions to relieve the
companies from their corporate guarantee of the loan once production starts
and it becomes substantial enough to substitute the cash flow from the project
as security.
77.      Because all loan proceeds would be channeled through a financial
intermediary which would subsequently apportion them to the various
participants, it may be possible to organize the commercial syndication prior
to Petroci making a decision on its option in block Cl. Commercial banks,
however, may find it difficult to fund a large share of Petroci in the loan,
because Petroci's financial strength depends to a large extent on the success
of the project. This difficulty is compounded by the Ivorian Government's
reluctance to offer a full Government guarantee for Petroci's share of the
syndication. The Government believes that such a guarantee would unduly
curtail the already tight external borrowing capacity of the Ivory Coast,
particularly in view of ceilings agreed with the IMF on official debt with
maturities of 6 to 12 years.
78.      The granting of the proposed World Bank loan would considerably ease
these difficulties for three reasons. First, the Bank's loan would
correspondingly reduce Petroci's recourse to commercial bank financing so that
Petroci's share in the syndicated loan would be smaller, in percentage terms,
than its share in the project and in its projected cash flow. Second, formal



- 21 -
cofinancing could be arranged, including optional cross default clauses, to
the benefit of other lenders to reduce their perception of the risk in lending
to Petroci (Section 6.01 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement). Third, the long
term and grace period of the proposed Bank loan would permit a reduction of
Petroci's debt service in the early years of the Project, thus improving its
debt service coverage ratio. Furthermore, the financial covenants included in
the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreement (see paras. 85-86) and the performance
guarantee by the Government in the draft Gua;antee Agreement should strengthen
Petroci's creditworthiness in the eyes of potential lenders.
79.      The proposed Bank loan of US$101.5 million would be made to Petroci
with the guarantee of the Republic of the Ivory Coast. The rate of interest
would be 11.6 percent p.a. A front-end fee of 1.5 percent would be charged,
which would be financed by the loan. Petroci would also pay a guarantee fee
of 1.2 percent p.a. to the Government. The closing date would be June 30,
1986. The loan would be repayable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace.
The long term of the loan is justified taking into account the risk of failure
of the exploration component of the Project (which will absorb the bulk of
project costs but might lead to no additional revenues), as well as the
uncertainties surrounding the long-range prospects of Petroci's oil revenues
(given that EDPP is currently projected to remain in operation only until
1986). Furthermore, the current general economic situation of the Ivory Coast
argues in favor of a long amortization schedule. Of the loan amount,
US$8 million would finance the foreign exchange cost of the technical
assistance component of the Project. The remainder, US$92 million, would be
available to Petroci to meet the Operator's cash calls for the exploration and
EDPP components. Disbursements against expenditures in block Cl, however,
will be permitted only after the Government has accepted a definitive
development plan for the block, as required by the production sharing contract
(para. 53), or after a suitable modification of the terms and deadlines set by
the contract in this respect has been agreed upon between the Government and
the consortium, with the concurrence of the Bank (Section 4 (b) of Schedule 1
of the draft Loan Agreement). Assuming Petroci increases its share in block
Cl to 60 percent, it would meet its financial commitment to the total Project
as follows:
World Bank Loan                        US$101.5 million
Foreign Partners' Advance 1/           US$ 24.5 million
Share of Export Credits                US$ 13.0 million
Share of Commercial Syndication        US$172.0 million
TOTAL                             US$311.0 million
80.      Export credits and the commercial syndication are not expected to
become available before early 1983. Until then, Petroci will rely cn short-
term commercial credit and Bank funds to meet the Operator's monthly cash
calls, which are projected to average about US$3 million per month while
1/ This represents the foreign partners' exploration expenditures in block Cl
prior to the authorization to develop in June 15, 1981. Upon exiercise of the
option, PETROCI repays over 10 years these past expenses, except for its
gratis 10% share.



- 22 -
Petroci maintains a 10 percent participation in block Cl and to increase to a
range of US$10-16 million per month if it exercises its option. Once the
commercial loan and export credits become effective, Petroci will use its
share of the proceeds to consolidate other borrowings for cash calls prior to
effectiveness of the Bank loan (which could be as much as US$46 million).
Alternatively, in the unlikely event that the commercial banks syndication is
not organized collectively by the consortium, or that Petroci does not
participate in it, the Bank would assist Petroci in independently obtaining
co-financing from commercial sources for its share of project costs.
81.      Moreover, if Petroci exercises its option in block Cl, it would
immediately draw down part of the commercial loan to reimburse the foreign
partners for its increased share of Cl expenditures incurred between the time
of the Government's authorization to develop and produce (June 1981) and the
time when Petroci exercises its option. The Bank's loan could also be used to
help meet this obligation to the extent that these expenditures were incurred
after signing of the loan. If Petroci were to exercise its option in
September 1982, its reimbursement obligation would be about US$133.0 million
under present investment estimates (including the US$24.5 million advanced by
other members of the consortium for expenditures in excess of Petroci's
10 percent gratis interest incurred prior to June 1981). If it exercises its
option in the first half of 1983, its obligation would be over US$150
million. The remaining funds from export credits, the commercial bank
syndication and World Bank loan would be used by Petroci pari-passu to respond
to current cash calls through 1985 (Section 5 of Sche,dule 1 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
82.       The principle of parallel utilization of Bank funds and funds from
other sources will apply also should Petroci decide not to increase its share
in block Cl. Such a decision would sharply reduce Petroci's borrowing
requirements, but its revenues would also be reduced. Hence, to preserve
reasonable debt servicing capacity, Petroci would still need Bank funds to
complement commercial borrowings. Moreover, Bank funds will be particularly
important in helping finance Petroci's expenditures in 1982 prior to the
organization of the commercial syndication. Petroci's share of consortium
expenditures from mid-1982 to 1985, which would be financeable from the
proceeds of the proposed loan, are currently estimated to be reduced to US$50
million if Petroci waives its right to increase its quota in block Cl. In
that case, or if Petroci increases its quota to less than 60 percent, the Bank
would reserve the right to cancel the portion of the loan no longer needed.
The exact amount of such cancellation would be determined when Petroci makes
this decision, on the basis of updated estimates (Section 2.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement). In that case, Petroci's share in the Eurodollar loan would
also be correspondingly reduced, probably to less than US$50 million, and
would be used mostly to refinance Petroci's past expenditures in the project.
Financial Position of Petroci
83.       Financial projections showing the effect of the Project on Petroci,
in addition to its other ongoing activities, are found in Annex IV.
Projections have been done for two cases: 60 percent and 10 percent
participation in block Cl. Because of the uncertainty over future production
from the Espoir reservoir, the assumptions made for purposes of this analysis
are tentative. Revenues and costs are aggregated to protect confidential data



- 23 -
on the Espoir field. It is assumed that Petroci only markets its share of
currently estimated EDPP production and the relatively small share targeted to
help meet national consumption under the production sharing contracts. It
would not handle the Government's substantial share of production which
represents the bulk of revenue which may be realized by the Ivory Coast.
Moreover, EDPP production is scheduled to end in 1986. Revenue front Espoir
would only be one source of Petroci's total revenue during the period which
also includes sales of Belier production and continued substantial purchases
from external suppliers to meet about 60 percent of refinery requirements and
100 percent of SMB's needs. Capital expenditures for the Project through 1985
and operating costs through 1986 are included in the projections.
84.      The projections show that up to 1985 Petroci should enjoy
satisfactory liquidity and profitability under both scenarios. It should have
no difficulty in servicing its long-term debt and should be able to reduce its
short-term debt. Indeed, during this initial period, cash flow surpluses
(above minimum cash requirements) of over US$100 million may be accuimulated,
permitting Petroci to build up a substantial cash reserve which it could use
to reduce expected borrowings and debt service or, as is likely, to finance
possible further investments in 1984-1986. The company's liquidity situation
would become tighter from 1986 on, however, as revenues from domestdic
production (both Espoir and Belier), under the current scenario, decline while
debt service peaks. Debt service coverage declines to 1.1 in 1986 in the case
of 60 percent participation. Just at the time when Petroci's liquidity
position weakens, further investments (and borrowings) may be required in
order to realize future production. The company's debt/equity ratio
(including security stock funds) reaches a high of 70/30 in 1983 as a result
of loan drawdowns under the Project, but declines to a more reasonable 65/35
in 1986. Once production begins, equity will be adjusted for purposes of the
debt/equity calculation to include the net present value of Petroci's share of
proven recoverable reserves.
85.      To protect Petroci's financial equilibrium and  its creditworthiness,
the Government would agree (Section 2.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement) to
increase Petroci's equity as required to assure that on a projected year to
year basis Petroci can meet at all times the following financial tests,
specified in Sections 5.03, 5.04 and 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement:
(a) Petroci's debt service coverage ratio exceeds 1.5 1/; (b) Petroci's
debt/equity ratio (including the petroleum tax and security stock funds in
equity) does not exceed 60/40, after adjusting equity by the present value of
oil revenue from fields already under production, net of production costs; and
(c) Petroci maintains, from 1983 onwards, a ratio of current assets to current
liabilities of at least 1.2. For purposes of determining Petroci's ability to
maintain the required debt service coverage, however, allowance would be made
for Petroci to make use of any previously accumulated excess cash reserves,
before resorting to the injection of cash from the Government. For the
purpose of projecting Petroci's liquidity position on an annual basis and to
improve medium-term financial planning, Petroci would be required to prepare
1/ Debt service coverage would be calculated as the sum of PETROCI's yearly
projected internal cash generation plus Government injections oE fresh equity
funds, over debt service, excluding repayment of short-term debt.



- 24 -
and update five year financial projections for the company and submit them to
the Bank by June 30 of each year, in time for the Bank to provide its comments
and reach agreement with Petroci and the Government, if needed, on measures to
strengthen the company's liquidity before the beginning of its fiscal year
(Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
86.      Petroci' liquidity position has been affected by the fact that the
majority of its receivables come from the domestic refinery; these receivables
surged to over 130 days in fiscal 1981. This was due to liquidity problems of
the refinery because of unanticipated cost overruns of its expansion project
and high operating costs. Petroci and other shareholders in the refinery have
undertaken a program to restructure the financing of the expansion project and
bring the refinery's payables and receivables down to reasonable levels. As a
result, SIR repaid Petroci for all overdue receivables, which amounted to the
equivalent of US$40 million, as of May 1982. Under the Loan Agreement,
Petroci would be required in the future to maintain receivables at no greater
than 90 days of sales, in balance with its payables. If the term of payables
is reduced (for example, if Petroci resorts to greater spot market purchases
for supplies rather than long-term contracts which usually have longer payment
terms), it would undertake to reduce receivables further to bring them into
reasonable balance with its payables (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The Bank will review the company's liquidity position at six
month intervals.
Auditing and Reporting
87.      Petroci's financial statements are audited by independent auditors
satisfactory to the Bank, and this practice will continue. Petroci's accounts
and audit reports would be submitted to the Bank not later than six months
after the close of the fiscal year (Section 5.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Petroci also would submit quarterly progress reports in a format
acceptable to the Bank,(Section 3.04 of the draft Loan, Agreement), as well as
the yearly audit report on the Operator's expenses for the project, prepared
by a committee representing the non-operating members of the consortium and
certified by independent auditors. The latter report will be submitted yearly
to the Bank within ten months of the close of the consortium's fiscal year
(Section 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement Procedures
88.      Virtually all the equipment and services needed for the Project have
already been contracted at this time. This is due to two factors: (a) the
Project has evolved at an extremely rapid pace because its timely and
economical realisation was dependent on the promptness of procurement
decisions, given the scarcity of key equipment and service contractors on a
worldwide basis and the long lead time required for the construction of the
production platform; and (b) the prospective borrower of the proposed loan,
Petroci, was not called upon to make major cash contributions to the Project
during its preparation and initial implementation phases, so that the Bank
loan became necessary and could be prepared only at this fairly advanced
stage.
89.      All past procurement has been conducted by the Operator in accordance
with accepted industry standards, either through international competitive



- 25 -
bidding or, when more appropriate to the nature of the equipment or services,
through limited international tendering. Petroci, like the other members in
the consortium, has been given the opportunity to examine bidding documents,
their analysis and the Operator's recommendations before granting its approval
for the signing of all procurement contracts. These arrangements are
satisfactory. As a result, advance contracting will be permitted for the full
amount of the proposed loan. Conversely, no retroactive financing will be
permitted under the loan.
90.      Items remaining to be procured for the exploration and EDP]P
components of the Project are essentially limited to (a) drilling materials,
such as tubing, casing, drilling tools and bits, mud, etc.; (b) new leasing
contracts, or the extension of existing ones, on the drilling rigs; and
(c) certain items for the construction of onshore facilities. Even for these
items, however, the formal application of standard Bank ICB procedures will
not be required for three reasons. First, the Operator follows its own
procedures in accordance with industry practice which are efficient, exclude
any discrimination among qualified bidders,and can be monitored under the
Project through Petroci's participation as a consortium member. Second,
formal ICB is not suited for items (a) and (b) above because delivery time is
the decisive criterion for the procurement of drilling materials and services
due to the extremely tight schedule. For the leasing of rigs, in particular,
the prompt availability of a rig in the area is often the overwhelming
consideration, as mobilization and demobilization costs and the risk of delays
in the drilling program tend to outweigh the possible price advantage that
might be obtained by ICB. Third, and most importantly, additional safeguards
are not needed in this case because all procurement is reviewed closely not
only by Petroci but also the other two consortium partners, AGIP and SEDCO.
They are fully qualified and highly motivated to ensure that the Operator's
procurement practices do not entail unjustified costs or arbitrary
discrimination of qualified bidders. Nevertheless, the Bank will continue to
monitor, through Petroci, the Operator's procurement practices (Section 2.03
of the draft Loan Agreement), and will reserve the right to withhold financing
of any item which has formed the object of procurement malpractice, and to
cancel, in such cases, a corresponding amount of the loan (Section 7 of
Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursement Procedures
91.      Funds for the exploration and EDPP components of the Project will be
disbursed to Petroci upon notification to the Bank of the Operator's monthly
cash calls. The cash calls would be subsequently verified by the statements
of actual expenses prepared by the Operator at the end of each month. Petroci
would submit these statements to the Bank as soon as they are available
(Section 2.11 of the draft Loan Agreement). In no event would the Bank make a
further disbursement against cash calls if (a) more than three previous
monthly disbursements remain undocumented concerning the Operator's actual
expenditures or (b) if more than one-third of the total loan amount is
outstanding without being supported by the full documentation of the
Operator's expenses. After 70 percent of the loan has been disbursed, the
requirement under (b) above will be tightened to one-sixth of the loan amount
(Section 4 of Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement). Petroci will also
submit to the Bank the annual audit report on the Operator's disbursements
(para. 72) (Section 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). This procedure, which



- 26 -
is tailored to the specific disbursement mechanics of the Project, ensures
that no Bank funds would be disbursed before Petroci needs to make a payment
to the Operator and that no significant pre-financing could result from
possible credits to Petroci by the Operator as a result of previous
overcalls. At the same time, the procedure avoids imposing on Petroci the
considerable financial burden of advancing the cash calls, pending the Bank's
reimbursement (about three months later) after submission of the Operator's
statement of expenses.
92.      Until such time as financing from commercial banks and export credit
institutions becomes available to the consortium as a whole (para. 75), the
Bank will disburse up to 100 percent of the cash calls due by Petroci.
Thereafter, the Bank will review the Project's definitive financing plan and
determine the proportion of undisbursed Bank funds to the total funding
obtained by Petroci from other sources. Each subsequent disbursement of the
loan will be limited to that same proportion of Petroci's cash calls (Section
5 of Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
Overall Merits of the Project
93.      The principal benefit of the Project is the possibility of further
discoveries of hydrocarbon reserves, particularly discoveries in the shallower
waters north of Espoir, which could result from the exploration program. The
better geological understanding of the area expected f-rom the EDPP should
assist exploration efforts. Like all oil exploration, this Project carries the
risk of failure. Continued exploration in the area is warranted, however, by
the encouraging hydrocarbon shows in the Espoir field; moreover, the drilling
will be carried out on already identified geological formations which appear
from available geophysical data to be in the same geological horizon as the
Espoir structure. The benefits to the Ivory Coast are potentially great if
the existence of further hydrocarbon reserves is confirmed. Any attempt to
quantify such potential benefits would be premature at this time, however.
94.      The benefits of the EDPP component of the Project are twofold.
First, the EDPP will permit early, albeit limited, production of oil from the
Espoir structure, and the attending cash revenue would contribute to the
financing of each consortium partner's (including Petroci's) share in
exploration investments and facilitate their obtaining commercial financing
for the Project. Even in the face of the current oil supply situation and
declining crude oil prices, the estimated value of the combined shares of the
Government and Petroci in the expected production of EDPP until 1986 should
significantly exceed Petroci's share of total project costs, even in the event
of it opting for a 60 percent quota in block Cl. The second benefit of the
EDPP component consists of the further delineation of reserves and testing of
recovery rates, which could lead to more efficient and appropriate design of
any possible further development of Espoir or, potentially, of other fields
nearby. The potential cost savings afforded by this pilot project are
significant since they could mean the difference, for example, between the
cost of a 10-well and 20-well permanent production platform.
95.      Finally, the technical assistance component of this Project would
provide resources for the Government to hire independent consultants to review



- 27 -
data from the field received from the Operator and the work program of the
consortium, in order to advise Petroci on the decisions it must make as a
member of the consortium and, particularly, on the outstanding issues
(including its level of participation in Cl) with other members of the
consortium. The Bank's technical staff would follow the consultants' work
closely. Furthermore, the technical assistance program would assist Petroci
in building up its technical and financial capabilities through recruitment of
a core staff of experienced expatriates, who initially would work closely with
young Ivorian graduates recruited by Petroci to assume, over time,
responsibility for the various technical and financial activities of the
company. Hence, Petroci would become a more knowledgeable and active
participant in future petroleum activities in the country and could also more
effectively mobilize financial resources for future development of the oil and
gas sector,
96.      No rates of return have been calculated for this project because the
benefits of two of its components (exploration and technical assistance)
cannot be quantified and because substantial uncertainty surrounds the long-
range prospects of the EDPP component. Currently planned EDPP facilities are
scheduled to remain in operation only until 1986, after which a wide array of
scenarios is conceivable, including abandonment of the field, continued
production on a limited scale or further development of Espoir in conjunction
with that of possible other nearby reservoirs yet to be discovered.
Potential merits of the possible increase of Petroci's share in
the Project
97.      Petroci will decide whether to exercise its option in block Cl in the
course of Project implementation, after additional technical information
becomes available and is reviewed in depth. The immediate potential benefit
of Petroci increasing its share in the Project would be the corresponding
increase in Petroci's share of oil production from the Espoir fieldi . It is
too early at this stage to evaluate the size of reserves and performance of
the field and thus assess the likely return on this increased investment. As
drilling progresses, better information on Espoir and adjacent areas covered
by the development permit will be available, enabling Petroci to Mike a better
judgement regarding the value of exercising its option. Another potential
benefit from Petroci taking its option in block Cl, which may otherwise be
forfeited, would be that it could also share proportionately in future
hydrocarbon discoveries in block Cl, particularly in shallower areas which
will be drilled under the exploration component. Petroci's exercise of its
option would also significantly increase its participation in the consortium's
decision-making process.
Project risks
98.      The two main risks associated with this project are (a) the risk of
failure of the exploration program and (b) the financial risk attending to
Petroci's possible increase of its interest in block Cl. As mentioned above,
the exploration risk is substantial, though lower than average because of the
area's exploration history, but the potential benefits from the program are
fully commensurate with it. From the Ivorian point of view, this risk is
substantially mitigated by two factors. First, the Project as it is currently
defined is fully self-financing. Even in the event that Petroci increases its



- 28 -
interest in the Project to the maximum permissible extent, the combined shares
of Petroci and the Government in the expected EDPP pro(duction exceed Petroci's
share in the Project's costs. Second, Petroci's decis:Lon on its possible
increased financial commitment to the Project will be postponed until
additional technical information becomes available to reduce significantly the
present degree of uncertainty. Petroci will avail itsealf of the consultant
services provided for under the technical assistance component of the Project
to arrive at an informed decision.
99.      Petroci's opting for a 60 percent share in block Cl entails
considerable financial risk, however, even if the Project is successful, since
it is not presently anticipated that Petroci would beniefit financially from
the Government's substantial share of EDPP production (ranging from 45 to
65 percent). Thus, the company could encounter liquidity problems and have
difficulty in further external borrowing in the event ithat other major
investments are required in the near future(from 1986 on)--for example, for
continued exploration, permanent production facilities or, in the case of a
major gas find, investments to utilize this resource. Even if substantial oil
or gas production is expected from these investments, ithere could be a
considerable timing difference between expenditures (and debt service for the
present Project) and realization of revenue. Petroci is nevertheless in a
position to accept this risk because the Government would agree to provide
Petroci with additional equity contributions, possibly out of its share of oil
revenues from the Project, if this is needed by Petroci to meet its financial
commitments. In addition, Petroci's larger share in the consortium would
allow it greater control over the timing and scope of the consortium's
investment plans.
100.     The Bank has reviewed in detail the studies made and measures taken
by the Operator so far, as well as those planned for the execution of the
Project, toward assuring the safety of the workers and safeguarding the marine
ecology. Such studies and measures are fully satisfactory. As a result, the
Project does not entail unusual safety or environmental risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHODRITY
101.     The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Ivory Coast and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
102      In addition to the features of the draft Loan and Guarantee
Agreements which are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report, the following features are of particular interest:
(a) Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement provides for optional cross
default clauses for prospective co-financing;  (b) Section 2.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement provides for the right of the Bank to cancel a part of the
loan, should the borrower choose not to increase its participation in the
consortium for block Cl to the maximum extent possible; (c) Section 5.08 of
the draft Loan Agreement provides that the Bank can either share in a lien or
any assets given as security to third parties or can take an equivalent
security; (d) Section 4(b) of Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement makes
disbursements for expenditures in block Cl conditional upon either the



- 29 -
Government's and Petroci's acceptance of a definitive development plan for the
block or a modification of the relevant terms and deadlines of the production
sharing contract by the parties thereto; (e) Section 4(c) of Schedule 1 of
the draft Loan Agreement makes disbursements for block Cl, after the lborrower
has exercised its option, conditional upon the acceptance by the Bank of a
financial plan for the development of block Cl.
103.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
104.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President






-  30  -                                    ANNEX I
IVORY COAST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                 Page 1
IVORY COAST                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            322.5                                 MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      68.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  270.0       540.0    1150.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       71.0       209.5      230.2                707.5                   1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  3460.0       5000.0    8262.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 19.3         27.6       39.6                 27.7                     64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        14.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         47.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        10.7        15.5      24.6                  55.0                     34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      61.2        86.7      115.9                130.7                     94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.8        42.9      44.7                  46.0                     40.7
15-64 YRS.                          53.6        55.0      53.3                  51.2                     55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6         2.2       2.0                   2.8                      4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.1         3.7/c      5.0/c                2.8                      2.4
URBAN                               6.0         7.3       8.6                   5.1                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      50.2        49.3       49.6                 46.9                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      26.2        21.0       17.5                 15.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.3         3.3        3.3                  3.2                      2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           99.0        97.0     111.0                  89.9                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   118.3       118.8     106.6/d                92.3                    107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           56.6        59.4      53.27i                52.8                     65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        14.8        16.0      15.8/d                16.1                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      39.3        32.3      26.1                  20.2                      7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.2         42.2      47.1                  50.8                     64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           173.0       148.5      126.8                   ..                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..      19.0/e                27.4                     65.7
URBAN                                ..          ..      50./e                74.3                     79.7
RURAL                                ..          ..       5.07.                12.6                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         5.0      25.0/e                  ..                     59.9
URBAN                                *-        23.0      33.0/e                                         75.7
RURAL                                ..          ..      22./7e                  ..                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          29187.0/f   14084.5   15220O./g             13844.1                   1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2920.07h    2880.2/f  2368 .07              2898.6                   1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             678.8       792.7         ..               1028.4                    471.2
URBAN                                ..       492.7         ..                423.0                    558.0
RURAL                                ..      1331.4        ..                3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                               3.4/i        ..
RURAL
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                               1.8/i        ..
RIJRAL                               ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               I.0/j
URBAN                              0.7uk         .
RURAL                               ..



-  31  -                                           ANNEX I
Page 2
IVORY COAST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
IVORY COAST                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE5AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 46.0          63.0       74.0                   73.7                     101.7
MALE                  68.0          81.0       91.0                   96.8                     103.0
FEMALE                24.0          46.0      58.0                   79.0                      101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0           9.0      15.0                   16.2                       35.3
MALE                   4.0          14.0      23.0                   25.3                       34.9
FEMALE                  1.0         4.0        8.0                   14.8                       35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  12.7             7.4       11.0/e                  5.3                      30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             40.7         45.0       41.1                   36.2                       29.6
SECONDARY                              ..        21.1         ..                   23.6                       15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           5.0/i       20.0       41.2                     ..                      80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.3          11.3      11.9/e                 32.3                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          15.9         15.0      118.1                   69.0                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4/h        4.6       41.0/d                  8.0                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     2.3          8.8        6.7                  20.2                       62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..        0.8                    0.7                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1857.9       2658.0    4127.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    46.2         42.7       41.5                   36.7                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               89.0         84.0       79.0                   56.6                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   2.0          3.0        4.0                   17.5                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  53.7         53.2       50.0                  37.2                       31.8
MALE                                   58.4         59.3       56.5                  47.1                       49.0
FEMALE                                 49.1         46.7      42.9                   27.5                       14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.9          0.8        0.9                    1.3                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   30.9/1           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.87             ..      50.0/1, m
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.6/1           ..        9.0/1, m
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.577            ..      20.0/1, m
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..     274.0                  381.2
RURAL                                  ..          ..       96.0                  156.2                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      487.0                  334.3                     513.9
RURAL                                               ..     244.0                  137.6                     362.2
ESTINATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URbAN                                  ..          ..
RUKAL                                  ..
N Hot available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arichmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to immigration population growth rate is higher than rate of natural increase;  /d 1977;  /e 1976;
/f Government personnel only;  /g 1975;  /h 1963;  /i 1957-58, African population in the city of Bouake
only;  /i 1962;  /k 1956-57;  /I Population;  /m 1973-74.
(Preliminary)
May, 1982



- 32 -                                                                                                           I
PuImume0 Of SOCIAL GMICAIO9NN X                                                                                                 
Not0    AltbooGh lb.0 dt.     dr0. f.00  -oO    so.U117 j04s.  tb. W"o  -COPCIoIt.Cil  Ab  C.11.0.. 1t   01d4.1.. b. -dttCo                                   -     c.            Page    3
0.1100.11y  0.~.0*0. hobo. of           lo kL of .04r4itL04 do 1.11itI... Add  -.009. o.0  by d1f orso  o.o0              L.              bol.1s   0  d.0..  Th. d..~ ..0. .aa0-
0h10000., otfui10 L..rltb. 004..  t of 01t1. Lo41otbO  t0o.. tog obsuoott1 d,... L.oi  -I..0 dlf I..-. bots.ooood  t.io..
Th5. -g00o-    g.o.. 00  (1) 100 adde, 000t07 30009 of lb. oojool -00.0  togl (2) C  h000007 1000p 0.1t  ..-0h0t high..  -0.00     1000  00 loa   t. ooonly g3.0.9
o      t             topojo   c..y   .09    toO    11h 100000   Oi1 K0900t.0" 31..9 -h-  "05104. t101.01 0th Atl1.. addKig l 0144. L L."1  oboO   booto.. of oo-ssr
oOoO-c11,0.1.00.11.0 .'1.1100rofoO. 3000  40t. t3. 0wr50  tOo pogle1c               v1514    10o   o.too ntodbbwi   da.f,-   1041001.0 .04 Sh-  ocy 0350
00200107  f 10  ooaCoieL.t It  agros  ho. 4.t. for that 1400 .SIt.. tb.  --ws. of  -,..1dol                 -; tho Irl..w..  4.p9e.4.0. oh. o.110b1111y of 0010
.41000   ,lor I c.o010  -Sa    ho "ot0"A   is' otlolo   ""'P. of Opt 1.40.00  to  -Lo.lb.  r53.  ...raoo ... .sly  -tofL 1.  tooa    h. -L-. of
00  141.0t0  tc 1       o05 At 10.o.   co.t"0  .4d fofoolo. 30019*.
AM1  (ic.-dOdO0  90.k0.)                                                                         Pol10    r.1194-10.1                 .  ot.*4rrl-Pploo   (toCa1.
- 10  1.1        Irfo  0000 0091.101 1.04 000, .0  101.-4 .00.0; 197  41...31   0   ..14,44b "Co1.090000Pt                                    h.  of490.  04
04stio.1-  .10.. .0 oS,loLoo ..I SOS. o.d toemp-ttly of pOrnomeodmly                     *oIbL.t 1. p.311. .C4 p01.50  P_`.Ir .-4 .9.01A.1100  hb.itp.1 -04 
for copo., y.tOoos.  m004t .0d kLth.b.  .o40  00 t0 Li. f.LIo; 1979 4t.0.               .      h11oo.7"tot..  Oo.PLI.1.  -.  ..o.lIbsL.o-. p.rnosly .,.tf1
ay0   ..  -o  Phyollols.. 0oo.31. ho.oo-t  0...41.6 p01001p.I 0.0
9   0   AItA (US*) - GNP Pa. 1..P1. 0.01.10.  t1 0000000 00k.  Pvlo... 041-                 40   afS 500  C0 100040."   brol0.1.0.000r   01.00.
-Ooo  b    o ordi.0.1  0.1100  .. 0014 3.A k 1011  (1973460 ba.1.); 1930,               .0   .1.   SOO   01pt'1 .00    y     400.  hlb
1970, .04194O d.0.                                                                                m41101  "siat-C0. -I..0. .1011f., 01.)  h.311  of fo  in-paIm   S0,        5
EN1007C0NS003T1OS 701 CAPITA - A.0.01  ooo.o11, of  -ocoil Sso   10.41(-                    1         0t.1, 9090.0 *504  hd.91t.1. 10010.090.t P01-i.01I/Po000h00         1  L0pa..
04lOgiI.,pololC. .. 0....1 305           hyd 0...0. 0.0.-  .04 POO.th.-   .1.-                .-A rorol 04.pl0tl1.1.1I1L00 roIdh0.p1t.l0.4 00 41001 0.4 0t...00107
looloy  I  loloo.    -Lqi.01   .oLo ..1 Pay 0.910.; 1940. 1970. .0d 1979......0.  Sp0oiAII0.4  4.910t.1. 000 Lte1.4 o..IV 00000 00.1.
4.0..                                                                                                       PIsoo.o  0-01t01 led   TO 100 .1 ,o  of d04.1.00. t0 0r di-.obs..
h0. 0.plO.1. 41,1404 by  h.4 Sho    f 10...
POPULATION A4D VITA1. STATISTICS
7.0.1 ,.Pooo1ttga. 314-Y.0  (Ob-o-..o) - A. of July 1; 1940. 1970. 00d 1909                  _001
401..                                                            100005 51.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                          ~~~~~~~~of  0t01 id 000.  0   4.vo14w    ....1. ."1.0  .04000
030  POul0IsO   0000.0Of tota) - MCI1. of .010  .0  0101ppl00                               oohl   .t.oo      00 COW            10P1,14.015 P h..0. 111105 q-t...0
41ff,..  4.lollo.  ofWho  0-.0 my  Wfllc 0.9.op.1011ty Of 4.t.                           .d4 tob.1  S.0 medla.  A b-roorS    - 104.r my  oo sy 001 b. 1.010d L.
.-00  00-301.; 1940. 1970, AM4 19w0 4.-.                                                      lb. h.. ..hL4 for .1411 ..10  P0090.00.
Po,olool.o ~ ~     0                                                 d  I                  b.  i=          P %.bedd1..  A""'.  S..    f  Id0C   0   00  ...*30  .......-00000 
01-1 P.9.1.01. by .g. 0.4  -0 .0d thoir-  W so 1Y C.0  L001.1t1  00te.0.f iams.  -..oOlitly.  00111050 0.01Id. dod0"900m00001 .-00.-5 .0d
POloo or 9.0 00 0. E_  st.01ty 00000 0.09p.io. o  030.. 1I.-L.  -o=- w0000   90.40`
LOS L1f. oatopotcy PC bIrch 1.0.0.410  slob c.mcry'. pot 0..pit  ILb.m                    100..0 10 Uooo10l   (.00100  Of 04.11L18g) - t,.1..  0100. end 0000L -
1.01.-  0  f.sI.1.1. t  ..pl Oolo   *.billl.1.g  0  77.5 year..  Th. p0*r                   100.001..1 400111.5. 0t1  .1-.Ul1.17 it 110103 9000... ..  ..--'-
-a..  frfotIlyro. 010. h.  0h0.  1 .0.1.  d..014   01. La                             Of t,.1.. .0b-. .1d -rul dooll.0   0.001010
f.r1i110y~:.oo do4l     01..    low i   .0 pod l -t famly P1I-0.1  90-f.,madt..
e.1   0.071 b. ..01h 004             o  t....... o01110of -mot.1r                       ErAIO
.04f.rtlity t00..040 lao p001.`10. 700000.                                              A Aduslo  10010.0   0.O
S-.1..oS  00.0.1-i    -I.       .0 Cott0000  9090.11.0L th4.0 1.00 1o-th 01.0                  PrImay dchooL - total. il.tga04  1.01  - Cr... oc .. .  .10.0 . 1 f:nl
l04 birth  -00  i0oqoo1  o Lrb., 4d013  -oc   .04 .1- t. 104        St tI     -;OOrS o-t*ool. of.11  50a   0  pm., 1.01 0., P..... t.30   of I .  P01-
011  ._*000100.  T. I        hiob.."  *017  ft1.  fertlity I00 - .01..100100  .ohC l-0  PoponLl00; 0000.11  10010.d0 031140.  03410-11
004 0op.Ploc 1-01 of -L.11 000 r0904t010  Colo.  h-a  .-h1 1.00.10                             yor  10.0 adiu.O   foe 1109f-0.0  10.01. of pOtm-y  d.4. L01*; too
Otf 0.   .1..  1.1 fzooIly.  Th. .1.L.to.0   pp.looloO  0.0  0                                 0..0 ..011 Chorooo  .ocl ..Ioll.a                       0000   00 I 7no 00000.
-=011d-400 0 b 1.01. .0 104 P.0.c0.4   ooIo.Oc f 0h10.  ooolo                                   10       000. 90911  or00 041.. 00  b.0  0  ofICL, Lot .= 1 1,5-
i0 104a Y-r 200. .04 lh4 00t0 o  dI11- of f.01110700tY           0  I.91.0.-S-.do4ay." 0. - -   111  0010 .04f to.01                          f    a Cu .0 . abov; 0000...d7r
00. -lvo.                                                                                   0400t. . 0-q10-  C0 1.etr E-u  Year. Of .pVC-o.  7010001'  -0-0*10-
1000  t.101..., 000.1.. ro..c.d - T). yoo 0    ..o,cIo.oyp0010001. 30--.01  0901001.C                                           t0.0.3         ...0 0100  10-1-0.140     for Pp.901
0i.. 0111 b. r0..ld.                                                                           usually of 1210 C17 y.so. Of 05;  --005. d-0S4         .... 00 a0d .-0 00000.11
Pooulo-ii. D.001t                                                                                  ...,44
9.0 *0. 100.   Kid-y..r  OP  p        ar1.00  0  0900  1110t.0.0 (100 h40.0..) 01Vo.l.. .                                                                    Lb111(p000  o   0...0)    L...01   1IC1011
t,t01 0000  1940, 1970 C0  19940.1014   00111   ..01                                                                       C.0  Oo  p-gosOS .1001  op.-C.;   10.90.4o-
P.o  ..   .sololO0.1 Iqo     10..4o   ho  dglollo.  1040317.4  So daptlfb    f.11.7lO.0oa
Par     94.17  .417  4.0..-A                                                                90..l1-Load.o.ly r   00110 -   .  f ad..04 ooooodooo   - 70.1  04000014
7o0.o1oo Add 30Cov.o0 I-   Clo   -1014.. 10-14 y70..0),  -k01.3-0.P  (15-                     pP00   0   .040   ..O.4,44b   .0.o  0-00400L..004
doe0 -           750..4 0000  00 p-o. at.    of OIA-ydar POP-000.0431.1.
100;1940. 1970. o4 I911 4.0..                                                            .It1 110.0.., o.o. (.;.oar)1   - L11t.r50 0l,1. (.bI. 10 00,d .4 0010.1
P2o1.1-100          PCvo   .0. (~...1t)- _t0 t &00.-I 10r00h robe .0 1.1.1 old-                   A0  p-000t50sO .1,1,1 "4.1, poPul.010  *304 1) .- .  0.0d
700  poalalo.for19)-4   go94-7.;td 1970-30.
101.0  0.  150.0.194-7. .4I97040                                                P1c.0.01.0 fr   04.50.001,1.P.-Po.-..oC00  coOlC..00
POpoltolI ts; 190.1970  o    9041..11100701115
Cru.  001000(.  000th.0) -b00,I d0011. p.o  h-0.0.0   00 .14-7.. 00                           1.00  0..1....0 th-o09.  .09.01.0.) - All OyyOo  f.00-s;vOo                    -di .40
mooli.o   94.199  0.0  190  4..                                                          10040      t. 10Iorlp01   e   4.04  099100;.ooo   0
1000m   004010 a. I HO- A..oo. ..       r0 f d. gbtoo..0.    11100 1.-                            10.0.4e 0001000 100.10100    .000000110001thoo 00.410
W.0  00.0   n-d0o4.110  poils4 If .04o000001  potn   slo-opoolO     for-                     sol .o I a 00000; 4.1. for. O0    0050700h b 00.0*01                     -.10
01110y 0-0_;  _..1y  I ftl `Co1-y.0  0        d000 .10   1. 1930, 1970. .04 190.                -      - t.0oouo bloohll.od 11-.3.1.
idsy 1000- A...OCs.r. AntoAl (104.04.)d  - Aboobil. "Ol of-00009100                     T7 Daol-oo.(.0-  :00.04 00911.1100) -,r  r-i-000.. for 100-40..0 ts
0101-oLol 4.000. uM.r  .01.f -0100-1 0- oI, y p                 La010  9030r             .03.0.1d  p11  .r 004.00   pO`Po.iA100  0-01.40.:*01100.0  TV00100
hOlly P1  Led - U...0 (0p0-.  of 0.004003)-700..   Of 0...004                                    10.000.01I0 Y_or .30  03.10.0100L df TV   to000 - 5.W 0.0-
O.0.  hfobld-h--..S .*  (1S-44 y 0..00) .0         birt10o110OoLOO   4-.01.. 00            0o.00909- C101..L1.t  1.-0  kCadd..4z. =rl0 ) - 11000.0rho.0,0.3   010-
.11  -.1.4                                                                                                                  d.fload ~~~~~~~~011010   .004  ,0117  0000410  1000  ..  -;1    0010.4
7005 010 00)11                                                            00 04  '4.117"~~~~~~~~~~p,bIL Ib    Ift. 911 099.0   t0    -.d0 . , o   100.00 uo..b.-
FO4.. ofD  uP.04  04oos  0    ol.  14-1IQ                  0. o   o   01.0.1                    C... 4.0.01y  if Lt .o. 0       -0Colaood  f0.  -  004  S01000.0
Eadda  PP." of .11 0.04 oC411..   900u.s  ooL.". Of ., ..Pift. .--I                             010041  sold-  4A,.10o 00    C-t.700. Pat0lo Y-10aNo.. 00410.,
L.. -c..aod., 0000 10.0..  C.054111.. 000  pride07 30040 (..&. .bg.ro...                       004d   110l  -i10..
1i.004 of 0050) .10013 or. 041310  odl00.L.0 001.. 1.g.  sffs. 0,4
00t.0  0.01040).  04000110 904.0110 of             h.. "tr00010  L. 10."0  0               00570
0011001 00.050 p00.000 710.0311010;1941465. 1970. .04 1990 Z.1.                   At,r70.1boo.4)-ls..I   0.1.9000   0140
P.r,.00 ..    .91yt a  0A.100..(00000 f ran1odem.sO.) - 1....0   fEsss                                  ftoro. .0   0.90.41.   1..141.5 10a.-010. 1-,C..01.
00 y5 d91o 100o  501 0L4091.0001                  .  .-.Y0~0  7.0 009100                    00.01  .5 90910110   .011  Pd0.  D.f 1.1t0.. L.0-.i01c00         1. 0000.500
P., 4.7    .-Ib. 00.1*01009110    0090. t40.0     pr04od-ti., M.,taload1..                     00  0.0090.bI01 190., 1970 .0d 19504.1..
OlpOrlo. 004 obtOgo  L. 01.0.  00 00991100  a010.010.  0.04   04.P.. ..W.,                                 o) - pI   1..  Ed o         Ad 00900003043  of 10.1. 1.1000 1001.
qo0110   d0 Ls foad   --sOtAS. .04 Led-.  L. dl.. i04010..  ftqodo.-                                             - 100fo        I 10004g   0.00.1000 
-0, h04001t1  c.d.0400it  ad-L-adadL.   copa.t.rd. bod4y alibleo..001400   0001       .0  1.00  it040.$.  0010110a,tea00l 1,
40d 0 d0 4.. Lb.sL.. of popl..lo.. .0d .1 '1.008 10 p90000E30 fo    ...00                        0.AdP,4. 01.10017.0100004t00                         ...S5   of1 101.1.. 00010;
h-dabo1J" 10.1I; 1961-65. 1970 -d 1977 d4.1.                                                     1940. 1970 o0d 19800  .
P., E-it0. sool  of I0001  (.00.=104.y) - P0t.00. 000030 of 900   mi..l                        P00-01.010. 01. 1000.000) - tLocL.91.x. f. ...   ; F.Ittr1p.t1oh 00
000 O pp Of 09.4   ~4p    0   .~yo  f004 L. "ft04 C.0.00.  R0-                              00110107  OCOA0 0r.09.004 s.  Wo..  sL"..i00..  O. 00000..
q.10r51. fEo 011  -o..ool.. oaL.h.hd4 by USDA p.0.id. 0.0  dlee                                p..50  900000.00   00.1    . .0d Inoo  90p.11.0 of 011",0                It9.Oo.y
.1100.0.o'0 a            of 10.1. 90010. 90  day        2 0 Stmofd o.lOodl .0d                 1930. 170. .4   9004dt..  TI040.  -r b0.-d 00  M1'. P1.o1lpaItlls..r1
ar40 0C0 1000  030. Chs  of 75 Prei of t.t0.1 p0.0.10 .04 23 er.  ofE0C00000t000  00                                       01,.1 000010.
ad0lml p00.1t0 00 00 0005  too t040014dp.00  by PAO i. Ch. Third                           .!= 1:t            WMet. - 0110 of p0901.t10   doa.o 15 04 O1 00400.
4.01  Fl.w 3_7.y  941-5. 1970 .0d it7,       1.                                              0l.00.   000000
P.r 0.41000001t        0, f.  o.1L01 .04f0.1.. - P0~.001   "oply .0 0004 d0
'L1w4 El-. 0.10014 04 Poled0 10 soc  p.o 4; 194-65. 1970 W0 1977 d4.0..                    10     ET
Ch;l1  .so1-.                 (DI 0   1.00 03000.0   l d-.0.14.03 ., 90 h-00..0L. 10I0..0..~191t0100                            001  00.10 m4 k-d.)   R 010. -d by10tch0
00  SOO  1.   000   00114.0            Ih U1O.5  gro. for- a.0  .0       LS .1003000,         5           It*0 . 0417  90001.  00.0  20-0000t. -0  p.--00  1.0 P.-O,0
001.ot0  10,1004 -t loss111  t.b1..; 1960. 1970 004 1900 d.ta..0  h400*0140.
Lilo xM`oOby 1   910110 ly"sro   A- 1.p045  0,03.0 Of y.. of 11.if          110   . rfllososs.1000  00  00   PPOoo.i00 s...of pov-ry I.-oI.,
or b10rth; 1960. 1970 .04 1980041                                                              004 00414OI  04 i01-P0-.0    tt -1   id-4.bl. ...oO 10.
Inf_  00t011107 00. (000 0040,0.4) - 000.01 40010of100.  0. . "d              7000           1.10004besllo   t00,0  1.0,.  1.0.  u0$ 000  -*pt., -    biOOd40  I0 .. I
of 00* P., lb-odao  110. b10010.; 190.  90.416   0040010   0.1    0a    ..  11040! A..t 1..0.  b.o l 010  010101 4 5,10.1
0*0000  0   .0  4t.00   (0.00-1of t..u. 1100.) -001.*10. .0  00.1 - 0v-                           -ocOti.Oaly ablaq-.  d1.1 plus ad 5000.I 00-f04 .d ,1.0 L0 . 1
boo of pa.PI. (t0.1.. orb... .04 r ...1) 0h101  ..oobl. dr... to  if.0                          ff-Od.bl0.
000   up7(10.1.4.. IC0..004 ..rf.o. -card0 00 -*00000 .400  -.-..d51100              0.ti00d L.L.01   P.~ry105Lol(S   o  col) 010  0   ua 
.0h11  or 01o40   100010 0,,1010d   110bd.0 2 pr.m.,. 000.d   04...  ay 0                        E00  .1t10  L4o1a1fo  -Ig        0.0U210.1.ob.05
coo.14r0 P  o 101:a01    oo0hOoo.   f0401.0    .00111 04P luo   010  L00100P.00  -R100091 );o.roooO  - 0i10
rP deo.61  00f0 h01i      Il,    04  104 ti    ppl.t OOOlf 1. 00 heobo  of. p04L40.040400 P.-Oda .I              0 .0 ph p01-t101 (Urban.0  i,.1  030-  f-r           r-
7001000500,  1041000.9. 1 b..p..1.0.  .2000"t. h1090.1 0.7 It.eludOdPP.                                        1AI1111L..I(p                                  
dh. oIoO. ..04 C4109.01. . 1-0 0           p.15   f 0 h.  d.y  L. of..hooth.                      O
100" 101011301.00.
700101.1        L.    op -l 9-I. 01010  4212.14.C by  b,f.  00-proolt1."d30-0000*.4  011101o
P10 .  0011010  003 thei    11-P   t 100  0  4010.001=      1 :.0.                                                            10000  ollyY    04  010110.5d010
0,A110   5        60010 .... I-b-   V..        .  l..l000041040   pitnf, of- 700d00                                                              07191
0. .1004 to  = .00    000   0113   000.P.00100.   0
000l.1,3 000111.01.0.             t-  LLdb   ."              9pari.   b.-E-O..dS11  ..Oi.



- 33 -
A)IEX I
Pag. 4
IVORY COAST  -  zC0wc IIIDCA701
Pop.l.tio: 8,240 (aid-1980  thousnds)
GNP per capits: US1,250 (1980)
dl   US$                                 t                   Anneal areath rates f2  at constant Prices A
Indicator   *t eurret prices)          Actu IPreal.ioary
19A0              --                                                         -    ------ --   -_     -___._ _----------------
1975       1976        1977      1978        1979        1980       1981        1982        1983       1984        1985
KATIONAL ACCOUITS
Gross Domestic Prod"ct it                 10523                7.0        12.3        6.7        9.9        4.7         6.8         3.6        5.4         6.7        9.1         8.9
AgriOeltcur                              2659               15.5         3.1       -3.9        3.6        4.0        13.0         3.2        3.7         4.2        4.9         4.9
Industry                                 2498                6.9       15.6        19.0      24.9         5.0         9.4        0.0         2.5         6.0        8.1         8.1
Services                                 5376                3.1       16.1         7.6       16.0        5.0         1.4         1.8        3.6         5.7        8.2         8.2
Cono.nptior                                8055                9.6        13.3       22.5        5.5        6.1         3.2         1.6        3.9         6.3         7.6        8.0
ror-  Inv c_tmt                            3120               15.4        22.4       44.1        9.1         3.6        5.5         1.2        4.6         4.4         7.8        6.4
Enporte of (FPS                            3434               -6.3        12.8      -15.7       22.9       -1.7        10.9         1.2        3.8         8.9        12.2       11.3
Iport. of CNF5                            4087               -6.8       21.7        26.3       25.2        1.6         5.9        -4.4        0.02        5.8        7.6         7.3
Grosl National OSavirg                     1574                1.6        18.6      -97.5      -22.1      -19.8       -28.5        10.3       12.9         9.7       17.8        14.7
PRICES
cnP Drflator (1980 * 100)                                    54.5        64.8        85.5      90.t        95.1       100.0      106.8       115.6      125.1      134.9        154.4
E.ch-S. Rats (US11 *  )                                      214.3      239.0       245.7     225.6       212.7       211.3      268.0       270.0         -         -            -
Sh r.  of CD? *t Market Pri... f,)                                Avrage  An.u.l I.roese (.)
(at current prices) ki                                          (at coetent prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    190          1960-1970    1970-1975       1975-1980      1980-1985     1985-1990
Cross Domestic Prod.ct                                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0             8.0           5.5            7.4            6.8           8.0
Agriccitor.                                          43.5    27.2    28.8    25.0    22.1    19.1             4.2           4.3            2.9            4.2           4.9
Id..try (inc-ldino oL)                              14.1    21.5    21.5    31.3    36.7    39.3            11.5           6.7           12.2            5.1           8.1
Sorcicce                                             42.4    51.3    49.7    43.7    41.2    41.6             9.7           5.7           -1.0            5.6           8.2
Con.epeti.o                                             82.9    76.8    80.3    76.5    72.0    75.1             8.5          4.6            9.3            5.6            9.2
Cross Inve-rtet                                         14.6    22.1    22.4    29.6    27.1    22.3            12.7          6.6           17.9            5.0            2.9
E.poOtt  of (SFS                                        37.1    38.9    38.0    32.8    33.6    33.6             5.5          8.4            1.9            7.6            8.0
.ports of COFS                                          34.5    37.7    40.7    38.8    32.8    31.1            6.8           9.2           10.8            3.6           6.7
Gr... National Saving.                                  10.6    17.0    11.7    14.9    19.9    20.6             7.2          7.2            4.9            5.9            0.7
A, 7. of CDP
1960      1970       1975      1978
PUBLIC FINANCE it
Current R een...                                              20.0      20.1       19.8      20.6
C.rrent E.pe.diCLr.s                                          14.6       16.1      16.4       15.2
S.rple (+) or Deficit (.5                                     5.4       4.0        3.4        5.4
Capital Etpeoditere                                            4.9        7.5       8.4        3.0
Foreign Fi.oacing                                              0.7        1.4       1.4       0.1
1960-1970     1970-1975      1975-1980      1980-1985      1985-1990
OThER INDICATORS
CNP Grouth ROte (2)                                      7.9           5.6            7.4            6.9            8.4
CN? per Capite Crouth Rate (7.)                           -             -             2.9            2.3            3.7
teergy Con.. ption Cro-th Rate (7.)                       -             -              -            33.9            7.3
ICOR.                                                   1.7            3.0            3.7            5.2            3.4
Mersgicl Saving, Rta                                     0.3           0.4           -0.9            0.3            0.3
Ieport El.atiity                                       0.9            1.7            1.5            0.5           0.9
I/ At earkot prices.
*/ Projected years at constant price..
ft/ Central governent only.
I/ Constant 1980 prico..



- 34 -
ANX  I
Peg. S
IVORY COAST - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population:  8,240 (mid-1980, thousands)
GNP per capita.  US$1,250 (1980)
Annu-l Growth Rate. (X) at Constant 1980 Pri-es
A- nt              - --- -- -- -- -- -- - ----------- -- - ----- -- ---- -- - --------- -- -- ----- ----- - --- --------- - ---- - ------ - --- - ------- --- -- - -----
lodicutor                               (mil lion US St                         Actual                                Pr-liSi-ry                                   Proljected
current prices)         -------------------------------------           -----------------------
1980             1975        1976        1977        1978        1979        1980        1981        1982       1983        1984        1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Mercha-dise Exports                             3037               10.7       -6.3       -26.3        22.7        -0.8        23.5         1.2         3.7         9.5        12.5        11.4
Primary                                       2508                9.4       -4.2       -28.0        24.2        -4.6        21.8         1.1         3.4        9.4        12.0        10.8
M-rufactur-.                                   529               34.4      -39.1        15.9        13.3        25.0        31.8         2.0         6.0        10.3       16.0        16.0
Petroleum                                       -                -           -           -           -           -           -            -           -       443.5       117.6        50.8
Merchu-dire Impo.tt                             3045                0.3       23.1        41.1        27.8        -3.7         5.9        -7.0        -1.8         5.6         7.4         7.1
Food                                           393              -19.8       18.3        77.3        21.1         0.5         9.2         2.5         3.8         4.         6.4         6.2
Petrorle_                                      445              - 6.9       37.7        11.1         1.9        45.9        32.4      -64.0      -100.0          -           -           -
Muchineruy   d Fquipnent                      1552               10.9       19.5        67.4        41.1       -16.0         5.1         4.2         4.1        3.8         6.9         5.8
Oth.e-                                         655              -17.3       22.4        27.5        25.0         3.0        -1.5         1.6        4.2          7.4        8.0         8.4
PRICES
Export Prior Indor (1979   100)                   98              51.4        67.5       104.5        91.8       100.0        98.0        87.3        93.3      104.3       116.6       129.0
Import Pricr Index (1979 . 100)                  116              70.9        77.2        86.9        90.1       100.0       116.0       124.4       133.5      144.2       155.0       166.0.
T-eoc of Trade Index (1979 * 100)                 85               72.5       87.4       120.3       101.9       100.0        84.5        70.2        69.9        72.3       75.4        78.0
Ecepositioc of Merchandier Tr-de (Y)                                      Aoer-ge Annual Incre...  (X)
(ut crre t prices)                                                (at constant 1980 prices)
1965    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990              1965-1970      1970-1975      1975-1980      1980-1985      1985-1990
Expots                                             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                  6.6            7.9            2.4            7.9            7.8
Ptitroy                                           93.0    92.0    91.6    82.6    60.0    40.1                  5.7            6.6            1.6            7.6            6.4
Manufactures                                        7.0     8.0      8.4    17.4    14.2    17.7               15.2           16.1           12.1           10.1           16.0
Pettroleum                                          -        -                -      25.8    42.2                -
Inports                                            100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                  9.0            7.2           -0.7            2.6            6.5
Food                                              10.0    11.0    12.0    12.9    14.6    13.9                  7.4            0.5            8.2            4.8            5.6
Petroisua                                          9.0      9.0    14.0    14.6        -        -               7.5           10.7            0.7
M achi-ery ard Rq.ip-.nt                           30.0    26.0    28.0    32.1    36.8    31.7                 6.5            5.3           -6.8            4.9            2.7
Others                                       .    51.0    54.0    46.0    40.4    48.6    54.4                 10.8           -0.1            0.6            6.1            9.4
Share of Trade with                            Share of Trade with                                      Share Tmnde with
Tnd.usrtal Countries (7)                       Developing Countries (i  )                         Capital Surplus Oil Enpo.ters (7)
1965    1970    1975    1979 0'               1965    1970    1975    1979 R/                        1965    1970    1975    1979 2
DIRECTION OF TRADE
E.portt                              82.4    86.9    70.0    81.4                   13.0    11.1    24.2    11.3                            0.6     0.2      0.0      2.7
Primary                            84.2    89.9    75.9        -                  11.0     7.9    18.2        -                           0.6     0.2      0.0       -
M.nufact-ree                       50.3    38.2    26.5        -                  49.0    60.7    68.1        -                           0.0     0.0      0.0       -
Inportn                              84.7    84.0    71.8    81.3                   14.1    14.3    21.4      6.5                           0.0     0.1      1.3    .1.7
E/ Prrlieinury actual.



- 35 -
tag 6
1908? 0865   -  orS   01? U . uSUaL corAP2. 851 083
(S l.  USS at sunset pita,)
Population: 8,240 (mid-1980,thousand.)
GNP per capita: US$1,250 (1980)
_ Actual                                    t_..ralimiasny                                       vj....................  ---------  --- - ---  ____ _____  - ---c, t-d_____
Indicator                                  1970       1975        1976         1977        1978           1979        1980            1981         1982        1983         1985        1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Etports of Goods and Servius                         573       1507         1998        2768        3072           3330         3798           3449         3909        4750         7290       16331
of which:  lsrchandiss f ob.                      497        1239        1733        2391         2616           2719        3037            2739        3034         3714        5761        13013
Inpocts of goods and service                         64        1933        2188         2827        3440           3950        5375            5595         6129        7036         9352       17112
of which:  Mrchandiss f.o.b.                       375       1012        1161         1562        2043           2203        304             3037        3201         3653        4830         8934
Net Tranfers                                          34         42          -59        -331        -417           -529           33              38          64           30          67         134
Current A ccunt ealsene                              -38       -384          249        -390        -783          -114I       -1344           -2068        -2176       -2235        -1996        -697
Prtvate Direct Invan-tmnt                             31         81           37           3           55           119           62            269          371         408          670         249
MLT Loan  (net                                        50        249          277         725          976           625          404             923        1418        1651         1462        1014
Official                                            34         75          65          158         750            648          64             334          978        1306        1287         1014
Private                                             15        174         213          567         169            -23         340             389          440         345         175         -0.1
Othsn Capital                                         -4        -39          -35        -256           45           300          235            338          261         251           19         225
Change in R.seere (icroso -)                         -39         93          -30         -82         -234           105          843             538         126         -75         -155        -841
International iRsem    s                              -          -                        -            -             -         -866           -1404        -1530       -1455        -1300        -459
of which: Gold
Oessrv- s as months imports                           -          -            -           -            -             -          -1.9           -1.7         -1.3        -0.8          0.2         1.5
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Grons Disbursements j/
Official Grants                                     -          _           -            -           20             25         30               35           39          42           51          83
Con-e..ional Loans                                  32         34          44           44          64             27         41               71           64          42            7        0.08
DAC                                               24         23          37           24          30             15         27               25           24          18            3          -
OPEC                                             _           -           -           -            ,              ,          , 
IDA                                              -            1           2           4            1            -           -                 2           3            3           2        0.08
Other                                             8           9           6           17          33             12         14               44          37           21           2
Non-con.e. ionaI Loans                              45        291         342          865         932            978        888             1401         1940        2244        2636         3503
Official EIponts Cr-dits                          6          20          21          89           28            101         26              186         821         1179        1500        2193
IBRD                                              3         25           14          37           58            51          40               64          77           89         109         14
Oth-r Moltilateral                                 1         15                       11          32             28         18               92         119          110           4
Privte                                           34         231         299         727          815            798        805             1059         923          866        1023         1164
Eiternal Debt
Debt Oiteteoding and Disbursed                    256         916        1167         1962        2667           3502       4062             4985        6403         8055       11203       17008
Official                                        144         378         433         612         1574          2083        1113             1449        2427         3733        6446       11439
PrIvat                                          112        538          734        1351         1093          1419        2947             3536        3976        4321         4756        5570
Undisbursed Debt                                   168        560         974        1666         1626           1548       1828             2727        3181         3376        3290         5341
Debt Servin
Total Servic  Paymnts                              39         132         175         288          415            568        855              928        1044         1201        1995        3741
Interset                                         12         56           66         104          171           250        329              379          458         567          814        1251
Paym.ents as % Etporte                            6.7         8.8         8.8        10.4           14             17         23               27          27           25          27           23
Average    tere-t Rate on New Lo..s .T)              5.9        8.0         7.5          7.7         8.6            8.1        8.5              8.2         8.2          8.2         8.2          8.1
Official                                          4.9        7.3          6.9         6.6           -              -          -                -                                    ,
Privat                                            7.5         8.5         7.6         8.1 1
Avragn Matur.ity of Non Loans (years)               18 5       12 6         10 6        11 2         9 8           11.5        8 0             10 7         11.1        11.1         10.5        11.5
Official                                         22.3        18.0        16.9         18.7          -                         -
Privat                                           12.0         8.7         9.0          9.1
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of Moet As...t
Vase (1979)
Maturity Structur  of Debt Outstnding
Principal doe within 5 yeses                                                                                 51.8
Principal du  within 10 years                                                                                87.6
Int-rest Structur of Debt Outstanding
Ictretrt du  nithin  five yeare                                                                              26.6
of  Disburs eent data for 1978 are estimtes-
West Africa Region
March 1982



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1982)
US$ Millions
Loan or     Fiscal                                         (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower           Purpose          Bank      IDA      Undisbursed
One           Credit Fully Disbursed                              7.5
Eighteen     Loans  Fully Disbursed                    162.77
981-IVC       1974   Ivory Coast       Telecom-          17.4                  7.2
munications
1069-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast        Cocoa II         20.0                   2.9
1077-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast        Cotton           31.0                   3.9
1124-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast        Tourism           9.7                   2.6
1161-IVC     1976   Ivory Coast        Highways V       43.0                   3.3
1162-IVC     1976   CCI                DFC               5.6                   1.5
1177-IVC     1976   BIDI               DFC               8.0                   2.3
1347-IVC     1977   Ivory Coast        Urban Dev.       30.0                   7.6
1348-T-IVC   1977   Ivory Coast        Urban Dev.       14.0                   3.6
1484-IVC     1978   Ivory Coast        Water Supply    16.0                    2.4
1501-IVC     1978   Ivory Coast        Feeder Roads    29.0                    8.2
1575-IVC     1978   Ivory Coast        Rubber II        20.0                   3.2
1577-IVC     1978   Ivory Coast        Abidjan
Sewerage II      33.0                 24.8
1633-IVC     1979   Ivory Coast        Rubber III        7.6                   2.8
1663-IVC     1979   Ivory Coast        CCI-Artisans    12.6                   10.3
1698-IVC     1979   Ivory Coast        Tourism II       14.2                  11.2
1735-IVC     1980   Ivory Coast        Forestry         18.0                  11.8
1777-IVC     1980   Ivory Coast        Education III   24.0                   22.6
1827-IVC     1980   Ivory Coast        Rural Dev.        9.4                   8.9
1896-IVC     1981   EECI               Power            33.0                  31.4
1914-IVC     1981   Ivory Coast        Highway Sector 100.0                   98.7
2048-IVC     1982   Ivory Coast        Urban Dev. II   51.0                   51.0
2058-IVC     1982   Ivory Coast        Structural      150.0                 101.5
Adjust.
2059-IVC     1982   Ivory Coast        Tech. Asst.      16.0                  15.8
TOTAL                                        875.3     7.5        439.5
of which has been repaid               42.7       -
TOTAL now outstanding                        832.6     7.5
Amount sold                          5.1
of which has been repaid        5.1      0.0       -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA               832.6     7.5
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                            439.5     0.0        439.5



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of March 31, 1982)
US$'000
Type of
Year     Obligator                    Business        Loan       Equity       Total
1965     Banque Ivoirienne            Industrial                  204.0       204.0
de Developpement          Development
Industriel                Bank
1978     do.                         do.                          219.5       219.5
1977     Ets R. Gonfreville, S.A.  Textiles                       884.7       884.7
1980     Societe Ivoirienne          Fertilizers  5,120.0    1,272.0    6,392.0
d'Engrais
1980     MSO                          Flour Mill   2,900.0        406.7    3,306.7
Total gross commitments                   8,020.0    2,986.9   11,006.9
Less cancellation, sold
or repaid                                   -       _           _
Total commitments now
held by IFC                             8,020.0    2_986.9   112006.9



ANNEX II
- 38 -                           Page 3
C. Projects in Execution -
Ln. No. 981             Telecommunications Project:  US$25 million Loan of
May 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project has experienced a four-year slippage due initially to delays in
appointing engineering consultants and subsequently to management and organi-
zational deficiencies. After the Government awarded the contract for switching
equipment to other than the lowest evaluated bidder, the amount earmarked
under the loan to finance the equipment (US$7.6 million, including contin-
gencies) was cancelled as of March 31, 1977 (R77-128). A reorganiLzation of
the Postal and Telecommunications Office took place in the Fall of 1981,
together with the appointment of competent managers. This important develop-
ment is expected to result in completion of the project by mid-1983. The
Closing Date of the loan has been amended accordingly.
Ln. No. 1069            Second Cocoa Project:  US$20 million Loan of January 10,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 30, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Upon receipt and payment of the last disbursement application, to be sent to the
Bank momentarily, the outstanding amount of the loan will be cancielled and the
loan closed.
Ln. No. 1077            Cotton Areas Rural Development Project:  US$31 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 4,
1975, Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
The project has been satisfactorily completed. Following processing of final
disbursement requests, the outstanding amount of the loan will be cancelled and
the loan closed.
Ln. No. 1124            Tourism Development Project:  US$9.7 million Loan of
June 11, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily. Four hotels are opened and the
fifth is under construction. The loan has been fully committed.
/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the progress
of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems and
actions being taken to remedy them. They should be read with the under-
standing that they do not present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 3Q -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Ln. No. 1161            Fifth Highway Project:  US$43 million Loan of September 5,
1975; Effectiveness Date: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project has been satisfactorily completed. Upon receipt and payment of last
disbursement application, to be forwarded to the Barik momentarily, the out-
standing amount of the loan will be cancelled and the loan closed.
Ln. No. 1162            Small-Scale Enterprises Project:  US$5.6 million Loan of
September 5, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Cancelling by CCI of a number of previously approved sub-projects has reduced
commitments on the line of credit from 100% to 91%. Disbursements stand at
73%. Given the availability of funds under the second line of credit (Ln. No.
1663-IVC), the uncommitted balance of this loan is being cancelled.
Ln. No. 1177            BIDI DFC Project:  US$8 million Loan of December 12,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 17, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
The availability of less costly funds to BIDI in the past slowed down the
commitment of this line of credit. As the situation has changed during the
last year, however, the loan has now been fully committed.
Ln. No. 1347            Urban Development Project:  US$44 million.  Loans
and 1348-T               (US$30.0 million and US$14 million on Bank and Third
Window terms respectively) of December 15, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: March 9, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983.
The execution of the project is progressing satisfactorily. The transport,
trunk sewer, community facilities, technical assistance, and low-cost housing
components are completed. The upgrading component which suffered delays
because of administrative and legal procedures is now proceeding well and
would be completed by the end of 1982.
Ln. No. 1484            Secondary Centers Water Supply Project:  US$16 million
Loan of September 9, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 9,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1982.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily on schedule.
Ln. No. 1501            Feeder Roads and Highway Maintenance Project:  US$29
million Loan of December 22, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
October 17, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Overall work progress is slower than anticipated, particularly as it relates to
works being carried out by the local contractor. Actions being taken by RMWA
are expected to speed up the implementation of the project which otherwise is
proceeding satisfactorily.



- 48 0-                        ANNEX II
PaLge 5
Ln. No. 1575            Second Grand Bereby Rubber Project:  US$20 million
Loan of June 9, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 15,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Because of the establishment of a separate entity to manage the Grand Bereby
rubber plantations (S0.G.B.), the structure of the legal documents for this
project had to be amended. Execution of the project, nevertheless, proceeded
satisfactorily under Bank staff supervision. On July 17, 1980, the new agree-
ments to substitute for the original ones were submitted for approval to the
Executive Directors (R80-213) and signed on August 6, 1980. They became effec-
tive on September 15, 1980, and US$16.8 million have been disbursed to date.
Ln. No. 1577            Second Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:  US$33
million Loan of June 9, 1978: Effectiveness Date:
September 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily, although house connections to
the sewerage system are progressing at a slower pace than anticipated. Remedial
action in this respect is being discussed with Government.
Ln. No. 1633            SAPH Rubber Project:  US$7.6 million Loan of November 30,
1978; Effectiveness Date: October 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Smallholder rubber plantings
are ahead of schedule, although estate development is lagging, duae to start-up
delays.
Ln. No. 1663            Artisans, Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises Project:
US$12.6 million Loan of June 15, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: November 28, 1979; Closing Date: Mqarch 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily, although commitments and dis-
bursements are about six months behind schedule because of a slackening in demand
resulting from the overall lower investment activity in the country.
Ln. No. 1698            Second Tourism Development Project:  US$14.2 million;
Loan of June 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: May 9, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Three large hotels are under
construction and nine small hotel sub-projects have been approved. Over 60%
of the loan amount has been committed.
Ln. No. 1735            Forestry Project:  US$18 million Loan of August 2, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: January 14, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The 1980 plantation program
covering 4,000 ha was executed and plantations have been well maintained.
Subsequent plantations have been on schedule. All project provided staff have
now taken up their appointments.



- 41 -                       ANNEX II
Page 6
Ln. No. 1777            Third Education Project:  US$24 million Loan of
December 28, 1979; Effectiveness Date:  April 10, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
After initial delays of about one year due to the technical weakness of some
consultant architects and slowness in awarding civil works contracts, project
implementation is improving and most components are expected to be successfully
implemented. A sharp increase in disbursements is expected now that civil
works have started.  The training of local staff and the preparation of equip-
ment procurement are well underway.
Ln. No. 1827            North-East Savannah Rural Development Project:  US$9.4
million Loan of May 27, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 22, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
Project execution began well, but has not been progressing as smoothly during
the past year, owing to the difficulties involved in coordinating the various
actions called for by a number of institutions. The applied research program,
however, is proceeding satisfactorily and project progress is being closely
monitored.
Ln. No. 1896            First Power Project:  US$33 million Loan of September 11,
1980; Effectiveness Date: March 27, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The studies under the project have been carried out on schedule. Physical
works, however, are delayed for about one year, due to the much longer than expected
time required for selection by CIDA and EECI of engineering consultants for the
project (including Bank financed components) and subsequent negotiations with
the consultants.
Ln. No. 1914            Highway Sector Project:  US$100.0 million Loan of
March 19, 1981; Effectiveness Date: July 31, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily, and the dialogue on sector policies
and issues is proving fruitful. Disbursements, however, during the first nine months
of implementation are slower than projected at the time of appraisal, but are now
expected to pick up considerably.
Ln. No. 2048            Second Urban Development Project:  US$51.0 million Loan
of October 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Delays in finalizing the
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government of the Ivory Coast and SOTRA are
delaying the effectiveness of this loan. Nonetheless, iLnvitation for tenders and
selection of consultants procedures are being carried out on schedule.



- 42 -                          ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No. 2058            Structural Adjustment I:  US$150 million Loan of
December 3, 1981; Effectiveness Date: December
29, 1981; Closing Date: December 1. 1982.
Disbursements as of March 31, 1982, amounted to $48.5 million and it is now
expected that the first tranche of the loan ($100 million) will be disbursed
by July 1982. Initial steps of the adjustment program are being implemented,
some with minor delays. The "Committee of financial coordination and invest-
ment control" established under the SAL program is working well. The Public
Enterprise Sector Study has been completed, discussed with Government and an
immediate action program has been agreed. Work on the Agricultural Prices
and Subsidies Study is proceeding and the final report is now expected at
the end of June 1982. Preliminary studies of CIDT and Palmindustrie are
underway and TOR for the study of SATMACI are being discussed with Government.
The 1982 investment program was reviewed by the Bank in February and found
to be broadly satisfactory. A mission to review in detail fulfillment of
conditions of release of the second tranche is scheduled for May/June 1982.
Loan No. 2059            Technical Assistance Project:  US$16.0 million
Loan of December 3, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
December 29, 1981; Closing Date: Decermber 31,
1985.
The project is being executed satisfactorily. Detailed T.O.R. for most key
positions have been drawn up. Advertisments in January for the 8 long term
advisers in the Ministry of Agriculture attracted a strong response and
selection is now underway. Short term advisers have visited the Ivory Coast
to assist Government in preparing a master plan for agricultural research.
Detailed task descriptions have been agreed for industrial sector advisers.
Loan No. 2130 -/         Second Water Supply Project:  US$43.0 million
Closing Date: March 31, 1988
Loan No. 2167 1/         Centre-West Agricultural Development Project; US$13,0
million; Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
1/ Loan not yet signed.



- 43 -
Annex III
Page 1
IVORY COAST PETROLEUM PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  7 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared:  Phillips Petroleum Co.
Ministry of Mines, Petroci
(c)  First presentation to Bank:  January 1981
(d)  First Bank mission to prepare project:  February 1981
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:  September 1981
(f)  Completion of negotiations:  May 1982
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:  July 1982
Section II: Special IBRD Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  The Operator will carry out the Project in accordance with the Joint
Operating Agreements to which the borrower is a party. The
Government and Petroci will seek the Bank's consent to any changes in
the Production Sharing Contracts between the Government and the
consortium and in the Joint Operating Agreements among consortium
members (para. 70).
(b)  Procurement is carried out by the Operator in accordance with
industry practices (paras. 88-90). Disbursements will be made
against cash calls, subject to subsequent verif-ication of the
Operator's actual expenses (para. 91). Initially the Bank will
disburse up to 100 percent of cash calls, but after cofinancing
arrangements are completed, Bank disbursements will be limited to
that percentage of cash calls which reflect the proportion of
remaining Bank funds to total financing available to Petroci
(para.92).
(c)  Petroci will submit to the Bank as soon as avai.lable the monthly
statement of actual expenses for prior cash calls (para. 91).
(d)  Petroci will submit to the Bank as soon as available the year-end
audit report prepared by the consortium audit committee, reviewing
cash calls and disbursements of the Operator over the year
(para. 87).
(e)  Petroci will recruit foreign and local staff, will set their level of
remuneration, and will implement training programs in accordance with



- 44 -
Annex III
Page 2
a plan of action to be agreed with the Bank at negotiations.  The
Government will continue to permit Petroci to provide adequate
remuneration to its staff (para. 66).
(f) The Government will agree to increase Petroci's equity, as needed to
assure Petroci , on an annual projected basis, a debt service
coverage ratio of at least 1.5, a current ratio of 1.2 and a
debt/equity ratio of 60/40.  In determining debt service coverage,
allowance will be made for any previously accumulated cash reserves
in excess of 15 percent of accounts payable (para. 85).
(g) Petroci will prepare and update five year financial projections by
June 30 of each year and will submit these projections to the Bank in
time for the Bank to make comments and reach agreement witha Petroci
and the Government, if needed, on measures to strengthen thLe
company's liquidity position before the beginning of its fiscal year
(para. 85).
(h)  Petroci would undertake, from 1983 on, to maintain a reasonable
balance between its receivables and payables. It would also
undertake to review with the Bank its liquidity position and that of
SIR at six month intervals (para. 86).
(i)  Disbursements for expenditures in block Cl will only be permitted
after the Government has accepted a definitive development plan for
the block, or after a modification of the relevant terms and
deadlines of the production sharing contract has been agreed upon,
and consented to by the Bank (paras. 79 and 102).



Annex IV
- 45 -                      Page i
THE BORROWER
Financial Position of Petroci
1.       A summary of Petroci's past financial performance is set out below.
1979       1980        1981
(UsFh)
Sales                                 258.0       372.0       540.2
Cost of Sales                         248.8       348.8       472.6
Operating Income                      (6.7)         5.7        41.4
Other Income(Losses)                   13.6         4.4      (11.0)
Interest                                5.2         7.2        23.0
Taxes                                               -           2.9
Net Profit                               1.7        2.9         4.5
Total Assets                          194.0       280.0       356.0
Long Term Debt                         34.0        26.0        59.3
Capital                                13.0        14.0        15.2
Petroleum Tax Fund                     31.0        47.0        40.4
Security Stock Fund                    30.0        35.0        34.4
Current Ratio                           1.2         1.0         1.1
Total Debt/Equity (including
Petroleum Tax Fund)                 48/52       54/46       75/25
Term Debt/Equity (including
Petroleum Tax Fund)                 44/56       30170       52/48
Total Debt/Equity (including both
Petroleum Tax and Security
Stock Funds)                        35/65       43/57       65/35
Term Debt/Equity (including both
Petroleum Tax and Security
Stock Funds)                        32/68       21/79       40/60
2.       The bulk of Petroci's revenue has been derived from its
intermediation activities in crude oil and products trade. The company has
been supplying annually between 60 to 70 percent of the refinery's (SIR)
needs 1/ and 100 percent of the requirements (200-400,000 tons) of SMB, an
asphalt plant majority-owned by Petroci.  The company imported 942,000 tons of
1/ PETROCI in the past has had 1-3 year supply contracts with Venezuela and
Nigeria; no matter what its operating capacity from year to year, SIR first
absorbs the supply of crude from these contracts before buying supplies from
other shareholders.  In the future, however, PETROCI plans to reduce its
supply contracts and, in addition, reduce its share of SIR's supply
requirements to about 50 percent.



Annex IV
- 46 -                         Page 2
crude in fiscal 1981. Its gross margin on sales of crude imports if; fixed by
Government regulation.
3.        Petroci handles all product imports into the country.  If Petroci's
selling price for products (determined by the product price structure at the
wholesale level enforced in the country) is lower than its cost of purchases,
it is supposed to be reimbursed at cost by the Fonds de Compensation (para. 36
of main text). Receivables from the Fonds were as old as two years in
fiscal 1981, however, because the Fonds has been channeling its avaLlable
resources to SIR, which has experienced financial difficulties
(para.6 below).  Hence, Petroci wrote off its receivables from the Fonds
during the year. The surge in sales revenue in fiscal 1981 is attrLbutable to
a higher than normal volume of products (476,000 tons) imported durLng the
year. This was due to lower output of the refinery over the past year due to
operating slowdowns connected with the expansion project. Once the increased
capacity of the refinery comes on-stream (expected in late 1982), Petroci will
phase out its product imports.
4.        The company's income has been modest in the past because of the
margin restrictions under which it operates. In fiscal 1981, however,
operating income surged to US$41 million (up from US$6 million in 1980); net
profit was US$4.5 million (up from US$3 million) after the write-off of the
Fonds receivables and significantly higher interest expenses. The high gross
margin was achieved during the year for two reasons. First, the comnpany
realized the revenue from peak production of the Belier field (producing at
about 9,000 BD during 1981), 15 percent of which represents its share of
production in the field and the rest of which is sold to Petroci under terms
of the concession contract. Purchases from other Belier consortium members
are based on average prices over 12 months; thus, as prices rise over the
year, Petroci normally captures a higher margin when it sells the crude at a
price based on the current market price. That margin will narrow this year
due to the recent slowdown in oil prices. Second, the high gross margins
realized in 1981 were also due to high margins achieved on some product sales
by toll refining, in Brazil, crude oil purchased under Petroci's supply
contract with Nigeria; the cost of these products was considerably lower than
comparable spot prices for product imports or wholesale prices in the Ivory
Coast.
5.        In fiscal 1982, gross margins are not expected to be as substantial
as those in 1981. The toll contract with Brazil ended in late 1981 and has
not been renewed because the expansion of the domestic refinery, once
completed, should provide sufficient capacity to meet medium-term domestic
demand for products.  Thus,product sales should taper off over the next two
years and end in fiscal 1984. A lower sales volume is expected in 1982,
reflecting the lower prices achieved on crude sales as product sales decline.
6.       Petroci's working capital position weakened in 1981, as receivables
surged to over 130 days, while payables remained at about 90 days (reflective
of the company's trade terms from suppliers). Those receivables were
generated primarily by sales to SIR, which because of financial dif'ficulties
associated with unanticipated cost overruns for the expansion project and high
operating costs was slow to make payment to Petroci. Past due receivables (in
excess of 90 days) were the equivalent of US$40 million as of March 1982. For
its cash needs Petroci has relied on substantial short-term borrowings, the



Annex IV
- 47 -                         Page 3
full cost of which has not been passed on to SIR. Petroci and other
shareholders have undertaken to improve SIR's finances by restructuring the
financing for the expansion project to reduce shorter term borrowings. As a
result of this refinancing, SIR has repaid Petroci for all overdue
receivables. The Bank requires in the draft Loan Agreement that, from fiscal
1983 on, Petroci would undertake to keep receivables to a maximum of 90 days
of sales, in balance with its payables. If days payables are reduced (as a
result, for example, of greater purchases on the spot market rather than long
term supply contracts which normally offer longer payment terms), Petroci
would undertake to reduce receivables to a level in reasonable balance with
payables. The Bank would review with Petroci its liquidity position at six
month intervals.
7.        Long-term debt at the end of fiscal 1981 was equivalent to about
US$60 million. About 30 percent of that represented the remaining balance of
loans from Ivorian financial institutions and originally a US$8 million loan
from Paribas--to finance the construction of a docking terminal and of
pipelines connecting Abidjan's harbor to the refinery. Another US$8.5 million
represents borrowings (partly from COFACE) to finance Petroci's share in
further development of the Belier field. About US$40 m[illion (of a total
credit of US$60 million) has been borrowed to finance the construction of
facilities for carrying security stocks. Thus, much of Petroci's present
long-term debt relates to these security stock facilities (now being
completed), which are assets held by Petroci for the time being only, until a
decision is made regarding future management of the facilities.
8.        Petroci's equity was US$15.0 million at fiscal year-end 1981.  In
addition, Petroci is the legal depository of proceeds from two types of taxes
levied on oil products--the petroleum tax and the security stock tax
(mentioned above). The petroleum tax fund on Petroci's balance sheet (at
US$40 million in September 1981) can be considered part of equity since
Petroci is allowed to keep these proceeds permanently, as long as two-thirds
are used for petroleum exploration and development activities. These proceeds
are now being used to help meet the company's cash calls from the Espoir
consortium. Proceeds of the security stock tax are used by Petroci to
reimburse it for financial and other expenses related to the security stock
facilities. The security stock reserve (US$34 million) could also be
considered a form of equity in that it offsets the long-term debt on Petroci's
balance sheet associated with the security stock facilities. The company's
total debt/equity ratio (including the petroleum tax and security stock funds)
was about 65/35 and the term debt/equity ratio about 40/60 at end-1981, which
are acceptable.
Projected Financial Performance
9.        The projected financial statements of Petroci are based on
conservative assumptions regarding revenue and costs. Petroci's revenue
sources for the period 1982-86 are: (a) Belier production; (b)its share of
EDPP production projected to the end of 1986 (this includes the allocation for
national consumption needs stipulated in the production sharing contracts but
does not include the Government's sizeable share of production); and (c) sales
of other crude purchased in the private market, all of which would be sold to
SIR or SMB to meet 60 percent of refinery requirements and 100 percent of the
heavy crude needs of the SMB asphalt plant (estimated al 300,000 tons p.a.).



Annex IV
- 48 -                          Page 4
All revcnaues and costs of sales are aggregated to preserve confidentiality
regarding the Espoir field.
10.      Preliminary assumptions have been made regarding EDPP production over
the projected period, but it should be stressed that these estimates are
tentative since the production performance of the Espoir structure is not yet
known. Projections were done under two cases--10 percent and 60 percent
participation in block Cl. The latter projection assumes Petroci increases
its participation to 60 percent in Block Cl in fiscal 1983. Both cases assume
that costs and revenue are shared between blocks AB and Cl on roughly a 50/50
basis although this assumption is purely tentative in view of current
uncertainty regarding allocation of reserves among blocks.
11.      Oil prices are escalated each year by the Bank's projected
international inflation index. It is assumed that prices will not grow in
real terms during the period, in view of prevailing market conditions of low
demand and more than adequate oil supplies. The cost of sales includes the
cost of crude purchases (of Belier production and imported crude) and the
operating costs of EDPP production. Lower, yet still significant, margins are
assumed on sales of Belier production than those achieved in 1981, and
production from that field is assumed to be declining, as anticipated.
Product sales are included in the forecast for fiscal 1982 and early fiscal
1983 as the increased capacity of the refinery (to be completed by late 1982)
is expected to meet domestic product demand thereafter. Capital expenditures
and, accordingly, borrowings primarily reflect investments in Espoir and
Belier. Currently planned capital expenditures for Espoir through 1.985 are
included, although the cost estimates for 1984 and 1985 are still vetry
tentative.
12,      Loan drawdowns in 1983 include refinancing of past expenditures for
Espoir and, in the case of 60 percent participation, expenditures incurred
upon exercise of the option. The World Bank loan would not be used to
refinance expenditures retroactive to the date of effectiveness of the loan.
The interest rate on the Bank loan is assumed at 13 percent (which includes
the guarantee fee to the Government), with an up-front fee of 1 1/2 percent
and a commitment fee of 0.75 percent; the term would be 17 years, including a
grace period of 4 years. Export credits are anticipated to cost nine percent
and would be repaid over 10 years, beginning 12 months from the purchase of
goods and services under the credits. Pricing of the commercial bank
syndication, assumed to be drawn down in early 1983, would be based on a
spread over LIBOR; the all-in cost is assumed to be 16 percent in 1983 and 15
percent thereafter, with a commitment fee of 0.375 percent. Repayment is
assumed over a ten year period, including three years grace. The contractor
loan represents those consortium expenditures prior to June 1981 which must be
reimbursed by Petroci upon exercise of the option. The advance is reimbursed
over 10 years, beginning in fiscal 1983; interest is assumed at 12 percent.
13.      Proceeds of the petroleum tax and security stock tax are included in
Petroci's sources of funds. The security stock funds directly offsvet interest
and principal payments on the security stock facilities (the interest expense
in this case does not go through the income statement but is included in debt
service coverage calculations). Proceeds of the petroleum tax are assumed to
be used freely for the company's petroleum investment activities.



Annex IV
- 49 -                        Page 5
14.      The projections indicate that over the next four years Petroci would
enjoy satisfactory profitability and liquidity. Its coverage ratio during the
period would equal or exceed 1.5 and, except for 1982, its current ratio would
be above 1.2. Internal cash generation is healthy, supplemented by the
petroleum tax and security stock tax proceeds. Because debt service is low
after reducing the high level of short-term debt in 19381/82, the projections
show that Petroci could accumulate over US$100 million in cash above minimum
working requirements from 1983 through 1986, if prices and margins remain
stable and expenses are kept under control. Thus, Peltroci could accumulate a
significant cash reserve enabling it to reduce its expected borrowings and
debt service or, as is likely, to finance possible further investments needed
in 1984-86.
15.      Beginning in 1986, Petroci's profitability is squeezed in the case of
the 60 percent participation in Cl. This is due to the fact that domestic
production and the attending high margins are assumed to decline. (Sales
turnover remains high, as the company resorts to a greater proportion of crude
oil purchases on the open market to meet requirements of the refinery and SMB;
such purchases and sales have low margins, however.) Meanwhile, interest
expenses are very high as a result of borrowings for the project.
Amortization of Espoir and Belier investments, which of course are non-cash
expenses, are also high. Most importantly, liquidity begins to weaken (the
coverage ratio declines to about 1.1 in 1986 in the catse of 60 percent
participation) as the company's debt service commitments begin to peak, while
internal cash generation declines with lower domestic production. The
company's liquidity position is more sensitive in the case of 60 percent
participation because expenditures and debt service rise disproportionately to
the increase in revenue from Espoir upon exercising the option; this is
because the share of production targeted for national consumption is marketed
by Petroci whether it has 10 or 60 percent participation in block Cl.
16.      The EDPP culminates in 1986, and depending on performance a decision
will then be made whether to continue production and, if so, to what extent
further investments are needed to maximize that production. Thus, at a point
when Petroci's liquidity position may be most sensitive, it may find itself in
one of the following situations: (a) it may be required to increase
substantially its capital expenditures--and borrowings--to realize higher
future production; (b) production in Espoir might continue, but at a declining
rate; or (c) poor performance of the Espoir reservoir during the EDPP could
lead to a decision to discontinue production, thus leaving Petroci with a high
debt service and insufficient corresponding revenues (since it would not
market the Government's sizeable share of production from the EDPP).
17.      The sensitivity of Petroci's financial position if production rates,
oil prices and various cost factors move against it argues for careful
analysis of all available information regarding the reservoir before a
decision is made on Petroci's option in block Cl. The consultants Petroci
will hire under the Project's technical assistance component will contribute
significantly to this effort. Moreover, the longer terms of the Bank loan
helps to ease the bunching up of the company's debt service.
18.      To cushion Petroci financially against the uncertainty over domestic
production, the Loan and Guarantee Agreement would require that the Government
of the Ivory Coast would increase Petroci's equity, if needed, to maintain



Annex IV
-50-                         Page 6
over the period of the loan (a) coverage of debt service (internal cash
generation plus capital transfer over debt service) by a ratio of 1.5; (b) a
current ratio of 1.2, beginning in 1983; and (c) a debt/equity ratio
(including the petroleum tax and security stock fund) of 60/40, after
adjusting equity by the present value of projected oil revenue from any fields
already under production, net of production costs (para. 85). The need for
Government transfers to Petroci will be determined before the beginning of
each fiscal year, in consultation with the Bank on the basis of Petroci's
financial projections for the year. For purposes of determining Peltroci's
ability to maintain the required debt service coverage, however, allowance
would be made for Petroci to make use of any previously accumulated excess
cash reserves before resorting to the injection of cash from the Government.
Financial Management
19.      The financial management of Petroci is satisfactory, but the company
does need to strengthen its medium-term financial planning. The preparation
and regular updating of financial projections would be a useful management
tool in light of the important participation and funding decisions which must
be made over the next year--and their financial ramifications. Annual
projections would also be used to project the appropriate ratios for
determination of the need for Government transfers and to monitor the
receivables position. The Bank would, therefore, require the company to
prepare and update annually five year financial projections and submit them to
the Bank prior to the beginning of each fiscal year (para. 85).



Annex IV
Page 7
- 51 -
PETROCI
HISTORICAL   IE STATEMENTS
(CFAF Billions)
1979      1980        1981
Sales                                   45.4       77.8      145.8
Cost of Sales                           43.8       72.9      127.6
Gross Profit                             1.6        T.T       18.2
General and Admin. Expenses              2.1        2.9        3.5
Depreciation                             0.7        0.8        3.5
Operating Income                       (1.2)        1.2       11.2
Other Income/Losses (Net)                2.4        0.9      (3.0)
Interest                                 0.9        1.'i       6.2
Taxes                                    -          -          0.8
Net Profit                               0.3        0.6        1.2
HISTORICAL RATIOS
1979      1980       1981
Current Ratio                            1.2        1.0        1.1
Quick Ratio                              1.2        0.8        1.0
Total Debt/Equity 1/                    48/52      54/46      75/25
Term Debt/Equity                        44/56      30/70      52/48
Total Debt/Equity plus
Security Stock Fund                   35/65      43/57      65/35
Term Debt/Equity plus
Security Stock Fund                   32/68      21/79      40/60
1/ Includes Petroleum Tax Fund



Annex IV
- 52-                         Page8
PETROCI
HISTORICAL BALANCE SHEETS
(CFAF Billions)
1979       1980       1981
Assets
Current Assets
Cash                                      2.8        2.0        0.3
Receivables                              13.5       22.2       53.4
Inventories                               -          6.4        4.6
Other                                     2.1        2.5        2.7
Total Current Assets                     18.4       33.1       61.0
Investment, Exploration                       5.8        8.6        9.7
Net Fixed Assets                              5.3        6.6         6.0
Security Stock Facilities                     1.6        7.2       15.5
Equity Participations'                        3.0        3.0         3.0
Other                                         -          -          0.8
Total Assets                             34.1       58.5       96.0
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Payables                                 13.4       22.3       22.5
Other                                     0.6        1.0        2.3
STD                                       1.1        9.7       30.9
Total Current Liabilities                15.1       33.0       557
Long-term Debt                                6.0        5.5        16.0
Security Stock Fund                           5.3        7.3        9.3
Capital
Paid-in                                   1.5        1.5        1.5
Reserves/Ret. Earnings                    0.8        1.4        2.6
Petroleum Tax Fund                        5.4        9.8       10.9
Total Equity                              7.7       12.7       15.0
Total Liabilities/Equity                   34.1       58.5       96.0



Annex IV
- 53 -                     Page 9
PETROCI
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS
60% PARTICIPATION IN BLOCK Cl
(CFAF Billions)
1982    1983       19134      1985      1986
Sales                         128.7   125.5       124.,7     142.6    161.2
Cost of Sales                 115.5    93.7        93,8      114.1    136.0
Gross Profit                    13.2    31.8       30.9       28.5      25.2
General & Adm. Expenses          3.9     4.3        4.7        5.2       5.7
Depreciation/Amortization        3.8     7.2       10.8       11.8      12.0
Operating Income                 5.5    20.3       15.,4      11.5       7.5
Dividend/ Other Income           1.6     1.7        1.8        2.0       2.1
Interest                         5.8     9.2       10.,9      12.3      12.2
Profit Before Taxes              1.3    12.8        6.3        1.2    (2.6)
Tax                              0.3     6.0        2.,7       0.2       -
Net Profit                       1.0     6.8        3.,6       1.0    (2.6)
PROJECTED RATIOS
1982    1983       1984       1985   11986
Debt Service Coverage            1.7     2.3        2.0        1.8       1.1
Current Ratio                   0.9      1.9        2..4       2.0       1.8
Total Debt/Equity               65/35   75/25       75/25      73/27    70/30
Term Debt/Equity                54/46   75/25       75/25      73/27    70/30
Total Debt/Equity plus
Security Stock Fund           55/45   70/30      70/30      68/32    65/35
Term Debt/Equity plus
Security Stock Fund           44/56   70/30      70/30      68/32    65/35



Annex IV
_ 54                          Page 10
PETROCI
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS
60% PARTICIPATION IN BLOCK Cl
(CFAF BILLIONS)
1982     1983      1984      1985      1986
Assets
Current Assets
Cash                               3.3      13.3      26.9      39.2     41.2
Receivables                       31.8      30.9      30.7      35.1      39.7
Other                               2.7      2.7       2.7       3.0       3.3
Total Current Assets              37.8      46.9      60.3      77.3     84.2
Net Investment Exploration             22.0     70.5      75.9      76.0      65.8
Net Fixed Assets                        5.9       5.8      5.7       5.6       5.5
Security Stock Facilities              20.7     20.7      20.7      20.7      20.7
Equity Participations/Other             3.8       3.8      3.8       3.8       3.8
Total Assets                           90.2    147.7    166.4    183.4    180.0
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Payables                          28.5      21.6      21.6      26.4     31.6
Current Portion, LTD                1.1      2.6       3.1      11.1      13.8
Short-term Debt                   11.4       -         -         -        -
Total Current Liabilities         41.0      24.2      24.7      37.5     45.4
Long-Term Debt                         21.1     85.7      96.7      95.6      81.8
Security Stock Fund                     9.3      9.3       9.8      10.8      12.4
Capital
Paid-in                             1.5      1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5
Reserves/Ret. Earnings             3.7      10.5      14.1      15.1     12.5
Petroleum Tax Fund                 13.6     16.5      19.6      22.9     26.4
Total Equity                       18.8     28.5      35.2      39.5     40.4
Total Liabilities/Equity          90.2    147.7    166.4    183.4    180.0



Annex IV
- 55 -                         Page 11
PETROCI
PROJECTED SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
60% PARTICIPATION IN BLOCK Cl
(CFAF Billions)
1982      1983      1984      1985      1986
Sources
Net Income before
Interest                  6.8      16.0      14.5      13.3       9.6
Depreciation                3.8        7.2     10.8      11.8      12.0
Petroleum Tax Funds         2.7        2.9       3.1       3.3       3.5
Security Stock Funds        1.8       2.2       2.7       3.1       3.5
Internal Cash Generation        15.1      28.3      31.1      31.5      28.6
Borrowings
World Bank                   2.1     11.7      9.96        6.7      -
Export Credits              -         3.9       -         -         -
Syndication                 -        44.2       4.2       3.2       -
Contractor Loan             -         7.4       -         -         -
Other                       5.1       -         -         -         -
Total                       7.2      67.2      14.2       9.9       -
Payables                         3.7    (6.9)        -         4.8       5.2
Total Sources              26.0      88.6      45.3      46.2      33.8
Uses
Capital Expenditures
Security Stocks             5.1       -         -         -         -
Espoir                     12.8      53.2      14.2       9.9       -
Belier                      2.1       1.4       0.7       0.6       0.4
Other                       1.0       1.1       1.2       1.2       1.4
Total                      21.0      55.7      16.1      11.7       1.8
Debt Repayment
World Bank                  -         -         -         -         -
Export Credits              -         -         0.4       0.4       0.4
Syndication                 -         -         -         -         7.4
Contractor Loan             -         -         0.8       0.8       0.8
Other                       1.0       1.1       1.4       1.9       2.5
Total                       1.0       1.1       2.6       3.1      11.1
Reduction in Short-
term Debt                     19.5      11.4      -         -         -
Interest/Feesl/                  7.6      11.3      13.2      14.4      14.0
Receivables/Other             (26.1)     (0.9)    (0.2)        4.7       4.9
Total Uses                 23.0      78.6      31.7      33.9      31.8
Change in Cash              3.0      10.0      13.6      12.3       2.0
1/ Includes interest on debt for security stock facilities.



Annex IV
Page 12
- 56 -
PETROCI
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS
10% PARTICIPATION IN BLOCK Cl
(CFAF Billions)
1982     1983      1984      1985      19,86
Sales                       128.7    125.4    124.7    142.6    161.2
Cost of Sales               115.5    107.0    105.7    124.3    144.0
Gross Profit                 13.2      18.4      19.0     18.3      17.2
General and Admin.
Expenses                    3.9       4.3      4.7       5.2       5.7
Depreciation/Amortization   3.8         4.8       5.5      5.8       5.8
Operating Income              5.5       9.3       8.8      7.3       5.7
Dividend/Other Income         1.6       1.7       1.8      2.0       2.1
Interest                      5.8       3.8       3.6      4.1       4.1
Profit Before Tax             1.3       7.2       7.0      5.2       3.7
Tax                           0.3       3.2       3.0      2.1       1.4
Net Profit                    1.0       4.0       4.0      3.1       2.3
PROJECTED RATIOS
1982     1983      1984      1985      1986
Debt Service Coverage         1.7       2.5       2.5      2.3       1.7
Current Ratio                 0.9       1.6      2.0       1.9       1.9
Total Debt/Equity            65/35    60/40    57/43    54/46    48/52
Term Debt/Equity             54/46    60/40    57/43    54/46    48/52
Total Debt/Equity plus
Security Stock Fund        55/45    54/48    50/50    48/52    42/58
Term Debt/Equity plus
Security Stock Fund        44/56    54/48    50/50    48/52    42/58



Annex IV
- 57 -Pg
PETROCI
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS
10O PARTICIPATION IN BLOCK Cl
(CFAF Billions)
1982     1983      1984      1985      1986
Assets
Current Assets
Cash                           3.3      12.6      21.9      39.1     37.2
Receivables                   31.8      30.9      30.7      35.1     39.6
Other                          2.7       2.7       2.7       3.0      3.3
Total Current Assets          37.8      46.2      55.3      69.2     80.1
Net Investment, Exploration       22.0      25.3      26.7      27.1      23.3
Net Fixed Assets                   5.9       5.8       5.7      5.6       5.5
Security Stock Facilities         20.7      20.7      20.7      20.7     20.7
Equity Participations/Other        3.8       3.8       3.8      3.8       3.8
Total Assets                 90.2    101.8    112.2    126.4    133.4
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Payables                     28.5      26.1      25.6     30.2      35.0
Current Portion, LTD          1.1       1.6       2.1      5.2       6.9
Short-term Debt              11.4       -        -         -         -
Total Currenty Liabi-
lities                     41.0      27.7     27.7      35.4      41.9
Long-term Debt                   21.1      39.1      41.9      41.0     34.0
Security Stock Fund               9.3       9.3       9.8      10.8     12.5
Capital
Paid-in                       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5      1.5
Reserves/Ret. Earnings        3.7       7.7      11.7     14.8      17.1
Petroleum Tax Fund           13.6      16.5      19.6     22.9      26.4
Total Equity                 18.8      25.7     32.8      39.2      45.0
Total Liabilities and
Equity                       90.2    101.8    112.2    126.4    133.4



Annex IV
- 58 -                         Page 14
PETROCI
PROJECTED SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
10% PARTICIPATION IN BLOCK Cl
(CFAF Billions)
1982      1983      1984      1985      1986
Sources
Net Income Before
Interest                     6.8       7.8       7.6       7.2       6.4
Depreciation                   3.8       4.8       5.5       5.8        5.8
Petroleum Tax Fund             2.7       2.9       3.1       3.3        3.5
Security Stock Fund            1.8       2.2       2.7       3.1       3.5
Internal Cash Generation          15.1       17.7      18.9      19.4      !L9.2
Borrowings
World Bank                     2.1       4.4       2.9        2.3      -
Export Credits                 -         1.2       -         -         -
Syndication                    -        14.0       2.1       1.8       -
Other                          5.1       -         -         -         -
Total                          7.2      19.6       5.0       4.1       -
Payables                            3.7    (2.4)    (0.5)         4.6       4.8
Total Sources                 26.0      34.9      23.4      28.1      24.0
Uses
Capital Expenditures
Security Stocks                5.1       -         -         -         -
Espoir                        12.8       5.6       5.0       4.2       -
Belier                         2.1       1.4       0.7       0.6       0.4
Other                          1.0       1.1       1.2       1.2        1.4
Total                         21.0       8.1       6.9       6.0        1.8
Debt Repayment
World Bank                     -         -         -        -  -       -
Export Credit                  -         -         0.1       0.1       0.1
Syndication                    -         -         -         -         2.6
Other                          1.0       1.1       1.4       2.0       2.5
Total                          1.0       1.1       1.5       2.1       5.2
Reduction in STD                   19.5      11.4       -         -         -
Interest/Fees                      7.6        5.9       5.9       6.1       6.0
Receivables/Other               (26.1)     (0.9)    (0.2)         4.7       4.9
Total Uses                    23.0      25.6      14.1      18.9      17.9
Change in Cash                      3.0       9.3       9.3       9.2       6.1



- 59 -
ANNEX V
IVORY COAST
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EXISTING CONCESSIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
The composition of consortia holding production/exploration rights
in the Ivory Coast as of end-1981 is as follows:
(1)  Esso (Operator; 63.75%),               Production concessions on offshore
Shell (21.25%), Petroci (15%)          areas C.E.P.I., and A.P.E. 2, 3
and 4;
(2)  Phillips (Operator; 57.5%).            Production. sharing contract on
AGIP (22.5%), SEDCO (10%),             deep water blocks A and B, and
Petroci (10%)                          development permit on part of it;
(3)         -same-                          Production sharing contract on
shallow waterblock Cl and develop-
ment permit on part of it;
(4)         -same                           Production. sharing contract on
shallow water block Bl;
(5)  AGIP (Operator; 50%),                  Production sharing contract in
Phillips (17.5%), Total (17.5%),   shallow water block Al;
SEDCO (5%), Petroci (10%)
(6)  Total (Operator; 75%),                 Production. sharing contract on
AGIP (15%), Petroci (10%)              shallow water block El and on
onshore block Ml;
(7)  AGIP (Operator; 31.875%),              Production sharing contract on
Union of Texax (31.875%),              shallow water block Dl.
Total (21.25%), Petroci (15%)



IBRD 16278
MALI            ~UPPER
VOLTA                                                                                           IVORY COAST
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT PERMITS
LU  $  \    _         /          ?       t  -7'               r                j                 I    t Exploration Permits PETROCI (100%)
z                                         ' \                                                     L9I  Develop,ent Permits C E P 1, A.PE 2, A PE 3, A PE 4  ESSO (38 25%) ESSO AG (25.50%)          (7,
D                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SHELL(21 25%) PETROCI (15%)
 ?                                                                            \1 \ g             -  r N l DALOA  =LI: Explorot,or Permts A, B, B1, C   PHILLIPS (5750%) AGIP (22 50%) SEDCO (10%) PETROCI (10%)           /
_'    Mh      ,'      0OUniNNke   .             Duekoue                                         =    De,elopm,ert Per-tst Ports of Blocks A,B,C                                                               ABENGOUROU
j   N /   +7X A  70 ~ reoufMeo P',,z Jf0mD                                                Esplormtion Penr.ts El, MI TOTAL (75%) AGIP (15%) PETROCI (10%)                                        0           2                       o
/.,/ m/XA / 9D, o  /   /  ) *<         S                    I    I Exploration Pe-rit. Al AGIP (50%) TOTAL(175%) PHILLIPS (175%) SEDCO (5%) PETROCI (10%)
Oouo  /        <      EN                  -:  37,             -"1  t-tFploroyoo Perm-t Dl AGP(;32%1 UNION TEXAS (32%) TOTAL (21 %) PETROCI (15 %I
'ISSIA           ~~Wells
ISSIA       *    0,1l                                    5-    l sobates ,  meters
%                   l,NrNr -,,, -+t22  / /Cz   /  /         -                 -                   t    0,1 non-c-rmercaol                       tF   Notioool Coptel                i                 /          ,
~~~'  //                                                    4~~~~~~~~~~-0   Ga-, no,c-cOCmCr l              0    S.lected Touo               /A5                                            
(            /           6i/7n/ 4  r   Dry                                    os-ternotiosoi Boundaries                 o
(                                      >7_,-                      C    Proposed or Under Construction                   .
!oubr6              lGu6yo LAKOTA                DIVO        Tiossalej1                    < AGBOVILLE    .                                      L L
t g,; OGuey~~~~Nno                                                                                                      Q                                        N  ot1r1;1
L  I B  E  R  I A                                                            t                   \                                             1Xy         t   --        l            S   =       r7                  f
---  <      1-                    -                         /        A    SOABIDJAN   
5'                                                                                       '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F~~~~resco  -      
> nd Bereby>; -Grand
0           ,                                                                                          o       8a   49     n    sa    DO 
,o~~~~~~~~.  4~~~~~~
*~~~~~~~~
68-                                G-                                      JI5'4'3                                                                                                                            
70c~~~~~~~~~7
L ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N0



