Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5431 
Operation Name 
Senegal:  Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC IV) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (40%); Other social services 
(20%); Health (20%); Sub-national government administration 
(10%); General industry and trade sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P117273 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Senegal 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
March 31, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 5, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
May 27, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Senegal is located on the West Coast of Africa and is part of the West African Economic and 
Monetary Union (WAEMU). With a population estimated at about 12 million, its economy is 
dominated by a few strategic sectors, including groundnuts, fisheries, and services.  The informal 
sector accounts for about 60 percent of its economy.  Its rural economy frequently suffers from 
drought, and lacks access to basic services and infrastructure, leading to low productivity, high 
emigration and higher poverty rates in rural areas. About half of the population lives in cities, 
including 30 percent in Dakar. 
Senegal continues to enjoy broadly stable political climate.  The Senegalese political system 
continued to show a degree of democratic maturity with the recent holding of local elections on 
March 22, 2009.  The local elections were widely viewed as fair and transparent and saw the 
victory of opposition parties in several key urban centers.  The electoral outcomes have tended to 
sharpen the domestic political debates between the presidential majority and a still fragmented 
but emboldened opposition.  In part as a result of this new political balance, there have been 
repeated Cabinet changes in the past year, albeit without significant policy discontinuity.  
Overall, the victory of the opposition in important municipalities suggests that policies and 
reforms on which a broad consensus has not been forged could be significantly more difficult to 
advance. 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed series’ overarching objective is two-fold: to support the implementation of the 
final year of the Government’s Second Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP-II) in the 
challenging context of an exceptionally unfavorable global environment.  Specifically, this 
second series aims 
is to contribute to strengthening the Government of Senegal’s policy making and 
institutional capabilities to accelerate broad-based growth, to improve access to social services, to 
mitigate vulnerabilities, and to foster good governance. 
Page  2
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The proposed 
PRSC series is also an integral part of the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy 
(CAS) for Senegal discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on June 20, 2007
(Report No. 
36608-SN)
.
The Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report (CPSPR) that assessed progress in 
implementing the FY07-10 CAS (Report No. 48600)
 
confirmed that the strategic objectives set out in the 
CAS remained consistent with national priorities and presented adjustments made to assist the 
Government in mitigating the impacts of the fuel and food price crisis, and the recent global economic 
downturn. The proposed operation is consistent with the CAS objectives and would be the first in a new, 
second series of two Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs). It follows the first series of three 
PRSCs successfully completed over 2004-07, and two stand-alone Development Policy Operations, one 
in 2008 (focusing on the energy sector) and another in 2009 (under the IDA Financial Crisis Response 
Fast-track Facility).  Policies and reforms supported by this operation are well aligned with the four 
pillars of Senegal’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP-II), which the CAS supports. 
4. Financing 
 
Source
:
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
42.4 
 Total 
 
42.4 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Bank’s decision to proceed with the follow-on operation in the proposed PRSC series will be 
informed by the degree of progress towards, or completion of, the indicative triggers for the PRSC IV 
operation.  As per any development policy operation, an adequate macroeconomic framework will have to 
be maintained during the program period.  As mentioned above, the choice of triggers for PRSC V 
represents a continuation of the programmatic framework set in PRSC IV, modified where necessary on 
the basis of lessons learnt and evolving conditions.   
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Several risks could jeopardize the expected outcomes and benefits of this operation.  All of these risks 
could lead to a smaller-than-expected impact of the policies supported by the proposed PRSC.  Yet, key 
risk mitigating factors are integrated in the design of the operation, including a focused agenda and high 
donor involvement.  Risks include: 
Developments in the global economy.
 
A
slower normalization and/or a longer macroeconomic downturn 
in the current global context than anticipated represent a significant risk, contingent on developments in 
partner country economies, mainly in Europe.  One key mitigation strategy is for the authorities to 
continue to steer a stable fiscal course for the year and adopt resolute reforms, especially in the PFM area, 
that may in turn mobilize donors to provide additional resources to buffer the budget from the 
consequences of a protracted global recession.  In this regard, credit augmentation from the pilot CRW 
resources provides pre-emptive support to the authorities’ ability to sustain their fiscal stance, one of the 
main channels for risks of an amplification of the effects of external shocks onto the domestic economy.    
Political opposition, including from vested interests. 
The risk is heightened in the context of the next 
presidential elections currently scheduled for 2012, following the recent municipal elections, which saw 
the victory of opposition parties in several key urban centers.  Nonetheless, the balance of risks to the 
Page  3
policy objectives of the proposed series, including the proposed PRSC IV, is still viewed as favorable to 
moving forward with it.  Vested interests can also represent important obstacles to reform, especially 
reforms that foster transparency in the use of public resources.  Under the proposed operation, risks 
arising from opposition and vested interests are mitigated by the fact that all policy measures are 
implemented before credit approval.  While risks of reversals of already implemented measures should 
not be neglected, continued close Bank engagement by a core team almost entirely field-based also 
enhances the Bank’s monitoring of reforms and its ability to take steps to ensure that reform objectives 
are being followed through.  The design of the series also aims to mitigate risks by ensuring a built-in 
process of collaborative analytical, dialogue and stakeholder consultations process. 
Weak administrative capacity and slow program implementation.
 
This risk is relatively minor in Senegal, 
in part given the large number of highly trained technocrats, especially at the Ministry of Economy and 
Finance.  In this area, the implementation of PFM and procurement reforms is supported by several 
donors (IMF, France, EU, Canada, and The Netherlands) and the Bank with technical and financial 
assistance.  In other areas, 
t
he
proposed PRSC series builds on, complements or leverages existing or 
planned Bank and donor development policy, capacity building, and investment operations and a broad 
program of analytical work that should considerably mitigate risks of limited implementation capacity. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed operation is expected to have a significant positive direct impact on the medium-term 
poverty reduction trend.  This impact will be through an expected strengthening of the government’s 
policy making and institutional capabilities to ensure an enabling environment for the private sector 
(component 1), improve the State’s ability to provide basic services efficiently and equitably (component 
2), mitigate environmental vulnerabilities (component 3), and improve governance in the management of 
public resources (component 4). 
 
Policy reforms on fisheries supported by future PRSCs may affect selected groups.  PRSC V series 
envisages a series of actions that may ultimately impact selected groups, notably fishermen and coastal 
sand mine users.  In the case of fisheries, the PRSC series supports policy reforms associated with Bank 
projects that have been subject to Bank safeguards policies.  Policies to restrict access to coastal sand 
mines may impact negatively on the livelihood of resource users.  A comprehensive analytical work and 
stakeholder consultations process is envisaged as part of developing the policy program to ensure that any 
measures supported under future operations are implemented in a manner that is consistent with Bank 
policies. 
 
8. Contact point: 
 
Alain W. D'Hoore 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5352+4155 / 221-33-859-4155 
Email: adhoore@worldbank.org 
Location: Dakar, Senegal (IBRD) 
 
Mamadou Ndione 
Title: Country Economist 
Tel: 5352+4117 / 221-33-859-4117 
Email: mndione@worldbank.org 
Location: Dakar, Senegal (IBRD)
Page  4
