Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5336 
Operation Name 
Senegal: Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC IV) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (40%); Other social services 
(20%); Health (20%); Sub-national government administration 
(10%); General industry and trade sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P117273 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
January 19, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 25, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 29, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Senegal is located on the West Coast of Africa and is part of the West African Economic and Monetary 
Union (WAEMU). With a population estimated at about 12 million, its economy is dominated by a few 
strategic sectors, including groundnuts, fisheries, and services.  The informal sector accounts for about 
60 percent of its economy.  Its rural economy frequently suffers from drought, and lacks access to basic 
services and infrastructure, leading to low productivity, high emigration and higher poverty rates in rural 
areas. About half of the population lives in cities, including 30 percent in Dakar. 
As Senegal embarks on the last year of its PRSP-II, the country is at an unusually challenging juncture. 
First, the succession since 2006 of severe external and internal shocks culminating with the negative 
impact of the 2009 global crisis on the country’s economic growth and public finances has taken a toll 
on Senegal’s fairly open economy and possibly reversed earlier gains in poverty reduction and has 
shown the inadequacy of existing institutions and policies to help the poor cope with these shocks, 
potentially undermining the foundations for future growth and poverty reduction. Second, though 
Senegal continues to enjoy a broadly stable political climate, the political economy of reforms is likely 
to become markedly more complex in the next few years, with the upcoming presidential elections in 
2012, following the opposition parties’ victory in local elections in early 2009.  Third, despite a 15-year 
long period of positive economic growth, the economy has shown little structural change, with limited 
diversification, a continued dependence of the growth momentum on public spending, no export drive 
and almost no job creation in the formal private sector.  Fourth, even Senegal’s notable success, the near 
five-fold expansion of the public finances over the decade on a broadly sustainable track, is turning out 
to constitute a critical challenge, confronting the authorities with the urgency to strengthen further their 
public financial management institutions. Fifth and finally, tackling the main structural feature of 
poverty in Senegal—the deepening of entrenched disparities between the capital Dakar and the rest of 
the country—remains as relevant today as it has ever been, even as the successive shocks of recent years 
have taken a disproportionate toll on the urban poor, especially in the greater Dakar area. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
Page  2
This operation is the first of a second programmatic series of three PRSCs
—PRSC IV of PRSCs IV-VI.  
The proposed series’ overarching objective is two-fold: to support the implementation of the final year 
of the Government’s Second Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP-II) and to assist in the 
development and early implementation of its successor PRPS-III in the challenging context of an 
exceptionally unfavorable global environment.  Specifically, this second series aims to contribute to 
strengthening the Government of Senegal’s policy making and institutional capabilities by supporting 
selective reforms in the four pillars of its PRSP-II—to accelerate broad-based growth, to improve access 
to social services, to mitigate vulnerabilities, and to foster good governance through public financial 
management policy and institutional reforms. 
The reform policies supported by this new series are aligned with Senegal’s PRSP-II covering the period 
2006-2010.  The authorities have already initiated the preparation of a successor PRSP-III that they 
expect to finalize by end-2010.  PRSP-III, covering the period 2011-15, is not expected to revise 
substantially the first two PRSPs’ objectives of accelerating growth and meeting all the Millennium 
Development Goals by 2015, even as several of these appear increasingly unlikely to be met.  The 
proposed PRSC series is also an integral part of the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 
Senegal discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on June 20, 2007, and leverages other Bank 
operations that directly support Senegal’s agenda in all reforms areas supported under this new series. 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The focus of the series is on a set of critical policy actions aimed at strengthening the Government’s 
policy making and institutional capabilities with a special focus on strengthening the management of 
public resources and institutions. There are four reform components, namely private sector development, 
human development, mitigating vulnerabilities (both social and environmental) and governance. 
Regarding the latter, the series will support reforms in public financial management, procurement, debt 
management and statistics, while fostering complementarities between policy and public expenditure 
management reforms in education, health, social protection and the environment. At the same time, in 
aiming to assist the development and early implementation of PRSP-III, the proposed series also 
supports the government in addressing a range of issues on which progress under PRSP-II has been 
weakest, and in particular in social protection and environmental sustainability. The series of PRSCs 
leverages the Bank’s and other donors’ efforts to support Senegal’s policies in a coherent, Government-
led program, supported by investment projects, TA and Economic and Sector Work. The latter includes 
in particular a multi-year programmatic series of public revenue and expenditure reviews extending over 
FY10-FY12, and covering, inter alia, (volume I) PFM, education, and health; (volume II) agriculture, 
infrastructure, and decentralization; and (volume III) non-tax revenues, social protection and 
environment. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The specific reforms supported by the proposed development policy credit are not likely to have 
significant negative impacts on the country’s environment, forests and other natural resources.  None of 
the policy measures supported by PRSC IV are likely to have direct negative effects on Senegal’s 
environment and natural resources.  The structural reforms supported by PRSC IV aim generally at 
strengthening policy making and institutional capabilities of the State through legal, institutional, 
operational and systems reforms that by themselves entail no specific impact on the environment.  
Reforms supported under the PRSC series’ Component 3—fisheries, coastal erosion, forest resource 
management and environment budgeting— are intended to reinforce the Senegalese Government ability 
to mitigate critical vulnerabilities to its environment and natural resources and thus have a positive 
impact on the country’s environment, forests and coastal areas
.
Page  3
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source
:
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
43 
 Total 
 
43 
6. 
Risks
 
Several risks could jeopardize the expected outcomes and benefits of this operation.  These include: (i) a 
deeper and/or longer macroeconomic downturn in the current global context than anticipated; (ii) 
political opposition, including from vested interests and heightened in the context of the 2012 
presidential elections; and (iii) weak capacity to implement reforms.  Yet, the design of this operation, 
with a relatively focused agenda and high donor involvement, should help mitigate these risks. 
Senegal’s short-term prospects continue to depend on developments in the global economy.  A slower 
normalization and/or longer macroeconomic downturn in the current global context than anticipated still 
represents a significant risk, contingent on developments in partner country economies, mainly in 
Europe.  One clear mitigation strategy is for the authorities to continue to steer a stable fiscal course for 
the year and adopt resolute reforms, especially in the PFM area, that may in turn motivate donors to 
provide additional resources to buffer the budget from the consequences of a more abrupt slow down.   
Political opposition, including from vested interests, represents a major potential obstacle to reforms and 
the achievement of the operation’s objectives, especially in the context of the next presidential elections 
currently scheduled for 2012.  Nonetheless, the balance of risks to the policy objectives of the proposed 
series, including the proposed PRSC IV operation, is still viewed as favorable to moving forward with it.  
Vested interests can also represent important obstacles to reform, especially reforms that foster 
transparency in the use of public resources.  Under the proposed operation, risks arising from opposition 
and vested interests are mitigated by the fact that all policy measures are implemented before credit 
approval.  Continued Bank engagement with a core team almost entirely field-based also enhances the 
likelihood that reforms are being followed through and policies sustained.  The design of the series also 
aims to mitigate risks by ensuring a built-in process of collaborative analytical, dialogue and stakeholder 
consultations process. 
Achieving the credit objectives could become more difficult as a result of weak administrative capacity 
and slow program implementation.  This risk is relatively minor in Senegal, in part given the large 
number of highly trained technocrats.  In addition, the implementation of PFM and procurement reforms 
is supported by several donors (IMF, France, EU, Canada, and The Netherlands) and the Bank with 
technical and financial assistance.  The proposed PRSC series builds on, complements or leverages 
existing or planned Bank and donor development policy, capacity building, and investment operations 
and a broad program of analytical work under the PPFR that should considerably mitigate risks of 
limited implementation capacity. 
 
Page  4
7. 
Contact point
:
Alain W. D'Hoore 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5352+4155 / 221-33-859-4155 
Email: adhoore@worldbank.org 
Location: Dakar, Senegal (IBRD) 
 
Mamadou Ndione 
Title: Country Economist 
Tel: 5352+4117 / 221-33-859-4117 
Email: mndione@worldbank.org 
Location: Dakar, Senegal (IBRD) 
 
