Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C  ''  / f   ') - (Lt/7
Report No. 6787-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
May 18, 1987
Western Africa Projects Department
Transportatioa Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Guinean Franc (GF)
US$1.0   =   CF 400
US$1.28563   =   SDR 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 01   --   December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
1 meter (m)                 >    3.28  feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)             10.76  square feet (sq ft)
I cubic meter (m3)          =   35.3   cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)            =    0.62  mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (kM2)   =    0.39  square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (t)            =    2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Item        English                                           French
adt         average .:aily traffic                            trafic journalier moyen
AfDB        African Development Bank                          Banque Africaine de Developpement
AfDF        African Development hFnd                          Fonds Africain de Developpement
COTRA       Public Road Transport Company                     Compagnie de Transports Routiers
Autonomes
ENTRAT      National Freighthandling Company                  Entreprise Nationale de Transit et de
Transport
ERR         Economic Rate of Return                           Taux de Rentabilite  Economique
FAC         French Bilateral Aid Fund                         Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FRIGUTA     Fria Mining Company                               Compagnie Miniere de Fria
GTZ         Society for Technical Cooperation,                Societe pour la Cooperation Technique,
Federal Republic of Germany                      Republique Feddrale d'Allemagne
ICAO        International Civil Aviation Organization         Organisation de l'Aviation Civile
Internationale (OACI)
KfW         German Bilateral Aid Agency                       Agence Allemande Bilaterale d'Aide au
(Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau)                 Developpement
m           million                                           million
MN          Meteorological Agency                             Meteorologie Nationale
NPV         Net Present Value                                 Valeur Nette Actualis6e
OBK         Kindia Bauxite Company                            Office des Bauxites de Kindia
ONAH        State Petrol Company                              Office National des Hydrocarbures
ONCFG       Guinean Railway Company                           Office National du Chemin de Fer
de Guin6e
OPR         Road Project Office                               Office du Projet Routier
PAC         Port Authority of Conakry                         Port Autonome de Conakry
PPF         Project Preparation Facility                      Fonds pour la pr6paration des projets
SET         Ministry of Transport                             Secretariat d'Etat aux Transports
SETP        Ministry of Public Works                          Secretariat d'Etat aux Travaux Publics
SJF         Special Joint Financing Agreement                 Fonds Special pour l'Afrique, Finance-
for the Special Africa Facility                  ment conjoint
s-m         staff-month                                       personne-mois
SNG         National Consignment Company                      Societe Navale Guin6enne
SOGEAC      Conakry Airport Management Company                Socift6 de Gestion de l'Aeroport
de Conakry
SOGETRAG    Joint Venture Bus Company                         Societe General des Transports
en Guin6e
tpy         tons per year                                     tonnes par an
TUC         Conakry Urban Transport Company                   Transport Urbain de Conakry
voc         vehicle operating cost                            cogt d'operation des vehicules
WAPTR, April 1987



FOR OFCML USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
DOCUJMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE .......     ............................    i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMKARY ........................... .. . .             iv
I.  INTRODUCTION          .. . . ....................                    1
II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ............................. .  . ....1
A.  The Transport System .................... .      .... .         I
B.  Roads and Road Transport            . .................         2
C.  Fuel Distribution and Pricing ..........................        3
D.  Railways and Rail Transport ............................        4
E. Ports and Shipping    .         ....... . .......                4
F.  Airports and Civil Aviation ........................... .       6
G.  Transport Sector Administration           .     . . .           7
H.  Transport Sector Investment             .. . .                  8
II.  THE POLICY FRAMEWORK .......................................        9
A.  Resource Mobilization and Pricing Policy .......... *.....      9
B.  Public Investment and Expenditure ......................       10
C.  Deregulation and Institutional Reform ..................       10
IV.  THE PROJECT ........................... ... .......                14
A.  Project Objectives ....................................        14
B. Project Description                     . . .    14
C.  Project Cost Estimate ...............................          19
D. Implementation                 .. ........   20
E. Procurement... ...................................... ..        21
F.  Financing and Disbursements .......................... .       22
G.  Accounting and Auditing ............................. *..      24
H.  Reporting    .       .........               .     .......     25
I.  Impact on Environment and Employment ...................       25
J.  Technical Assistance .................................. .      25
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION                  ........   26
A.  TI.e Road Component            ............. .                 26
B.  The Port Component      .       ........................ .     27
C.  The Aviation Component .      . ...............................  29
VI.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF PAC ................................       29
A. Recent Financial Performance and Current Financial
Position... ...... .----...                         ..         29
B.  Tariffs ..                ..............................................  30
C.  Financial Objectives          .    . .*.........      ..       30
D.  Forecast Financial Performance ...................... ...      32
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............ ........        33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
2-1    Camparative Road and Road Traffic Data for Selected West African
Countries, 1983
2-2    Roads and Road Transport
2-3    Fuel Supply, Distribution and Pricing
2-4    Railways and Rail Transport
2-5    Conakry Port Facilities
2-6    Actual and Forecast General Cargo Traffic, 1981-2000, Other Port
Statistics
2-7    Airports and Civil Aviation
2-8    Public Works Administration
2-9    Transport Sector Administration
2-10   Public Investment Program. (PIP) 1987-1989:  The Transport Sector
2-11   Share of Transport Sector in Total Investment Expenditure by Plan
Period, 1960/84, and for 1985/86
3-1    Policy Measures and Actions under the Transport Sector Credit --
Summary Matrix
4-1    Road Component:  Pavement Strengthening and Resurfacing
4-2    Road Component:  Vegetation Control and Labor Based Maintenance
4-3    Road Component:  Office Rehabilitation
4-4    Road Component:  Outline TORs for Project Management Unit
4-5    Port Component:  Engineering Aspects
4-6    Port Component:  Institutional Aspects
4-7    Aviation Component
4-8    Detailed Project Cost Estimates by Component
4-9    Port Component:  Implementation Schedule
4-10   Project Disbursement Schedule
4-11   Road Component:  Disbursement Schedule
4-12   Port Component:  Disbursement Schedule
4-13   Aviation and Transport Sector Components:  Disbursement Schedule
5-1    Parameters for the Economic Evaluation of Pavement Strengthening and
Resurfacing
5-2    Economic Evaluation of the Rehabilitation of Three Road Sections
5-3    Economic Evaluation of the Port Component
6-1    PAC -- Financial Evaluation (Statements 1983-1986)
6-2    PAC -- Existing and Proposed Tariffs
6-3    PAC -- Forecast Financial Statements, 1987-1995
MAPS: IBRD 20074, 20075, 20131
The project as well as this report were prepared on the basis of an appraisal mission conducted
in January 1987 by Mrs. B. Mitchell (Mission Chief) and Messrs. Y. Duvivier, A. Fateen, and
J.-C. Sallier. Typing and secretarial work were done by Miss M. E. Houle and Mesdames
L. Dorsey, S. Chase, and J. Vieira da Luz.
WAPTR, April 1987



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT PILE
Reference Number                                  Document                                 WAIC Code
Road Component
1-1            Auscultation des Chausseos Bitumindes pour la Definition             128 923 (A)
du Troiei'me Projet Routier, Louis Berger International, Inc.,
January 1983
1-2            Recherche de Sites de Carri6res pour la Production de Granulats   128 923 (B)
Routiers dans le Cadre du Trolsieme Projet Routier, Louis Berger
International, Inc., January 1983
1-3            R4fection de la Route Conakry-Mamou -- Marche de Travaux,              D 02739
SETEC International, Mai 1986, (3 volumes)
1-4            Entretien des Routas Revetues -- Appel d'Offre 3PR14 --                D 02743
Troisi6me Projet Routier, Tractebel-Louis Berger International,
December 1986 (2 volumes)
Port Component
2-1            Port de Conakry, Etude d'Amdnagement Portuaire,                      124 979 (E)
Parties I A XIII, le Bureau d'Etudes Lackner & Partners
(L & P), 1980/81
2-2            Etude du Port de P6che de Conakry, le Bureau d'Etudes                  129 994
Dravo Van Houten, mai 1983
2-3            Fermeture du bassin portuaire au nord-est, L & P, avril 1985           222 219
2-4            Deuxieme Projet Portuaire, Etude de Faisabilitd, L & P,
novembre 1986:
-- Volume   I:  Etude d'Exploitation et d'Organisation              D 00323
-- Volume  II:  Etude Technique                                     D 00324
-- Volume III:  Etude Financiere                                    D 00325
-- Volume  IV:  Etude Economique                                    D 02729
-- Volume   V:  Plans                                               D 00326
2-5            Donn6es statistiques du PAC, 1986:                                   D 02824 (A)
-- Service Contr8le, trafic et statistique
-- Service d'exploitation
-- Assistance Technique
2-6            Etude de Tarification, HPC, septembre 1986                           D 02824 (B)
2-7            Etude sur les activites portuaires a Conakry, mai 1986                 229 375
2-8            Budget de Fonctionnement exercice 1986, PAC, ddcembre 1985             D 02825
2-9            Etats financiers au 31 ddcembre 1984, Price Waterhouse, Africa,          YAR
juin 1985
2-10           Etats financiers au 31 decembre 1985, Price Waterhouse$ Africa           YAR
mai 1986



- ii -
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE (con't)
Reference Number                                  Document                                   WAIC Code
Port Component (con't)
2-11           Projet de R6evaluation des Actifs et Passifs, Price Waterhouse,         D 02826
Africa, fdvrier 1987
2-12           Detailed Financial Projections and Supporting Documents, PAC;           D 02827
FY87-95
2-13           Projet de Statuts et des Reglements du PAC, octobre 1986                D 02828
2-14           Projets d'Agrdment pour Manutentionnaires et Transitaires,              D 02829
janvier 1987
Civil Aviation Component
3-1            Evaluation des Pistes, Republique de Guinde, Boeing Co.,              DOC229-466
octobre 1977
3-2            Etude Diagnostique d'Air Guin6e, Projet PNUD/DACI GUI/81/004,           D 02830
decembre 1985
3-3            Rapport d'Activites exercice 1985, Air Guinee, avril 1986               D 0283L
3-4            Rapport de mission Aerotec, Mission ACDI, juin 1984                   DOC229-468
3-5            Pour la Relance de la Compagnie Nationale Air Guinee, Air Guin6e,   D 02832
septembre 1986
3-6            Etude de Restructuration d'AIR GUINEE -- Societd d'etudes et de         D 02742
consultation du Canadien-Pacifique (Ltee)
et GAGNAIR CONSULTANTS LTEE, en cour depuis avril 1987
3-7            Etude sur l'Organisation et la Gestion de l'Aeroport de Conakry         D 02833
G'Bessia, ADP, fevrier 1985
3-8            Mission d'6valuation Aviation Civile, SOFREAVIA, Juin 1986            DOC321-812
3-9            Evaluation des Charges imputables aux services de la navigation         D 02834
adrienne, ADP, 1986
3-10           Report on Technical Mission to Guinea, IATA, August 1986                D 02835
3-11           Mission OACI d'Etude de l'Organisation de l'Aviation Civile,            D 02836
novembre 1986
3-12           Projet de Statuts, SOGEAC et Projet Cahier de Charges de la             D 02837
Concession de gestion d'exploitation de l'Adroport de Conakry
G'Bessia, juin 1986
3-13           Projet de Contrat d'Assistance Technique a la SOGEAC,                   D 02838
ADP, juillet 1986



- iii -
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE (con't)
Reference Number                                 Document                                 WAIC Code
Civil Aviation Component (con't)
3-14           Politique et Stratdgie de Developpement de la MWtdorologie            D 02839
Nationale A moyen- et A long-terme, Secretariat d'Etat aux
Eaux et Forets, juillet 1986
3-15           Previsions de la DGAC en Equipement Technique, janvier 1987           D 02840
3-16           Projet de requete pour le renforcement et la modernisation            D 02841
des equipements m4t6orologiques en appui A la navigation
aerienne, janvier 1987
Transport Sector Component
4-1            Troisi6me Projet Routier, Plan de Transport Phase 1 -- Cellule        224 857
de Planification Tractionnel/Louis Berger International,
July 1985
4-2            Troisieme Projet Routier, Plan de Transport --                        320 188
Etude d'Organisation du Secteur des Transports Routiers,
Tractionnel/Louis Berger International, Mars 1986, 2 volumes
4-3            Etude d'Organisation du Secretariat d'Etat aux Transports,            321 060
Tractebel/Louis Berger International, fevrier 1986
4-4            Troisieme Projet Routier, Plan de Transport --                        321 063
Etude d'Organisation .4 Secretariat d'Etat aux Travaux Publics,
Tractebel/Louis Berger International, Juin 1986
4-5            Troisieme Projet Routier -- Rapport du Volet                          D 02740
Organisation-Formation, TractebellLouis Berger International,
7.ai 1986
4-6            Diagnostic du Secteur des Transports et Definition                    D 02744
d'une Stratdgie d'Action, Secrdtariat d'Etat aux Transports,
Aol3t 1986
4-7            Identification des Problemes d'Organisation et de Formation           D 02745
au Secr6tariat d'Etat aux Transports, RWpublique de Guinee,
J. Curien, FPvrier 1987
4-8            Esquisse d'une Nouvelle Politique des Transports pour la Guin6e,    D 02746
Projet de Rapport, G. P. Metschies, Mars 1987
WAPTR, April 1987



* iv -
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      The Republic of Guinea
Credit Amount:                 SDR 42.8 million (USS55 A equivalent)
Terms:                         Standard
Co-Lenders:                    African Development Bank (US$30.0 m equivalent); Kreditanstalt fUr
Wiederaufbau (KfW/SJF) (US$13.0 m equivalent); Gesellschaft fUr
Techiische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) (US$1.0 m equivalent); Ponds d'Aide
et de Cooperation (FAC) (US$1.0 m equivalent).
Project Description:           The project will assist Government in implementing a sectorwide
policy program and in rehabilitating and upgrading essential trans-
port infrastructure. It will provide financing for (a) the rehabil-
itation of some 360 km of existing paved roads; (b) the construction
of a container berth, a fuel jetty and a siltation prevention dike
in Conakry port, and for dredging of the port area and access
channel; and (c) essential navigational aids and infrastructure
rehabilitation at Conakry International Airport and at selected
domestic airfields to re-establish safe operating conditions.
Additionally, the project will finance technical assistance to
deregulate the road transport industry, including the establishment
of a sound regulatory framework for privatized transport sector
operations, and to strengthen and improve Government planning and
investment selection, pricing policies, manpower development and
training sectorwide.   It will assist the development of private
transport operators by preparing the privatization of periodic road
maintenance activities; by privatizing ship and cargo handling and
associated services at the Port of Conakry and improving the effici-
ency of its container and bulk carrier operations; and by restruc-
turing aviation sub-sector activities.
Project Benefits and Risks:   The project will begin to eliminate serious transport bettlenecks
now threatening to block essentitl flows of imports and exports
through the port and airport of Conakry, and to impede the exchange
of goods and services between the markets of the capiEal and the
regions.  It thus benefits both the urban and rural populations;
most directly private road transport operators and passengers, and
the users of port and airport facilities and zervices. The main
risks would be insufficient or delayed implementation of policy
reforms. These risks are, however, tolerable since the more signif-
icant steps will be adopted early on, and the perspective of
follow-up operations in the sector would help strengthen Govern-
ment's commitment. In addition, the project puts heavy emphasis on
staff training, technical and financial assistance for the defini-
tion and implementation of appropriate policies and procedures.



Summary Project Cost Estimate and Financing Plan
(Net of Taxes and Duties)
-    --------- US$ million -----------
Local            Foreign            Total
Road Component                           3.4              23.7               27.1
Port Component                          3.0               47.0               50.0
Aviation Component                      0.5                9.5               10,0
Institution Strengthening               0.3                2.9                3.2
Tc.al Base Cost                    7.2               83.1               90.3
Physical Contingencies                  1.1               11.5               12.6
Price Contingencies                     3.6                5.0                8.6
Total Project Cost                11.9               99.6              111.5 La
/a Exempt from taxes and duties
Financing Plan
IDA                                   0.4               54.6               55.0
AfDB                                                    30.0               30.0
KfW/SJF                                                 13.0               13.0
GTZ                                                      1.0                1.0
FAC                                                      1.0                1.0
Conakry Port Authority (PAC)          5.0                  -                5.0
Government                            6.5                                   6.5
Total                             11.9               99.6              111.5
Estimated Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year: 1988          1989           1990         1991          1992
Annual               10.8         16.2           23.3          4.1           0.6
Cumulative           10.8         27.0           50.3         54.4          55.0
Rates of 1Return
Paved Road Rehabilitation:         21% overall, ranging fro. 18%-28%
Port Rehabilitation:               24% overall, ranging from 12%-27%
Maps: IBRD 20074, 20075, 20131
WAPTR
April 1987



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOP PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Guinea has embarked on a courageous and
ambitious program of economic reform aimed at reversing the difficult
situation it inherited from the First Republic.   Under a structural
adjustment program supported by IDA and bilateral, donors, it aims at
decontrolling and liberalizing economic activity, encouraging private
sector participation, reducing direct state involvement in productive
and service sector activities, and improving macro-economic management
through major institutional reforms.   The Government, with technical
assistance from IDA, has begun the process of public sector disengage-
ment from industrial and commercial activities in order to reduce
inflated civil service rolls and eliminate the substantial state subsi-
dies hitherto required to keep mismanaged and loss-making public enter-
prises afloat.   The proposed project would help Government implement
similar reforms in the transport sector.
1.02      After a quarter-century of neglect and mismanagement, most of
the transport infrastructure in Guinea is barely operable, and the
institutions for planning, running, and maintaining them need to be
completely rebuilt. The Government has accorded the highest piiority to
the creation of a sound policy framework and the re-establishment of
essential transport services. In support of this strategy, the Govern-
ment's investment program rightly focuses on the elimination of four
major  bottlenecks:   (a) the  heavily  deteriorated  basic  trunk  road
system; (b) the serious congestion in the commercial port of Conakry;
(e) the unreliable and unsafe air transport system; and (d) the diffi-
culties of transforming a transport industry historically dominated by
inefficient parastatals into a performing, private service industry.
IDA, in collaboration with several co-financing agencies (AfDB, KfW,
FAC), intends to support this strategy through a series of proiects in
FY87, FY88, and FY90 that will finance priority investments and support
basic policy reform measures in the transport sector, paralleling those
being supported at the macro-level by IDA's ongoing structural adjust-
ment  program.    Substantial  mobilization  of  local  resources  and
co-financing are required for these operations, since priority transport
sector investment needs over the medium-term will account for over half
of Guinea's total investment budget.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
2.01      Guinea has a land area of 246,000 km2 and a population esti-
mated at about six million.  Given the severe climatic conditions and
high mountain ranges of Guinea, transport infrastructure is both diffi-
cult to build and maintain, and costly to operate. Although the country
is well endowed with agricultural, hydro-electric and mineral resources,



- 2 -
its average per capita GNP in 1986 was estimated at only US$300, among
the lowest in West Africa.
2.02      When the First Republic ended in April 1984, Guinea was left
with some of the most rundown infrastructure and least efficient trans-
port operations in Africa (Annex 2-1). A nominally adequate classified
road system of about 14,000 km at independence had been reduced to a
bare-bone network of less than 5,000 km of passable roads (1,200 km
paved).  Guinea's national railways with 660 km of main line had virtu-
ally ceased operations, while the three mining railways -- Conakry-Fria
(140 km),  Conakry-Kindia  (110 km)  and  Sangaredi-Kamsar  (135 km) --
continued functioning normally under the control of alumina and bauxite
mining  companies.   Of  the country's  two  deep-water  ports,  that  in
Kamsar, built in the early seventies for bauxite handling, was operating
satisfactorily, but Conakry, the country's main general cargo port which
also handles bauxite and alumina exports, was completely run-down. A
small secondary port at Benty, serving agricultural exports before
independence, was no longer used.  While the international airport at
Conakry was partly rehabilitated in 1983, the nine secondary airports
were  in poor condition.   Moreover,  airport  security and navigation
equipment were dangerously substandard and among the worst in the
African  continent.   The  national  carrier's  (AIR  GIfINEE)  financial
situation -- like that of all other transport parastatals -- was precar-
ious and its efficiency low.
2.03      The present  capacity of all transport modes  in Guinea  is
insufficient to meet current levelb of demand, much less the increased
demand expected as economic reform measures take hold and productive
sector  activities  revive.   Rehabilitation  and  maintenance  of  core
infrastructure and restructuring of sector agencies form the center of
Government's near- and medium-term strategy for all transport sub-sec-
tors.  The ongoing Third Highway Project (Cr. 1457-GUI) and the Port
Project (Cr. 1382-GUI) have begun the reconstruction efforts, but much
more is needed in infrastructure rehabilitation, in institution building
and in appropriate policy design and implementation.
B. Roads and Road Transport
2.04      The situation in the vital road sector is critical.  The state
of maintenance of the 4,200 km priority network which carries over 80%
of all traffic is extremely poor.  The US$73.2 m Third Highway Project
includes the reconstruction of the country's main highway (Conakry-Mam-
ou) and a rehabilitation and maintenance program of the priority road
network.   The project, which became effective  in December 1984, was
prepared during the previous regime and designed for a different insti-
tutional and economic environment. To circumvent political interference
and compensate for the ineffectiveness of the Public Works Administra-
tion, the project created an autonomous Road Project Office (Office du
Projet Routier, OPR). This institutional set-up has proved unnecessari-
ly cumbersome and the pro4ect has been redesigned to reorient OPR's
structure towards that of a commercially-based contracting enterprise.
The road rehabilitation and maintenance program under the Third Highway
Project will be expanded and reinforced under the proposed project and
the subsequent Road Rehabilitation Project currently programmed for
FY88. Details of the highways sub-sector are provided in Annex 2-2.



2.05      Although vehicle  imports rose steeply during the past two
years, traffic volumes on the inter-urban network have changed little
from the levels in 1980/82.  Traffic on the main axis from Conakry to
Mamou varies from 3,000 vpd near the capital to 800 vpd near Kindia and
400 vpd near Mamou. On the remainder of the paved trunk roads, traffic
varies between 150 and 250 vpd, while improved laterite trunk roads
carry 80-100 vpd and other sections about 30-40 vpd (Annex 2-2). These
low traffic levels are due mainly to the severe deterioration of the
trunk network over the past two years when Guinea experienced exception-
ally heavy rains, exacerbated by a continued shortage of spare parts,
and an almost complete breakdown of the fuel distribution system
up-country. Early 1986 traffic figures also reflect a temporary fall in
transport demand following monetary reform and the subsequent fourfold
increases in the priee of fuel as well as in transport tariffs.  New
traffic counts, to be carried out in 1987, are expected to reflect the
sharply higher levels of imports through the port as well as increased
agricultural activity.
2.06      The road transport industry has undergone significant changes
since the advent of the Second Republic.  The most important is the
abQlition of two state companies' monopoly of long-distance freight
transport (COTRA -- dissolved; ENTRAT -- being liquidated) in prepara-
tion for the proposed project.  Freight traffic is now being handled
mostly by private operators; several of them have acquired truck fleets
of 10-20 vehicles, but most are owner-operators of one or two vehicles.
Access to the industry is free, and tariffs for freight transport have
been unregulated as a result of the policy dialogue with Government in
preparation for the project.  Road passenger transport has always been
handled by small private transporters and continues to be so.  Some
7,000 vehicles are estimated to be licensed for public transport with
over two-thirds operating in the capital; there is also considerable
unlicensed  transport  for  hire.   A  newly  established  joint-venture
company (SOGETRAG) started to provide efficient bus services in Conakry
in early 1986, while the surviving state company, TUC, operates poorly
and irregularly.  Regarding inter-urban passenger transport services,
one private bus company (GUINEE EXPRESS) provides regular services.
2.07      It is difficult to determine the size of Guinea's overaged and
extremely heterogeneous vehicle fleet. The Vehicle Licensing and Regis-
tration Office, recently attached to SET, keeps track of new registra-
tions only, without dropping scrapped vehicles from its rolls.   The
fleet is currently estimated at about 27,000 vehicles (less than a fifth
of that in Cote d'Ivoire), of which about 4,000 are trucks and
1,000 buses. This is adequate to meet present transport demand, but as
economic activity picks up, a considerable increase in transport capaci-
ty will be required.
C. Fuel Distribution and Pric(iB
2.08      Fuel supply and distribution have been serious impediments to
normal development of the road transport sector. ONAH, a parastatal, is
currently responsible for both fuel supply and retail distribution,
while negotiations with foreign partners to form a joint venture succes-
sor company to ONAH are underway.  Once a new structure is in place,
rehabilitation of the fuel distribution network becomes an urgent
priority for re-establishing normal road transport conditions.   Fuel



- 4 -
prices in Guinea, while covering border prices, represent only one-half
to one-third of those in neighboring Mali, Senegal or C8te d'Ivoire.
There is, on the other hand, an urgent need to mobilize additional
resources to finance the sizeable road maintenance and rehabilitation
efforts.   Accordingly,  to  generate  revenues  sufficient  to  finance
essential road maintenance, fuel prices must be adjusted upwards until
price differentials to neighboring countries disappear.  Further, fuel
taxes should be structured so as to favor essential transport services
over personal vehicle use, and to ensure that their burden falls most
heavily on those income groups with the highest ability to pay. A new
fuel price structure acceptable to IDA will be developed in connection
with the new project (para 3.02). Details on fuel supply, distribution
and pricing are provided in Annex 2-3.
D. Railways and Rail Transport
2.09      Office National du Chemin de Fer de Guinee  (ONCFG)  is the
parastatal responsible for running the Conakry-Kankan public railroad.
Services have been interrupted for several months on a number of occa-
sions and ONCFG's financial situation is dismal, with revenues not even
covering operating expenses.  In connection with the project, it has
been agreed with the Government to severely limit investments in the
railways  (para 3.04).   Meanwhile,  the upcoming Urban Transport  Plan
Study, to be financed under IDA's restructured Urban Project, will
compare the relative economic interest of establishing an urban commuter
rail entity (with a new management) in Conakry to complement urban bus
services, with that of extending existing bus services. The possibility
of using the FRIGUIA line for the transport of clinker from the port to
the cement factory at Sonfonia (km 36) would also be examined under the
proposed study. (See Annex 2-4 for details on rail traffic.)
E. Ports and Shipping
2.10      Guinea has two major ports:   Kamsar and Conakry.   Kamsar,
constructed as part of the Bank-financed Boke Bauxite Project, has been
in operation since 1975.  It has a total capacity of 9.2 million tpy;
currently it handles about eight million tons of bauxite exports annual-
ly and a small amount of imports for the account of the mine. Conakry
is the main commercial port.  It handles all general cargo imports and
exports, fuel and clinker imports, as well as bauxite (three mil-
lion tpy) and alumina (500,000 tpy) exports.  Details of Conakry port
facilities and of the port sub-sector are given in Annex 2-5 and map
IBRD 20131.
2.11      The ongoing US$38 m Conakry Port Project is expected to be
completed in 1987. Physical project objectives have been fully realized
and institutional objectives substantially so.  The Port Autonome de
Conakry (PAC), established in 1982, has evolved into a credible port
manager with foreign technical assistance financed by GTZ. However, it
has not yet attained full financial autonomy as foreseen by its stat-
utes. Moreover, transit functions were until recently handled by ENTRAT
and consignments by the SOCIETE NAVALE GUINEENNE (SNG) -- both state
monopolies. Their operations were inefficient and a source of frequent
financial and operational problems.  Under the proposed project these
services will be provided bv the private sector (para 3.08). A problem
that has proved quite intractable so far is port security. Although the



- 5 -
situation has improved since fencing and lighting have been installed,
losses through pilferage remain unacceptably high.   PAC has recently
been assigned the responsibility for ensuring port security, and has
been examining arrangements in other ports in the region with a view to
establishing its own security force to replace the existing ineffective
ones. Further, the physical, institutional and operational improvements
under the proposed project should have a positive effect on security.
2.12      Increases in traffic in response to the improvements in port
installations and operations and the liberalization of the Guinean
economy since mid-1984, have largely exceeded those foreseen at apprais-
al of the Port Project.   General merchandise  imports increased from
215,000 tons in 1983 to 580,000 tons in 1986, an increase of about 170%.
The containerized share of this traffic increased even more steeply from
26,000 tons in 1983 to 146,000 tons in 1986.  Total general merchandise
volume (imports plus exports) of 612,000 tons in 1986 exceeds the volume
anticipated at appraisal by 290,000 tons.  (Annex 2-6 gives details on
traffic  development  for different  categories  of merchandise.)   This
explosive growth in traffic is producing severe congestion of the newly
rehabilitated port facilities. When appraised, these were estimated to
be sufficient for handling a volume of 470,000 tons annually, expected
to be reached by 1995.  Although increasing containerization and im-
proved cargo handling following privatization of port-associated servic-
es under the proposed project can alleviate some of the pressures of
congestion, the port risks to remain a major bottleneck in handling the
country's growing volume of imports and exports unless further improve-
ments are introduced urgently.   Increased storage and quay capacities
are needed to handle increased container traffic and to allow
second-generation container and Ro-Ro ships, that have begun operating
along the West African coast, to serve Guinea regularly and at substan-
tially lower costs than those of the vessels currently predominating in
Conakry traffic. Further, dredging of the port basin and access channel
is essential to permit fuel tankers and ore-carriers to arrive or depart
fully loaded. The proposed project addresses the most urgent investment
needs that will allow PAC to function adequately through the end of the
century (para 4.09),
2.13      PAC's financial performance has been, on the whole, satisfac-
tory:  tariff increases were introduced as foreseen under the project,
and revenues through December 1985 were sufficient to cover operating
expenses and financial charges.  Due in part to a confusion in the
attributes of PAC and SNG, however, recovery of foreign exchange pay-
ments from foreign clients has presented problems, and local currency
payments by public sector clients have been consistently in arrears,
although partially compensated by delayed tax payment.   A new tariff
structure has been elaborated and is being introduced in connection with
the new project (para 3.03). Details on PAC's financial situation aTe
given in Chapter VI.
2.14      Privatization of port associated services, replacing ineffi-
cient state monopolies (SNG, ENTRAT and PAC's stevedoring activities),
should result in significant productivity increases.  Privatization of
services will be accompanied by the creation of a Port Labor Office for
stevedore cargo handlers to which PAC's "civil servant" dockers will be
transferred. The new arrangements will facilitate the introduction of a
two-shift system allowing for fuller utilization of port installations.



At the same time, increases in salaries of PAC's remaining personnel and
provision of incentives will be implemented -- these are essential for
improving port  productivity,  efficiency and security.   The proposed
project would support PAC in introducing the institutional changes
required to make it more efficient and responsive to the country's
changing economic environment while, at the same time, providing the
essential additional infrastructure required to handle increasing
traffic through the 1995-2000 period.
2.15      Guinea's involvement in shipping is currently limited to part
ownership of a joint-venture company, GUINOMAR, set up with Norwegian
partners (Torvald Klaveness) in 1979 to handle some four million tons of
bauxite shipments annually from Kamsar.  The company at present owns
only one ore-carrier (65,000 tdw) and charters another eleven, at very
favorable rates in the depressed shipping markets of today. In 1982/83,
Guinea signed a loan agreement with Japan for the acquisition of a
second ore carrier of 45,000 tdw, to be constructed at a Korean ship-
yard. Since ships of that type can actually be bought at about a third
of the price of new construction in the second-hand market, IDA has
requested both the Guinean Government and Japan to reconsider the
proposed investment that would result in substantial losses to the
company. The Government of Guinea has now requested that Japan allocate
the funds for other purposes.
2.16      Coastal shipping is limited to small scale barter trade of
little importance, with annual volumes handled less than 4,000 tons. It
may  grow  in  importance  as  agricultural  production  revives.   River
transport is possible for about four months during and after the rainy
season on the Milo (Kankan-Siguiri) and Niger (Kouroussa-Siguiri-Bamako)
rivers; it is used mainly for agricultural products transported over
short distances with traditional river barges.
F. Airports and Civil Aviation
2.17      Guinea has ten airports:  an international airport at Conakry,
and nine domestic airfields of which three -- in Faranah, Labe and
Kankan -- have paved runways. The existing secondary airfields provide
good coverage of the country and could compensate for the absence of
all-weather road connections to the outlying provinces.  However, the
main three airports are in such poor condition that, like the laterite
airfields, they can accommodate only short take-off and landing (STOL)
aircraft.   Moreover,  they lack basic navigational aids and security
equipment and are often non-operational, especially during the harmattan
period when dust from the Sahel affects visibility, and during part of
the heavy rainy season when the roads also become impassable. A reha-
bilitation program of the highest priority airfields will be prepared
and carried out under the proposed project (para 4.14).
2.18      To achieve real improvements in the provision of air naviga-
tion services, it is desirable that the Directorate General of Civil
Aviation (DGAC), within SET, be responsible for planning and supervision
of civil aviation activities. Air traffic control and delivery of other
highly technical services should, however, be ensured by an autonomous
agency, outside the civil service, and organized aiong the lines of the
Agence pour la Securite de la Navigation Aerienne en Afrique et a
Madagascar (ASECNA), a regional agency active in most of the francophone



countries. Specific agreements regarding this institutional reorganiza-
tion are mentioned in para 3.12.   The proposed project will include
support for both the institutional and physical rehabilitation of the
civil aviation sub-sector (paras 4.10 ff).
2.19      International  air passenger  traffic  has  increased  from  a
modest level of around 10,000 passengers p.a. in the early 1980s to
118,000 in 1983 and 191,000 in 1985. In contrast, domestic air passen-
ger traffic which had attained 90,000 passengers p.a. in the early 1980s
(including about 40% Government officials flying free), dropped to about
28,000 in 1985, as a result of the deterioration of the airports and the
precarious condition of the national carrier, AIR GUINEE.
2.20      Faced with mounting losses, the Government requested a study
of AIR GUINEE in 1985 aimed at restructuring the company.  The study
recommended transforming AIR GUINEE into a new company limited to
domestic services, at least for the initial years.  To stem foreign
exchange losses, the Government suspended all international operations
in 1986 and sold two of its three jet planes.  Domestic services are
provided with a DASH-7 obtained as a grant from the Canadian Government.
Under the PPF, IDA has financed a new study aimed at restructuring of
the carrier, which is discussed in para 3.13. Annex 2-7 provides details
of the civil aviation sub-se^tor.
G. Transport Sector Administration
2.21      Administration of the transport sector is the responsibility
of the Ministry of Equipment and more particularly of its two Secretari-
ats of State:  (a) the Secretariat of State for Transport (Secr6tariat
d'Etat aux Transports, SET) which is responsible for the formulation and
monitoring of sector policies, programs and regulations covering public
and private sector organizations, and for overseeing public sector
agencies in ports, shipping, air transport, road transport and railways;
and (b) the Secretariat of State for Public Works (Se..ctariat d'Etat
aux Travaux Publics, SETP), which deals with the planning, programming,
construction and maintenance of highways, urban and feeder roads, as
well as airfield infrastructure.  SETP carries out these responsibili-
ties through its central services and its seven regional directorates
and 36 sub-divisions, and through the Road Project Office (Office du
Projet Routier, OPR), an autonomous entity supervised by SETP.  The
Secretariat of State for Commerce (Secr6tariat d'Etat au Commerce, SEC)
under the Ministry of Finance and Economy oversees the company responsi-
ble for supply and distribution of fuel, while the Ministry of Plan and
Intertrtional  Cooperation  (Ministere  du  Plan  et  de  la Coop6ration
Internationale, MPCI) deals with the allocation of investment resources
to the sector.
2.22      SETP and SET have inherited large numbers of inadequately
qualified staff, including a large number of locally-trained civil and
mechanical engineers and technicians, as well as economists and accoun-
tants. Streamlining of administrative structures is a high priority.
To help this restructuring, organizational studies of both SET and SETP
were completed under a Transport Plan Study being carried out as part of
the Third Highway Project, but their recemmendations need to be refined.
The approach to developing the basic operational structure of SET was
agreed with Government during negotiations and a detailed program will



- 8 -
be established with the assistance of consultants as required (pa-
ra 3.15 ff).  This approach will permit the definition of manpower and
training needs so that financing can be provided under the project for a
comprehensive staff development program designed to meet them (para 4.15
ff). Anrnexes 2-8 and 2-9 provide details of SET and SETP staffing and
proposed reorganization.
2.23      Having been non-existent under the First Republic, transport
planning is in an embryonic state. IDA's Third Highway Project included
some financing of consultants for initiating a Transport Plan Study.
Following completion of the first study phase (review of existing data
for the different sub-sectors and proposals for an organizational set-up
to begin to fill the important gaps in sector knowledge), a small
transport planning unit was established in SET in late 1985 to build up
the data base for the medium-term transport plan. To enable the Plan-
ning Unit to improve collection and analysis of transport statistics and
conduct studies of transport problems, additional funds have been made
available under the PPF advance for the proposed project. These funds
will provide for supplementary technical assistance as well as for some
of the office equipment necessary for carrying out the work program.
Further support will be provided under the proposed project, including a
training program for Guinean staff to prepare them to evaluate projects
and to establish three-year rolling investment programs for the sector
(para 4.16).
H. Transport Sector Investment
2.24      A three-year Public Investment Program (PIP) has been estab-
lished for 1987-89 with technical assistance financed under IDA Cred-
it 1559-GUI.  It foresees total annual public investment expenditures
(excluding grant financing) of US$150-180 m equivalent, of which about
JO% would go to the Transport and Telecommunications sector. Given the
massive and urgent needs for transport infrastructure rehabilitation,
the 1987-89 PIP for the transport sector (Annex 2-10) currently shows
annual average investments of US$65 m equivalent in the road and road
transport sub-sectors, US$15 m equivalent in the ports sub-sector, and
US$6 m equivalent in the aviation sub-sector. However, these amounts
include only part of the substantial "emergency programs" being prepared
for city street rehabilitation in the metropolitan area of Conakry, and
of the rehabilitation of roads, bridges and ferries on the major
north-south and east-west road axes of the country, which will consti-
tute the bulk of a proposed Priority Road Rehabilitation Program expect-
ed to be executed starting about September 1988, to be financed by IDA
and  other multilateral  and bilateral  aid  agencies.   Provided  that
financing is found on acceptable terms, and that adequate provisions are
made by Government to ensure correct project implementation (mainly by
contractors) and works supervision, transport sector investments in
Guinea should be allowed to take a major share of public investments
over the next five year period.   Future investment and expenditure
policy is further discussed in para 3.04.  Data on earlier trends in
transport investments are in Annex 2-11.



- 9 -
Bank Group Involvement in the Transport Sector
2.25      The Bank Group has been among the principal sources of exter-
nal financing for transport development in Guinea.  Since 1966, it has
made three loans and four credits in the sector.  The former (Loans
SI-GUI, 1966; 577-GUI 1968 and 766-GUI, 1971; US$75.2 m in all) financed
the mining town site at Bok6 and related port and rail infrastructure
for the export of bauxite from the mining development and were success-
fully completed in 1975.  The latter have funded the First (US$14 m,
Cr. 596-GUI, 1976) and the Second (US$17 m, Cr. 953-GUI and EEC-33 GUI,
1979) Highway Projects, and a Port Project (US$38 m, Cr. 1382-GUI,
1983). The two highway projects financed extensive road rehabilitation
and maintenance programs. The First Highway Project was satisfactorily
completed in 1980 by a virtually autonomous project unit (PCR No. 4358,
March 1983). The Second Highway Project was designed to incorporate the
unit into the Ministry of Public Works organization and achieve a wider
institution  building  impact.   This  objective  proved  premature  and
resulted in diversion of project resources and disappointing works
outputs. Nevertheless, the project, completed in mid-1984 after strong
remedial action, yielded a satisfactory rate of return (PCR May 1985).
The ongoing Third Highway Project and Port Project have been described
in para 2.04, and in para 2.11 and Annex 2-5, respectively.
III. THE POLICY FRAMEWORK
3.01      The Transport Sector Project's  central objectives  are  the
implementation of a sectorwide policy program and the rehabilitation of
Guinea's main transport systems.  This chapter summarizes the policy
program while Chapter IV deals with the project's physical elements and
related technical assistance.   The policy content covers three basic
transportation sector areas described in more detail in the paragraphs
below: (a) resource mobilization and pricing; (b) public investment and
expenditure;  and  (c) deregulation and institutional reform.   Govern-
ment's development policy for the sector has been confirmed to the
Association in a letter dated May 9, 1987; the letter and the summary
table of policy measures Government has agreed to adopt are in An-
nex 3-1.
A. Resource Mobilization and Pricing Policy
3.02      Despite a doubling of the road maintenance budget between 1986
and 1987, lack of sufficient local financial resources and their timely
availability to the road sub-sector has been one of the main obstacles
to the road maintenance and rehabilitation efforts financed under the
ongoing Third Highway Project. Moreover, as stated in para 2.08, fuel
prices in Guinea, while covering border prices, are substantially below
those of neighboring countries which use fuel taxation as an important
source of fiscal revenues. In Guinea, there is a vast need to mobilize
additional resources to finance the large and urgent road maintenance
and rehabilitation effort.  Therefore, as a first step, it was agreed
that the Government will raise the tax on petroleum products by FG 15
per liter as a condition of credit effectiveness.   Further,  during
negotiations, it was agreed that (a) a study will be carried out to
(i) recommend the proper level and structure of fuel taxes, including a
program of gradual increases; and (ii) examine alternative fiscal,
financial and administrative mechanisms and recommend the one best



- 10 -
suited to Guinea's conditions; and (b) the study will be started not
later than July 1, 1987 and completed not later than November 15, 1987.
After review of its findings and recommendations by the Government and
the Association, the Government shall, as a condition of disbursement
for the road component, make adequate 1988 budgetary provisions for the
maintenance of the priority road network.   The Government has also
agreed that Credit disbursements after January 1, 1988 will be
contingent on a further increase in fuel taxes, based on the results of
the study under (b) above.
3.03      Regarding port pricing, a new tariff structure was elaborated
during project preparation to reflect the impact of monetary reform and
the new statutory attributions of the Conakry Port Authority (PAC).
Implementation of the new tariff will be a condition of credit effec-
tiveness. Moreover, at negotiations the Government and the Association
agreed that PAC will be allowed to increase tariffs periodically between
1989 and 1993 in order to maintain a rate of return on net fixed assets
of not less than 6% and achieve other specific financial targets de-
tailed in Chapter VI.  Further, the structure of port tariffs will be
re-examined when the new container terminal to be built under the
project is completed.
B. Public Investment and Expenditure
3.04      To ensure that new transport investments and expenditures will
be in accordance with strict priorities in the sector, the Government
agreed during negotiations to an annual review with IDA by December 31
of each year, of (a) the three-year rolling investment and expenditure
programs for the entire transport sector for the period 1988-1993; and
(b) as part of such programs, the Borrower should submit to the Associa-
tion annual maintenance budgets for the roads, ports, railways and
aviation sub-sectors including an outline program of works, their
financial requirements and the sources of funds for covering them. Only
projects with an economic rate of return of at least 10% would be
included in the program. Moreover, railway investments will be limited
to those required for clear safety reasons, while budget transfers to
cover operational expenditures will not exceed present low levels.
C. Deregulation and Institutional Reform
3.05      In  the  highways  sub-sector,  a  complete  restructuring  of
highway maintenance begun under the ongoing Third Highway Project will
be continued and consolidated under the proposed project.  The Road
Project Office (OPR), created under the previous Government to introduce
some measure of accountability and discipline in the previously inade-
quate road maintenance service, will be transformed into a private
contractor.   Therefore,  during  negotiations  agreement  was  reached
between the Government and the Association that OPR will be privatized
by December 31, 1988.  In the future, all periodic maintenance will be
carried out by private contractors under modalities discussed in Chap-
ter IV. Meanwhile, the SETP will re-assume full responsibility for the
planning, programming and control of all road maintenance activities and
for implementation of routine highway maintenance.



- 11 -
3.06      In road passenger transport, the operation of a state enter-
prise, the Conakry Urban Transport Company (TUC), is plagued with
difficulties and inefficiencies.  More importantly, these services are
no longer warranted since the newly established private-public sector
joint venture company SOGETRAG is providing efficient urban transport
services in Conakry. During negotiations, agreement was reached regard-
ing the transformation, not later than June 30, 1988, of TUC into a
joint venture company (SocietW d'Vconomie mixte) expected to provide
urban and inter-urban services.
3.07      The monopoly on freight transport services which existed in
past years has disappeared and the existing parastatals have been either
dissolved (COTRA) or are to be restructured. As a result of the changes
already introduced, the majority of passenger and freight interurban
services are now provided by a strongly competitive emerging road
transport industry. Entry and exit to the industry is free, but ade-
quate legislation that ensures the sustainability of this situation and
provides regulations to foster minimum safety conditions is required.
To prepare this legislation, including the reorganization of the Vehicle
Licensing and Registration Office in SET, technical assistance will be
provided under the project. Further, during negotiations, the Govern-
ment and the Association agreed that (a) SET will prepare and submit to
the Association for comments, by March 1, 1988, a draft legislation
proposal to regulate the road transport industry, both for passenger and
freight transport services, so as to provide and consolidate an environ-
ment conducive to competition, efficiency and safety of service, includ-
ing, in particular, regulations on free entry and exit to the industry,
on axle load limits and controls, and on safety considerations; and
(b) after incorporating IDA's comments, the Government will enact the
new legislation by June 30, 1988 at the latest.
3.08      During preparation of the proposed project, IDA and the other
co-financiers (AfDB and KfW) have assisted the ports sub-sector in
liberalizing its operations and in developing an institutional and
regulatory framework aimed at fostering competition and efficiency
through full-scale participation of the private sector in the supply of
the main port-associated services. In the past, three state enterprises
held a monopoly of main port-related services. The Po. t Authority of
Conakry (PAC) was responsible for ship-handling, stevedoring and ware-
housing, in addition to its normal functions of port administration and
technical services such as pilotage, towage, allocation of ships to
berths, infrastructure construction and maintenance, and the like. The
National Freight Handling Company (ENTRAT) maintained an exclusive
control on transit functions, while the national Consignment Company
(SNG) was the sole shipping agency in Conakry responsible for all
consignments. The operation of these parastatals, particularly the last
two, has been a constant source of financial and operational inefficien-
cies and difficulties.
3.09      Several improvements to this control of port operations by the
public sector have already been introduced in preparation for the
proposed project. In accordance with newly announced Government poli-
cies, private operators were admitted in freight handling and customs
clearance for the first time in 1985. Later on, they also participated,
in an ad-hoc fashion and as "sub-contractors" to the three state monopo-
lies in ship-handling and stevedoring services. Their presence enabled



- 12 -
the port  to handle  the rapidly  increasing traffic  and resulted in
greater port productivity. On February 12, 1987, the decree privatizing
all port-associated services was signed; PAC's stevedoring services and
SNG's shipping agent activities were officially privatized on Ap-
ril 1, 1987. Importers and exporters also can now freely select freight
forwarders and customs agents among private companies.  Agreement was
reached at negotiations, that Government would not provide any subsidies
or monopoly rights for shipping activities to SNG or other companies.
3.10      In preparation for the project, IDA and the co-financiers also
assisted PAC in developing a new regulatory framework aimed at institu-
tionalizing and formalizing the privatization of all maln port-associa-
ted services.  Moreover, before transferring responsibility of several
services to the private sector, a new tariff structure was prepared for
the remaining services to be rendered by PAC.  Draft new statutes for
PAC, reflecting the new operating and regulatory framework, acceptable
to the Association, have been prepared and were reviewed during negotia-
tions. During negotiations, it was also agreed that the new statutes
for PAC, together with the new orginization chart and salary structure,
will be implemented as a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.11      Other areas where the private sector could play a more signif-
icant role in the provision of port services are port maintenance and
navigational aids.  Currently, PAC is responsible for all maintenance
work, and the Office Maritime within the Ministry of Transport (SET) has
been maintaining navigational aids in Conakry Port under contract with
PAC. In practice, the contractor carrying out the expansion and im-
provement works under the ongoing Port Project has also handled all port
maintenance. Navigational aids are in extremely poor condition nation-
wide. Therefore, during negotiations, the Government and the Associa-
tion agreed that (a) starting on January 1, 1988, PAC will sign a
contract with an independent experienced contractor acceptable to the
Association, under procedures acceptable to the Association, to carry
out cleaning and maintenance works of all port facilities; and
(b) starting on January 1, 1988, the responsibility for the maintenance
of navigational aids in Conakry port and access channel will also be
transferred to the private contractor mentioned in secticn (a) above.
3.12      Another important reorganization is proposed for the civil
aviation sub-sector under the project.   There exists at present an
institutional vacuum regarding air navigation and meteorological ser-
vices in the country. A new Franco-Guinean company, SOGEAC, was recent-
ly established with the participation of Aeroports de Paris as technical
partner, to manage Conakry's international airport. Given its restrict-
ed scope, however, SOGEAC's operations will not be sufficient to ensure
normal operations and safe flying conditions at Conakry, nor to address
the existing lack of navigation and meteorological services nationwide.
Based on studies by ICAO and other international consultants, the
establishment of a new autonomous organization called the Air Navigation
Agency (ANA) has, therefore, been proposed. Given the technical nature
of its functions and of its staff, it has been felt that an autonomous
body could best handle such services. ANA would complement SOGEAC at
Conakry in a manner similar to other airports in the world, and would
administer the country's secondary airports.  The new agency would be
financially autonomous, with revenues derived from airport fees at the
secondary airports and part of the landing fees at Conakry, which it



- 13 -
would share with SOGEAC. It was agreed during negotiations that one of
the first tasks of the technical assistance to ANA, in coordination with
SOGEAC, will be to propose by March 1, 1988 an adjustment of larding
fees in Conakry, to levels comparable to those in neighboring countries.
Meanwhile, meteorological services for civil aviation will remain the
responsibility of M6t6orologie Nationale, which wilL detach teams at
each airport to operate under the guidance of ANA. During negotiations,
the Government and the Association agreed on (a) the draft plans for the
creation of the new agency to be submitted for the Association's review
and comments by March 31, 1988; and (b) the establishment of the new
agency, after taking account of the Association's comments on the draft
plans for its creation, by June 30, 1988.
3.13      Regarding air transport,  the Government has been grappling
with the reorganization of the state-owned Air Guin4e for a number of
years, without much success. The Government recently undertook a study,
financed under a PPF to the proposed project, under terms of reference
and conditions acceptable to the Association, to seek an acceptable
solution for the airline. The study, which is expected to be completed
by end July 1987, will establish the company's current assets and
liabilities, propose alternatives for restructuring the company or
liquidating it and replacing it by a new domestic-oriented air carrier.
It is expected that the study will provide a basis for the Government to
call for specific proposals from foreign airlines interested in partici-
pating as equity partners and co-managers of the new or restructured
airline.  At negotiations,  the Government and the Association agreed
that a detailed plan of action will be submitted to the Association for
its review and comments on the restructuring of Air Guin6e by Octo-
ber 31, 1987, and that the recommendations of the study will be imple-
mented beginning June 30, 1988, in accordance with a detailed timetable
of events to be decided based on the study's specific recommendations.
3.14      At the center of the efforts of the Association and other
co-financiers in helping prepare, finance and implement the proposed
project, is the objective of rebuilding the Government's institutional
and administrative infrastructure. It is an essential task to ensure a
proper implementation of the policies and investments included in the
project, as well as the sustainability of the efforts undertaken with
the project. This task involves institutional reform as well as manpow-
er development.
3.15      On  the  institutional  reform  front,  the  proposed  project
supports transformation of both the Ministries of Public Works (SETP)
and Transport (SET) into organizations capable of formulating and
monitoring sector policy as well as planning, preparing and supervising
investment  and  maintenance  programs  and  projects.   Organizational
studies of both Ministries were carried out by consultants in prepara-
tion for the project and discussed with the Government. Implementation
of more appropriate structures will be gradually introduced under the
project.  Therefore, during negotiations agreement was reached between
the Government and the Association regarding (a) the implementation, in
collaboration with the General Commissariat for Administrative Reform,
and supported by Consultants acceptable to the Association, as required,
of a program to help SET and SETP in (i) establishing position descrip-
tions and staffing profiles for the administrative units within each of
the two organizations; (ii) evaluating the profiles of existing staff



- 14 -
and comparing them with those required in each unit; and (iii) preparing
a program for assigning suitable staff to the units and for handling the
re-deployment of redundant staff; (b) preparation of proposals for
reorganization of SET and SETP for review between the Government and the
Association not later than June 30, 1988; and (c) the full implementa-
tion of the reorganization by October 31, 1988.
3.16      On the important manpower development front, during negotia-
tions the Government and the Association agreed that (a) consultants
acceptable to the Association will be engaged by the Government by
December 31, 1987, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Associa-
tion, to (i) elaborate a medium-term manpower development program for
the transportation sector, including a critical evaluation of relevant
technical and managerial training institutions and their curricula; and
(ii) prepare specific proposals for improving their programs to make
them more responsive to foreseeable manpower needs within the next five
years; (b) the Association will be given an opportunity to comment on
the manpower plan by September 30, 1988; and (c) the plan will be
implemented starting on January 1, 1989 (see also para 4.12).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.01      The project is designed to support the Government's Public
Investment Program in the transport sector.  The main physical objec-
tives of the proposed project are to halt the accelerated deterioration
of the existing paved road network; to expand the capacity of Conakry
Port and improve its operational efficiency; and to upgrade air naviga-
tion and safety, and meteorological services nationwide.
B. Project Description
General
4.02      To realize these objectives, the project will provide finan-
cial assistance for the following components over a three-and-a-half-
-year period:
(a) Roads -- rehabilitation of about 360 km of severely deterio-
rated paved roads to provide basic access to major centers of
agricultural production; the rehabilitation and equipping of
the SET and SEPT buildings; technical assistance for the
Public Works Administration, and the Secretariat of State for
Transport, and consultants' services for privatization of OPR
and studies;
(b) Ports -- construction of the northern enclosure and dredging
of the port basin and access channel to accommodate
ore-carrier and oil tanker traffic; construction of a fuel
jetty and of a modern container berth; rehabilitation of
existing port facilities and navigational aids; and technical
assistance for Improved port operations including privatiza-
tion of port-associated services;



- 15 -
(c)  Aviation -- consultants' services to assist in reorganizing
AIR GUINEE; technical assistance for establishing an autono-
mous agency for Air Navigation and Secondary Airports; acqui-
sition of navigation and safety equipment for Conakry airport;
minor runway rehabilitation and essential navigation equipment
for domestic traffic at selected secondary airports, and
acquisition of meteorological equipment; and
(d) Transport -- technical assistance for the Jevelopment of a
5-8 year manpower development plan for the transport sector
and its partial implementation.
Road Sub-sector
4.03      This component (Map IBRD 20074) includes the following items:
(a) rehabilitation of paved roads, including about 206 km of
pavement strengthening and 157 km of resealing;
(b) associated consulting services for engineering and supervision
of worksg
(c) a pilot operation, including purchase of equipment and tools,
to develop small contractors for vegetation control work on
the paved road network;
(d)  rehabilitation of about 1,400 m 2 and 800 M2 of offices in the
SETP and SET buildings respectively, including supply of
furniture and equipment;
(e) technical assistance to SETP for project administration and
monitoring, and for organizational studies, manpower develop-
ment and training; and
(f) consulting services for examining the establishment of a
funding mechanism for highway maintenance and for preparing
and implementing the privatization of OPR.
4.04      The project roads require a single surface treatment on about
85 km, double surface treatment on about 73 km, and full pavement
reconstruction on about  206 km  (Annex 4-1).   No  improvement of the
geometric characteristics of the roads will be carried out, but the
drainage system will be fully rehabilitated. The proposed works would
stop pavement deterioration, and they would postpone the need for
periodic maintenance on the resealed sections by 6-10 years and increase
the life of the reconstructed sections by some 15 years.  In addition,
routine maintenance, currently ineffective, would become possible again
under normal conditions.
4.05      The routine maintenance of the classified highway network
would remain the responsibility of SETP.  It is essential that strict
implementation of basic maintenance  (vegetation control, clearing of
drainage ditches and maintenance of shoulders) of the newly rehabilitat-
ed roads be assured, since they would be quickly damaged without it.
Because maintenance of paved roads has been very poor in Guinea, the
project would finance a pilot operation for vegetation control to be



- 16 -
carried out by small contractor(s) on the 190 km Kissidougout-Kankan
paved road (Annex 4-2).
4.06      Two floors of the five-story building housing SETP, which is
structurally sound but completely dilapidated, and the building housing
SET, will be rehabilitated.  Works will include repairs and repainting
of rooms, repair of electrical and water systems, and provision of
serviceable office furniture and basic office ."quipment and computer
facilities (Annex 4-3).
4.07      To  assist  SETP  in  developing  an  adequate  organizational
structure and strengthening its capacity for programming and supervising
works, for studies, and for training, a small technical assistance team
will be required. This will consist of one Senior Highway Engineer/Man-
ager with special experience in works supervision and highway mainte-
nance organization; one Highway Engineer -- specialist in Highway
Design; one specialist in training and one junior engineer-economist.
This assistance should start no later than one month after project
effectiveness and should be fully mobilized by the time the SETP offices
have  been  rehabilitated.   The  technical  assistance  will  initially
(a) supervise and monitor implementation of the project civil works, and
assist in the preparation of the Priority Program for Road Rehabilita-
tion (which it would also ultimately monitor); and (b) carry out person-
nel evaluations, develop a clear organizational framework, establish job
descriptions for all technical and administrative positions and develop
and start implementing a training program to upgrade the capacity of
SETP's technical staff.  In addition, technical assistance would pro-
gressively assist SETP in addressing issues of highway planning, mainte-
nance, and effective administration.  It would also establish criteria
and procedures, as well as related organizational arrangements for
handling feasibility and engineering studies, tendering and disburse-
ment. Annex 4-4 provides outline terms of reference which were agreed
at negotiations.
4.08      Short-term consulting services will be provided to prepare
proposals and an action plan for (a) transferring road maintenance
planning and works supervision functions currently being carried out by
OPR to SETP; and (b) privatizing OPR's Works Division and transforming
it into a fully fledged contracting firm, probably in association with
experienced partners.   Another study urgently required  concerns  the
establishment of a regular financing mechanism for highway maintenance
operations that are currently seriously under-funded (para 3.02).
Ports Sub-sector
4.09      This component (Maps IBRD 20075 and 20131) includes:
(a)  construction of a 1,500 m long siltation prevention dike to
close the two openings located at the north side of the
harbor, and extension of the Prudente breakwater by 200 m to
reduce wave action at the location of the new container berth;
(b) dredging of about 1.8 million ms to deepen the leading channel
and port water area to -9.5 m;



- 17 -
(c) construction of a container berth 250 -i long and 10 m deep
with a 75,000 m2 storage area of which 45,000 m 2 will be paved
under the proposed project;
(d) construction of a fuel jetty capable of receiving vessels of
up to 30,000 dwt and 190 m long;
(e) rehabilitation of existing port facilities that were not
rehabilitated under the Conakry Port Project (paved areas;
quay aprons; water, drainage and electrical systems, etc.);
(f) provision of navigation aids (light buoys and beacons); and
(g)  technical assistance to PAC for:  (i) preparation of tender
documents for the above works and dredging, and supervision;
and (ii) improvement of port operation and financial manage-
ment (including budgetary control, internal audit, cost
accounting and pricing) through consultancy services and
training.
Annex 4-5 provides details on the engineering aspects of the port
component. Annex 4-6 describes the institutional changes under way and
planned to improve PAC's operational and managerial efficiency and
assure its sound financial footing.
Aviation Sub-sector
4.10      The aviation component will include the technical assistance
reqtuired to introduce the agreed institutional changes in the civil
aviation sub-sector (see para 3.12 and Annex 4-7 for details) and to
prepare a number of priority investments necessary to ensure minimum
acceptable safety of flight operations in Conakry and at selected
domestic airports. A. conslultant's study financed by IDA in June 1986,
identified about US$22 m of investments required over a period of six
years. Among those, the following priority items have been selected for
inclusion in the component:
(a) technical assistance to provide initial management of the
newly established ANA, and training of Guinean counterparts to
take over its operation according to an agreed timetable; and
(b) detailed studies to: (i) define the equipment for the Conakry
Airport, secondary airports and the "Me'torologie Nationale"
including preparation of bid documents and supervision of
equipment installation; and (ii) establish plans for the
development of secondary airports including service plans, and
rehabilitation of runways and essential buildings at four
selected airports.
4.11       The aviation component will provide essential nav-aid equip-
ment and other critical facilities including:
For Conakry Airport:
(a) supply of service vehicles and an ambulance;



- 18 -
(b) replacement of the rundown navigation aids (VOR, ILS and
VASIS);
(c) supply of critical telecommunication equipment for the AFTN
and for the domestic network including HF sets, VHF sets and
teleprinters; spares and basic electronic repair sets; and
(d) construction of a firefighting station and miscellaneous
building rehabilitatton; and full enclosure of the airport
area to reduce secur    risks due to vehicle, pedestrian, and
animal traffic now regularly using the runway.
For the secondary airports in Kankan, Lab6, N'z6r6kor6 and Siguiri:
(a) runway maintenance including drainage works over a length
necessary to accommodate the DASH-7;
(b) repair of essential airport buildings, and equipment with
simple watch-towers and associated equipment;
(c) supply of telecommunication sets, with spares;
(d) supply of NDB radio beacons and solar panels; small standby
power generators; and rehabilitation of Conakry's old VOR for
installation in a secondary airport; and
(e) supply of small firefighting vehicles with spares.
For the M4t4orologie Nationale (MN):
(a) training of Guinean personnel and studies for detailed speci-
fications of MN's equipment;
(b)  supply  of  telecommunication  sets,  including BLU  sets  and
teleprinters;
(c) rehabilitation and replacement of equipment at the Conakry
Airport weather observation center, and supply of spares; and
(d) supply of elementary weather observation equipment and small
power generating sets including some solar panels, and some
vehicles at secondary meteorological stations.
Transport Sector
4.12      The project will finance the services of consultants who will,
in close collaboration with the administration, elaborate a five-year
manpower development program for the sector.   This would include a
critical evaluation of relevant training institutions and curricula
currently available to both public and private sector personnel in
Guinea, and proposals for making them more responsive to foreseeable
manpower needs in the sector in the medium-term. More generally, the
project will finance a project coordinator, in SET, who will monitor
progress of the different components; he will also pay particular
attention to developing the Transport Planning Unit into an effective
data collection, investment planning and policy support unit for the



- 19 -
SET. The immediate training needs of administration personnel will be
identified and on-the-job and formal training programs will be proposed,
either through local institutions, short-term study programs abroad on
specific topics or problem areas, or one-to-two year practical or
theoretical training courses at regional or international institutions
for selected candidates. An amount of about US$1.5 m equivalent would
be made available under the project to finance a three-year program of
training (training materials, courses, scholarships) to Le proposed by
the consultants and agreed upon by Government and IDA. In addition, the
project will support the re-establishment of acceptable office accommo-
dation for personnel responsible for administering the sector (An-
nex 4-3).
C. Project Cost Estimate
4.13      The estimated total cost of the project including contingen-
cies is US$111.5 m equivalent; the project is exempt from taxes and
duties. As shown in the table below, the foreign exchange component is
about US$99.6 m or 89%.   Costs have been  estimated  in January 1987
prices, and with the current exchange rate of US$1 - GF 400. Physical
contingencies of 15% on average have been added. Price contingencies
for foreign expenditures are 3% for 1987, 1% p.a. for 1988-90, and 3.5%
for 1991; for local expenditures, annual price increases of 15% were
used to reflect current inflation trends in Guinea.  Annex 4-8 gives
detailed cost estimates for each component.
--- F million         -      ----- US$ million -------
Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign  Total
Road Component             1,360    9,480    10,840    3.4       23.7     27.1
Port Component             1,200    18,800    20,000    3.0      47.0     50.0
Aviation Component          200    3,800      4,000    0.5        9.5     10.0
Transport Sector Component  120    1,160       1,280    0.3       2.9      3.2
Total Base Cost          2,880    33,240    36,120    7.2      83.1      90.3
Physical Contingencies      440    4,600      5,040    1.1       11.5     12.6
Price Contingencies        1,440    2,000      3,440    3.6       5.0      8.6
Total Project Cost       4.760   39,840    44,600   11.9       99.6    111.5
4.14      The foreign exchange costs of the project will be financed by
IDA (US$55.0 m equivalent), by the AfDB (US$30.0 m equivalent), by the
Federal Republic of Germany (KfW, US$13.0 m equivalent under the Special
Joint Financing Agreement for the Special Africa Facility, and GTZ,
US$1.0 m equivalent) and by France  (FAC, US$1.0 m equivalent);  local
costs will be covered by the Government (US$6.5 m equivalent), by PAC
(US$5.0 m equivalent) and by IDA (US$0.4 m equivalent).  The Government
will onlend US$11.0 m of the IDA credit to PAC for 20 years including
four years of grace, at 8.0% p.a., and US$8.9 m to the new aviation
navigation agency (ANA) to be created, at the same terms and conditions.
PAC and ANA would assume the foreign exchange risk which is considered
minor, since a significant part of their revenues is in foreign



- 20 -
currency. The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement with PAC and ANA
would be conditions of disbursement of the two sub-loans.  Since the
Government attaches the highest priority to the rehabilitation of the
country's paved road network, and to re-establishing essential safe-
guards in air transport, budgetary allocations for counterpart funds
will be assured; in addition, this will be confirmed at the proposed
annual revJews of the three-year rolling investment and expenditure
program with IDA (para 3.04).
D. Implementation
4.15      The road component will be implemented by SETP.  The bulk of
the final design data have been prepared under the Third Highway Project
and are ready for bidding by already prequalified firms,  Civil works
construction will be carried out by contract. Works will be subdivided
into three lots, supervised by consultants, and are expected to be
carried out over a two-year period starting September 1988.
4.16      The port component was prepared by consultants accepted by the
Association and the co-financiers under agreed terms of reference.
Construction is expected to start in early 1988 and to be completed in
mid-1991.  The critical path program for implementation was discussed
and agreed with PAC and the co-financiers during appraisal (Annex 4-9).
4.17      Agreement was reached with PAC during negotiations that it
will: (a) assign by December 31, 1987, two qualified engineers to work
as counterparts to the supervision consultants; (b) establish by Decem-
ber 31, 1987, a Monitoring Unit headed by its Technical Director and
consisting of qualified staff in adequate numbers agreed with the
Association, to coordinate the implementation of the project, prepare
progress reports and implement the training program; and (c) prepare and
submit by June 30, 1988, to the Association for its approval, a training
program, and, thereafter, carry out such program in accordance with a
timetable satisfactory to the Association.
4.18      The aviation component will be implemented initially by the
Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGAC) in SET and by ANA after its
establishment.  ANA is expected to employ about 70 persons.  Most of
DGAC's existing trained personnel is expected to be transferred to
SOGEAC and to ANA. The organization of the aviation sector, including
the possible merger of SOGEAC and ANA will be reviewed between Govern-
ment and IDA no later than by December 31, 1991.
4.19      Meteorological services for aviation remain the responsibility
of the M4teorologie Nationale, which will, however, detach a team of
about ten key personnel at Conakry, where they will operate under the
guidance of the ANA.   Similar arrangements would be made  in those
secondary airports where the local Meteorological Observation Centers
are located.  These arrangements and those for the maintenance of the
meteorological equipment were agreed upon at negotiations.
4.20      The transport sector component will be implemented by SET.
During negotiations, a schedule for carrying out the program of person-
nel testing and for submitting proposals for SET and SETP was agreed
upon (Annex 3-7).



- 21 -
E. Procurement
4.21      Unless otherwise indicated below, procurement arrangements for
the overall project are as follows:  (a) all equipment and civil works
contracts under the project will be awarded on the basis of internation-
al competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines, and
procurement decisions in excess of US$100,000 equivalent will be subject
to prior approval by IDA; (b) all civil works construction will be
supervised by consultants acceptable to the Association and the
co-financiers, under agreed terms of reference; and (c) all consultants
and experts for technical assistance will be recruited in accordance
with the Bank Group and co-financiers' Guidelines under agreed terms of
reference.  Contracts for civil works which are unlikely to attract
international competition will be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures
which have been reviewed and are acceptable to IDA, as stated in pa-
ras 4.21-4.23 oelow. These arrangements were confirmed during negotia-
tions.
4.22      For the road component,  all contracts  for civil works in
excess of US$2.5 m equivalent will be awarded on the basis of ICB.
Contracts for civil works under US$2.5 m equivalent but not exceeding
US$5.0 m in aggregate, may be awarded on the basis of LCB. The contract
for the pilot vegetation control operation estimated to cost less than
US$0.3 m would be awarded under LCB among selected domestic firms.
Equipment and goods for this sub-component for a total amount not
exceeding US$0.2 m will be procured through the procurement agent
retained by OPR under the Third Highway Project.
4.23      For the port component, it is expected that all project items,
except technical assistance, will be awarded to the same contractor
under ICB. This is necessary to ensure efficient coordination of works
that depend on intricate scheduling to progress as programmed and
without impeding port operations. However, work has been divided into
separate lots, so as to facilitate parallel financing by different
co-financing agencies. PAC will be responsible for project implementa-
tion.
4.24      For the aviation component, equipment will be procured under
ICB, except that (a) purchases of telecommunication equipment and spares
(approximately US$0.5 m), where standardization with existing sets is
essential, may be procured, with prior IDA agreement, directly from
authorized agents; and (b) packages belo-7 US$200,000 up to an aggregate
of US$2.0 m may be procured through international shopping on the basis
of price quotations from at least three qualified suppliers.  Because
contracts for civil works cover small and scattered works, they will be
awarded after LCB.



- 22 -
Amounts and Methods of Procurement La
(US$ m equivalent)
Category                                             ICB      LCB       Other    Total
Road Component                                               28.8      2.4        4.1       35.3
(23.6)    (2.1)      (4.0)    (29.8)
Civil Works                                                28.8       2.4        0.1       31.3
(23.6)    (2.1)      (0.1)    (25.8)
Equipment and Materials                                                          0.9        0.9
(0.9)     (0.9)
Cons. Services, Tech Assistance and Training                                     3.1        3.1
(3.1)     (3.1)
Port Component                                               55.1                 4.9       60.0
(8.7)               (2.3)    (11.0)
Civil Works                                                 54.3       --         --       54.3
(7.9)                          (7.9)
Equipment and Materials                                      0.8                            0.8
(0.8)                          (0.8)
Cons. Services, Tech Assistance and Training                                     4.9        4.9
(2.3)     (2.3)
Aviation Component                                            3.5      4.5        5.0       13.0
(3.5)    (4.1)      (3.4)    (11.0)
Civil Works                                                           4.5                   4.5
(4.1)                (4.1)
Equipment and Materials                                      3.5                 2.3        5.8
(3.5)      --       (2.3)      (5.8)
Cons. Services, Tech Assistance and Training                                     2.7        2.7
(1.1)     (1.1)
Transport Sector Component                                                        3.2        3.2
(3.2)     (3.2)
Cons. Services, Tech Assistance and Training                                     3.2        3.2
(3.2)     (3.2)
TOTAL PROJECT                                                87.4      6.9       17.2      111.5
(35.8)    (6.2)    (13.0)    (55.0)
Civil Works                                                83.1       6.9        0.1       90.1
(31.5)    (6.2)      (0.1)    (37.8)
Equipment and Materials                                     4.3        --        3.2        7.5
(4.3)      --       (3.2)      (7.5)
Cons. Services, Tech Assistance and Training                  --       --       13.9       13.9
(9.7)     (9.7)
/a  Amounts in ( ) indicate IDA credit shares in totals.
F. Financing and Disbursements
4.25         The proposed IDA credit of US$55 m will be made to the Govern-
ment  of  Guinea.    The  project  is  expected  to  be  fully  disbursed  by
mid-1992. The credit will be disbursed against the categories indicated



- 23 -
for each component as shown below. Disbursements would be fully docu-
mented except for some expenditures under Category (3) (d), for which
statements of expenditure will be used.   Documentation of the  latter
will be kept by the project coordination in SET and reviewed by super-
vision missions.   No  special  account  will  be  required,  because  the
project does not finance operating expenditures. Disbursement applica-
tions against contracts will not be for less than US$10,000.
% of Expenditure
Category                  Amount (US$ m)          to be Financed
(1) Civil Works by Contract                 33.0
(a) for road rehabilitation             19.2         100% of foreign expenditure
(b) for pilot road maintenance           0.1             100% of total cost
(c) for office rehabilitation            1.2         100% of foreign expenditure
(d) for port infrastructure              8.9         100% of foreign expenditure
(e) for airport rebab. - Conakry         1.3         100% of foreign expenditure
(f) for secondary airport rehab.         2.3         100% of foreign expenditure
(2) Equipment and Haterials                 4.7
(a) for road component                   0.9         100% of foreign expenditure
(b) for port component                   0.1         100% of foreign expenditure
(c) for aviation component - ANA         3.1         100% of foreign expenditure
(d) for aviation component - Meteorology    0.6      100% of foreign expenditure
(3) Consulting Services,
Technical Assistance and Training        7.5
(a) for road cbmponent                   2.6             100% of total cost
(b) for port component                   0.5             100% of total cost
(c) for aviation component               1.2             100% of total cost
(d) for transport sector component       3.2             100% of total cost
(4) Unallocated                             9.8
TOTAL                                   55.0
4.26       The detailed disbursement schedule for the project is given in
Annex 4-10. It differs from the standard West Africa Region profile for
Transport Sector Projects of 6.5 years mainly because preparation of the
road and port components is well advanced, so that rapid project
start-up can be expected.
4.27       Road Component.  The standard disbursement profile for trans-
port projects in the West African Region indicates that a six-year
period  is required  for  full  disbursement.   But  the profile  reflects
mainly the experience of complex highway maintenance projects and is not
considered  appropriate  for  the  proposed project.   About  94%  of  the
proposed credit concern straightforward civil works, for which the bulk
of final design data already exist and that are ready for bidding by
already prequalified firms. Therefore, the proposed highway component
is expected to be fully disbursed by end 1990. The detailed disburse-
ment schedule is shown in Annex 4-11. The table above indicates credit
categories and disbursement percentages. Disbursemnent for civil works



- 24 -
and consulting services would be on the basis of contracts approved by
IDA; it is estimated that a maximum of about 10 contracts would be
signed.  Disbursements for purchase of equipment and furniture would
also be made on the basis of IDA-approved contracts, and equipment for
the vegetation control operation would be acquired through the OPR
purchasing agent.
4.28      Port Component.  The IDA financing of US$11.0 m equivalent for
this component will be onlent to PAC at commercial rates (8.00% for a
period of twenty years, including a four-year grace period) to cover 20%
of the foreign exchange  cost of the component.   The remaining  80%
(US$44 m equivalent) is expected to be financed by an AfDB loan of
US$30.0 m equivalent (8.64%, also for twentv years, including a
four-year grace period), and by a KfW/SJF credit of DM 25 m (US$13.0 m
equivalent, 8%, same repayment and grace periods) and a GTZ grant of
US$1.0 m equivalent. PAC will provide US$5.0 m equivalent representing
the local expenditures.
4.29      AfDB will finance the container berth, dredging and construc-
tion supervision; KfW will finance the siltation prevention dike,
extension of the Prudente dike and preparation of tender documents; GTZ
will finance expatriate experts providing the technical assistance; and
IDA will finance the fuel jetty, rehabilitation works and navigation
aids, and training and studies.  Effectiveness of the AfDB loan and of
the KfW/SJF credit will be conditions of disbursement for the port
component of the credit.  The detailed disbursement schedule and the
agreed financing plan are shown in Annex 4-12.
4.30      Aviation Component.  The aviation component will finance 100%
of foreign cost estimated at US$12.2 m. US$11 m will be financed by IDA
and US$1.2 m equivalent from a grant provided by FAC (French bilateral
assistance); the latter would cover technical assistance. Local costs
will be financed by Government as a US$0.8 m equity contribution to the
Air Navigation Agency in annual installments as required for the imple-
mentation of the project.  This was agreed at negotiations.   The IDA
credit would finance 100% of the foreign cost of studies, training,
civil works, purchase and installation of equipment (plus possibly a
minor portion of technical assistance if the FAC grant is not sufficienat
to cover its full cost).  Except for the part financing the equipment
for METEOROLOGIE NATIONALE, the IDA credit will be onlent on commercial
terms to the ANA; this was confirmed at negotiations. Disbursament for
all equipment and works would only start after key members of the
technical assistance team have taken up their duty and prepared the
specifications and tender documents.
4.31      Transport Sector Component.  The IDA credit will finance 100%
of the technical assistance, consulting services and training costs
under this component. Detailed disbursement schedules for the aviation
and transport sector components are in Annex 4-13.
G. Accounting and Auditing
4.32      Accounting, costing, and budgeting systems for the road and
aviation components need to be established by the Project Management
Unit in SETP and technical assistance to SET/ANA.  They have already



- 25 -
been established in PAC, and will be further improved through special
financial assistance and introduction of computerized management sys-
tems.  External auditors acceptable to the Association have carried out
annual audits of PAC and will continue to do so; similar arrangements
will be made for SETP and SET/ANA, with audit reports to be submitted to
IDA within four months of the end of each fiscal year.
H. Reporting
4.33      SETP, SET/ANA and PAC, with the assistance of consultants,
will submit quarterly progress reports on project implementation and
expenditures to IDA and the co-financiers, as appropriate.
I. Impact on Environment and Employment
4.34      The  rehabilitation  of  existing paved  roads  will  have  no
negative  environmental  impact.   The pilot maintenance operation for
vegetation control may have a positive impact by reducing the number of
bush fires.  The road component will generate employment for about
1,500 unskilled laborers during construction. If the pilot maintenance
operation for vegetation control is successful, additional permanent
jobs would be created through private small contractors doing routine
maintenance by contract.
4.35      No significant environmental impact is expected in the city of
Conakry or adjacent water areas as a result of the port component since
all improvements are confined either to rehabilitation of existing
facilities that have operated in the same location for many years or to
construction of berths within the same port water area. Hydraulic model
studies proved that closing the two openings located at the north side
of the harbor will have no adverse scouring or siltation effect on the
coast adjacent to Conakry. Dredged soil will be dumped in deep sea far
from the port in a place which will have no adverse effect on either the
navigation or the environment.
4.36      The port  component  will  generate  employment  opportunities
during the construction stage for some 400 skilled and unskilled labor.
On completion of the project, about 100 permanent additional jobs wouild
be created, ranging from port labor to skilled and semi-skilled workers
in the operation and maintenance of the facilities to be provided under
the project. Training will improve skills in port management, security
and accounting of about 50 PAC staff.
4.37      While there will be inter-agency transfers under the aviation
component, little or no changes are expected in employment levels.
J. Technical Assistance
4.38      The staff-month requirements for technical assistance exclud-
ing construction supervision total 553.  They include 90 s-m for the
road component, 223 s-m for the port component, 120 s-m for the aviation
component and 120 s-m for the transport sector.



- 26 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. The Road Component
General
5.01      The project complements and completes a program of paved road
rehabilitation launched under the ongoing Third Highway Project and
initiates the reorganization of the Public Works Administration.  The
economic evaluation of the civil works to be carried out under the
project is based on the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
(HDMS).   Vehicle operating costs  (voc) have been computed based on
roughness indices, using the vehicle operating cost module of the
HDM III model, and reflecting the present composition of the vehicle
fleet in Guinea described in Annex 5-1. All costs and benefits in the
economic analysis are estimated at January 1987 prices, net of taxes and
duties.
Economic Rates of Return
5.02      In calculating the economic rates of return  (ERR) for the
three road sections, it was conservatively assumed that (a) maintenance
costs would increase compared to the "without project" situation, where
no maintenance is actually carried out; (b) roads would be resealed in
year 10; (c) traffic would increase by only 4% annually, and there would
be no generated traffic; and (d) passenger time savings were disregard-
ed. Also, any residual value of the roads in year 15 was ignored. With
these very conservative assumptions, the estimated ERRs are as shown
below:
A                   B                  C
Mamou-Kissidougou    Kissidougou-Gueck6dou    Kamsar-Bok
Length (km)                  208                  93                 63
ADT (veh/day)                187                  142                165
Investment (USs m)           15.4                 6.3                0.8
ERR (%)                      22                   18                 28
5.03      Sensitivity tests show these results to be quite robust:  for
the ERR to drop to 12%, average daily traffic on road A would have to
decrease to 109 vehicles reducing VOC savings by one-third, or alterna-
tively costs would have to increase by 80%; on road B, adt would have to
drop to 103 vehicles reducing benefits by 22%, or costs would have to
increase by 40%; while resealing of road C would still be justified with
adt of 58 vehicles only, and a 12% ERR would still be assured if the
cost of investments rose by 280%. Details of the economic analysis are
in Annex 5-2.



- 27 -
Project Beneficiaries
5.04      By reestablishing normal traffic conditions on essential paved
road sections, the project will enable agricultural inputs and basic
commodities to reach the regions, and agricultural surplus production to
be exported to the markets of Conakry. It will thus benefit both rural
and urban populations by facilitating inter-regional exchanges of goods
and reestablishing safe all-weather passenger transport at substantially
shorter travel times.  Most directly, the project will benefit road
users, including vehicle owners and paying passengers who should benefit
from tariff reductions due to significantly reduced costs of vehicle
operation and enhanced competitiveness of the road transport industry.
Project Risks
5.05      Provided that IDA can assure intensive supervision at crucial
periods of contract preparation, award and start-up of works to help
unblock current cumbersome project implementation procedures in Guinea,
there should be no particular risks attached to the timely execution of
this straightforward and urgent civil works component.
B. The Port Component
General
5.06      The proposed project continues IDA's earlier assistance to
Guinea's port sub-sector in (a) developing containerized traffic through
the construction of a new deep-water container terminal; (b) re-estab-
lishing and improving earlier mineral (bauxite-alumina) export capacity
by siltation prevention and establishment dredging of the port water
area and access channel to -9.5 m:n and (c) reducing ore carrier waiting
time and substantially improve port safety through construction of a
specialized fuel jetty.  At the same time, the project would support
institutional improvements in the port sub-sector.
5.07      The economic objectives of the project are to:  (a) signifi-
cantly reduce existing and expected future ship-waiting time, and
related costs and congestion surcharges;  (b) avoid expensive overland
transport costs, and port revenues foregone on future traffic which
would otherwise be diverted  to neighboring Freetown port in Sierra
Leone; (c) substantially reduce maintenance dredging costs through
siltation prevention; (d) eliminate losses on mineral exports foregone
by re-establishing the requisite depth in the port area and access
channel for ore-carriers to operate fully loaded; (e) improve operation-
al efficiency and navigational safety in the entrance channel and port
area through dredging and renewal of navigation aids; and (f) increase
port revenues by strengthening and improving port operation and adminis-
tration.  Further, the economic analysis of the proposed port project
component excludes the improvements in port productivity expected from
the first Port Project, which have been considered as already attained
in the "without" case.



- 28 -
Traffic Analysis and Projections
5.08      Consultants prepared detailed traffic forecasts, on a commodi-
ty basis through the year 2000, giving a moderate and a pessimistic
scenario, which differ mainly in the volume of mineral exports and
mining-related imports.  The pessimistic scenario implies an average
annual growth rate for imports during the next ten years of 5.3% (made
up of a 6% growth in general merchandise and a 4% growth in bulk im-
ports) and no growth in exports (agricultural export growth of 8% p.a.
being insignificant in the volume of overall exports of around
3,300,000 tpy). While this is well below the untypical growth rates of
recent years, it was considered prudent to further reduce growth assump-
tions for imports for 1987-95 to 4% and to 3.5% from 1996-2000 reflect-
ing lower imports mainly of rice, cement and "other merchandise," in
line with local production objectives and foreign exchange constraints.
Traffic forecasts used in the economic analysis are detailed in An-
nex 2-6, 2 and in Annex 6-3, Table 1.
Project Benefits
5.09      Project benefits were calculated for the port component as a
whole, as well as for each of the three main sub-components: (a) silta-
tion prevention dike, establishment dredging and rehabilitation of
navigation aids; (b) the deepwater container terminal and minor rehabil-
itation works; and (c) the petroleum jetty. The quantified benefits for
the project include: for (a) above -- (i) reduced maintenance dredging
costs; (ii) reduced shipwaiting time attributable to dredging before the
quays; and (iii) reduced transport cost per ton of mineral shipped due
to full ship loading; for (b) above -- (i) avoided shipwaiting time due
to increased port capacity and expedited berthing; and avoided overland
transport costs for goods which would otherwise have to be diverted to
Freetown; and (ii) reduction in losses due to improved security in a
separate, privately managed container terminal; and for (c) above --
avoided shipwaiting costs at the mineral quays currently blocked for
significant periods when fuel is discharged and avoided costs of reha-
bilitating the pipeline from the FRIGUIA quai to the oil depot.
5.10      Benefits which have not been quantified, but which have been
important considerations in designing the project include increased
navigational safety due to dredging and signalization (one ore-carrier
ran aground in the access channel in December 1986 and blocked port
access for several days); better infrastructure utilization due to the
possibility of using the access channel during night-time; reduced
inventory capital for goods tied up in waiting ships; avoidance of major
fire risks at the non-adapted mineral qaays where fuel is currently
discharged; and finally, the general benefits from increased productivi-
ty in port operations and cargo handling due to training assistance and
private sector involvement in port-associated services.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Sensitivity Analysis
5.11      Based on  the conservative  estimate of quantified benefits
detailed in para 5.09, estimated capital and maintenance/operating cost,
and a 20-year economic life, the project would yield an ERR of 24%
overall; with siltation prevention/dredging/navigation aids contributing
22%; the container terminal 27% and the fuel jetty 12%. An increase in



- 29 -
project costs of 20% would reduce the ERR to 21%; a similar decrease in
benefits would result in an ERR of 20%.  Even with a simultaneous 20%
increase in costs and decrease in benefits, the ERR would still be
satisfactory at 17%. Details of the calculations are in Annex 5-3 and
in the project file.
Risks
5.12      The project does not involve significant technical risks since
it has been designed according to well-known engineering principles and
would be implemented by competent contractors, and supervised by experi-
enced consultants working with a Port Authority that has administered
the first Port Project very satisfactorily.
C. The Aviation Component
5.13      No ERR has been calculated for the proposed aviation compo-
nent. Its main economic objectives are the development of technically
and financially sound institutions for administering sub-sector activi-
ties and assuring safe operation of essential air traffic services for
the country. The proposed investments in basic navigational aids and
safety equipment, and the modest rehabilitative civil works complement
investments by bilateral donors, and are the minimum required to reduce
the probability of serious air disaster -- which could cost not only
many lives, but a much larger sum than the investments proposed to the
Government -- to acceptable levels as normal in most countries.
The Institution Strengthening Component
5.14      This  component  provides  the  financing for rebuilding  the
overall administration and efficient operation of the transport sector
from the poor foundations left by many years of mismanagement and
neglect. Through technical assistance in the short-term, but especially
through studies and training of Guinean personnel, this contribution to
sector development is essential, even if benefits are not quantifiable.
VI. FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF PAC
A. Recent Financial Performance and Current Financial Position
6.01      The revenue and cash flow objectives set for the implementa-
tion period of the First Port Project were generally achieved, due to
larger than expected traffic volumes, adequate tariff revisions and low
working expenses, including very low personnel costs.  On the whole,
PAC's net income after taxes has averaged US$1.5 m on annual revenues
averaging US$14.6 m over the 1983-86 period.  Cumulated internal cash
generation over the period reached US$18.9 m, allowing PAC to finance
the local cost of the first Port Project, build its working capital at
the required levels and, after deduction of financial charges during
construction and provisions for dredging, accumulate a net cash surplus
of about US$7.7 million.
6.02      PAC's 1985 balance sheet is shown in Annex 6-1 before and
after revaluation, with an estimate of the December 1986 balance sheet.



- 30 -
PAC's balance sheet was fully revaluated by its Auditors; their work
included a detailed evaluation of fixed assets and was a first of its
kind for a Public Enterprise in Guinea. The results of this revaluation
have been agreed with the Ministry of Finance.  Confirmation of this
agreement will be a cor"Jnon of effectiveness.
6.03      From 1983 to 1985, PAC's net accounts receivable increased
substantially to FG 2,974 million by December 1985, or more than nine
months' revenues. These include arrears of local clients, mostly public
enterprises and the administration, as well as of foreign port users.
Several corrective measures were taken in 1986. PAC appointed Hamburg
Port Consulting to completely overhaul foreign client accounts and
collect arrears prior to 1986. In addition, PAC introduced new payment
procedures including advance payments and deposits by shippers, and
started applying stringent measures including detaining delinquent
ships. As a result, actual collection (including arrears) during 1986
on foreign clients reached VS$8.4 m against total billings of US$9.2 m.
Total gross receivables thereby increased only by 16% to GF 5,121 mil-
lion by December 1986, while total revenues increased by 36%. During
the first quarter of 1987, actual collections have exceeded billings by
2%.
6.04      PAC's current assets as of December 1986 include large amounts
deposited and frozen in the liquidated state banks, of which US$8.6 m in
foreign currency. The unavailability of these sums has so far made it
impossible for PAC to have long overdue maintenance dredging carried out
by a foreign contractor. Also, PAC has not yet paid to the Treasury the
interest during construction on the loans for the first Port Project and
some taxes, which constitute the bulk of its current liabilities.
B. Tariffs
6.05      Under the First Port Project, a new tariff structure was put
into effect in 1984, which essentially includes port dues on ships and
stevedoring charges payable in dollars, and wharf-handling and storage
charges for cargo, payable in local currency (for details see An-
nex 6-2). Regular tariff increases were implemented over 1984-85; and
following the 1986 devaluation, an intermediate revision of tariffs
payable in local currency was introduced, which compensated partly for
the effect  of  the devaluation.   Further adjustments of  the tariff
structure are required in 1987, mainly to reflect the transfer of PAC's
stevedoring, shorehandling and warehousing activities to private sector
operators, thereby transforming PAC into an organization dealing essen-
tially with  infrastructure.   A new  tariff  structure prepared by a
consultant was reviewed with the Association before negotiations; its
implementation will be a condition of effectiveness.  To achieve the
financial objectives specified below, regular subsequent tariff increas-
es will be required. The tariff structure will be reviewed again with
the Association before the opening of the new container terminal.
C. Financial Objectives
6.06      PAC's stated objective is to be a fully autonomous, commer-
cially-oriented  and  profitable  public  enterprise.   Its  statutes,
adapted in line with the privatization process, specify that operating



- 31 -
revenues should cover all operating expenses, including adequate mainte-
nance expenditures, interest charges on debt, provision for losses and
renewals, and a minimum return on revaluated net fixed assets.  The
authorities have consistently accepted tariff increases requested by PAC
to achieve stated objectives, but PAC's management has tended to make
inadequate provision for losses. Proper estimation of these and setting
of adequate salaries and incentives for personnel will need special
attention in the annual budget preparation process. As under the first
Port Project, agreement was reached between the Government and IDA that,
during the project implementation period, PAC will submit annual draft
budgets for comment by the Association.
6.07      Progress toward financial autonomy for PAC has been less than
satisfactory with regard to control by the Government of PAC's opera-
tional expenditures and Bank accounts.  At present, all expenditures
above FG 200,000 are submitted to a priori Government control, making
the timely execution of maintenance very difficult. Also, in addition
to the regulation whereby PAC's cash surplus was to be deposited in
non-interest-bearing accounts in the Central Bank, the Government had
requested that payments by PAC's clients be effected directly into
Central Bank accounts, which makes monitoring of client accounts ex-
tremely cumbersome.   During negotiations,  the Government  e E eed to:
(a) limit a priori control to expenditures above US$250.0(0 equivalent;
(b) allow PAC to maintain its accounts in commercial banks; and (c) let
PAC keep its surpluses in interest-bearing accounts. Requisite admin-
istrative measures confirming these arrangements will be a condition of
effectiveness.
6.08      PAC's financial management needs to be reinforced.  The recent
recruitment of a high-level financial expatriate advisor is already a
major step towards this reinforcement. With his help, PAC will prepare
a detailed program covering the strengthening of the accounting system,
the setting up of fail-safe billing procedures based on dependable
information using a new computer system; the introduction of proper
internal controls; and the corresponding training of key personnel
abroad. Agreement of this program by the Association will be a condi-
tion of effectiveness. Its major immediate objective will be to improve
collection of receivables, the levels of which should not exceed three
months of revenues. Other agreements under the ongoing Port Project on
financial targets and covenants, i.e., working and operating ratios,
current ratio, reevaluation of assets and annual audits, and agreement
of the Association on PAC's investment expenditures during project
implementation, were reconducted under the new project (Annex 6-1). In
addition, it was agreed that PAC should maintain a rate of return of at
least 6% on average revaluated net fixed assets in use.
6.09      About GF 3,719 m (US$9.3 m) of PAC's cash, mostly in foreign
exchange, were frozen in the liquidated state banks, and similarly about
GF 733 m was due to PAC by local clients, mostly state enterprises and
administration  departments.   In  addition,  PAC  should  also  collect
through the State about US$3.1 m of arrears from some foreign shipping
lines, that have to be negotiated under bilateral arrangements. Con-
versely, PAC owes to the State GF 2,648 m in interest during construc-
tion on the loans for the First Port Project and about GF 511 m in tax
arrears. PAC prepared a plan for compensation of all reciprocal debts,
which was finalized and agreed upon with the Ministry of Finance before



- 32 -
negotiations. Agreement was confirmed at negotiations. This plan also
includes:  (a) compensation for PAC's foregone revenues of GF 174 m for
the period of 1986 and 1987 during which the mining companies refused to
pay announced tariff increases; and (b) GF 557 m in foregone interest,
when PAC's surplus was frozen in non-interest-bearing accounts.   The
balance of GF 3,375 m in favor of PAC will be used to prepay 21% (equiv-
alent to US$8.4 m) of the outstanding loans for the First Project in
1987, thereby reducing future debt service to acceptable levels and
improving PAC's debt-equity ratio. Completion of all legal documenta-
tion for implementation of this plan will be a condition of effective-
ness.
6.10      In addition to the debt compensation, agreement was reached
with the Government at negotiations to:  (a) consolidate as equity the
former liability labelled "depreciation to be paid to the State" by PAC
under the old accounting system; and (b) allow PAC to carry forward
cumulated losses before paying income taxes.
D. Forecast Financial Performance
6.11      The  financial  forecasts  for  the  1987/95 period have been
developed taking into account that the new tariff structure would be put
into effect by May 1987 and that PAC has relinquished all stevedoring
activities to private sector companies by April 1987. The forecasts, in
current prices, are based on conservative traffic assumptions, stepped
tariff increases and some increases of expenditures in local currency,
the levels of which had not yet been fully adjusted following monetary
reform.   Fixed asset values and the depreciation schedule used are
derived from the revaluation for the closing balance sheet as of Decem-
ber 31, 1985. Major assumptions and considerations used in the forecast
as well as the forecast income account are detailed in Annex 6-3 and in
the Project File. PAC's operating income would be positive all through
project  implementation  and  thereafter.   Under  the  assumption  that
interest on the new loans for the project are charged to the income
statement the same year, net income would become negative in 1989
without tariff increase.   To cover the major  increase  in financial
charges between 1988 and 1992 and loan repavments thereafter, a new
increase in tariffs will thus be needed starting at the latest in 1990.
With total tariff increases of 34% in current terms between 1989 and
1993 (with 5% p.a. in 1989 and 1990, 10% in 1991, and 5% in 1992 and
1993), PAC's income after taxes would be slightly positive in 1989-1991,
and show substantial net profits from 1993 onward, when shipping would
start to fully benefit from the new port facilities. The rate of return
on net fixed assets in use would reach 9% until 1991, and exceed 10%
starting in 1992.
6.12      The forecast statement of source and application of funds and
the forecast balance sheet are also shown in Annex 6-3.  During the
1987-92 period, PAC would cover with its initial cash surplus and cash
flow, some US$11.4 m for the local cost portion of the new project,
maintenance dredging and minimum increases in working capital needs as
well as about US$59.1 m in interest during construction and debt service
on the borrowings for the First Port Project. The substantial addition-
al cash outflow occurring when debt service on the new borrowings would
cumulate with the debt service on the old borrowings, would be covered
by the tariff increases over 1989-92.  In the peak year, 1992, 68% of



- 33 -
PAC's cash expenses would be interest paid to the Government cn the
credits for the first and second port projects re-lent to PAC at commer-
cial  rates.   Even  during  the  two  years  of maximum  cash  outflows
(1989/90), PAC would still generate a small cash surplus. Debt service
coverage ratio would remain a satisfactory 1.3 during project implemen-
tation, increasing to 1.4 by 1995.  PAC's fixed assets would increase
substantially during implementation of the new project with the new
investments being financed mainly by the new loans.  Long term liabili-
ties would thereby increase substantially until 1991. Thereafter, PAC's
debt equity ratio would gradually improve as repayments of principal on
the new loans add to the repayments on the earlier loans.  Agreements
were obtained at negotiations on a debt limitation covenant, excluding
any additional long-term debt during project implementation and featur-
ing a minimum debt-service coverage ratio of 1.25 thereafter.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached or confirmed on
the following:
With SETP:
(a)  study. of funding mechanism for road maintenance to be submit-
ted to IDA by November 15, 1987 and course of action to be
agreed by January 1, 1988 (para 3.02);
(b) annual review of infrastructure maintenance budgets (pa-
ra 3.04);
(c) agreement on transformation of OPR into a private contractor
(para 3.05); and
(d) terms of reference for Project Management Unit in SETP (pa-
ra 4.07).
With SET:
(a) annual review of three-year rolling investment and expenditure
programs  for the transport  sector,  including any proposed
investment for railways (para 3.04);
(b)  transformation of TUC into a joint venture company not later
than June 30, 1988 (para 3.06);
(c) preparation of draft legislation on road transport services by
March 1, 1988, for enactment no later than June 30, 1988
(para 3.07);
(d) employment by PAC of an independent contractor for maintenance
of port facilities by January 1, 1988 (para 3.11);
(e) transfer of maintenance contract for navigation aids in
Conakry port from Office Maritime to private contractor
starting January 1, 1988 (para 3.11);



- 34 -
(f) establishment of an autonomous agency for air navigation
control by June 30, 1988 (para 3.12);
(g) submission by ANA of proposal of adjusted landing fees by
March 1, 1988, and submission of annual budgets to IDA (pa-
ra 3.12);
(h) action plan for completing the AIR GUINEE study financed under
the PPF and for implementing its recommendations; implementa-
tion of restructuring plan to start June 30, 1988 at the
latest (para 3.13);
(i) staff testing, proposals of new operational structure for SET
and SETP, and establishment of a manpower development plan
(paras 3.15, 3.16);
(j) establishment of a Monitoring Unit in PAC for coordination of
project implementation before December 1, 1987; and submission
of a training program for PAC personnel by June 30, 1988
(para 4.17);
(k) respective responsibilities of ANA and the national meteorolo-
gical services (MN) for operating and maintaining meteorologi-
cal equipment (para 4.19);
(1) Government equity contribution to ANA and modalities for
on-lending of credit proceeds to ANA (para 4.30);
(m)  financial targets (6.08) and debt limitation covenant for PAC
(para 6.13); and
(n) consolidation as equity of PAC of liability labelled "depreci-
ation to be paid to the State" under the old accounting
system; and possibility for PAC to carry forward losses for
tax purposes (para 6.10).
7.02      Conditions of Effectiveness will be:
(a) implementation of a GF 15 per liter increase in the tax on
petroleum products (para 3.02);
(b) implementation of agreed new tariff structure by PAC (pa-
ra 3.03);
(c) implementation of revised statutes and regulations of PAC,
together with a new organization and salary structure
(para 3.10);
(d) confirmation of the agreement of PAC's revaluated balance
sheet by the Ministry of Finance (para 6.02);
(e) requisite administrative measures confirming limitation of
a priori control of PAC expenditures to contracts exceeding
US$250,000 equivalent, and permission for PAC to maintain
accounts in commercial banks and keep surpluses in interest
bearing accounts (para 6.07);



- 35 -
(f) detailed PAC program for financial management improvements
(para 6.08); and
(g) completion of legal documentation for compensation of recipro-
cal debts between PAC and the State (para 6.09).
7.03      Conditions of Disbursement will be:
(a)  for the road component:  adoption of an adequate 1988 budget
for maintenance of the priority road network (para 3.02);
(b) for the port and aviation components: conclusion of subsidi-
ary loan agreements between the Borrower and PAC and ANA,
respectively (para 4.14);
(c) for the port component: effectiveness of the AfDB loan and of
the KfW creo-t (para 4.29); and
(d) after January 1, 1988, implementation of a further increase in
fuel taxes (para. 3.02).
7.04      Subject to the above terms, the proposed project is suitable
for a Credit to the Government of the Republic of Guinea in the amount
of US$55 m equivalent, on standard IDA terms.
WAPTR
May 18, 1987



REPUBLIOQE DE G175EE
PR(t SECTORIEt. DES T.1A,ISPORTS
Domnoes Compar6es our l'lnfrastructure Routi6re et le Trafic Routfer. 19S3
Carparative Road and Road Traffic Data for Selected West African Countries. 1983
R6s#au Routier Tout-temsps/Al-Weather Roads
Bituisd/Paved Roads            Gravier/Terre (Gravel Earth Roads)         Trafic Annuel Inter-urbain
Surface                    P8B/cap   %Shicules/N       Longueur                                                        Condition  (tS)                         Conditlon (S)            Annual Inter-urban 90,ad Traffic
Area       PopulatIon   0WG/cap       Vehicles        Length            Densitd/Density             Length      Bon    5oven      Mauvals    Lengtb    Bon   Xoyen    slaua         Freiht/Fret    Paseagers/Passengers
Pays/Country      (kw,' 000)     (million)     (IJSS)        (000)          (km,)      (ok/lOO k1us2)   (ka/OOO pop)      (tkm)      Good    Fair        Bad        (km)     Good   Fair       Bad      (t/km million)       (p/km million)
tMLI                1 240           7.2         150          '8             5 230           0.42            0.73           1 898      43       33        ?4         3 332     11       4       85              256                1 460
MAtURITANIA         I 031           1.6         480          --             2 40n           0.10            1.55           1 640      30       30        40           840       0      5       95
COII DI'VO?RE         322           9.5         710         ISO            13 600           4.27            1.44           3 620      76       i5          7       10 060      30     60       10            3 500                5 500
BtIRKINA              274           6.5          180         28             6 300           2.30            0.97           1 400      40       40)       20         2 650      10     30       60
GUINEA                246           5.8          300         21             4550            3.85            0.78           3145        27      35         38        3 405      13     22        65              160                1 130
GHANA                 239          12.8          320         74 /a         14 130           5.91            1.18           5782       12       27        61         8 348      17     48        35
SENEGAL               194           6.2         440          55             9 ?00           5.00            l.56           3762       51       36        13         5 938      4      26        70
L7BERIA               111           2.1         480          18             3945            3.55            1.88             557      85       13          2        3 388      15     75        10
SIZRA3 LEONE           72           3.6          330         25             7040            9.78            1.96           1280       20       45        35         5 760      30     40        30
CAMBIA                 11           0.7          290          5             2 390          71.15            3.41             535                                    1 875
/   Le tiers seulement en 6tat de marche.
No more then one-third operational.
WAPTR, avril 1987



- 37 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Roads and Road Transport
1.        The situation in the vital road sector is critical.  The state
of maintenance on the 4,200 km priority network which carries over 80%
of all traffic Is extremely poor; of 28 ferries for large river cross-
ings,  only two are operational,  and there are at least 2,500 m of
temporary bridges that need to be replaced.  Currently, the Government
has two major road projects under implementation, both initiated under
the previous regime:   the paving of a 126 km section of the 284 km
Gueckedou-N'zer6kor6  road  in  the  eastern  Forest  Region  and  the
IDA-financed Third Highway Project. The former, with an investment of
US$80.4 m equivalent co-financed in 1983 by four Islamic development
agencies,  is expected  to be  completed  in 1988.   The  Third Highway
Project with a total investment cost of US$73.2 m equivalent is
co-financed by IDA (US$28 m), the African Development Fund (US$14.6 m)
and the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) (US$9 m).
This project became effective in December 1984.  Its main objective is
to ensure all-weather traffic on a priority network of 4,200 km.  It
includes reconstruction of the countrv's most highly trafficked road
from Conakry to Mamou (255 km), spot reconstruction and resurfacing of
about 300 km of other paved roads, regravelling of 445 km of laterite
and 800 km of earth trunk roads, and a three-and-a-half year program of
routine maintenance of the priority network, which consists mainly of
road sections rehabilitated under IDA's Second Highway Project.   In
addition to these trunk road projects, feeder road construction, reha-
bilitation and maintenance is being carried out in the Kankan-Siguiri
areas of Upper Guinea (450 km, US$3.75 m equivalent) under a French and
FED-financed cotton project, and in the Gueckgdou area (500 km,
US$2.8 m) under an IDA-financed rice project.
2.        Start-up of the Third Highway Project has been difficult.  It
was first stalled in the general slowdown of Government activities
following the change of regime, later by financing problems, when the
project revolving funds were suspended following the closure of the
banking system and monetary reform in early 1986.  Difficulties also
arose from a project organization designed for the politico-economic
reality of the First Republic where the public administration worked
poorly and private enterprise was not admitted. To circumvent political
interference and compensate for the ineffectiveness of the Public Works
Administration, the project created an autonomous Road Project Office
(Office du Projet Routier, OPR). The OPR was to be responsible for all
planning, programming and control of civil works under the project, as
well as for executing the regravelling program and equipment-based
maintenance of the priority road network through a "Works Division." A
"Consultant-Contractor" was to run the Works Division along the lines of
a contracting firm, and a "Supervising Consultant" was to assist in the
other functions.   This institutional set-up has proved unnecessarily
cumbersome in the changed economic climate of the Second Republic, which
encourages  private  buslness  development.   After  redesigning  of  the
project a gradual process of orienting OPR's structure towards that of a
contracting enterprise has begun, while planning, programming and
control functions are to be returned to the Secretariat of State for



- 38 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 2 of 4
Public Works. Agreement to the transformation of OPR into a private
contractor was confirmed during negotiation of the proposed project.
3.        Road works included in the Third Highway Project provided no
more than the minimum infrastructure needs of an autarkic economy whose
agricultural sector had been stagnating at self-consumption levels for
many years. They are therefore clearly insufficient to support develop-
ment of a productive market-oriented agriculture sector in a newly-lib-
eralized economy where traffic volumes will soon exceed those forecast
in  1982.   In addition,  many road  sections  that needed only simple
resurfacing when evaluated in 1981 for inclusion under the project now
require substantial reconstruction at significantly higher costs.
Consequently, the Third Highway Project needs to be complemented and
extended, as a matter of urgency, into a priority road rehabilitation
program of the country'8 trunk road network.   The proposed project
includes rehabilitation of those sections of the existing paved road
network not covered under Highways III.  Other priority works will be
carried out under the Road Rehabilitation program to be appraised in
early FY88.
4.        The road transport industry has undergone significant changes
since the advent of the Second Republic.  The most important is the
abolition of two state companies' monopoly of long-distance freight
transport  (COTRA -- dissolved; ENTRAT -- being liquidated).   Freight
traffic is now being handled mostly by private operators; several of
them have acquired truck fleets of 10-20 vehicles, but most are own-
er-operators of one or two vehicles. Access to the industry is free.
Operators from neighboring countries (Senegal, Sierra Leone) have
started to cater to the Guinean market at peak times when demand exceeds
available supply. Road passenger transport has always been handled by
small private transporters and continues to be so. Some 7,000 vehicles
are estimated to be licensed for public transport with over two-thirds
operating in the capital.  There is also still considerable unlicensed
transport for hire, frequently provided by Government employees using
the  administration's  vehicles.   A  newly  established  joint-venture
company (SOGETRAG) started to provide efficient bus services in Conakry
in early 1986, while the surviving state company, TUC, operates poorly
and irregularly:   it is expected to be restructured with a Moroccan
private partner.  Regarding inter-urban passenger transport services,
one private bus company (GUINEE EXPRESS) provides regular services with
some twenty 58-seater buses; but parallel ixregular services have
sometimes been provided by the state-owned "GARAGE DU GOUVERNEMENT"
which charged lower tariffs, since it does not amortize its equipment
provided by the state.   During negotiations,  agreement was reached
between the Government and IDA, on the limitation of the commercial
activity of GARAGE DU GOUVERNEMENT and on a timetable for the restruc-
turing of TUC.
5.        The small private transporters are grouped in syndicates that
organize terminals and allocate and distribute scarce fuel and spare
parts; the large transport companies operate independently, mostly for
regular large clients.  Facilities for vehicle maintenance and repair
are few and those that exist are poorly equipped.  Transport tariffs,
except for urban bus services, are no longer set by SET, but determined
by the operators according to what the market will bear.  When trans-
porters raised tariffs fourfold following a fourfold Increase in the



- 39 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 3 of 4
price of petrol and a tenfold increase in the price of spares, demand
dropped drastically and tariff increases soon stabilized at about double
the previous levels.   Rates reflect costs fairly accurately and are
higher in rural areas where road conditions are poorest and fuel and
spares supplies most costly.
6.        It  is still difficult  to determine  the  size of Guinea's
overaged and extremely heterogeneous vehicle fleet. The Vehicle Regis-
tration Office, previously in SETP, but recently attached to SET where
it more correctly belongs, keeps track of new registrations only,
without dropping scrapped vehicles from its rolls. The proposed project
will provide technical assistance for the reorganization of the Vehicle
Licensing and Registration Office; it will introduce legislation on axle
load control and begin enforcement of basic technical safety regula-
tions.
7.        In  1982,  the  operational  vehicle  fleet was  estimated  at
21,000. With imports almost doubling to over 7,000 vehicles p.a. (many
of them second-hand) in 1985 and 1986, the fleet is currently estimated
at about 27,000 vehicles, (less than a fifth of that in C8te d'lvoire)
of which about 19,000 passenger cars, 3,000 station wagons, 4,000 trucks
and 1,000 buses. This is adequate to meet present transport demand, but
as economic activity picks up, a considerable increase in transport
capacity will be required. However, major new investment in vehicles by
private Guinean operators can be expected only after normal operating
conditions have been re-established on the country's main road network.



ANNEX 2-2
Page..4 of 4
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE                                 Table 1
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Prestations Annuelles de Trafic Routier Total, 1986
(Transport de Marchandises et de Personnes) par Section de Route
Estimated Total Road Traffic (Freight and Passengers) by Road Section. 1986
Trafic
Type /a       Longueur      v6hic./jour    vehicules/km/an       t/km/an      Voy. km/an
Section             de Chaussee        (km)             (N)             (mio)            (mio)          (mio)
CONAKRY - PK 36                    B                25          3 000              27.4            14.1            172.5
PK 36 - COYAH                      B                16          2 000              11.7             6.4             76.0
COYAH - KINDIA                     B               87             800              25.4            24.7            228.8
KINDIA - MAMOU                     B              133             400              19.4            25.9            160.3
PK 36 -DUBREKA                     B               1l             400               1.6             0.5              6.4
COYAH - FORECARIAH                 B               49             250               4.6             3.5             57.3
DUBREKA - BOKE                     G               202            250              18.4             2.4             37.0
MAHOU - LABE                       B              148             250              13.5            10.3             86.4
MAMOU - FARANAH                    B               190            200             13.9             23.4             76.4
KISSIDOUGOU - GUFCKEDOU            B                93            150               5.1             5.3             30.5
FARANAH - KISSIDOUGOU              B              139             100              5.1             17.3             55.9
GIJECKEDOU - MACENTA             G (B)            100             100               3.7             3.9             32.8
KINDIA - TELIMELE                  G              130             100              4.8              1.2              9.5
LABE - POPODARA                    B               10             100              0.4              0.1              2.6
KANKAN - KISSIDOUGOU               B              190             100              7.0             16.0            62.3
N'ZERERORE - LOLA                  G               45              80              2.0              0.8             23.1
LABE - TOUGUE                      G               84              80              1.9              0.6             15.4
17 SECTIONS Cl-DESSUS                           1 652                            165.8            156.4         1 133.1
12 SECTIONS                       CT            1 507              35             19.0            n.d.           n.d.
AUTRES ROUTES                      T           10 845               5             19.8            n.d.           n.d.
TOTAL                                          14 004                            204.7
/a B = Bitumee, G - Gravier, G(B) - en cours de Bitumage, T - Terre
/a  B - Paved,    G 0   Gravel,   G(B) - being paved,           T - Earth
Source: Cellule de Planification des Transports, SET
Comptages routier et enquetes Origine-Destination, F6v.-Avril 1986
WAPTR, avril 1987



- 41 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Fuel Supply, Distribution and Pricing
1.        Fuel supply and distribution have been serious impediments to
normal  development  of  the  road  transport  sector.   Under  the First
Republic, they were the responsibility of two state monopolies:  ONAH
for non-mining related imports and distribution, and HYDROVENTES for
retailing, through a network of 168 service stations.  In 1985, ONAH
absorbed HYDROVENTES and is currently responsible for both fuel supply
and retail distribution, while negotiations with foreign partners to
form a joint venture successor company are underway. For a number of
years, another joint-venture company, (with TEXACO) SOGUILUB, has been
operating a lubricating oil receiving, storage, bleiding and packaging
facility in Conakry, and TEXACO owns the Conakry storage terminal
(11 tanks for 19,000 m9 of gasoline, 15,000 m9 of gas-oil and 3,000 mg
of jet fuel) and operates that of FRIGUIA (19,000 mi).
2.        Between 1972 and 1984, the volume of Guinea's total non-mining
related imports rose from 113,500 to 184,000 ml or by 62% (about 5%
p.a.) overall, but the corresponding increase in cost was from US$3.4 m
to US$41.3 m equivalent or some 1200% (Table 1).  In addition to the
imports of ONAH, Guinea's mining companies imported a total of 255,000
m3 of fuel in 1984, making the mining sector the main consumer of
petroleum products (58% of total country imports). Transport is next in
importance, accounting for 30%. Households and electricity generation
by SNE account for just under 10% of consumption, while that of the
remaining sectors is negligible (Table 2).
3.        Foreign  exchange  shortages  and  the  absence  of  long-term
contracts at times have resulted in erratic and insufficient fuel
supply; poor management and neglect of maintenance of the tanker truck
fleet and of storage and station facilities have led to the almost
complete breakdown of the fuel distribution network.   ONAR currently
disposes of a fleet of 161 vehicles with a total capacity of 1,665 min,
of which 128 (1,381 m9) were in service in 1985. Half of this fleet was
provided to ONAR in 1984/85, while the other half are more than eight
years old and will need to be replaced.  Of the 168 service stations
taken over from HYDROVENTES,  about one  third are  in Conakry.   The
majority, especially outside the capital, are inoperable for lack of
pumps and other spares. ONAH's supply to the provinces has practically
dried up:  in 1984, Conakry, with 12% of the population, accounted for
85% of the country's total fuel consumption -- 197 liters p/cap. com-
pared to 5 liters p/cap. in the rest of the country (Tables 3 and 4).
In practice, much of the supply to consumers outside the capital is
shipped in drums and jerricans carried by road tankers and other vehi-
cles. ONAH's headquarters in Conakry are continually congested with
queuing tankers and unauthorized personnel filling their containers at
two pumps. This costly practice ties ONAH trucks up for abnormally long
periods and constitutes serious fire hazards both at ONAH headquarters
and for vehicles in transit.
4.        Besides its technical deficiencies, ONAH's financial manage-
ment also presents serious problems. Poor accounting procedures result



- 42 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 2 of 6
In substantial losses:  in the first trimester of 1986, for instance,
ONAR had not billed one-third of its sales. Of the two-thirds billed,
only 50% had been paid, and monthly amounts outstanding were roughly
equal te Guinea's total monthly civil service wage bill.  Given the
heavy cost of ONAH's operations to the Guinean economy, satisfactory
conclusion of the current negotiations with foreign companies and
establishment of ONAH's successor company are important steps which are
expected to occur in the near future. Once a new structure is in place,
rehabilitation of the fuel distribution network becomes an urgent
priority for re-establishing normal road transport conditions.  Grant
financing of about US$9.5 m equivalent for some storage depots, petrol
stations and tanker trucks is available from Italy, but additional funds
may be required.
5.        Since Guinea's fuel prices until early 1986 were based on an
exchange rate less than one-fourteenth of the free market rate, official
fuel prices were very low compared to both international prices and
those in neighboring countries: at a real',atic exchange rate, retail
prices were less than 50% of CIF Conakry prices and about 15% of retail
prices in Senegal. Even after raising pump prices per liter of fuel to
FG 115 and subsequently to FG 140 following monetary reform, they still
represent only one-half to one-third those in Mali, Senegal, or C8te
d'Ivoire at CFAP 285, 320, or 350, respectively.  It is therefore not
surprising that "losses" of fuel to the parallel market and to neighbor-
ing countries continue to be a major problem. To reduce smuggling and,
at the same time, generate revenues sufficient to finance essential road
maintenance, fuel prices must be adjusted upwards until price differen-
tials to neighboring countries disappear. Further, fuel taxes should be
structured so as to favor essential transport services over personal
vehicle use, and to ensure that their burden falls most heavily on those
income groups with the highest ability to pay.
WAPTR, April 1987



ltPUIE DE GUn1
PRer SECDoRnL DES RausS
Volumes et Valeurs des iMortstions de Produits Pdtroliers par OUR. 1972-1985
Volume and Value of OIlR's Petroleum Product Imports, 1972-1985
Gssolintie/Eence                       Ga Oil                          Jet htel/Kerosene                       Total                     Pourcentete
Anmde   tonnes     a        USS      GS    tonnes      *        USS      GS    tonnes    M'         USS       S     tonnes     mz      USS      aS       Valeur Totale des
('000)   ('000)   (will)   (mill)   ('000)   ('000)   (mill)   (sill)   (l000)   ('000)   (Silt)   (mill)   (l000)   ('000)   (mill)   (mill)    Isport.Ations
1972     46.9    64.8       1.9      46.8    32.7    40.1       1.3      31.8     6.9      8.7      .3        6.7    86.5    11.3.5     3.4      85.3        2.5
1973     54.2     74.8      2.2      54.6    27.2    29.6       1.0      24.1    18.0    22.7       .8       18.6    99.4    127.1      3.9      97.3
1974     33.1    45.7       4.1     100.2    37.6    46.0       1.8      44.9     8.3     10.5      .7       17.7    79.0    102.2      6.5     162.7
1975     14.7     20.3      1.5      36.2    11.4    13.4       1.1      27.9     3.2      6.0      .3        8.4     29.3    39.7      2.9      72.5
1976     44.1     57.9    10.1    251.8    30.5       36.6      5.0    125.4    11.5    14.5        1.1      27.8    86.1    109.0   16.2       404.9
1977     33.1    45.1       7.7     192.3    29.2     39.4      5.8    145.4      5.8      7.3      .6       16.1    68.0    91.8    14.2       353.8
1978     45.7     60.2      7.8     195.5    37.0    43.6       6.1    152.9    12.0    15.1        1.6      39.5    94.7    119.0    15.5      387.9
1979     64.3    87.8      20.7    518.1   42.0    49.5    13.8         344.8    9.8      12.4      1.8      43.8   116.1   149.7    36.3       906.7
1980     61.8    86.0      16.7    417.3    58.0    70.1       19.1    477.0      8.8    11.1       2.7      67.9    128.6   167.2    38.5      962.1
1981     58.0    80.2    20.8       521.0   47.9    56.5       16.6    415.1    11.8    14.9        4.2     105.7   117.7    151.6   41.7    1.041.8
1982     47.3    64.6      13.1     328.1   44.8      52.9    12.3    306.5    13.1    16.7         3.7      92.8    105.2    134.1    29.1     727.5
1983     60.2    82.2      18.s    460.1    61.0      74.5    16.3    406.4    11.7    12.6         3.8      9S.3    132.9   169.3   38.5       961.8
1984     68.0     92.8     20.2    504.7    64.6      76.3    17.4    435.1    11.8    14.9         3.7      91.5   144.5    184.0   41.3    1,031.3         9.7
1985     88.9    124.9      n.a.      n.a.   34.2    41.2       n.a.     n.a.    14.9    18.8       n.a.     n.a.    139.0   183.9    n.e.      n.a. lb
(6 moLe)    42.6    58.0    11.0      275.8    23.0    27.4       5.3    133.4      5.8      7.3      1.5      38.1    71.3     92.6    17.9      447.3T'
/a Et Inclumt le  importationS de produtits p4troliers per It secteur slnier, le poarentaes s'41&we & plus de 214 de la valour totale des importations.
If mining cppnv ipqrte are included, total share of petroleum products n merchandise inports more then dobles to 224.
lb 1   Prams 04B. 
Im adinea Frame. 
11A: Dlvergoes evc  Arese 2-4, p. 2, pr4sumles due au dagement du nivem des stCks.
Kifference with Anm= 2-4 asumed due to cbhges in stocls 
8oumrc: OAN
errillhpril 1987



- 44 -                                               ANNEX 2-3
Page 4 of 6
Table 2
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Consommation de Produits Pdtroliers par Secteur, 1984
Consumption of Petroleum Products by Sector, 1984
(Ms 000)
Secteur                         Gasoline         Gasoil         Fuel Oil        Jet Fuel/        Total          %
Essence                                        Kerosene
Transport                                    95.4           20.7                --           14.8           130,9         29.8
of this:   domestic                          93.8           16.4                --            3.8           114.0         26.0
dont:      ONAH auto. cons.                   1.6            4.3                               --             5.9          1.3
International                      --             --                --           11.0            11.0          2.5
Mining/Minier                                  --           44.7             210.0              -           254.7         58.1
Households/Wnages                              --           21.1 /a              -                           21.1          4.8
Electricite (SNE)                              --           19.2                -.             _.            19.2          4.4
Industrie                                      --            6.0                --             --             6.0          1.4
Commerce/Administration                        --            3.2                --                            3.2          0.8
Construction                                   '             2.6                __             ,,             2.6          0.6
Agriculture                                    --            0.6                --             --             0.6          0.1
TOTAL                                     95.4          118.1              210.0           14.8           438.3        100.0
/a Valeur residuelle obtenue par subtraction du total des ventes analys6 par ONAH (qui n'inclut pas les m6nages)
du total des ventes:  73.6 - 52.5 - 21.1 mi3.
Source: ONAH et Rapport sur les ProblUmes et Options du Secteur Energie (6137-GUI), IDA, Mai 1986
WAPTR, avril/April 1987



- 45 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 5 of 6
Table 3
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Importations/Vente Produits Petrolier, 1972-1985
Petroleum Product Import/&Sales, 1972-1985
(Ms 000)
1972    1978    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
ONAH (Ventes/Sales)                    127.1   138.6   149.3   153.3   158.4   172.9   178.3
Gasoline/Essence                        69.5    75.8    80.9    73.8    76.9    81.4    89.9
Gas oil                                  36.5    48.2    57.4    66.1    67.9    78.5    73.6
Jet Fuel/Kerosene                       21.1    14.6    11.0    13.4    13.6    13.0    14,8
Secteur Linier (Iportations)/Mining Sector (Imports)            289.8   256.2   268.4   260.0
Gasoline/Essence                        not available              5.1     5.3     5.3      5.5
non disponible
of this:   FRIGUIA                                                0.5      0.5     0.5     0.5
dont:      OBK                                                    1.2      1.3     1.3     1.5
CBG                                                    3.4     3.5      3.5     3.5
Gas oil                                                          33.9    35.9    36.8    44.5
of this:   FRIGUIA                                                5..0     5.0     5.0     5.0
dont:      OBK                                                    4.6      6.9     7.8    10.5
CBG                                                   24.3    24.0    24.0    24.0
AREDOR                                                  --      -        --     5.0
Fuel Oil                                                        250.8   215.0   226.3   210.0
of this:   FRIGUIA                                              200.0   170.0   180.3   160.0
dont:      ORK                                                     -        --      --      --
CBG                                                   50.8    45.0    46.0    50.0
GRAND TOTAL                                                   443.1   414.6   441.3   438.3
of which:  Gasoline                                              78.9    82.2    86.7    95.4
dont:      Gas oil                                              100.0   103.8   115.3   118.1
Fuel Oil                                             250.8   215.0   226.3   210.0
Jet Fuel/Kerosene                                     13.4    13.6    13.0    14.8
Source:  ONAH et Rapport sur les Problemes et Options du Secteur Energie (6137-GUI) IDA, Mai 1986
WAPTR, avril/April 1987



- 46 -
hp e of G
Table 4
REPIIB DE GO=
PRWT SC IL MO TR_NSK
6am  Statio   de Serviee  *t Consation de Carburant. ar RdAton, 1984
Service Station. nd fuel Conamntion by lesion, I98
Cona'ation/Con atption
Waegu Stations de Services                               EsKence/CGaoline          GSoil            Gaoline et  ao4it
Prifecture.          N            N           CepecitE          Population             (I')                   (u')                  (us)
Depot         Serviec         Stations      Poapes       Stockage ('s)      (1983)000        Total    L/ceap.       Total    L/cap.       Total      L/cAp.
COAKw!n       Conakry               55           155           1,243               705         78,665      111.6    60,199       85.4      138,863       197.0
Dubrdka               -            --               --                67           104         1.6         84       1.3          188        2.
COYab                 ---                                             67           101        1.6          79       1.2          183        2.7
Fordcriah                                                            116           265        2.3         572       4.9          836        7.2
Fria                               --               --                70         1,463       20.9          13       0.2        1,475       21.1
Kindia                16           45              355               216           406        1.9         394       1.8          800        3.7
Telisld               --                                             243           127        0.5         186      41.5          314        1.3
1,484        81,133       54.7     61,526      41.5      142,659        96.1
BOU           SWol                  17            27             317               225           526         2.3        SOS       2.2        1,031        4.6
8off-                              --                                142           321        2.3         728       5.1        1,048        7.4
aCdual                                                               136           402        3.0         398       2.9          800        5.9
Ioundar-                           --               --                94           383        4.1         370       3.9          753        8.0
597         1,633        2.7      2,000       3.4         3,633        6.1
1AMU          taau                  15            42             483               191          2,004       10.5      1,442       7.6        3,446       18.0
Dslaba                             --               --               133           161        1.2         154       1.2          315        2.4
Pita                               --                                228           203        0.9         129       0.6          332        1.5
LCab#                 18           41              514               253           519        2.1         297       1.2          816        3.2
Koubi                 --           --               --                98            22        0.2         100       1.0          122        1.2
LAlouna                      --                     --               139           117        0.8          60       0.4          177        1.3
TouS                  ..           ._                                113           127        1.1         101       0.9          228        2.0
Mali                               --                                211           121        0.6         101       0.5          222        1.1
Dinguirayd            --           --               --               134            78        0.6         184       1.4          262        2.0
Dabol                  --          --               --                98           210        2.1        188        1.9          398        4.1
ar*                   *-           2- --                             142           377        2.6        603        4.2          980        6.9
Ki"idouso*                                          --               183           295        1.6        385        2.1          680        3.7
dclkddou              --           --               --               205           217        1.3         279       1.4          556        2.7
!4Acentg                                            --               193           259        1.3        29f        1.5          554        2.9
2,322         4,769        2.1      4,319       1.9        9,088         3.9
M              Iata                 24           36              539               230           940        4.1       3,397      14.8        4,337       18.9
Kouroasa              --           --               --               137           129        0.9        245        1.8          374        2.7
Ssigu*ri               -           --               --               209           140        0.7        371        1.8          511        2.4
Keroan*                            --               --               107           366        3.4        648        6.1        1,014        9.6
Beyls                 --           --               --               161           203        1.3        198        1.2          401        2.5
N'ZdrEkord            23           44             458                216           230        1.1        663        3.1          893        4.1
LoU                   --                            -                107            70        0.7          32      0.3           103        1.0
Yotno                 --                            --                74           108        1.5         79       1.1           186        2.5
Mandiena     *         -           -- --                             136           147        1.7      5.787       4.2         85120        5.9
1,377         2,334        1.7      5,787       4.2        8,120         5.9
TOML                 1            390                              5.7          89.868       1l.5     73.632       12.7      163,500       28.3
AM, avrtl/Aprtl 1987



- 47 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Railways and Rail Transport
1.        Guinea's three enclave mining railways, constructed
since 1965, handle the bulk transport flows they were designed
to accommodate efficiently: the Sangaredi-Kamsar line trans-
ports currently about eight million tons per year (tpy) of
bauxite, the Kindia-Conakry line carries some three mil-
lion tpy of bauxite and the Fria-Conakry line 600,000 tpy of
alumina.   Management  and upkeep  of  the  railways  are  the
responsibility of the mining companies and seem adequate.
2.        The Conakry-Kankan public railroad was constructed
in the period 1900-1914. Up to the mid-1940s, it carried most
of the coutntry's agricultural exports to the Port of Conakry.
Since independence, the railway has been poorly maintained.
As the orLe meter gauge track deteriorated and rolling stock
fell into disrepair, ONCFG's (Office National du Chemin de Fer
de Guin6e) level of service steadily declined; by 1981, the
railroad carried no more than 10,000 tons of freight and
288,000 passengers, three quarters of whom were suburban
commuters.   Acquisition  of  two new  locomotives  and eight
railcars financed by France briefly led to an increase in long
distance traffic in 1984.  An international donors' meeting
including IDA agreed in May 1985 on a program of minimum
investments and technical assistance to maintain rail opera-
tions at existing levels, for a three-year period, while the
roads paralleling the railways were being rehabilitated.
However, by the end of 1985, ONCFG's lack of progress caused
French technical assistance to be withdrawn and the interim
investment program to be cancelled.  In both 1985 and 1986,
earth slides and washed-out bridges interrupted traffic on the
up-country line for several months. Urban passenger traffic
was halted altogether in 1984, although in late 1986, the
grounded long-distance railcars were briefly put into opera-
tion on the 35-km urban line to alleviate road congestion
during the construction of drainage works along the airport
access road.
3.        ONCFG's financial situation under the First Republic
was dismal, with revenues not even covering operating expens-
es. Railway personnel remained unpaid when the fares collect-
ed were not sufficient to cover salaries. After adjustment of
tariffs to realistic levels following monetary reform, the
previously sizeable demand for passenger transport on the
up-country line fell drastically and long distance passenger
services were suspended for lack of clients in early 1986.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 2 of 4
Railway workshop facilities, which for years have provided
much-needed welding and machining services to private custom-
ers, should be officially privatized, possibly by allowing the
personnel currently enjoying the use of its equipment to
purchase it. It is proposed that rather than focussing on the
politically sensitive issue of closing the railways, the
process of attrition be allowed to continue by limiting new
railway investments to those essential for safety reasons.
This limit on investments was agreed at negotiations.
WAPTR
April 1987



- 49 -                                     ANNEX 2-4
Page 3 of 4
Table 1
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
0. N. C. F. G. -- Transport de Voyageurs, 1975-1986
0. N. C. F. G. -- Passenger Transport, 1975-1986
Haute Ligne                             Banlieue                               TOTAL
Long Distance                              Urban
ANNEE       Nombre      Voy/km 000    Recette /a    Nombre   Voy/km 000   Recette /a   Nombre   Voy/km 000   Recette /a
1975         59 941           --          a 235       112 438         --          225      172 379         --        8 460
1976         73 175           --          7 725       237 451         --          594      310 626         --        8 319
1977        122 091       53 361         18 221       288 800     7 482           767      410 891    60 843        18 988
1978        128 229       42 042         24 015       296 060         --          714      422 289         --       24 729
1979         72 762       26 096         15 360       211 200     2 956           663      283 962    29 052        16 023
1980         68 557       23 950         21 387       200 894     3 415         1 004      269 451    27 365        22 391
1981          38 293      11 997         12 965       290 824     4 271         1 454      329 117    16 267        14 419
1982         33 152       12 145         18 226       324 212     5 511         1 621      357 364    17 656        19 847
1983         76 598       41 584         63 659        63 909     1 086           639      140 507    42 670        64 298
1984         53 956       32 196         49 627        67 000     1 139           670      120 956    33 335        50 297
1985         22 519       11 709         19 989        23 000        391          230       45 519    12 100        20 219
1986/b        8 590        3894          12 009/c       --            --           --        8 590     3894         12 009 /c
Annde       339 950       53 361                      620 050     7 482                    818 000    60 843
Record      (1959)        (1977)                      (1967)     (1977)                    (1962)      (1977)
% 1985                                                                                                              1985 as
Annke           7           22                           4           5                        5          20          % of
Record                                                                                                            Record Year
/a  Recettes en milliers de Sylis -- Pour 1986 en milliers de FG
Revenue in Sylis 000          -- For 1986 in Guinean Franc 000
b Estimate/Estimations
/c en FG/in Guinean francs
Source: ONCFG/Cellule de Planification des Transports, SET, 1986
WAPTR
avril/April 1987



ANNEX 2-4
- 50 -                                  Page 4 o'f 4
Table 2 
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEN
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORtS
0. N. C. P. G. -- Transport de Narchandises
0. N, C. P. C. -- FrelAht Transport
Autres Marchandtses
Clinker /a                       General Merchandtse                           TOTAL
Annde                                .               ._                    _ ---_-_-_-
t       t/km 000      Recette          t       t/km 000    Recette           t       tlkm 000    Recette
1975             --          --             --       28 667          -.
1976             --                                  11 899      7 894            --
1977                                                 12 538      6 466
1978             --          --             --       16 587      8 051            --
1979                           -                     11 477      6 353            --
1980             --          --             --       15 006      8 678        21 694       15 006      8 678        21 694
1981        19 400          582          1 746       11 742          --       17 153       31 142          --       18 899
1982        36 090        1 083          3 248        8 402          --       14 465       39 338          --       17 713
1983        86 920        2 608          7 823        9 780          --           --       96700           --           --
1984        31 640          949          2 848        8 121      3 979        13 774       39 761      4 928        16 622
1985         9560           287          1 206        5 487      3 232        11288        15 047      3 519        12 494
1986        14 800          444          9 055        3 455      1 956        16 003       18 255        2 400       25 058
Ann6e       86 920                                  150 245     44 910                    150 245     44 910
Record      (1983)                                  (1953)      (1954)                                 (1954)
% 1985                                                                                                              1985 as
Annee          11                                      4            7                       10            8          % of
Record                                                                                                            Record year
/a  Le transport de Clinker a commencd en 1.981.  /  Clinker transport started in 1981.
/b Recette en milliers de Sylis; pour 1986 en milliers de FC. / Revenues in Sylis 000; 1986 in Cuinean Franc 000.
SOURCE: ONCFC/Cellule de Planification des Transports, SET, 1986
WAPTR
avril/April 1987



- 51 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Conakry Port Facilities
Location and Meteorology
1.        Conakry port (Map IBRD 20075) is located on the west side of
Tombo island.  The weather is hot and humid with a dry season from
December to April and a rainy season (average 4,175 mm per year) from
May to November. High water spring tide reaches 3.8 m above the zero
level, which is the lowest  attained water level.   Tombo island is
connected to the Camayenne Peninsula on the mainland by two dikes
providing rail and road connections. The port is naturally protected
from the west by Kassa island and artificially protected from the north
by  three unconnected breakwaters:   the Prudente breakwater,  1,700 m
long, the North breakwater, 1,000 m long, and the North dike (Epi Nord)
1,000 m long. Port configuration is poor: the two ore-handling facili-
ties (two bauxite berths, 300 m; and two alumina berths, 350 m) that
also serve for unloading fuel and clinker are located at opposite ends
of the port.  Between them are four general cargo berths of 640 m in
all, and a shallow draft basin for fishing boats and passenger craft
serving the islands.
Access to the Port
2.        The leading channel, which runs from south to north, is 5 km
long and 150 m wide. Due to deferred maintenance dredging, the channel
had a depth of only about 7.4 m in early 1987. This will be dredged to
8.5 m under a contract about to be awarded. The channel is marked on
the west side by red light buoys and on the east side by green light
buoys; most of the buoys are not operating and some are incorrectly
located. Conakry Port is connected to the interior by two roads, and by
three railway lines: the alumina line 1.0 m gauge connecting the port
with Fria; the bauxite line 1.435 m gauge connecting the port with
Kindia and the almost defunct public railway line to Kankan.
3.        The following table gives information on the berthing facil-
ities (length, depth), and their utilization and occupancy rate over the
past three years. It shows that the rate of occupancy of all berths has
been steadily increasing resulting in the increase of average ship-wait-
ing time from 17.5 hours per ship in 1983 to 27.2 hours per ship in 1984
and 36.0 hours per ship in 1985. Ship-waiting time during April and May
of each year is about 25% higher than the above averages.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 2 of 4
Design                           Occupancy Rate -    ($)
Berth No   Length (m)    Depth (m) /Csrgo                 1983      1984     1985
00         300             10.0          Alumina          48       45        52
Fuel oil         4         5        4
G. Cargo        10        17       19
Total 00        62        67       75
01         150             10.0          B. Cargo          7        6        10
Fuel oil         8         8        6
G. Cargo        35        64       56
Total 01        50        78       72
02         120              8.5          G. Cargo         79       82        82
03         120              8.0          G. Cargo        80        81       85
04         120              8.0          G. Cargo         73       76        90
05         120 /            8.0          G. Cargo         43        63       79
06         110-             7.0          G. Cargo        --         4        37
07         120 d/           8.0          G. Cargo          6        54      64
08+09     250+50         11.0/4.0          Bauxite         67        73       70
Fuel oil        18        15       17
G. Cargo         3         7       13
Total 08        88        95      100
af See Annex 4-5, para 1 for existing depths.
b/ Does not include fishing boats or refrigerator vessels carrying fish.
c/ And 50m two to seven meter deep.
d/ And 40m four to eight meter deep.
Open Storage Areas
4.         The following open storage areas were paved under the Conakry
Port Project:
-  29,000 m2 for containers
-   3,000 m2 for imported vehicles
-  65,000 m2 for general cargo
-  15,000 m2 on quay aprons
5.         The  proposed  project will  finance  paving  of  an  additional
20,000 m2 within  the  existing  port  and  of  45,000  m2  for  stacking
containers on the proposed container terminal.
Transit Sheds
6.         Three transit sheds were rehabilitated under the Conakry Port
Project (MC1, MC2 and MC3) totalling 9,000 m2.  Several additional small
sheds are located south of the eastern basin, the majority in poor
condition.   These are mainly used by  the Marine,  SNG,  SONIGLACE and
SOGUIPECHE.   The  proposed  project  includes  the  construction  of  a
1,625 m2 shed at the new container terminal.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 3 of 4
Floating Equipment
7.        All floating equipment owned by PAC were purchased under the
Conakry Port Project. These include:
-  2 tug boats 26.5 m long, each equipped with two 945 hp
engines providing a speed of 10 knots and a pull of 27
tons.
-  one pilot boat 14.5 m long with a speed of 9 knots.
-  one mooring boat 10.15 m long with a speed of 9 knots.
The old tug boat "Faranah", constructed in 1954, is in poor condition
and will soon need to be scrapped.
Cargo Handling Equipment
8.        PAC owns the following equipment:
-  one heavy lifting crane 160 ton capacity (1985).
-  two cranes 32 ton (1978) and 20 ton (1984) capacity.
-  two cranes 18 ton capacity each (1978).
-  20 forklifts:  two 28 ton capacity each (1984); two 14
capacity each (1986); six 5 ton capacity each (1981); eight
4 ton capacity each (1984); and two 2.5 ton capacity each
(1984).
-  five tractors 20 ton capacity each (1984) and one 10 ton
capacity (1980).
-  16 trailers 40 ton capacity each, four purchased in 1978
and 12 in 1986.
Most of this will be sold to private operators when cargo handling is
transferred to them.
Recent Developments
9.        In 1982, facilities of the general cargo port had deteriorated
to a point that they were barely able to handle the stagnating volume
(about 300,000 tpy) of non-mining related imports into the country.
Rundown facilities and equipment, and poor management of operations bv
four different Government-owned agencies, resulted in high berth occu-
pancy for general cargo (80%), long ship turnaround time (seven days on
average), low productivity (less than 200 tons per ship/day of general
cargo unloaded), poor security and high pilferage losses. Consequently,
freight rates to Conakry were substantially higher than those for
neighboring ports, and because of the high costs of waiting and cargo
losses, conference lines had practically abandoned service of Guinea to
trampers.
10.       Based on a feasibility study for the rehabilitation of port
facilities and a master plan for Conakry Port development, the Conakry
Port Project was undertaken with a total cost of US$38 m equivalent,
co-financed by an IDA Credit (1382-GUI) of US$13 m equivalent, an



- 54 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 4 of 4
African Development Bank loan of US$14 m equivalent, and by the Federal
Republic of Germany: KfW, US$6 m equivalent; and GTZ, US$2.7 m equiva-
lent.  The project was approved by the Association in June 1983 and
became effective in December of that year.  Its main objectives were
(a) establishment of an autonomous and financially viable Port Authority
combining the attributes of the four entities previously involved in
port operations; (b) rehabilitation of quays and aprons of the main
commercial berths of the port, storage, rail, road, drainage, workshop
and office facilities; (c) renewal of all floating craft, cargo handling
equipment and vehicles; and (d) technical assistance to assist the new
authority's management in establishing sound operating and financial
procedures.  Implementation of the project has proceeded according to
schedule and project works are expected to be completed in early 1987
with funds fully disbursed eight months ahead of schedule.  Physical
project objectives have been fully realized and institutional objectives
substantially so.
11.       Institutionally,  the newly created (1982) Port Autonome de
Conakry (PAC), with technical assibtance from Hamburg Port Consultants
Ifinanced by GTZ, has evolved into a credible port manager with substan-
tial, though not full financial autonomy as foreseen by its statutes.
PAC took over from its predecessor organizations the responsibilitv for
(a) general port administration; (b) the shiphandling, stevedoring,
warehousing previously handled by ENTRAT; and (c) technical services
such as pilotage, towage and allocation of ships to berths, storage,
civil works, maintenance of infrastructure, maintenance of electricity,
water  and  sewage  systems,  pharmacy,  and  fire  prevention.   Transit
functions have continued to be handled by ENTRAT, and consignment by the
SOCIETE NAVALE  GUINEENNE  (SNG) --   both  state monopolies.   At  the
constitution of PAC, an excessive workforce of 1,500 was reduced to
about 1,100; this has been further reduced to about 730 at end 1986.
Operational productivity was slow to increase while rehabilitation,
demolition and resurfacing works were being carried out, but it is now
improving substantially. At the end of 1985, general cargo unloaded per
ship/day averaged 300 t and ship turn-around time was less than two days
for 75% of the vessels. Moreover, equipment availability, at around 20%
when the project started, was about 70% in late 1986.  As a result,
liner traffic has returned to Conakry and freight rates have decreased
in constant 1983 terms.
WAPTR, April 1987



REPUBLIQUE DE GU1NEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRAISPOIRTS
Composwte Portuaire/Port Component
Evolution des Quantitds de Marchandises Diverses: Rdalisations et Estimations, 1981-2000
Actual and Forecast General Carso Traffic, 1981-2000
(t 000)
Moyennes annuelles
de croissanee
1981     1982     1984     1985      1986      1990      1995       2000      1981-86    1986-95 f    995-2000
(t)        (S)         (M)
A. Estimations Prolet Portuaire
(Crddit 1382-CUI)
lportations                        315      322      280        --      297       334.      390          --        -1         3.5
Exportations                          5        7       13        --       25        48        80                    80        24
TOTAL                               320      329       293       __      322       382       470j^        --         0         S
R. Malisatioms
Importations                        278      209      319       378      580        --        --                    20       n.a.
Exportations                          5       11       10        18       33                                        60        n.a.
TOTAL                               283      220      329       396      613                                        22       n.a.
C. Estimations Pro1et Sectoriel
Importations                                                             580       680      820          970                  4            3.5
Exportationa                                                              33        50      100          1S0                  12           9
TOTAL                                                                    613       730       920       1 120                   4.5         4.0
/a  Pas de prdvisions au-delh de 1995, annee dont le volume anticipd dtait censed de necessiter des investissements additionels en infra,structures.J  oqZ
No forecasts beyond 1995, because it was assumed that additional instruments would be required when a traffic volume of 470,000 tons was reached.   X
SOURCE:  A:  -pport d'6valuation IDA No. 4160-GUI, 1983
B:  Statistiques du PAC, 1986                                                                                                                    VW
C: Etude de FaisabilitW, Lackner & Partners, 1986
WAPTR
avril 1987



- 56 -
ANNEX 2-6
Page 2 of 5
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Composante Portuaire - Port Componant
Pr6visions de trafic - Traffic Forecast: 1986 - 2000
(t'000)
(Actual)                              Forecast
1986     1988     1990      1992      1995        2000
Importations/Imports
Bydrocarbures/Petroleum Products                  342      400       430      470       525         625
Autres vracfOther Bulk                            137      115       130      140       165         195
Marchandises div./General Merchandise             580      630       680      730       820         970
Sous-total/Sub-total                            1,059    1,145    1,240    1,340      1,510       1,790
Exportations/Exports
Bauxite                                         2,713    2,800    2,800    2,800      2,800       2,800
Alumina                                           559      600       600      600       600         600
Autres/Other                                       33       35        50       70       700         150
Sous-total/Sub-total                            3L305    3,435    3,450    3,470      3,500       3,550
Grand Total/Total                               4,364    4,570    4,690    4,810      5,010       5,340
WAPTR
avril/April 1987



REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPO8TS
Composante Portu8ire - Port Component
Port de Conakry -- Evolution des Quantitss Importees et Export6es, 1975-1986
Conakry Port -- Quantities Imported and Exported. 1975-1986
(t 000)
1975         1976          1977         1978          1979          1980         1981         1982        1983         1984         1985         1986 /a
lmportation
Rydrocarbures                  392.6         281.4         306.2       251.3        281.3 /a        314.8       316.8        320.6        315.4        341.4       427.9         341.9/a
Produitt chimiques,
soude caustique,               116.1         104.1        100.6        142.4        129.8 /a        128.4       151.4        217.6        230.0       206.7        118.5         136.7
chaux, clinker, etc.
Narchandisea diverses
g*n8rales, y compris           274.4         180.2         227.6       244.8        193.4 It        241.9       277.8        209.4        215.3        319.7       378.3         579.7 /b  A
produits en sacs
TOTAL                          783.1         565.7         634.4       638.5        604.5 /a        685.1        746.1       747.6        760.7        867.8       924.7       1 058.3 fc
Exportation
Bauxite                      1 835.1       2 593.1       2 660.8     2 547.1      2 208.0         1 890.4     1 517.4      2 441.4      2 550.4      3 184.4     2 965.7       3 084.4
Alumine                        608.8         525,0         548.9       587.8        648.8           722.3       586.7        529.0        602.5       480.5        579.9         559.1
Marchandises diverges           20.1          12.9          17.0        18.4         14.4            16.2         4.5         11.3         10.4        10.1         18.0          32.6
TOTAL                        2 464.1       3 131.0       3 226.7      3 153.3     2 871.2         2 628.9      2 108.6     2 981.7      3 163.3      3 675.0     3 563.6       3 676.1
TOTAL _ VRTATIN0
EXP0TCAON                3 247.2       3 696.7       3 861.1     3 791.8      3 475.7 lt      3 314.0      2 854.6     3 729.3      3 924.0      4 542.8     4 488.3       4 734.4
/a Valeuts non typique - pas de livraison dece*brelDistorted because no delivery in December.
lb Taux moyen de croissance p.a. -- 1983-1986: 40%
Ic Taux moyen de croissance p.s. -- 1983-1986: 12S0,
Source: Statiatique du PAC, Etude de Faisabilitd, Lackner & Partner, 1986
WAPTR
anril 1987



- 58 -
ANNEX 2-6
Page 4 of 5
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PiOJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Cowposante Portualre - Port Canonent
RApartltton des marchandises diverses
General Merchandise by Product GrouP
(t 000 et %)
1983               1984                1985                 1986
t         %        t         %         t          %         t
Importation
Divers
Contenalriaes             26.4     12,3       59.3    18,5      96.0       25,8      139,8      24,1
Rix, farine,
sucre (sacs)             119.8     55,6      154.9    48,5    165.4        44,5      211,2      36,4
Ciment
(sacs et colts)           17.8      8,3      29.9      9,3     50.9        13,7      151,7      26,2
VWhicules                  6.3      2,9        9.9     3,1       8,1 La     2,2       10,6       1,8
Moteurs, machines          6.3      2,9        5.0     1,6       3.4        0,9        0,2       -
Mat4triel, mat6riaux
de construction            7.7      3,3       26.1     8,2      21.2        5,7       14,3       2,5
Autres marchandises       31.5     14,7       34.6    10,8     26.6         7,0       51,9       9,0
Sous-total               215.3      100     319.7      100    371,5         100      579,7       100
Exprtation
Conteneurs                 5.4     52,0        7.1    70,6     16.5 La    92,0        24,9 /a  76,6
Prodults agricoles
(sacs)                    4.5      43,1       1.2    11,5                   -          5,1      15,7
Autres marchandises          5      4,9        1.8    17,9      1.4         8,0        2,5       7,7
Sous-total                10.4      100      10.1      100     17.9         100       32,5       100
TOTAL                    22S.7      100      329.8     100    396.1         100      612 2       100
/a  Produtts agricoles inclus.   Includes agricultural products.
WAPTR et PAC
avril 1987



- 59 -
ANNEX 2-6
Page 5 of 5
REPI3LIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Composante Portuaire - Port Component
Evolution Indices de Producttvitd -- 1982, 19851 (1990 estimd)
Changes in Productivity Indicators -- 1982. 1985t (1990 estimated)
Rdailsi                  Recommandd
Aetual                   Recommended
Indices de Productivitd                               1982              1985              1990
(a) Marchandise gdn6rale par dquipe/heure
General Cargo per Gang Hour                                    St              7.5t                 15t
(b) Merchandise generale par bateau/jour
General Cargo per Ship Day                                   200t              300t                S00t
(c) Marchandise ensachde par 6quipe/heure
Bagged Cargo per Gang Hour                                   N.A. /d            lit                 18t
(d) Prodults m6talliques par 6quipe/heure
Metallic Products per Gang Hour                              N.A. /d            lSt                 25t
(e) Conteneurs vides/pleins/heure
Empty or Full Containers /a Handled Per Hour                 N.A. /d          6 TED /b           20 TEU /c
(f) Taux de disponibilitd materiel de manutention
Cargo-handling Equipment Availability                         20S               70%                 85%
La Un conteneur vide de 20 pieds a un tare de 2.3t; un conteneur plein pbse 16-18t pour une charge utile de
13.7 A 15.7t.
A 20 ft empty container weights about 2.3t and a full container weights 16 to 18t and carries cargo
of 13.7 to 15.7t each.
/b TEU - unitd dquivalentd de 20 pieds. En mi-85, ce chiffre dtait de 4 TEU; apr6s intervention de
manutentionnaires privd utilisant leur propre matdriel de manutention la moyenne pour le port
augmentait A 6 TEU.
TEU - twenty foot equivalent unit. By mid-1985, this figure was limited to 4 TEU per hour;
the 6 TEU per hour were achieved in end-1985 as a result of private stevedoring companies
using their own container handling equipment.
Lo 20 TEU par &are-conteneur apres nise en opdration du nouveau terminal conteneur.
Twenty TEU per hour will be handled by each ccntainer crane when the proposed container terminal
is put into operation.
d    iaclus en (a) dessus.
Included in (a) above.
WAPTR, avril 1987



- 60 -
ANNEX 2-7
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Airports and Civil Aviation
1.        Guinea has ten airports:  an international airport at Conakry,
and nine domestic airfields in BokA, Lab6, Sambailo, Siguiri, Kankan,
Faranah, Kissidougou, Macenta and N'z6rekor6. Three of the latter -- in
Faranah, Labg and Kankan -- have paved runways, but they are in such
poor condition that like the laterite airfields, they can accommodate
only short take-off and landing (STOL) aircraft. The existing secondary
airfields provide good coverage of the country and could compensate for
the absence of all-weather road connections to the outlying provinces.
However, they are in a poor state of maintenance and lack basic naviga-
tional  aids  and  security  equipment.   Therefore,  they  are  often
non-operational, especially during the harmattan period, when dust from
the Sahel affects visibility, and during part of the heavy rainy season
when the roads also become impassable. A rehabilitation program of the
highest priority airfields will be prepared and carried out under the
proposed project.
2.        Meteorological services for air navigation are to be provided
by the M6tZorologie Nationale (MN) which is part of the Ministry of
National Resources, Energy and Environment.  MN's attributions cover
meteorological observation and forecast for the whole country, for
aviation as well as for other sectors for which weather is important,
such as agriculture,  forestry,  etc.  MN has  12 synoptic observation
stations located in the major towns all over the country, which transmit
their data to the Centre Meteorologique National In Conakry.   Total
personnel amount to about 250, of which about 180 are college graduates
and technicians.   Purchases of modern  equipment have been financed
almost exclusively through foreign assistance (UNDP, FED and some
bilateral sources), but MN suffers greatly from the lack of funds for
spares, maintenance  and essential supplies.   In addition,  as major
essential telecommunication equipment is not available, weather observa-
tions cannot be transmitted to Conakry in a timely manner.  Weather
bulletins for the whole country are not available and forecasts are not
carried out.  Normal meteorological services are therefore generally
inadequate at secondary airports, and limited, sometimes below interna-
tional standards, at Conakry Airport where MN's Civil Aviation personnel
often can rely only on general regional observation and forecasts
received from abroad. The inadequacy of meteorological services for air
navigation is especially costly and dangerous for domestic flights.
Dbring the bad seasons, aircraft often have to fly back to their depar-
ture points because they cannot land at their initial destination; or
they land in hazardous circumstances because of the lack of warning on
local weather conditions.
3.        Conakry airport was rehabilitated with French financing in
1983:  a new terminal was constructed (US$13 m), runway improvements
were carried out (US$10 m) and some navigational aids were renewed
(US$2 m). Serious deficiencies have remained, however, with respect to
air traffic control, meteorological services, navigation aids, and
runway security, as well as with overall airport administration.  To
remedy the most urgent problems, some additional financing was provided
by CCCE in 1986 (US$4 m equivalent) for rehabilitation of the control



- 61 -                      ANNEX 2-7
Page 2 of 6
tower and fencing of part of the runway. But passenger security remains
poor while essential navigational aids (ILS) are in dangerously rundown
condition, runway lighting functions only intermittently and fire
fighting equipment is shared with the city of Conakry, where it remains
most of the time.  In late 1986, airline overflights of Conakry due to
unacceptable ground conditions have become routine and the prospect of a
serious air disaster is haunting officials.
4.        While some of the most pressing technical problems at Conakry
airport will have to be addressed immediately with either local or
bilateral financing, Government is aware that "management by crisis"
will persist and development of the sub-sector will be hamstrung, unless
essential  institutional  changes  are  introduced.   A  first  important
initiative has been taken regarding management of the international
airport. In February 1986, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed
between the Governments of Guinea and France for the establishment of a
Joint-venture company which would take over responsibility for the
operation and maintenance of the new airport facilities and of certain
services from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGAC) and AIR
GUINEE, the national carrier previously responsible for ground services
to foreign airlines. The new SOCIETE DE GESTION DE L'AEROPORT DE CONAK-
RY -- SOGEAC, with Aeroport de Bordeaux as foreign shareholder, and
Afroport de Paris (ADP) as techT.ical partner -- will collect landing,
passenger and handling fees and is expected to be financially autonomous
and self-supporting. Final agreement on its statutes was reached at the
end of 1986 and signature of various agreements and of the technical
assistance contract with ADP is expected during the second quarter of
1987.
5.        The proposed arrangements with SOGEAC still left DGAC in SET
responsible for air traffic control and operation and maintenance of
navigational aids in Conakry, as well as for operation of secondary
airfields throughout the country.  In matters of regional flight con-
trol, Guinea is also member of Flight Information Region (FIR) Roberts,
a multinational agency created with Liberia and Sierra Leone, to provide
air control services at medium and high altitudes, similar to other FIRs
throughout the world.  FIR Roberts has a permanent organization with
about 50 persons based in Liberia, and is funded essentially through the
overflight fees collected from airlines, supplemented by limited Govern-
ment contributions. The major role in air navigation control, such as
domestic control, approach and airport control, including maintenance
and operation of nav-aids and telecommunications, is played by the DGAC.
As a public sector agency, DGAC has consistently faced both budgetary
and technical problems in carrying out its mandate. A long-term techni-
cal assistance input from ICAO with UNDP financing has produced a core
of well-trained technicians and engineers, but in the absence of an
institutional framework allowing them to operate efficiently and be
properly remunerated for their technical skills, outputs have been
disappointing. Maintenance and renewal of essential ground equipment
and other facilities have been insufficient. For example, the 1986 DGAC
budget provided only about tTS$120,000 in maintenance expenditures.
6.        To achieve real improvements in the provision of air naviga-
tion services, it is desirable that DGAC's role be one of planning and
supervision of sub-sector activities within SET, while the delivery of
highly technical services should be ensured by an autonomous agency,



- 62 -                      ANNEX 2-7
Page 3 of 6
outside the civil service, and organized along the lines of local
representations established in most of the francophone countries in the
region by Agence pour la S4curitA de la Navigation A6rienne en Afrique
et A Madagascar (ASECNA), a regional agency.  Agreement to the estab-
lishment of such an agency was confirmed with Government at npgotia-
tions, since IDA involvement in the rehabilitation of secondary air-
fields (runways, facilities, equipment) could be justified only if
satisfactory institutional arrangements for their correct operation and
maintenance were also made.   The proposed project,  therefore,  will
include support for both the institutional and physical rehabilitation
of the civil aviation sub-sector (paras 3.10 ff.).
7.        International air Passenger traffic has increased significant-
ly from its modest level of around 10,000 passengers p.a. in the early
eighties. The number of airlines serving Conakry has increased and now
includes AIR AFRIQUE, UTA, SABENA, KLM, AEROFLOT, ROYAL AIR MAROC,
NIGERIAN AIRWAYS,  AIR ZAIRE,  GHANA AIRWAYS  and AIR IVOIRE.   Total
aircraft movements reached 3,662 in 1985.  Passenger volume increased
from 118,000 in 1983 to 191,000 in 1985. By contrast, local air passen-
ger traffic between Conakry and regional centers, which had attained
90,000 passengers p.a. in the early eighties (including about 40%
Government officials flying free), had dropped sharply to some
10,000 passengers in 1984 and 28,000 in 1985.  International freight
traffic varies between 3,000 and 4,000 tpy.
8.        The decline in local air traffic is due to the poor state of
airport infrastructure and to the highly precarious state of the nation-
al carrier, AIR GUINEE. Created as a public enterprise in 1960, AIR
GUINEE was originally equipped with Russian aircraft for local services.
In 1980, it replaced five of its seven turboprop aircraft by three jet
aircraft (one B707, one B727 (secondhand) and one B737 (purchased with
EXIM Bank credit and commercial credits of US$7.4 m) and re-started
regional and international flights. However, revenues from ticket sales
(at official rates of the highly overvalued sylis for some, and at
parallel market rates to the rest) were consistently insufficient to
cover costs, and the company, grossly over-staffed with more than
450 employees, relied on state subsidies to stay operational.
9.        Discussions with Canada for assistance to domestic aviation
and reform of AIR GUINEE started in 1983. They were pursued under the
Second Republic and resulted in a grant to Guinea in 1984 for acquisi-
tion of a DASH 7 airplane and for several years of technical assistance
in its operation, provided through a training arrangement with QUEBEC
AIR.  However, the problem of full-scale restructuring of AIR GUINEF
along commercial lines was not addressed. Faced with mounting losses in
1985, Government requested a study of AIR GUINEE's operations and
financial situation, with a view to reorganizing the company.  This
study, undertaken in December 1985 with ICAO-financing, recommended the
restructuring of AIR GUINEE into a new company limited to domestic air
services in the first years of operatlon, to be extended to a regional
network as and when operational and market conditions were suitable. It
was estimated that such an operation could be financially self-support-
ing, with the new airline collecting fees from pooling arrangements with
foreign airlines which would exploit most international traffic rights
with their own more efficient aircraft.



- 63 -
ANNEX 2-7
Page 4 of 6
10.       To stem foreign exchange  losses, Government suspended all
international operations of AIR GUINEE in early 1986, and subsequently
sold two (B707, B727) of the three jet planes, since they cannot be used
on domestic flights. These are now being handled by the DASH-7 exclu-
sively, although one ANTONOV-12 belonging to the Ministry of Defense
continues to provide public air transport to N'zdr6kor6 and other
destinations. By end-1986, discussions on restructuring AIR GUINEE had
advanced little beyond an outline "contrat plan" drafted by the company
itself.   According  to  this  document,  the  company  would  achieve
break-even operation, with 430 employees, using the DASH-7 domestically
and the B737 for regional flights to Dakar, Bamako and Abidjan -- a
clearly unrealistic proposal given the competition from a number of
other airlines on the regional routes. Given the onerous debt service
obligations on the B737, its high fixed costs, excessive capacity, and
its inappropriateness for local services, it would seem preferable that
Government divest itself of this plane as well, or at least lease it out
under a long-term contract.
11.       The Government requested a final study of AIR GUTNEE financed
under the PPF for the proposed transport sector project, and to be
completed by July 1987, under terms of reference agreed with IDA. This
study will establish AIR GUINEE's current assets and liabilities,
propose alternatives for restructuring the company or replacing it by a
successor organization able to provide efficient domestic, and possibly
regional, air services, and develop a scheme for dealing with AIR
GUINEE's debt arrears. It will provide a basis for the Government to
call for specific proposals from foreign airlines to provide technical
assistance or, preferably, participate as equity partners in the re-
structuring of AIR GUINEE, and help exploit the international traffic
rights in the most favorable conditions for the country. At negotia-
tions, Government and IDA agreed on a schedule for completing the study
and implementing its recommendations.
WAPTR, April 1987



- 64 -                             ANNEX 2-7
Page 5 of 6
Table 1
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTOR1EL DES TRANSPORTS
Evolution du Trafic Adrien, 1973-1985
Development of Air Traffic, 1973-1985
Passagers/Passengers (000)                        Fret/Freight (t)
Adultes     Enfants & Bebes                 Bagage      Fret      Courier
Adults     Children & Babies    Total       Baggage    Freight     Mail       Total
1973        n.a.            n.a.            80.1        n.a.      n.a.        n.a.        400
1974        n.a.            n.a.             71.4       n.a.      n.a.        n.a.         900
1975        n.a.            n.a.            89.9        n.a.      n.a.        n.a.      1 700
1976        82.5            18.3           100.8       1 225         75         10      1 310
1977        67.0            15.3            82.3         965       165          13      1 143
1978        85.1           '17.9           103.0       1 313        353         54      1 720
1979        83.9            14.7             98.6      1 603       206          10      1 819
1980        64.7             9.9             74.6      1 233       186           7      1 426
1981       102.1            16.4           118.5       1 730       528           8      2 266
1982                                      (110.0)        730       114           8        850
1983                                       148.2       1 101       113          67      1 281
1984                                        152.0      n.a.       n.a.        n.a.      n.a.
1985                                       219.2       1 840       205           3      2 048
Source: AIR GUINEE, 1973-1981
DCAC,       1973-1984
Chiffres entre parentheses: Estimations
WAPTR
avril/April 1987



- 65 -                                  ANNEX 2-7
Page 6 of 6
Table 2
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Statistiques et Previsions de Trafic -- Adroport de Conakry
1982      1983       1984       (1985)      1986        (1990)      (2000)
Mouvements d'avions
--  Internationaux                      3118      3144       (3662)                   (2444)     (4802)
Domestiques                         2800      2800       (2819)                  (2822)      (6000)
Passagers (CONAKRY)
--  Internationaux                    118137    141730      191250
--  Domestiques                        30064     10319       27899       20860
=-  TOTAL                            148201    152049       219149                 (260000)   (600000)
Fret (en tonnes)
C- GONAKRY                              3892      3019        (3441)                 (6308)    (17911)
Sources: Statistiques DGAC
(Previsions): ADP, 1982
WAPTR/Cellule de Planification des Transports, SET, 1987
avril/April 1987



- 66 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Public Works Administration
1.        As is true for practically all ministries, SETP and SET have
inherited large numbers of inadequately qualified staff from their
predecessor organizations.   These  include a large number of local-
ly-trained civil and mechanical engineers and technicians. The latter
have followed a three-year course at the Ecole Nationale des Arts et
M6tiers, and the former have received an additional two years of train-
ing at the Conakry Polytechnical Institute. However, since both schools
lacked training equipment and teachers with good practical experience,
the qualifications of their graduates are highly theoretical and inade-
quate.   The same holds true for economists and accountants.  Little
selection of staff in terms of their qualifications was possible in the
past, since all graduates were automatically entitled to a civil service
position and ministries were simply assigned their quota.
2.        The public works administration is numerically by far the most
important. In early 1986, SETP had a total of 455 employees in Conakry,
and about 2,000 more in the 36 sub-divisions throughout the country; two
autonomous services supervised by SETP (OPR and the Geodetic and Topo-
graphic Service) accounted for another 200 staff (see Table below). A
new organization chart developed by the organization study reflects
Government's sound intention to concentrate in SETP the planning,
programming and control functions that are its main responsibility,
while transferring execution of major road works to the private sector
whenever possible. SETP would maintain the responsibility for routine
road maintenance administration through the sub-divisions. Implementa-
tion of an appropriate organizational set-up will be among the institu-
tional issues to be addressed under the upcoming road rehabilitation
program.
WAPTR
April 1987



- 67 -                                                 ANNEX 2-8
Page 2 of 3
REPUBUQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
ORGANISATON ACTUELLE DU S.E.T.P
(mol 4986)
S.E.T.P.
.'I
Chet de CAnet
(non nomme)
Div. Tr. Neb f                                                       Secretariat Pc        |
Div. ti. Entretl,n                                                   secretaiatIZIZI
Div. Moteiel              IGtP'-                                                               (10)
DIv Admin. et Fin.
a Ispectows pronKoux                                                  i    l
BURE-AU DV"DE gt4}|  :i
i I l ls
-Service Juildietet Equpement  44
*    Comnpkibbilo Ldbolotol-o Irvice *4sv . Maln (km 7
Division Conol Tru    4                    D* so                                   Bm(n Malerbl  7
SebmbtadP 3                                 SAF DTR
i  _                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~SAF DME
* r e Eudes Techniclues devrlgd 3   P      SAF DTE
| n                      I           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAE BEL p.m.
SAT Co[
-Sr#vice Pbnihoan of Doe.   3              M          (6                                             C   do g     e P  7   |
to-E toire Conbu   T.P. (km 10)  33 |                                                                                r m A)
eS-t"ae  Jud ddet Contou)                                           e      n
_    Direcionsn dso montage T521                                            _       ction manxMobe et     16)
-eCntrale a t   Rl U  (n2Entretlen tDT E (. Enu2ecnt FDrM.E.t
- SCareer,s :                              - Sgeasa                             MOiM- : SecridE etiechs  te
Secrbt Technique                           Comptc- Brigae AppMon.g MC                              sin tkm 14    6
SecrekirBt  PePsonnel
Gestkon conormfrnabbs                       Soreharkt                          * APP(ov. khon
* Approv. technkiqe tbureou l.P. am
- -    ieNb  Qoutes et AefcdroMmo   (39)  l    Service Techniqu    6                par to Dwteilon)
* Maogcn Pleco de Rechane
r Cigade de ierrcnset pnt  7                                                   *rno4s Nn Malereue
S C  Ppergnlon Tdao  RouS e T             -ShIrAC1mnNL                          Mooc  OutJlu 186
'%ao PrlnceW (,I.LEF)  2                         .-. . . * SeWrle Transit
* bdeod ae biuoge  116_36S                         d   'Esie       I
* btilKodo de Fmnoh 2 
* bdgd e aGenbCie CI  40esi Rotn(Pestrfociues)_-S                                    E      dl 76
-Sder  Pont,  (24)                                                               6  COCond s Of chobufu
* AdmkMaton vehfules
 brlgcod de Port (B;PI) Frigubty                                               (mweoubmes  outres quo pour
el Kopoto                                                                         t
* brloode de Pord (BP2) Dlmm                                                1        .  
* bdgode de Pont t8P3 8touro                                                 Se    Tcnu        (1]
Li -Serki  Productio de Motriaou  t361]                                            Ch de oto o -a   oln
- GorQge et Atelier (ktm 41
W-0 Lo,    e tratto* n  vehNcu  bgPn (esncel 4
-CenbScf de SorYbnio                                                           *CIO socli n$ 
-Cenrl de Mom (knm 23)                      *~hiu  wlion urds tdo
oen oours de montae -TonTouya                                                    section mocNnes ouNis       10
* 8hre                                                                           secNon Ebcittib              9
-Centrole a chcid ERMUNI (km 22)                                               * eNon Forp et Soudoge         a
-nbcd o ftr TcombkD (m 26)
-Gesfbn MOWK tkmn 26)                                                         - idgode Entreten Cenai de
(on cours de ffontW  :  NRM tiaroq)                                         ProductNon
-Cafe: Sguelo of Fria                                                         - krbcdo Enrfn E;oc   lo
- Egpde Monloge C4snlrok   10
- Personre DME des SubdhW1on
NOTE: Chffre enhe parenths: N 01be1ht
SOURCE: PaJn de TmrAwpc Elude cis rorganbaton du S E.T.P.. L8VRACTONEL. Juln 1986
World Bonk-31109 t



- 68-                                ANNEX 2-8
?age 3 of 3
REPARTITION DU PERSONNEL DU S. E. T. P.
(mai 1986)
NOMBRE DE FONCTIONNAIRES
Secr6tariat Particulier et Relations Exterieures                       10
Inspection Generale (hors provinces)                                    5
Bureau d'Etudes (18) et Laboratoire (33)                               51
D.A.F.                                                                 28
D.T.R.                                                                104
. Cadres et services divers                                                                5
. Service Routes et Aerodromes                                                            39
. Service Ponts                                                                           24
. Service Production de Materiaux                                                         36
D.T.E.                                                                 52
. Cadres et services divers                                                               14
. Service Technique                                                                        6
? Service Entretien Bltiment                                                              32
Subdivisions Regionales                                                                p.m.
(2000)
D.M.E.                                                                205
Cadres                                                                                   2
- Service Approvisionnement et Magasins                                                    6
Service Exploitation (conducteurs et chauffeurs)                                        76
. Service Technique (garage, atelier et brigades)                                        121
TOTAL Cabinet et Directions                                           455
(hors subdivisions provinciales)
OFFICE DU PROJET ROUTIER (O.P.R.)                                     172 /a
SERVICE DE GEO;ZSIE ET DE TOPOGRAPHIE                                  32
TOTAL GENERAL (hors subdivisions provinciales)                        659
/a Dont 54 sont employds a l'O.P.R.; les autres sont "disponibles" ou utilises dans les
directions du S.E.T.P.
WAPTR, avril 1987



- 69 -
ANNEX 2-9
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Transport Sector Administration
1.        As the new Government's policies evolve and are being trans-
lated into reality, streamlining of administrative structures is a high
priority.  In the first half of 1986, a census of all public sector
employees was carried out with IDA financing; on average, this effort
reduced the salary rolls by 8-10% due to elimination of absentee work-
ers. This is to be followed by a program of "testing" for all civil
servants to identify those best qualified to assume the positions
expected to be retained in a reorganized and much leaner administration,
which would then be paying remunerative salaries. To help this restruc-
turing, organizational studies of both SET and SETP were completed under
a Transport Plan Study being carried out as part of the Third Highway
Project, but their recommendations needed to be refined. The approach
to developing the basic operational structure of SET was agreed with
Government during appraisal and confirmed during negotiations,   This
approach will permit the definition of manpower and training needs so
that financing can be provided under the project for a comprehensive
staff development program designed to meet them.
2.        The administration of the transport sector as such is less
staff intensive than that of Public Works. In early 1986, SET employed
some  90 staff  organized  into  10 directorates  and  divisions.   Three
directorates were responsible for policy development in the sub-sectors
and, more substantially, for overseeing the public sector agencies that
have, until recently, monopolized transport sector activities.  These
directorates were (a) the "Direction des Transports Terrestres" which
dealt with four public enterprises employing some 1,890 staff; (b) the
"Direction des Transports Maritimes" which oversaw two public services
employing some 1,670 staff; and (c) the "Direction des Transports
A6riens" which dealt with two public services and one Public Enterprise
(AIR GUINEE  (460) air transport),  employing about  1000 staff.   With
successive privatization of transport sector activities in accordance
with the market-oriented policies of the Second Republic, SET's role in
the management of sector activities will be phased out. It will instead
focus on establishing an appropriate regulatory framework for sound
development of private sector operation and ensuring its application,
and on the hitherto almost totally neglected tasks of transport plan-
ning. The present organization of SET, which differs from that devel-
oped by the organization study, was reviewed during appraisal and a
program for developing job descriptions for an appropriate organiza-
tional structure and for carrying out staff testing over the next months
was agreed upon. This program was confirmed during negotiations.
WAPTR, April 1987



-  70 -                                                               A4NNEX  2-9
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
ORGANISATlON ACTUELLE DU S.E.T
(MARS 86)
Secrtolor  d'Etat aux Transports
Conselier du
Secretafre d'Etot
2 1ttches au                                        et._  -  Secrdtort
Secretoire d'Etot                                   Parltculir du
Dlrecteur do Cabinet
Chef de Cabinet
kupection                                     U~~~~~~~~~Drectio  Direction   DIretftn        mDircto        DirOU
nspe0tbn du    Generale et     Secatarla         Division      Drectr         Transports      Transports     Tronspots      Transports    Cooper4ttn
Travail                       Cenic          $tOt$Cetluo     Bureau        MOdrimes        Terrestros      Aerle           Pris        TechnIque et
(7)        Comptable         (13)             (2)                         (D.T.M.)        (D.TT)          (D.TA)         (D.t.P.)       Flfrlatlon
(17)                                          (0)             (4)            (10) T          (6)     I     (3)            (6)
/                 i I             %
Sroies Publics:          Entr_p~j  S:              Serics Publics:
* Office Martie (260)    * COTA  (tald*1  (28)     * Direcion Generae
* Dlr. Morine            * ONTPR (TUC)  (467)        do rAvktion
Morohande (178)         * COTQA         (72)       CMls  (300)
* ONCFG      (1,320)     * AdminIstration
Entreprlses                                           Generale de
Entir. mtes *                IrAroport
* P.A.C.      (930)       * SOGETRAG
* ENTRAT      (345)       * SAG (societe
(Tronsit)                 automobile doe
* Sc. Navals  (58)         Gulnee)                 * Air Gulnoe  (460)
Guineenne                                            * SOMCAG
(Consdgtion)                                           (prcqetTotl)
* SUNOMAR
(transport)
* SOMIDRAT
(dragag)o
* GETMA
(tronsit)
Total ds effeeits S.E.T.: 89 SevfIes Pt:blics' 730 Entreprise publ9ques; 3.680
NOTE-: CNres erntre parenthises N offrctiHh
SOURCE: Plan de Transort: Etu  de l'orobnotr du S.E.t., UWNRACTK . Dsc. 1985                                                          World Bnk-31109:2



- 71 -                     ANNEX 2-10
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Transport Sector Investment
1.        In view of the dilapidated state of basic transport infra-
structure, it is important that the transport sector be accorded a high
priority in the allocation of resources, so that it can play its key
role in facilitating economic recovery.   Further, given the overall
needs of Gulnea's economy, it is important not only that funding for
high priority investments be secured, but that funding for non-priority
works be excluded.  Careful identification of essential investments in
the transport sector is therefore imperative. Historically, investments
for public works and transport have fluctuated considerably.  In the
first twelve years following independence, they represented a third of
total public investment expenditure, averaging about US$18 m p.a. (An-
nex 2-11). They went mainly for construction of some 900 km of paved
roads financed through supplier credits provided by foreign contractors,
and for the port and rail infrastructure related to the Bok6 bauxite
mine financed through IBRD loans. A similar level of investment was
maintained during the 1973-84 period, but it represented only 19% of
total public investments on average. Some of this, at IDA's insistence,
went to emergency rehabilitation and maintenance of essential road and
port infrastructure that had become unusable for lack of upkeep, but
considerable sums continued to be spent on projects of little economic
merit, such as Jet-standard airports at Faranah and Kankan, jet air-
craft, inappropriate dredging equipment, railcars, etc. Allocation of
local funds for road maintenance was negligible under the First Republic
and remains so at present.
2.        In the first two years (1985/86) following the advent of the
Second Republic, the Public Investment Program has been largely confined
to ongoing operations and has only embryonically reflected the shift in
priorities resulting from the transformation of Guinea's economy (An-
nex 2-10). With the introduction of a general economic reform program
supported by IDA, the IMF and other international financing agencies,
the bases for more realistic public investment programming have now been
established.  A multilateral debt restructuring was agreed to by the
Paris Club in April 1986 on terms that provided substantial relief on
debt service obligations and accumulated payment arrears up to end-1985.
Unfortunately, Government's revenue outlook from its main source --
bauxite exports - is poor in the short- to medium-term, limiting its
ability to increase its contribution to the financing of its public
investment program.  Guinea will therefore have to rely on external
financing at highly concessionary terms for the important transport
sector investments required in the years ahead.
WAPTR, April 1987



REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS/TRANSPoRT SECTOR PROJECT
Programme d'Investissement Public 1987-89: Secteur des Transpotts/Public Investment Program 1987-89: Transport Sector
(GF million)
----- 1987 -- -    --            1988 ----   1989 --                              1987-1989 --------
Financement             Financement             Financement                  Financeement
Local     Exterieur    Local       Exterieur - Local       Exterieur    Local      Extdrieir   Total   Sources de Financement Ext6rieur
TRAVAUX PUBLICS
Routes
Troisieme Projet Routier                            580        5,760        857        5,900         702       6,855       2,139       18,515     20,654           IDA/FAD/BADEA
Route Gu6ckddou-S6rddou                             300        7,200        375        8,200         120       3,600         795       19,000     19,795           FSDJOPEPIBID
Projet Sectoriel                                     --           16         56          560         556       6,440         612        7,016      7,628           IDA
Bacs et ponts metalliques                            --       1,200          --        2,268          --       2,096          --        5,564      5,564           CCCE
Route Dubr4ka-BokM                                   --           --        200          806       1,058       4,234       1,258        5,040      6,298    >
Route Mamou-Kankan                                   --                                            1.440       5,760       1.440        5,760      7,200   3             fFAD, Other
Sous - Subtotal                                    880      14,176       1,488       17,734       3,876      28,985       6,244      60,895      67,139
US$ m equivalent                                        38                       48                      82                                       168
Etudes Routes
Dubreka-Boke (200 km)                                 1           19         --           --          --           --          1           19          20          IDA
Mamou-Kankan (410 km)                               180          740         --           --          --           --        180          740         920
Kankan-N'zerekore (495 km)                           --           --        101          503         156          623        257        1,126      1,383
Seredou-Thio (158 km)                                --           --         44          176          --          --          44          176        220
0oke-Guinee-Bissau (131 km)                          --           --         --           --          92          367         92          367        459
Labe-Front. Sdnegal (300 km)                         --           --         --           --         210         840         210          840      1,050
Kankan-KourimalOd (220 km)                                 --           --                --         154         616         154          616         770
Beyla-Front. RCI (180 km)                            -            --         --           --         126          504        126          504        630
Sous - Subtotal                                    181          759        145          679         738       2,950       1,064       4,388       5,452
US$ m equivalent                                         2                        2                       9                                        13
Voies Urbaines
Rues Conakry  I                                     600          900        255          720          --           --        855        1,620      2,475           FACICCCE                 X
Rues Conakry 11                                      --           --        200          806       1.058       4.234       1.258        5.040      6.298           IDA                   - in
Sous - Subtotal                                    600          900        455        1,526      1,058        4,234       2,113        6,660      8,773                                   o
USS m equivalent                                         4                        5                      13                                        22
TOTAL TRAVAUX PUBLICS                             1.661      15.835       2.088       19.939       5.672      36,169       9.421       71,943     81A364
USS m equivalent                                        44                       55                     104                                       203



REPUSLIQ'E DE GJUtEE
PROJET SECTRIEL DES TRANSPOW/STlRANSPORE SECTOR PROJECT
Frogramme d'jvestitssement Public 1987-89: Secteur de$ Tranaports/Public Investment Program 1987-89: Transport Sector
<CF million)
- 1987 -----     --   - 1988 ----        -       1989 ---         ------  1987-1989 ---------
Ftnaicement            Financement             FLnancement                 Financement
Local     Stttrleur    Local      Ext6rieur    Local     Eixtrieur    Local      Ext6rieur   Tota,  SouTces de Finamcent Ext6rieur
T8AL9SP0OSM
Porntutree
Projet Portuaire                                 --          720         --          --          --          --         --          720        720             IDA/8AD/KfVlGU
Draga   d"entretien                             160        2,000         --           --         --          --        160        2,000      2,160             PAC
Projet Sectortel                                 --        4,000        400       4.600         600       5.400      LOW         14.0S0     15,000             lDA/BADKw/C
Sous - Subtotal                                  160        6,720        400       4,600         600       5,400      1,160       16,720     17,880
!USS a equivalent                                      17                     13                      15                                       45
JUtrtals
Tour de contrble Conaitry                        --          644         --          --          --          --         --          644        64               CE
Equipemmnt coepl4uentatre                        --          50o         --          --          --          --         --          500        500             CoE
Equipement mobil pour minten. tviona             --           --         --         360          --          --         --          380        360            FED
Projet Sectoriel                                 --          200        100         980         120       1,600        220        2,780      3,00>            TDAIFAC
Sucuritd, incendie, 11 edrodromes                --          152         --         208          --          --         --          360        360            --
Equtpeaemt 4nergte, 11 adrodromres               --           --         --         100          --         400         --          S00        500            --
Apput AIR ClPUI                                  --          750         --         325          --          --         --        1,075      1,075            ACMD
DUnite6 Avion ArR =UINEE                        -- __00                                                                          1.000      1,000             --
Sous - Subtotal                                   --        2,246        100       1,973         120       3,000        220        7,219      7,439
USS   equivalent                                       6                       5                       8                                       19
tUrbains
Garage TUC                                      105           --        100          --          --          --        205           --        205            --
SOtEllMI  11                                     45          538        -_           __          __          __         45          538        583            CCCE
Sous - Subtotal                                 150          538        100          --         --           --        250          538        788
USS m equivalent                                      2                       1                      --                                        3
Ferroviaires
Remsa e dtet mctEriel ONCFC                      --           --                     --                      20         --          720        720
Etude r4organlsation ONCC                        --          45          --          45          --          _          --           90         90            --
Sous - Subtotal                                   --          45          --          45          --         720         __          810        810
USS S  equivalent                                     --                      --                       2                                        2 
Structure du Secteur:  AT/Formation                _           80          -          280                     320                     680        680            IDA                       _ t.N
0 I
TOTAL TRAUSFOR                                    310       9.629         600       6.898         720       9.440      1.630       25,967     27,597                                      0    C
U$ a equivalent                                       25                      19                      25                                       69                                         .
Source: finist6re du Plan and Mission Estimtes
WAPTR, avril/April 1987



PRO.= ~scxmu  Ms uAwmss
Part de Seeteur des Tramaor_ta dmw to total des ddseaees d'stdumat. mar Pla., 1960/84. et mr 185/s
Mare of Traport Sector n Sotal  Jrveatmat   maMitume by Plta Period. 190/84. md for I965/fl6
(ailltm SYlB)
I                       rX                       Ut                      IYI.
Pla  Triemal            Plan  Septmal           Plan Qutaque_al          Plan  quPaquemal         Frosr  d4' vstiasent publiqe  (PP) /b
Tlree-Year rue            Seven-Year Plea         Five-Year Pla            Five-Year Plan              Public  Inveltmnt Proerm  (PIP) A
0.6009/63                05164-09/7l             1013-12/78                081-06/84                    1985                      196 Le
Ahint          %          mount                   A JAlt         %         AO*t                     Am t                       mlnat
Travau  Publics at  rnsprt
Public  ar  4 TrAaort                         1 262         34          2 900         33       1 516          iS        2 039          24         1 533          38        11 91S         24
ladustriet/ besArge
bua#trey S Ia                                  632          17         4 200         b8        3 903          40        2 572          30           391          t0        10 286         21
Divelopp_mt   U                                                                                                                                                                                    0
bral 3e,elqnt                                  480           13          590           7       2 646          27        1 424          17           486          12        10 40          21
Sateatiom at lnfor_mti
tecatia AS Information                                                                           612           6          941          u            283           7         3 087          6
1 351          36         1070         12
lAtres
Otber                                                                                            1157        12        1486           18         1363           33        13 532         21
Total                                       3 725         _00         8 760        100       9 864         100        8 42          100         4 056         _0         49 229        100
Ibyeme p.-.
Averge p.a.                                 1 242                     1 251                  1 9V3                    2 418                     4 056                    49 229
U1S$ equivalent (do)                           54                        54                     86                      105                       162                       128
of this, Transport Sector
dout: TP et Transports                        18                        18                      13                       25                        61                        31
Tam de finge
Exchangse Rate MS$ -                        23 SY                    23 SY                   23 SY                    23 Sv                     25 SY              _    380 GF
Ia Actually covers 3.5 years to did-84 (end of First Republic). /a Se couvre que 3 ans et deai -- fin de la Premi8re RUpublique.
a   Figures on actual investments not available.  /b  Chiffres sur investissements realisds non-disponibles.
Le  In million F7. By June 30, 1986, 38t of the program bad been realized.  Le En millions de EG. 38t du prograne ont ete r6alisd a la fin du premier seaestre.
Se1tCE:  Country Economic Nemorandum, July 1981, Tables 5 and 6 pour 1960-1978;
Guinea Public I xwestment Program (PIP), Table 5, WA2, March 1985 pour 1981-1985; WA2 -- Memo to Files, May 2, 1986: UINtA, 1986 PIP pour 1986.
WAPTR, avril 1987



-75 -                      AUIEX 3-1
page I of 8 '
REPUBUQUE DE. GUIMEE
MINISTERE DE L;EQUIPEMENT ET DE LUR0ANISMF      Conakry. b   /9    l 4,. 187
SECREIARIAI D'EIA1 AUX IRANSPORMS
LE SECBRTA3R3 D'aTAT
h 05 0 8 //MEU/SETICAB/ 87                            AUX TRANPORTS
A AI_ONS I Z1R LE PRLS I VENT DE
Objt                                          L 'ASSOCI ATION INT RNATIMALE
DE DVEVLOPPBtENT
28s8 H STRSET,NW
iWASHUNGTONt DC 20433.
1t.onsieur le PrEsident,
Dans le cadre de sa politique de rdhabilitation et de
relance de l'conomie guindenne, le Gouverneinent de la
REpub1iciqe de Guinee accords une priorit6 au secteur des trams-
ports domt le bon fonctionnement constitue un prdalable a la
romise em 6tat de 1'6comomie.
Suivant sa stratdgie de dEveloppement des transports,
Le Gouvernement Guin6en a sollicitW le concours financier de
votre institution et de plusieurs autres bailleurs de fonds
pour la mise en oeuvre de son projet des transports et infras-
tructures li6es.
Los orientations essentielles de cette strat6gie
ainsi que le progromme d'actions sp6cifiques qui la soutiendront
sont dEcrites daits la partie secteur des transports et les
infrastructures li6Es du  Progroie de Redres-semont National-
perspectives de d6veloppement a mnoyen terme  9817-1991s   ot
prdcisdes dans la matrice de politiqwe sectoriehle des trans-
ports ci-jointes.
En espdrant qua votre institution apportera tout son
concours a la realisation de ce projet, veuilLez agreer,
ionsieur le PrEsident,  'oexpression do notre considEration
disZit4 uo.
LE SEUR        ItRE        D'D                                     AUX
S EI         O                 ,                                   W.R NDIAYE
*                         Lz 41MW1I2RE DE LIQUQPu  Er
El bE uL'ANI E
.~ ,~ /ss
O  4 ;#t   SDl3g



- 76 -                        ANNEX 3-1
Tag e2 2of 8
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROGRAME DE REDRESSEMENT NATIONAL
PERSPECTIVES DE DEVELOPPEMENT
A MOYEN TERME
1987-1991
Janvier 1987



ANNEX 3-1
77 -                             Page 3 of 8
LE SECTEUR DES TRANSPORTS ET LES INFRASTRUCTURES LIEES
A. Les transports routiers
Les enieux
1.        Le reseau comprend 14.000 km de routes classees dont 1.145 km de
routes goudronnees et quelques 9.000 km de pistes sur lesquelles c.rculent
environ 25 000 vehicules, pour la plupart 1lgers et en mauvais etat. Ce
rdseau n'a pas 4td suffisamment entretenu A l'exception de tras rares
troncons de routes principales. De ce fait, la plupart des routes sont dans
un etat d4plorable, rendant tras difficile et par consequent fort cofteux,
l'acces aux centres d'activit4 et en particulier aux exploitations
agricoles et forestieres. Aussi la renovation et la construction des grands
axes et des pistes d'accbs doivent-ell3s Otre considerees comme un
prdalable au d4veloppement de la plupart des activites economiques notam-
ment a dominante rurale.
2.        La rehabilitation et la mise en place des infrastructures
constituent donc une priorite essentielle pour le Gouvernement. Les moyens
qui leur seront consacrds sur la periode 1987-1989 bien qu'insuffisants eu
dgard aux besoins, representent une part tres importante des investisse-
ments publics. Les bailleurs de fonds slinteressant au secteur des
transports seront convies, dans les prochairs mois, a une reunion de
concertation en vue d'harmoniser leurs interventions.
La strat6gie du Gouvernement
3.        A l'exception des transports urbains de masse qui seront domin6s
par des soci4t4s d'economie mixte, le secteur prive prendra en charge les
activitds de transport routier. Les autorites comptent mettre en place le
cadre reglementaire adequat (notamment pour contrbler le poids et la
dimension des vehicules) et prevoient des lignes de credits auprbs des
banques commerciales I destination des entreprises de transport, en vue de
l'acquisition de vehicules et de pibces detachees.
4.        En revanche, l'Etat se doit de mettre & la disposition des
utilisateurs des infrastructures suffisantes et viables. Un plan de trans-
port a 6te realise, qui precise les priorites en matibre de routes princi-
pales et de routes secondaires et ddfinit les etudes de faisabilitd a
engager rapidement en vue d'exdcuter les programmes ultdrieurs.
5.        L'effort porte auJourd'hui sur l'axe Gudkedou-Ser6dou : 126 km de
route pour le desenclavement de la Guin6e Forestire. En 1987, seront
traites les probl&mes lids & la route Conakry-Mamou et au renforcement des
routes bitumees. L'Office des Projets Routiers poursuit un programme de
rehabilitation des routes en terre et organisera l'entretien courant avec
les collectivites locales. Le Secr6tariat d'Etat aux Travaux Publics (SETP)
prepare un programme complementaire pour les ponts en bois. Par ailleurs,
la r4habilitation des rues de Conakry, compte tenu de leur extreme vdtust6,
a Mt4 consid4r6e comme une operation prioritaire. Enfin, les projets



AN1NEX 3-1
Page 4 of 8
- 78 -
routiers prioritaires pour lesquels il est necessaire d'entreprendre ou de
r6actualiser lee etudes sont les suivants : routes Dubr4ka/Boki,
Mamou/Kankan, S6redou/Nzdr6kord.
6.         Les projets les plus importants inscrits au PIP sont les
suivantss
(on millions de francs guln4.ns)
Naturo du Projet      our6e    Date do      DbourmOnt.        Situation du
pr6vuo  d6marra.       our 3 ens       du ftInncement
ONO  I  FINEX
S4mo projot routier   4 ans    1985       2.328      17. 165   Acquts
dont Rt. Conekry/Msamou
R.ndul..g. et Entret.
Route Qu6k.dou/S6rAdou  4 ans   1905        795      19;.080   Acqu Is
Rout. Oubr#k*/Bok6    4 ens    1985       1.2S8       5.049   Acquis
Seas fltuvi;x et ponts
mitalliques           8 ons    1987                   4.657   Acquis
Etude rout* Mamou/
Kankan                1 an      1987        809         352   Acqubs
Route Mamou/Kankan
exdcution             4 ans     1998      1.162       4.08   A rochercher
Rmls on 6tat des
rout., de Conakry     5 ons    1987         ?S9       3.000   Acquis
Etude rout. Kanken/
Nz6rikor              I'ane     1988        10          7?00   A rechercher
B.  L'infrastructure portuaire et a4roportuaire
La situation e^tuelle
7.        A Conakry, la GuinEe dispose d'un port complet comprenant une
station min6ralibre, cinq quais de marchandises et des aires pour les
petits bateaux, dont la capacite est insuffisante & moyen tenme. La
structure et l'organisation actuelles n4cessitent des am6liorations. Le
second port en eau profonde, Kamsar, dessert exclusivement lea entreprises
minilres. Enfin, quelques autres petits ports existent tout au long de la
c6te. Au niveau de l'aviation civile, leas am6nagements de l'aeroport
international de Conakry doivent etre termin4s.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 5 of 8
La strat6gie du Gouvernement
8.        Dans ce domaine, les actions d'organisation et de restructuration
sont au moins aussi importantes que lee investissements proprement dits.
Concernant l'linfrastructure portuaire a la privatisation des activit6s du
port de Conakry sera amorc6e des 1987, faisant suite aux actions
d'organisation en cours. Des propositions pour l'extension du port sont
prevues dans le cadre du projet sectoriel des transports envisage sur
cofinancement BAD/KFW/IDA.
9.        Concernant l'aviation civile t
l'op4ratipn financee par l'ACDI, pour Air Guineo, qui a dej3
cess6 ses vols internationaux et vendu,deux de see avions gros
porteurs, sera poursuivie en 1987. En plus, la restructuration de
la compagnie nationale et de l'Etablissement de relations
contractuelles claires entre l'Etat et l'entreprise sont
actuellement a l'ttude;
- une nouvelle structure de gestion de l'aeroport de Conakry sera
mise sur pied dane les prochains mois, les investissoements
urgents destines a am6liorer la sicuritd a4rienne seront r6aliis4
A la suite des discussions entre la Guin6e, l'IDA, et la CCCE;
- un programme d'am4lioration de piste de l'lintdrieur sera d6fini
en 1987 (financement et realise ult6rieurement dans le cadre d'un
projet sectoriel soutenu par l'IDA.
10.       Le projet le plus important inscrit au programme d'investissoment
est l'extension du port de Conakry, pr6vue pour une duree de 4 ans, d'un
montant total de 60 millions de tSD, cofinancd par le groupoment, l'IDA, la
BAD, la KFW et dont le demarrage est prevu pour 1988. Les autres opdrations
consistent essentiellement en des mesures d'organisation et de
restructuration.
C.  Le problem  particulier du chemin de fer
11.       Le r6seau de chemin de fer existant, outre les transports de
minerais de bauxite et d'alumine, no constitue aujourd'hui qu'un moyen
marginal d'acheminement des personues et des marchandises. De surcrolt, ie
materiel roulant, le; ateliers d'entretien et lee Equipements sont en
mauvais etat et leur rEhabilitation ainsi que celle du reseau demanderaient
des investissements consid6rables. Compto tenu de la realisation de
l'infrastructure routiere dans le corridor Conakry/Mamou/Kankan, la
restructuration de la haute ligne de chemin de for ne peut Otre considerde
comme une priorit4. Toutefois, l'Etude en cours des transports & Conakry
Otablirs llintEret d'utiliser la voie ferrne pour le transport des
passagers sur les premiers 37 km de la ligne (do Conakry A DubrEka).



REPUBLIC OF GUINU
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Pollcy Mesaures and Actions under the Transport Sector Credit
Recent Actions and
Policy(Stroctural Issues                                      Actions under the Project                    Agreeoents at Negotiations                        Monitorable Targets
A. Pricing Policy            Fuel prices cover border prices        Use fuel taxation as important source of additional                                          Study on road user taxation, including the
but (1) remain subs'antally below    fiscal revenues.                                                                               structure and appropriate levels of fuel
those of neighboring countries;                                                                                                    taxes; a consultant will be hired by Ju-
and (it) do not mobilize enougb                                                                                                     ly 1, 1987, and the study completed by No-
fiscal revenues to finance, inter                                                                                                  vember 15, 1987.
alia, road rehabilitation, which
Is an urgent Government priority.
Appropriate port tariffs               Agreement on:  (i) tariff levels (minimum to main-    New tariff structure has been ap-        (i)  New tariffs in effect by Credit
tain a financial rate of return at 6% on revalued      proved by SIT; the decree ilple-             Effectiveness.
net fixed assets); (it) tariff structure and timing  menting them is being introduced.
of revision(s).                                                                               (ii) TAriff structure and level to be re-    c
viewed at the time of pattng new
container teminal in operation.
D. Public Investment         level and composition of transport        (i) Anm   I agreement on a 3-year rolling invest-                                           (i) The provrm vill be exmined
and                      sector investment and maintenance             u nt and expenditure program for the period                                                  anmually with Th by Deceer 31 at
ypediture Program       expenditure program.                          1988-1993.                                                                                   latest.
(it) Agreeents on annwl maintenance budgets for                                              (i)  Only projects with minim  1% MRM
roads, ports, railvays and civil aviation.                                                   to be included.
(iII) Railway investents to be lixited
to essentials for safety reasons,
nd to studies; budSetary transfers
to railways not to exceed present
low levels.
Adequate and timely financing of       Study of financing mecbanisms for road maintenance    Doubling of 1987 road maintenance    Submission of conclusions of study on
road maintenance and rehabilita-      programs for period 1988-93.                            budget compared with that for         financing mechanisms by November 15, 1987;
tion.                                                                                         1986.                                implementation of approved mechaism by
January 1, 1988. (Condition of disbure- 
mont on road ccponent).
.1...                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~OD



Recent Actions and
PolicylStructural lasues                                     Actions under the Project                    Agreements at Negottations                       Monitorable Targets
C. Institutional Reform      The role of the State in the          Liberalization of transport services and adoption      See below.                           SET (i) will submit by Marcb 1, 1988, at
transport sector:                     of appropriate regulations.                                                                the latest, draft regulationks that take
IDA's comments into account and are condu-
cive to competition, efficiency and ssfety
of service, including, in particular, reg-
ulations liberalizing access to the indus-
try, on axle load liits and controls, and
Improvement of road safety; and (ii) Gov-
ernment will, put the new regulations into
effect by June 30, 1988.
-- Road Maintenance                     (i)  Participation of private sector in highway
maintenance:
-- subcontracting of all future periodic       Agreed
highway maintenance by SETP;
-- privatization of OPR                        Agreed                               To be implemented by December 31, 1988.
-- Long-distance road and freight      Iii)  (a) Abolition and prevention of any monopoly  COTRA dissolved, transit
transport (COTRA and ENTRAT)                  on long distance road transport;           activities formally opened to
private sector on April 1, 1987.
(b) Abolition of ENTRAT monopoly on            Decree No. 013 privatizing trans-
-- freight handling                        p)rt auxiliaries published Febru-
-- customs clearance                       ar.' 12. 29ft7; ;-4vatization effec-
tive as of April 1 1987.
-- Conalkry urban transport (TUC)     (iii)  Abolition of urban and interurban bus          De f4cto achiev-  since the entry    Conversion of TUC into joint venture by
and interurban passet.ger                 companies' monopolies;                         into the sector of Guin4e Express   June 30, 1988 a: the latest.
transport                                                                                 (private company) and SOGETRAG
(joint venture) 1985. A framework
agreement fcr formation of a joint
venture company with Moroccan
partners for restructuring TUC
signed January 1987.
-- Port Autonome de Conakry (PAC)      (iv)  (a) Privatization of PAC's cargo handling      Privatization effective as of         Adoption of new PAC statutes and port
activities                                 April 1, 1987.                       regulations by Credit Effectiveness.
(b) Subcontracting by PAC of cleaning and                                           Contract to be signed by January 1, 1988.
maintenance of port infrastructure and
navigational aids.
-- Societ6 Navale Cu{neenne (SBG)       (v) Abolition of SNG monopoly on consignment.       Done effective April 1, 1987.         Pull licensing of private handling and
(Creation of joint venture company  forwarding agents by October 1, 1987.
SOGUICOM with SIG and three pri-
vate partners.)
w
*% I
...                       /                       a



Recent Actions and
Policy/Structural Issuea                                     Actions under the Project                    Agreements at Negotiations                       Monitorable Targets
C. Institutional Reform      Efficiency and structure of civil       (t) Reorganization of civil aviation                 Creation of a joint venture Gui-    Establisment of an autonomous aency for
(con't)                aviation.                                                                                   nean and French airport management  air navigation and management of the aec-
company (SOCEAC) for Conakry air-    ondary airports (ANA). Draft proposal to
p ort.                               TA by March 31, 1988. Creation of agency
by June 30, 1988.
(ii)  Restructuring of Air Guin#e based on results   Continuation of the study to dev-   Presentation of study results no later
of ongoing study                               elop a detailed action plan.         than October 31, 1987; consultation with
IDA for ipleewntation of detailed plan of
action by June 30, 1988 at latest.
Strengthening the Government's in-      ti) Reorganization and retraining of SET                                                  Presentation of reorganization proposals
stitutional and administrative ca-           (Ministry of Transport) and SETP (Ministry                                           by June 30, 1988 and implementation by Oc-
pability to deal vith transport              of Public works) personnel                                                           tober 31, 1988 at latest.
policies and inmestments                                                                                                                                                             s
Cii)  Medium-term manpoer development program for                                           Ai) Appointment of consultants by
the transport sector                                                                       Decexer 31, 1987;
(ii)  Consultation on study reconda-
tion by September 30. 1988;
(iii) ITplementation of progrm starting
Janry 1, 1989.
AaA l
WIMPER Aril 1987



- 83 -                      ANNEX 4-1
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Composante Routiere (Road Component)
Renforcement et enduisages du r4seau bitumi
(Pavement Strengthening and Resurfacing)
1.        Le r4esau bitum6 guin6en, le seul encore reellement circulable
en toute saison, supporte la majeure partie du trafic interurbain. Ce
reseau de 1200 km seulement de longueur totale est ag4: 60 % a plus de
20 ans, 5 Z a entre 20 et 15 ans, 25 Z a entre 15 et 10 ans et 10 % a
moins de  10 ans.   Ce r4seau,  qui n'a subi qu'un entretien courant
episodique pendant les deux derniares d6cennies, a atteint la phase
critique de d6gradations acc6l6r6es. La "fenetre d'opportunite" ouverte
entre 1982 et 1985 pour arrgter le processus d'acc6l6ration des degrada-
tions A un coGt relativement modeste n'a pas pa etre mise a profit.  Ce
d6phasage de quelques ann6es critiques dans l'execution des travaux peut
5texprimer par des augmentations des couts de rehabilitation pouvant
atteindre 100 Z ou plus des previsions. De telles augmentations ne sont
pas surprenantes.   Les ph6nomanes mis en jeu sont aujourd'hui mieux
connus, le modAle HDM permet notamment de les simuler.
2.        Le Troisiame Projet Routier base sur des 4tude3 datant de 1982
avait prSvu le renforcement de l'itineraire Conakry-Mamou (255 km) et
1'enduisage de 360 km sur un ensemble de trois autres itineraires. I1
4tait indiqug que ces travaux 4taient hautement prioritaires si l'on
voulait 4viter des cO'ts plus eleves dans l'avenir.   Le chantier de
renforcement Conakry-Mamou finance par la BAD a physiquement demarrg en
janvier 1987. Les travaux d'enduisage financ6s par la Banque, dont lee
documents techniques d'appel d'offre international ont d6ja du etre
remanies pour incorporer une composante renforcement de chauss6e,
devraient demarrer en octobre/novembre 1987. Le reste du reseau bitum4
rentre, & son tour, daus la phase critique d'acc6l6ration des degrada-
tions. Un effort majeur doit e^tre consenti pour intervenir en temps
voulu sur le riseau bitum6 restant, qu'il est envisag6 de traiter dans
le cadre du projet.
3.        L'operation proposee de renforcement et d'enduisage comporte
un ensemble de troncons situ6s sur les itin6raires (a) Mamou-Kissidougou
(207 km; (b) Kissidougou-Gueck4dou (93 km); et (c) Kamsar-Bok4 (63 km).
Les objectifs physiques de la route Mamou-Kissidougou r6sultent d'une
actualisation en janvier 1987 de l'6tude ex6cut4e par LBI; ceux de
Kamsar-Bok6 r4sultent d'un diagnostic porte en janvier 1987; ceux de la
route Kissidougou-Gueck4dou sont estim6s et devront gtre affin6s.
4.        Les travaux proposes comportent cinq types d'interventions:
(a) nettoyage complet des accotements et talus, reprises localisees de
certains remblais, reparations d'6paufrures et nids de poules, leger
reflachage; (b) monocouche sur des structures saines mais au revetement
use; (c) bicouche sur des structures saines mais fissurees et au revete-
ment tr4s us6; (d) renforcement de la chauss6e avec (ou non) scarifica-
tion et mise en oeuvre d'une nouvelle couche de base stabilis4e (ou non)



- 84 -                   ANNEX 4-1
Page 2 of 4
au ciment et prot4g6e par un bicouche sur les sections d4jA disloquAes
ou iyant d6pass6 les seulls admissibles de deformations; (e) reprise et
reparation  du  systeme  de  drainage,  fosses,  buses,  dalots.   Aucune
correction g6ometrique de trac4 nfest envisag6e.
5.        A l'issue de ces travaux 1'ensemble de l'itineraire Mamou-Kis-
sidougou sera completement renforc4 et r6habilite; l'itin4raire Kissi-
dougou-Gueckedou aura 6galement regu ses premiers travaux d'entretien
periodiques et de renforcement depuis sa construction (1970-1975); et la
totalite de la route Kamsar-Boke aura b6n6fici6 d'un premier entretien
p6riodique lui assurant une vie additionnelle d'environ dix ans.
L'ensemble du reseau bitume guineen (a 1'exclusion de la route Kissidou-
gou-Kankan) sera donc remis en 4tat. I1 sera alors possible de lancer
sur des bases  solides une  organisation  de  cantonnage  pour  assurer
ltentretien courant. La route Kissidougou-Kankan (190 kin), construit
par les Cubains et d6ja en partie reconstruite, subit un pruceeLsus de
destruction *ur environ 60-100 km au nord de Kissidougou. Ce processus
semble du A des erreurs de conception ou de mise en oeuvre; un diagnos-
tic serieux appuye par des essais d6taill6s de laboratoire devra prece-
der tout investissement nouveau.
6.        La Guinee n'etant entr4e que recemment dans une 6conomie de
march6 ne dispose que de tras peu d'exp6rience en matiare de couts de
construction. Le marche est tras incertain; la plage de variation des
couts est tres large:  de l'ordre de ' a 3 dans le cas de l'appel
d'offre international Conakry-Mamou avec un 4cart de 1 a 1.5 pour les
quatre premiers soumissionnaires. Les couts des travaux estimes pour le
present projet sont d6rivAs du contrat Conakry-Mamou qui constitue la
seule r6f6rence disponible.  Les tableaux 3-1,1 et 3-1,2 joints a la
pr6sente annexe detaillent les objectifs physiques, les cou'ts de renfor-
cement et d'enduisage et, les couts des travaux types exprim6s en
dollars des Etat-Unis par kilometre.
WAPTR, April 1987



- 85 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 3 of 4
Tableau 4-1, 1
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Composante Routiere (Road Component)
Renforcement, Enduisage du R6seau Bitume/Reconstruction,Resurfacing of Paved Roads
Objectifs physiques/Co0ts estim4s des travaux/Proposed Works and Estimated Costs
1.  Objectifs Physiques (km)/Physical Objectives (km)
Longueur du r6seau                   Monocouche         Bicouche
(Length of Road   Pr6paration   (Single Surface  (Double Surface  Renforceeent    Drainage
Section)      (Preparation)    Treatment)         Treatment)    (Strengthening) (Drainage)
Mamou-Kissidougou            207              207               9                46               153            207
Kamsar-Bok6                   63               20              63                --                --             20
Kissidougou-
Gueckkdou                    93               93              13                27                53            93
TOTAL (km)                   363              320              85                73               206           320
2.  CoOts estimes des Travaux (dollars des EU)/Estimated Cost of Works
Monnaie Locale                     Devises                      Total
G6nie civil/Civil Works                    2.94                           19.22                       22.16
Controle/Supervision                       0.12                            1.10                        1.22
Imprevus 20 %/Phys. Contingencies          0.60                            4.06                        4.66
Hausse des prix/Price Contingencies        1.66                             1.38                       3.04
TOTAL $EU (m)                            5.32                           25.76                       31.08
WAPRiI
avril/April 1987



- 86 -
APEI 4-1
Page 4 of 4
Table 4-1,2
REPUBLIQUE DE 6UINIEE
--... ........ ........
PROJET SECTORIEL DE TRANSPORT
Coeposante Routiere (Road Coeponent)
Devis des travaua Types/Cost Estimate per Types of Rehabilitation Works
Prixx.U    Total      %
Unite  guantite   us t      us $      Local
A. Preparation                                                           A. Preparation
nettoyage          ha         0,6    120,0      72,0      28,0           clearing
reiblais           *3        70,0       7,0    490,0       9,0           fill
decapage           e3        35,0       4,0    140,0       9,0           stripping
purge              *3        30,0      12,0    360,0       9,0           removal of poor soil
enrobes froids    e3          4,0    300,0  1.200,0        6,0           cold asphalt concrete
point a teepi      s2       250,0       9,0  2.000,0       6,0           pothole filling
divers             f          1,0    428,0    428,0        7,0           miscellaneous
total par km                                 4.690,0       7,0           total per km
8. Nonotouche                                                            B. Single Surface Tratmnt
itant               t         B0O    490,0  3.840,0        5,0           bituwn
aggregats          n3        65,0      53,0  3.445,0      .E,O           aggregates
transports        s3km    1.625,0       0,6    975,0       9,0           transport
divers              f          1,0    830,0    830,0       7,0           miscellaneous
total par km                                 9,090,0       7,0           total per kb
C. Bitouche                                                              C. Double Surface Treatmnt
. _----                                                                 ._.....................
liant               t        14,0    480,0  6.120,0        5,0           bitumen
aggregats         d3        120,0      53,0  6.360,0       9,0 Eggregates
transports        e3ke    3,000,0       0,6  1.800,0       9,0           transport
divers              f          1,0  1.490,0  1.490,0       7,0           miscellaneous
total par km                                16.370,0                     total per km
D. Renforcement                                                          D. Strengthening
base               s3     1.400,0       0,0 11.200,0      10,0           base course
ciment              t       103,0    270,0 27.810,0        5,0           cement
impregnation        t         7,0    780,0  5.460,0        7,0           priming
bicouthe           s2     6,500,0       2,5 16.250,0       5,0           double surface treatunt
accotneent        *3        900,0       9,0  B.100,0       9,0           shoulders
divers              f         1,0  5.260,0  5.260,0        6,0           miscellaneous
total par km                                74,080,0       6,0           total per km
E. Draiiage                                                              E. Drainage
fosses             Il       300,0       5,0  1.500,0      10,0           ditches
buses D:0,60       nl         2,0    250,0    500,0       17,0           culverts of 0.60 d
buses Dtl          Al         2,0    380,0    760,0       17,0           culverts of 1.00 d
perres divers      n2        10,0      35,0    350,0      43,0           misc, masonry
divers              f         1,0    310,0    310,0       17,0           miscellaneous
total par km        f                        3.420,0      17,0           total per ke
F. Forfaits                                                              f. Ltup Sms
... ----._-.---... ............
installation        f        0,08           Travaux       14,0           set-up costs
appuz controle      f        0,03           Works          4,0           logistical support of supervision
SONNAIRE                             total    local   devises            SUNNARY
..- - --                            ---               .. _._.__...
A.Preparation      km               5.217,2    390,0  4.827,2            Preparation
0 Nenocouche       km              10.111,7    750,0  9.361,7            Single surface treatmt
C.Bicouthe         ke              19.210,0  1.350,0 16.I 60,0           Double surface trmatmant
D.Renforc.ment    km              82.406,6 11.840,0 70.566,6             Strengthening
E.Drainage         km               3.804,4    624,0  3,180,4            Drainage
WAPTR, avril/April 198?



- 87 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Composante RoutiAre (Road Component)
Contro^le de la v6g6tation, cantonnage
(Vegetation Control and Labor Based Maintenance)
1.        Dans les zones de savane arbor6e et de plateaux secs une
v6g6tation dure et tres dense se developpe sur les accotements.  Cette
vegetation pousse de quatre matres par an r6duisant ainsi la visibilit6.
Elle s'effondre sous son propre poids rendant le r.seau de drainage
inefficace; elle ronge aussi les bords bitumes de la chauss6e. La solu-
tion  traditionnelle  qul  consiste   a  bruler  la  v6g6tation  est
anti-6cologique, dangereuse, nuisible pour le bitume de la chaussge et,
en plus, contreproductive car la vegetation repousse avec une vigueur
accrue. L'autre solution, egalement traditionnelle consiste A couper
manuellement au coupe-coupe cette vegetation deux fois par an. Cette
v6g6tation etant trgs dure, les rendements sont faibles, de l'ordre de
100 m2 par homme-jour.  Les tentatives d'exgcution du debroussaillement
en r6gie n'ont qu'un succes eph6mere, cou'tent cher et sont difficiles
dans les zones peu peupl4es (Kissidougou-Kankan, par exemple); aussi,
leur 4chec  empSche la poursuite d'autres  operations  importantes de
cantonnage (curage des caniveaux, nettoyage des buses, etc.).
2.        Apres consultation avec le Services des Eaux et Forets, du
Jardin Botanique et de l'Agriculture, il apparatt que la seule facon de
reduire le d6veloppement de ces herbes est de les asperger avec un
desherbant (A raison de 9-10 litres par hectare), iummediatement apres la
coupe.  La coupe des vegetaux doit e^tre executee avec des d6broussail-
leuses portatives qui pernmettent un rendement de 1000 m2 par homme-jour,
et egalement avec un broyeur actionn4 par un tracteur agricole (quand la
gdomitrie des accotements le permet, et quand la densite des termitiAres
dures comme du beton ne s'y oppose pas).
3.        Ce contr8le de la vgetation est une operation simple, mais
qui constitue un prealable technique A la mise en place d'un systAtme de
cantonnage sur lea routes bitum6es. Le projet financera une operation
pilote sur la route Kissidougou-Kankan (190 km), zones de savanes peu
boisees, peu peuplees et o4 la v6g6tation extre^mement agressive a r6duit
la largeur de la chaussee de 7 m A 3 m A certains endroits. Les travaux
devront etre executes par un petit entrepreneur qui sera s6lectionn6 et
assiste par le Projet qui lui passera un contrat d'un an. Le projet
achatera directement,  par l'intermidiaire de la centrale d'achat de
1'OPR, les 6quipements et produits qui seront remis A l'entrepreneur et
deduits de sa facturation. L'assistance technique de specialistes en
botanique sera sollicitee pour conseiller et observer lee r6sultats. Un
rapport circonstancig sur l'op6ration sera 6labor6.



- 88 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 2 of 3
4.         Le  cout  total  de  l'op4ration  pour  l'itin6ralre  pilote
Kissidougou-Kankan est estim6 A $EU 325000 hors taxes y compris l'in-
vestissement initial d'environ $EU 165000 (voir tableau annex6).  I1 est
estim6 que le contr8le de la v6g6tation sera acquis pour une p6riode
minimum de cinq ans.  Le cout d'entretien annuel est estime' a $EU 210
environ par kilomAtre  (pour une surface de 6000 m 2 par km).  Le mime
entretien r6alis4 par les moyens traditionnels (et avec une coupe par
an) couterait environ $EU 1900 par an.
5.         En r6su=6 lVop6ration pilote se chiffre de la fagon suivante:
En $EU
TOTAL liT          Locale            Devises
Achat matdriel                       165,000              --              165,000
Budget fonctionnement                123,180             83,940            39,240
Total (base line)                    288,180             83,940           204,240
Impr6vus physiques                    36,820             19,790            17,030
Total                                325,000            103,730           221,278
WAPTR
avril/April 1987



- 89 -
TABLE 4-2-1
Page 3 of 3
COMPOSANTE ROUTIERE (ROAD COMPONENT)
Devis estimatif
Contr8le de la v4g6tation sur Kissidougou-Kankan
(Vegetation Control on Kissidougou-Kankan)
1. Caractdristiques techniques/Technical Characteristics
Longueur/Length:                      190 km
AccOtement arase/Shoulder width
to treat:                             2 x 2 m x 190 km = 76 ha
Foss6s (en d6blais ou remblais)/
Ditches:                              2 x 7 m x 190 km - 38 ha
Poids estime vigftaux/Estimated
vegetation weight:                    15/30 t/ha
Dur6e chantier pilote/Duration of
pilot operation:                      1 an
2. Achat 6quipement/Equipment Purchase
CAP
1 Tracteur agricole 70 cv/
1 Agricultural tractor               $EU:    40000
1 Broyeur tractd/1 Grinder           $EU:     5000
2 Camions/2 Trucks                   $EU:    90000
1 Pick up/i Pick up                  $EU:    10000
10 D6broussailleurs portables/
10 Portable movers                    $EU:      5000
Total                                 $EU:   150000
Pieces rechange, usure/Spare parts   $EU:    15000
Grand Total                           $EU    165000
3.  Travaux/Works
Total                 S
U       Q       PU       Depenses HT     Local    Devises
Fauchage mecanique/Mechanical
cutting                           ha        76      200        15200             6        94
Fauchage manuel/Hand cutting      ha        38      260         9880            25        75
RUpandage desherbant/
Herbicide spreading               ha       114      300        34200            10        90
Mise en depot/Vegetation
disposal                           t     11400        5        57000           100       ---
Travaux nettoyage/Cleaning works km        190      100         1900            60        40
Frais gen6raux/0verhead           km       190      200        38000            50        50
Sous-total/Subtotal ($EU)                                     156180         83942     72238
Amortissement equipement/
Equipment amortization             F                         ( 33000)          ---    (33000)
Total                                                         123180         83942     39238
Impr6vus 30%/Contingencies 30%                                 36820         19790     17030
Grand Total                                                   160000        103732     56268
Source: Mission WAPT
WAPTR, avril 1987



- 90 -
ANNEX 4-3
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Composante Routiare/Road Component
R4habilitation des bureaux/Office Rehabilitation
1.        Le bStiment du Secr6tariat d'Etat aux Travaux Publique est
dans un 6tat avanc6 de d6labrement.   Lee menuiseries ext6rieures et
int6rieures sont vermoulues, lee claustras au dessus des fenetres sont
obstru6s par des planches, lee peintures sont ecaillees, lea sanitaire3
detruits, lee carrelages sont A nettoyer, et le reseau Alectrique est a
reconstruire. Le mobilier de bureau est pratiquement inexistant consti-
tue de quelques 4tagares, tabourete, table-bureau du type icolier. Les
machines de bureaux se limitent a quelques machines A 6crire de 25 ans
d'age. Les facilites du Secr6tariat d'Etat aux Transports sont sensi-
blement dans le mime etat.
2.        Les surfaces a r6nover s'elevent a  1400 m2  (deux 4tages,
46 bureaux dans le batiment SETP et a 810 m2 (deux gtages, 22 bureaux
dans le bStiment du SET). Pour chaque Secretariat d'Etat il a 4t4 pr6vu
une salle de conference, un bureau minist6riel, un bureau pour le chef
de  cabinet,  une  salle  de  reception,  cinq bureaux  pour  directeurs,
37 bureaux pour le bitinent SETP, dont 12 environ pour le Contr8le
Automobile, d6pendant du SET, et 13 bureaux dans le bStiment du SET.
3.        Le montant  total  des  travaux  et  fournitures  s'6tablit  a
2,1 million de dollars comme d6taill6 ci-dessous:
Estimation des cou'ts
(mileions $EI, hors taxe)
SETP       SET       Total     Local     Devises
Ghnie civil
(Civil Works)             1.000     0.375      1.375     0.140       1.235
Mobilier/Furniture        0.250     0.120      0.370        ---      0.370
Equipement bureaux
(Office Equipment)        0.200     0.155      0.355                 0.355
Cout de base
(Base Cost)               1.450     0.650      2.100     0.140       1.960
Impr6vus physiques
(Phys.Contingencies)      0.050     0.050      0.100       ---       0.100
Impr6vus financiers
(Price Contingencies)    0.030      0.010      0.040       ---       0.040
Total $EU m
(Total US$ m)             1.530     0.710      2.240     0.140       2.100
WAPTR, avril/April 1987



- 91 -                       ANNEX 4-4
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORT
Assistance Technique/Technical Assistance
Schema de Mandat du Consultant/Outline Terms of Reference
1. Gkn6ralitAs
1.        Le  S.E.T.P. va devoir assumer dans les annees A venir une mont6e
en charge de responsibilitgs comportant:
(a)  le  suivi  d'un  ensemble  d'op6rations  de  Genie  Civil  et
notamment: (i) les travaux d'enduisage et de rehabilitation
du Troisieme Projet Routier et du pr6sent Projet Sectoriel
totalisant environ 900 km; (ii) le lancement d'un Programme
Prioritaire de Rehabilitation Routiare pouvant comporter la
construction de 600 km de routes bitum6es ainsi que la
remise en etat des ponts m6talliques et des bacs du pays;
(b) la r6activation d'un ensemble de fonctions adminfstratives
et   de   gestion   lie   A   l'entretien   routier   et   a
l'investissement.
2. Objectifs et envergure des prestations
2.        Un groupe de gestion des projets (GGP) dependant directement du
Secr6taire d'Etat aux Travaux Publics sera mis en place pour une premiare
p6riode de deux ans renouvelables. L'6quipe A mettre en place comportera:
(c)  Un Ing6nieur routier chef du GGP (24 homme-mois) sp6cialiste
en gestion de travaux et en administration qui assurera les
fonctions de conseiller principal auprAs du Secr6taire
d'Etat aux Travaux Publics.  Pour les affaires financ6es
sous les Troisi4me Projet Routier, Projet Sectoriel des
Transports et le Programme Prioritaire de Rehabilitation
RoutiAre il aidera le Secr6taire d'Etat a coordonner et A
assurer le suivi des diff6rents projets et, en particulier:
- A renforcer le role de Mattre d'Oeuvre du SETP en veillant A la
qualit6 technique, et A la coh6rence des 4tudes et contr8les confi6s
aux differents Bureaux d'Ing6nieurs Conseils;
- & g8rer toutes les activites des diff6rents projets et notam_ent en
matiere: (i) de procedures de passation des marchis conformMent aux
directives des bailleurs de fonds; (ii) d'examen des documents d'appel
d'offres; (iii) d'1valuation de soumissions; (iv) do passation des
contrats; (v) de comptabilite d'engagements, de contr8les budgetaires,
d'instruction des demandes de decaissement adress6es aux bailleurs de
fonds   et   de   paiement   des   contreparties   locales;   et   (vi)
d'4tablissement des rapports d'activit6s assortis de recommandations
faisant suite A une analyse critique des problUmes souleves.



- 92 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 2 of 4
(b) pour les affaires de d6v6loppement institutionnel, le
conseiller   principal   prgsentera   des   recommendations
cobArentes avec une strat6gie a long terme faisant du SETP
une institution normative et de contro^le. Dans ce contexte
il:
- assistera a l'elaboration d'un cadre de gestion destine A renforcer
les fonctions de programmae"on, d'etude et de contr8le.  Ce cadre de
gestion comportera: (i) les descriptions de poste; (ii) les filiares
de delegation de pouvoir et de communications; et (iii) les procedures
d'op4rations.
- participera A une 6valuation du personnel pour definir les besoins
en formation;
- d6v6loppera progressivement une strat6gie en matiare d'entretien
routier visant A moyen terme A l'execution par l'entreprise des
travaux d'entretien a l'exception des travaux d'urgence ou A caractAre
de service public qu'il s'av&rerait impossible de faire executer par
contrat.
3.        Un Ingenieur Routier d'Etudes (24 homme-mois) qui assistera le
chef du GGP dans tous les aspects d'ing6nierie routiere et qui sera plus
particulierement charge:
(a) du suivi technique au second degr6 et de la synthase de tous
les contrats finances par les bailleurs de fonds (et dont le
controle est assure au premier degr6 par les differents
bureaux de consultance);
(b) de l1'laboration: (i) d'une politique coherente en matiere
de specifications et de standards tenant compte des
experiences acquises dans la Region et des conditions
Guineennes;   et  (ii)  d'un  ensemble  de  documents  et
dispositions types pouvant constituer la base d'un cahier
g6n6ral des charges permettant une approche technique
homogane et independante;
(c) d'une reflexion methodologique suivie de l1'1aboration de
documents types et des procAdures A suivre pour assurer
l'entretien routier y compris le cantonnage A l'entreprise.
4.        Un Ingenieur - Economiste junior (24 homme-mois) qui apportera
son concours:
(a)  a la d6finition des priorit6s en matiere de remise en 4tat
et d'entretien du reseau non bitume;
(b)  a la mise en place d'une structure organisationnelle pour la
collecte et l'analyse des donnees de base essentielles pour
la planification de l'entretien routier;



- 93 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 3 of 4
(c)  au  suivi  et  a  1'6volution  des  couts  unitaires  de
construction, de controle, d'entretien des routes et des
co'ts d'operation des v6h1reles;
(d) a l' I6aboration des budgets annuels d'entretien.
5.        Un   sp4cialiste   en  formation   (12  homme-mois)   qui  apras
participation  A lVopfration  d' valuation  du personnel,  et analyse  des
descriptions de poste procedera A l&laboration, au lancement, et au suivi
d'un programme de formation. Par ailleurs, ce spAcialiste se penchera sur
les problemes specifiques de dev6loppement des petits entrepreneurs et
tacherons  et  presentera  des  recommandations  en  vue  d'am6liorer  l1ur
capacite technique et de gestion.
3. Calendrier d'Intervention des Experts
6.        L'Ingenieur Routier Chef du GGP devra arriver en Guin6e dans les
30  jours  suivant  la  notification  du  contrat.    II  participera  a
l'4laboration et au suivi du contrat pour la r6habilitation des bureaux du
SETP. Les autres membres de lI'quipe rejoindront leur poste au fur et A
mesure de la mise a disposition de locaux de travail.
4. Prix et paiements
7.        La proposition du consultant specifiera les elements chiffres
suivants, exprim6s en monnaie nationale et/ou en devises:
(a) le tarif homme-mois pour les membres de l1equipe, y compris
les traitements; conges, jours feri6s et indemnites pour
conges de maladie; les assurances, pensions de retraite et
autres charges sociales;  les indemnites d'affectations a
l'etranger, y compris les deplacements personnels hors
mission A l'int6rieur du pays; les frais generaux de
l'entreprise (y compris le soutien fourni par le siege A
l'quipe du projet, les d4penses du siege, les frais de
voyage, les jetons de presence, etc.);
(b)  les postes de depenses remboursables au titre du personnel,
notamment les frais de voyage international pour lVemploy6
et sa famille lors de l'affectation, de la cessation des
fonctions et des cong6s, y compris les excedents de bagages
et autres indemnites; les frais de logement en Guinee, de
deplacement local, de subsistance, de support de personnel
de secr6tariat et autres depenses analoguas pendant le
s6jour en Guin6e.  La proposition precisera le montant de
chaque poste remboursable ainsi que la base de calcul
retenue;
(c) le co'ut du mat6riel de marque ou des services jug6s
indispensables   pour   l'ex6cution   de   la  mission  des
consultants et le cout d'impression des manuels, directives
et formulaires destines A SETP;



- 94 -                      ANNEX 4-4
Page 4 of 4
(d) l'indice national ou international officiellement reconnu
correspondant a la monnaie choisie pour les paiements, en
vertu duquel les consultants proposent que le tarif
homme-mois soit major4 pour tenir compte de l'inflation.
8.        Les paiements seront effectues mensuellement sur la base des
documents prdpar6s par le consultant et certifies par le Secretaire d'Etat
aux Travaux Publics. Ces documents sp6cifieront separement les paiements
par homme-mois et les paiements au titre des dgpenses remboursables.
5. Liste des rapports A fournir
9.        Le consultant 6tablira et remettra les rapports suivants:
(a) Un rapport initial, A remettre trois mois apras Is date de
demarrage des prestations du premier expert sur place, et
pr6senmint un Plan d'action g6nAral pour toutes lee
composantes du projet.
(b) Rapports d'activites A partir du quatriame mois aprAs le
d6marrage du projet.  Le consultant 6tablira les rapports
d'activit6s suivants: (i) Rapports trimestriels, A remettre
21 jours au plus tard apras la fin du trimestre, pr6cisant
1'6tat d'avancement de tous les 4l4ments du projet; (ii)
Rapports speciaux, A 4laborer A la demande en fonction des
problAmes speciaux ou recommendations particuliares pouvant
se prgsenter.
(c)  Rapport d'ach6vement des missions individuelles: A remettre
un mois apras le depart de chaque expert et devant servir de
proces-verbal de passation de service. Rapport d'achevement
de la mission de consultance: A remettre un mois avant le
repli du dernier membre de la mission.
WAPTR
avril/April 1987



-95 -                       ANNEX 4-5
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Composante Portuaire: Aspects Techniques
Port Subsector: Engineering Aspects
1.        At present, neither the leading channel to Conakry Port nor
the port water area are protected agalnst littoral currents that pass
from north to south through two openings between the existing break-
vaters (Map IBRD 20075). The current, reaching about two knots, depos-
its large quantities of fine sand, silt and clay in the channel and in
front of the deep water berths and has reduced the depth in the channel
from 8.5 m to 7.5 m, in front of the general cargo berths from 8.0 m to
6.5 m, and in front of the bauxite berth from 11.0 m to 7.5 m (35 cms in
the channel and 1.2 m in front of the bauxite berth annually). Closing
the two openings between breakwaters by constructing a siltation preven-
tion dike will reduce maintenance dredging to a minimum, especially in
the port water area, and allow continuous use of quays by bigger ves-
sels,  during all tide  conditions.   Dredging works  financed by the
proposed project will increase the depth of the leading channel to
9.5 m; widen the channel in front of the proposed container berth from
150 m to 250 m to allow for safe turning of the container and Ro-Ro
vessels; and deepen the port water area to -9.5 m. About 1.2 million ms
will be dredged in the channel and 560,000 m' in the port water area.
2.        Adequate information on soil condition at all sites of the
proposed project is available as a result of thorough investigations
carried out during preparation of the port master plan and complemented
by additional recent soil investigations that were needed for the design
of the container berth and the fuel jetty.
3.        Soil condition along the length of the proposed dike is known
to be of soft clay down to -7.0 to -9.0 m. The clay will be dredged
(about 350,000 ml) and replaced by sand. The least-cost solution for
the dike is the rubble mound type with a crest at +4.0 m using about
250,000 ms of stones of different sizes. The dike will be protected by
granite rocks of one to three tons weight.
4.        The proposed fuel Jetty will be locatud east of the OBK
bauxite berth and on the same alignment.  Soils at the site are soft
clays down to -8 to -11 a.  The jetty will consist of a platform to
carry the unloading arms, four breasting dolphins and four mooring
dolphins connected together by a catwalk. The four breasting dolphins
will allow tankers ranging between 1,000 and 30,000 dwt (90 to 190 m
long) to berth. The platform and the eight dolphins will be of tubular
steel piles driven to an appropriate depth in the sand strata underlying
the soft strata. About 650,000 m9 of soft material will be dredged in
front of the jetty to provide the necessary depth for berthing and
turning oil tankers.
5.        The proposed container berth will be located west of the
FRIGUIA miteral berth and on the same alignment.  Soil condition at the
site is known to be good except for about 100 m adjacent to FRIGUIA
berth, where special precautionary measures need to be taken. Several
alternative designs were studied and the least-cost solution was found
to be that using concrete blocks with stone and sand back filling. The



- 96 -                    ANNEX 4-5
Page 2 of 2
filling will reclaim an open storage area of about 75,000 m2 of which
45,000 m2 will be paved under the proposed project. The above-mentioned
precautionary measures wolild include loading the concrete blocks with a
surcharge during berth construction, until final settlement is attained.
However, contractors may also submit alternative designs using other
methods of construction.   The access road to the berth (500 m long)
needs rehabilitation and widening; this is included in the proposed
project. About 225,000 m9 of soil will be dredged to reach a depth of
-12 m, thus allowing for a two meter thick stone foundation under the
concrete blocks.   The new berth is basically protected against wave
action by the island of Kassa and the Prudente breakwater.  However,
there iay be times when waves passing between the island and the break-
water could present a minor hazard. In order to ensure that loading and
unloading of containers are safe under all wave conditions, the consul-
tants who prepared the project carried out a mathematical model study to
assess whether the "Prudente" has to be extended and by how much. Based
on the study, the project includes the extension of the breakwater by
200 m.
WAPTR
April 1987



- 97 -                      ANNEX 4-6
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEIJ DES TRANSPORTS
Composante Portuaire: Aspects Institutionnel
Port Sub-Sector: Institutional Strengthening
1.        Although there have been considerable improvements in port
operations over the past two years, cargo handling productivity in
Conakry is still well below that currently achieved in the ports of
Dakar, Abidjan and Douala. In part, this reflects a different crmposi-
tion of the fleets serving these major ports (larger, more modern
vessels with more containerized and pre-palletized cargos, etc.); in
part, however, it reflects a less efficient organization of cargo
handling activities. In some ports, these are carried out by competing
private operators, while they have been handled by state monopolies in
Conakry.  Indifferently organized, insufficiently equipped, and with a
poorly motivated staff on civil service salaries of US$25-60 equivalent
per   month,   these   public   enterprises   barely   coped   with   the
200-220,000 tpy of imported general merchandise in the early 1980s; they
were quite unable to handle the steeply increased traffic of the past
two years (increase of 1986 over 1983 = 180%). In accordance with newly
announced Government policies, private operators were admitted starting
in 1985: first in freight handling and customs clearance; then also for
shiphand3ing and stevedoring. They were given, on an ad-hoc and tempo-
rary basis, licenses as "sub-contractors" to the state enterprises
which, legally, had the exclusive right to operate in the port: SNG for
consignment, PAC for stevedoring, and ENTRAT for freight and customs
handling.   The  private  "sub-contractors"  used  their  own  equipment,
employed mostly staff of the existing public enterprises, paying them
private sector wages and demanding and getting outputs comparable with
those in the well-functioning ports in the region. These pilot opera-
tions clearly demonstrated the potential productivity gains and invest-
ment economies (the stevedoring and other companies are responsible for
providing, operating, and maintaining needed Cargo handling equipment in
addition to those now owned by PAC or ENTRAT) achievable through priva-
tization, although the absence of well-defined ground rules for private
sector participation created a somewhat ambiguous situation as regards
the technical and financial obligations of the public enterprises and of
private operators.
2.        During preparation  of  the  proposed  project,  IDA  and  the
co-financiers have assisted SET and PAC in developing a regulatory
framework for full-scale privatization of7 port-associated services.
Draft regulations concerning "Le Travail des Dockers," "le Consigna-
taire," "le Manutentionnaire," "le Transitaire," "l'Agent en Douane," et
"les Courtiers de Navire," are in the project file.   Draft revised
Statutes of PAC reflecting the new arrangements and new port regulations
were discussed during appraisal and will be implemented before credit
effectiveness.  This was confirmed during negotiations.
3.        Since PAC has until now been responsible for general port
administration as well as for all harbormaster and stevedoring func-
tions, present port tariffs were designed to generate sufficient port
revenues overall to ensure full financial viability of PAC without,
however, correctly reflecting the costs of the various sub-activities.



- 98 -
ANNEX 4-6
Page 2 of 2
Before transferring responsibility for certain port-associated services
to the private sector, it was essential that a new tariff structure be
developed which allows correct remuneration of operators for services
rendered, while at the same time generating the revenues required for
PAC to cover the cost of its operations as well as debt service on the
past as well as on the proposed loans. During project preparation, a
tariff study was carried out to establish new port tariffs reflecting
(a) the impact of devaluation of the Guinean currency; and (b) the
relative  costs attributable  to different  types of activity and to
different types of users (a copy of the tariff study is in the project
file).  The new tariffs were agreed during negotiations and the decree
establishing new tariffs is expected to be published in May 1987.
4.        During preparation and implementation of the important organ-
izational changes foreseen over the next few years, PAC will continue to
have the technical support of a team of advisers financed by GTZ (Feder-
al Republic of Germany). The latter have agreed to extend the initial
grant for technical assistance (225 m-m) under the Conakry Port Project
for another three-year period (200 m-m) starting April 1986.  Changes in
the composition of the team due to the transfer to the private sector of
certain functions previously carried out by PAC were discussed and
agreed with PAC and GTZ. Particular emphasis will be put on strengthen-
ing operations and financial management, through improved collection of
revenues, computerization of operational and accounting data, and on
developing a system for correct maintenance of the newly rehabilitated
port infrastructure and superstructure.
5.        At present, PAC depends completely on the contractor who is
responsible for the Conakry Port Project to carry out all maintenance
works,  even the very simple ones.   That contractor is expected to
complete his work in mid 1987, after which date maintenance will stop
completely. Agreement was thus reached with PAC during appraisal that
it will sign a contract with an independent experienced contractor
acceptable to the Association under procedures acceptable to the Associ-
ation, to carry out cleaning and maintenance works of all port facili-
ties including navigation aids starting January 1, 1988, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association.  This was confirmed during
negotiations.
6,        Hitherto,  the  "Office Maritime"  has been responsible  for
navigation aids in all Guinean ports except Conakry, where they have
been contracted by PAC to maintain navigation aids in working condition.
However, their performance in Conakry has been inadequate and the
majority of these facilities are in extremely poor condition.  It is
thus recommended that, starting January 1, 1988, the contract for
maintenance of navigation aids will also be transferred to the private
contractor referred to in para 5 above. Agreement on this was reached
with the Government during negotiations.
WAPTR
April 1987



- 99 -                 ANNEX 4-7
Page 1 3f 2
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Composante Aviation
Aviation Sub-Sector
1.        The responsibilities for management of Guinea's international
airport in Conakry will be transferred to a new Franco-Guinean company,
SOGEAC, with Aeroports de Paris (ADP) as technical partner.  In addi-
tion, a new CCCE project for rehabilitation of the control tower,
partial closure of the airport runway area, and provision of some
equipment,  was approved in  1986.   The difficulties  currently being
experienced in Guinea's aviation activities seem to indicate clearly,
however, that the project of CCCE and ADP which is limited to the
management of Conakry airport's terminal and other ground facilities, is
not sufficient to fully ensure normal operation and safe flying condi-
tions at Conakry; nor does it address the problems of navigation,
meteorological services and of secondary airports for domestic aviation.
Since proper functioning of domestic aviation is particularly important
in the short-term, in order to ensure year-round access to those regions
of the country that do not at present have all-weather road connections,
the proposed project supports a number of actions in the aviation
sub-sector that address institutional problems and complement ongoing
investments by bilateral donors.
2.        Following a study by ICAO and other international consultants,
it has been proposed to establish a new autonomous agency for Air
Navigation and Secondary airports to complement SOGEAC at Conakry and
operate the other airports.  This agency will closely cooperate with
SOGEAC with which it will share some facilities and services in Conakry,
in a manner similar to other airports in the world, where a national
agency provides navigation services while a private or semi-private
organization owns the airport.   The new agency would be financially
autonomous, with revenues derived from airport fees at the secondary
airports and part of the landing fees at Conakry which it would share
with SOGEAC, in a proportion initially estimated at 20/80.
3.        The air navigation agency  (ANA) would be established with
substantial technical assistance to be provided under French bilateral
assistance, as an extension of the CCCE project and ADP assistance to
SOGEAC.  This technical assistance,  estimated at about ten man-years
over the 1988-91 period, would include a mission leader specialized in
air-control, a maintenance expert and a meteorological expert, plus
short-term experts for such matters as telecommunications, rehabilita-
tion of runways for secondary airports, fire fighting, etc.  The de-
tailed program and final composition of this technical assistance,
established in coordination with ADP technical assistance to SOGEAC,
will be specified when the contract for the latter is effective. Terms
of reference of this assistance to the Agency will have to be approved
by the Association. Immediately upon appointment, the technical assis-
tance team will propose the detailed organization, staffing and training
program of the personael of the Agency, which will also have to be
approved by the Association, together with the revenue sharing arrange-
ments with SOGEAC. This was confirmed during negotiations. The Agency
is expected to employ about 70 persons. Most of DAC's existing trained



- 100 -
ANNEX 4-7
Page 2 of 2
personnel is expected to be transferred to SOGEAC and to the Agency. By
early 1992, on the basis of about three years of operation of SOGEAC and
the Agency, a short study should be carried out on the possibility of
merger of the two entities.
4.        Meteorological services for aviation remain the responsibility
of the Meteorologie Nationale, which will, however, detach a team of
about ten key personnel at Conakry, where they will operate under the
guidance  of the ANA.   Similar arrangements would be made  in those
secondary airports where the local Meteorological Observation Centers
are located. These arrangements and those for the maintenance of the
meteorological equipment were agreed upon at negotiations.
5.        An objective of the project is to introduce proper financial
management in the aviation sub-sector. The first step in this direction
has been the establishment of SOGEAC which is to be an autonomous,
financially viable organization. The same objective will be set for the
ANA with emphasis on financial autonomy and recovery of the costs of
investments unde- the project. In particular, the aircraft landing fees
which were not adjusted after the monetary reform of 1986, will have to
be increased at least to levels comparable to those in neighboring
countries. One of the first tasks of the technical assistance to the
ANA in coordination with SOGEAC will be to propose such an adjustment,
at the latest for 1988. During the project implementation period, ANA
will be asked to submit its annual budget for review and comments by the
Association.
6.        A study is being carried out under the PPF on tt,e restructur-
ing of AIR GUINEE. At negotiations, the Government and IDA agreed on a
program of additional studies to be completed by October 1987 on the
basis of which a detailed action plan for restructuring the airline
would be agreed upon.  In particular, specific proposals will be re-
quested from foreign airlines, some of which have already expressed
interest in being associated with the restructured airline. The first
objective of the restructuring will be to make the airline financially
viable, without Government subsidies.  Of primary concern will be the
arrangements for domestic flights. The Government will begin implement-
ing the action plan at latest by June 1988.
WAPTR
April 1987



- 101 -                    ANNEX 4-8
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Estimations d6taillAes des couts par composante
(Detailed Project Cost Estimates by Component)
Road Component
1.        The total cost  of the road component  including  taxes and
contingencies is estimated at US$35.3 m.  The foreign exchange cost is
US$29.4 m  or  83%  of  the  total  project  cost.   The  local  cost  is
FG 2,336 million, equivalent to US$5.8 m at the present exchange rate.
Taxes will be levied only on local labor and represent less than one
percent.  Costs of works and services are based on recent civil works
contracts, consultant and mission estimates. Physical contingencies of
20% have been allowed against the likelihood that part of the sections
now foreseen for resurfacing may need to be re-constructed.   Annual
price contingencies have been provided for all project items in accor-
dance with trends from documented sources as follows:
Calendar Year
1987      1988      1989      1990     1991
Local Expenditures     15%        15%       15%       15%      15%
Foreign Expenditures    3%        1%        1%        1%       3.5%
2.        The cost estimates for the different types of road rehabilita-
tion works are detailed in Annex 4-1, Table 2.  They amount to about
US$10,000 km for single surface treatment, US$18,000 km for double
surface treatment, and US$82,000 km for full pavement reconstruction.
Drainage works are estimated to average US$3,800 km and preliminary
works such as patching and limited earthworks are estimated at
US$5,200 km. The cost estimates for the pilot vegetation control works
are detailed in Annex 4-2; a provision of 30% for physical contingencies
has been included in view of the experimental nature of this sub-compo-
nent. The average annual cost of about US$210 equivalent per km of road
treated is reasonable. The estimates for rehabilitation of offices and
supply of office equipment are based on similar works and supply con-
tracts  carried  out  recently  in  Conakry.   Rehabilitation works  are
expected to cost US$600/m2 and office equipment and furniture average
US$10,000 per office. The average man-month rate for consultant servi.c-
es for technical assistance or supervision (including salaries, overhead
fees and reimbursable expenses) is estimated at US$14,000.  A summary of
the cost estimates follows.



- 102 -                       ANN     4-8
Page 2 of 5
Estimated Cost of the Road Component
GF Million           US$ Million Equivalent   a      of
Local   Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign  Total  Total Base Cost
1. Road Rehabilitation
Civil Works                   1,176    7,688      8,864   2.94      19.22   22.16        81.7
2. Road Maintenance
Equipment                       ---       64         64     -        0.16    0.16         0.6
Civil Works                      32       16         48   0.08       0.04    0.12         0.4
3. Office Rebabilitation /b
Equipment                       ---      292        292    0- .73    0.73                 2.7
Civil Works                      56      492        548   0.14       1.23    1.37         5.0
4. Spn., Studies, Expertise         56       504       560   0.14       1.26    1.40          5.2
5. Technical Assistance             56      420        476   0.14       1.05    1.19         4.4
Total Base Cost /c               1,376    9,476    10,852   3.44       23.69   27.13        100.0
6. Physical Contingencies          252    1,696      1,948   0.63       4.24    4.87        18.0
7. Price Contingencies             708      596      1.304   1.77       1.49    3.26        12.0
Total Contingencies                960    2,292      3,252   2.40       5.73    8.13         30.0
Total Project Cost /b            2,336   11,768    14.104   5.84       29.42   35.26
/a US$1 - GP 400
/b This includes US$690,000 equivalent for office rehabilitation of the main building of SET.
Ic At January 1987 prices.



- 103 -
ANNEX 4-8
Page 3 of 5
Port Component
3.         During  appraisal,  agreement  was  reached  with  PAC  and  the
co-financiers  on  project  cost  estimates.   This  was  confirmed  during
negotiations.   The total cost of the project  is estimated at US$60 m
equivalent, of which US$55 m (91%) is in foreign currency. A summary of
the cost estimates follows; details are in the table on the following
page.
Estimated Cost of Conakry Port Component
% of
GF million           US$ million Equivalent/ Total to
Item               Local  Foreign   Total      Local  Foreign  Total  Base Cost
A. Technical Assistance          84   1,532    1,616      0.21     3.83    4.04       8.1
B. Siltation & Wave Protection    352   4,628    4,980    0.88    11.57   12.45      24.9
C. Dredging                      76   1,564    1,640      0.19     3.91    4.10       8.2
D. Container Berth              500   7,496    7,996      1.25    18.74   19.99      40.0
E. Fuel Jetty                   112   2,292    2,404      0.28     5.73    6.01      12.0
F. Rehab of Existing Facilities    80   1,020    1,100    0.20     2.55    2.75       5.5
C. Navigation Aids               --     260       260       -      0.65    0.65       1.3
Total Base Cost lb        1.204  18.792   19,996      3.01    46.98   49.99    100.0
H. Physical Contingencies       144   2,112    2,256      0.36     5.28    5.64      11.3
I. Price Contingencies /c       652   1,096    1,748      1.63     2.74    4.37       8.7
Total Contingencies         796   3.208    4,004      1.99      8.02   10.01     20.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST         2,000  22,000   24,000     5.00    55.00   60.00    120.0
/a US$1 - GF 400.
tb At January 1987 prices.
/c As detailed in para 1 above.
4.      .  The cost estimate for civil works is based on international
prices for similar works and recently-executed rehabilitation works and
new construction in Conakry port (Credit 1382-GUI) updated to Janu-
ary 1987 prices.   Imported materials  for the project  are exempt from
customs duties; this was confirmed during negotiations.
WAPTR, April 1987



- 104 -                                                                ANMEX 4-8
Page 4 of 5
Composante Portuaire (Port Component)
Estimation Dftaillee des CoOts du Projet (Details of Project Cost Estimate)
FG/CF Hillion                            US$ Million Equivalent La
Monnale locale     Devises                    Moonnaie Locale     Devises                  I du Coat de Base
Item                                     Local         Foreign           Total         Local          Foreign         Total       I of Base Cost
A.  Assistance Technioue/Technical Assistance                   84          1.532            1.616         0.21             3.83           4.04               8.1
Pre'p. at Surveillance/Proj. Prep. & Spn.                   52            960            1,012         0.13             2.40           2.53               5.1
Ceat ion/Securi te/Finances, Etudes
Mgment, Security, Finance, Studies                          32            492              524         0.08             1.23           1.31               2.6
Formation/Training                                          --             80               80           --             0.20           0.20               0.4
B. Fermeture du Port/
Siltation & Wave Protection Dyke                           35?          462              4.980         0.88            11.57          12.45              24.9
Dragage/Dredging                                            32            400              432         0.08             1.00           1.08               2.2
Remiblais en sable/Sand Fillirg                             44            556              600         0.11             1.S9           1.50               3.0
Remblais en pierres/Stone Filling                          216          2,840            3,056         0.54             7.10           7.t4              15.3
Enlevement bateaux crul6s/Remove Sunken Ships                8             96              104         0.02             0.24           0.26               0.5
Ext. digue Prudente/Ext.Prudente Breakwater                 52            736              788         0.13             1.84           1.97               3.9
C. DraRaBe d'Etabliasement/Deepening DredginR                   76          1.564            1,640         0.19             3.91           4.10               8.2
Chenal d acceChannel                                        72          1,460            1,532         0.18             3.65           3.83               7.7
Basain portuaire/Port Water Area                             4            104              108         0.01             0.26           0.27               0.6
D. Terminal a Conteneure/Container Berth                       500          7.496            7.9S6          1.25           18.74          19.99              40.0
Dragage/Dredging                                            16            204              220         0.04             0.51           0.55               1.1
M*rs de quai/Quay Wall                                     296          4,508            4,804         0.74            11.27          12.01              24.0
Remblais en sable, pierres/Sand & Stone Fill                72          1,088            1,160         0.18             2.72           2.90               5.8
Pavage et route d acces/Paving & Access Rd.                 60            888              948         0.15             2.22           2.37               4.7
Hangar et Btiments/Shed & Buildings                        20            284              304         0.05             0.71           0.76               1.6
lnstallations de soutten/Support Facilities                 36            524              560         0.09             1.31           1.40               2.8
E. ApponteRent pdtrolier/Fuel Jetty                            112          2.292            2.404         0.28             5.73           6.01              12.0
Dragage/Dredging                                            40            800              840         0.10             2.00           2,10               4.2
Plateforme de d6chargement/Unloading Platform               12            284              296         0.03             0.71           0.74               1.5
Duc d'albes/Breasting Dolphins                              20            428              448         0.05             1.07           1.12               2.2
Duc d'albes/Mooring Dolphins                                12            204              216         0.03             0.51           0.54               1.1
Passetelle/Cmtwalk                                           8            196              204         0.02             0.49           0.51               1.0
Installations de soutien/Support Facilities                16             284              300         0.04            0.71            0.75              1.5
EnlUvmeent batesux coulds/Remove Sunken Ships                4             96              100         0.01             0.24           0.25               0.5
F. Travaux de Rehab./Rehab. Exiatina Facilities                 80          1.020            1.100         0.20             2.55           2.75               5.5
Porte d'entree au port/Port Entrance                        24            292              316         0.06            0.73            0.79               1.6
Pavage/Paving                                               20            268              288         0.05            0.67            0.72               1.5
Surface des quais,d4fenses/Quay Aprons,Fenders              --              4                4           --             0.01           V.01                --
Adduction d eau et systeme dlectrique/Water
and Electrical Systems                                       8            116              116         0.02             0.27           0.29               0.6
Divers/Miscellaneous                                        28            348              376         0.07             0.87           0.94               1.8
G. Aides a la navigation/Navigation Aids                        --            260              260           -              0.65           0.65               1.3
Balise Temara/Tamara Beacon                                 --             92               92                          0.23           0.23               0.4
Balise Prudente/Prudente Beacon                                             4                4                         0.01            0.01                -
Balise Boulbinet/Boulbinet Beacon                                          12               12                          0.03           0.03               0.1
Bou6estLight Buoys                                          --            116              116           --            0.29            0.29               0.6
Atelier et pieces det./Workshop and Spares                  --             36               36           --             0.09           0.09               0.2
CoOt de Base/Total Base Cost /b                        1,204          .792            19.996         3.01           46.98           49.99            100.0
H. Inprdvus/Physical Contingencies Ic                          144          2,112            2,256         0.36             5.28           5.64              11.3
1. Prevision p. hausse des prix/Price Contin. ,d               652          1,096            1,748         1.63             2.74           4.37               8.7
Total Imprfvus/Total Contingencies                       796          3.208           4.004          1.99            8.02           10.01              20.0
COUT TOTAL DU PROJET/TOTAL PROJECT COST               2.000          22.000          24,000          5.00           5'.- 00         60.00            120.0
/a  US$1 - GF400
/b  Prix de janvier 1987/At January 1987 prices
/c  10% aur posteas A, B, C, F et G, et 12.5% aur postes D et E.  /10% on items A, B, C, F, and C, and 12.5% on items D and E.
|d 15% p.a. pour depenaea en monnaie locale, et 3% en 1987, 1n p.a. en 1988-90 et 3.5% en 1991 pour depenses en devises./ 15% annually on local expenditures
and 3% in 1987, 1% in 1988 to 1990, and 3.5% in 1991 on foreign expendituresa
WAPTR -- avril/April 1987



- 105 -                           ANNEX 4-R
Page 5 of 5
5.         Estimates  for the aviation component are bised on consultants'  reports and
mission estimates reflecting prices for similar equipments and services in neighboring
countries. They are summarized in the table below.
Composante Aviation/Aviation Component
Estimation Dftail6e des CoOts du Projet/Detailed Cost Estimate
/a
USS millions Equivalent-
Item                         Monnaie Locale         Devises        Total      % du CoOt de Base
A.  Assistance Technique/Etudes/Formation                140              2,260         2,400              24
Assistance Technique                               140              1,260         1,400
Etudes/Supeyvision Travaux                          --                650           650
Formation                                           --                350           350
B.  Equipements pour Services MWteorologlques             30                720           750               7.5
Materiel de telecommunication                       10                190           200
Materiel d'observation et sondage meteo             15                285           300
Remise en etat matLriel existant                     5                 95           100
Pieces de rechanges et consommables                 --                 70            70
Vehicules et divers                                 --                 80            80
C.  T6lecommunications AMronautiSiaes                    50                 550          600                6
Emetteurs/Recepteurs Conakry                        10                190           200
Emetteurs/RMcepteurs Aeroports Secor.daires         30                280           310
Equipements de Tests/Outillage                      --                 20            20
Alimentations secours Aroports Secondaires          10                 60            70
D.  Aides a la Navigation                                60              1,390         1,450               14.5
Balises NDB pour Aroports Secondaires               20                380           400
ILS Conakry, y compris installation                 25                475           500
VOR-DME Conakry, y compris installation             10                190           200
'VASIS Conakry                                       5                 ?5            30
Installation anciens ILS/VOR dans Aeroports
Secondaires                                        --                 20            20
Pieces de rechanges et divers                       --                300           300
E.  Vehicules Incendie et de Service                      0              1,000         1,000               10
Vehicules de service et ambulance:
A6roport Conakry                                   --                300           300
9 VWhicules incendie: Aeroports Secondaires         --                700           700
P.  Batiments et Travaux Divers: Conakry                 70              1,330         1,400              14
Compl6ment cloture                                  25                475           500
Centre service securite incendie                    25                475           500
Travaux r6fection divers                            20                380           400
C Refection Installations Aeroports Secondaires    120               2,780         2.400              24
Pistes                                              50                850           900
RO'timents                                          70              1,430         1,500
COUT DE BASE                                       470              9L530        10,000             100
I.  Imprevus et Divers                                   90              1,910         2,000              20
J.  Revision p. hausse des prix                         240                760         1,000              10
COUT TOTAL DU PROJET                               800              2.200        13,000             130
WAPTR, avril/April 1987



- 106 -ANX              4-
I I    iI           i
hi _ii       _Iii;  i
-                     .2l  _I   
,{ ~______  IIII-
iIIj   :; ___'-_____.
i!|_______ a--i', m
3    ______ .IXI.         I
ji I| Bi  IM#t1  Wi



- 107 -
AMIEX 4-10
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Calendrier estimatif des deboursements/Eatimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
Trimestre apreo         --- $SU million/US$ million ---
Trimestre terminant          prdsentation au Conseil      Diboursement          Cumuld                Cumuli
(Quarter Ending)             (Quarters from Board)      (Disbursement)      (Cumulative)              en %
sep./Sept. 1987                          1                      0.5                0.5                     1
ddc./Dec.  1987                          2                      2.5                3.0                     5
mars/March 1988                           3                     4.7                7.7                    14
juin/June  1988                          4                      3.1               10.8                    20
ep./Sept. 1988                           5                      3.0               13.8                    25
ddc./Dec.  1988                          6                      3.6               17.4                    31
mars/March 1989                           7                     4.3               21.7                    39
juin/June  1989                          8                      5.3               27.0                    49
sep./Sept. 1989                          9                      5.8               32.8                    59
d6c./Dec.  1989                         10                      5.6               38.4                    69
mars/March 1990                         11                      6.1               44.7                    81
Juin/June  1990                         12                      5.6               50.3                    91
sep./Sept. 1990                         13                      2.0               52.3                    95
dec./Dec.  1990                         14                      1.0               53.3                    97
mars/March 1991                         15                      0.6               53.9                    98
juin/June  1991                         16                      0.5               54.4                    99
sep./Sept. 1991                         17                      0.4               54.8                    99
d6c./Dec.  1991                         18                      0.2               55.0                   100
WAPTR
avril/April 1987



- 108 -
ANNEX 4-11
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Composante Routiere/Road Component
Calendrier estimatif des d6boursements/Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Trimestre apr6s                           $EU million/US$ million
Trimestre terminant                pr6sentation au Conseil                Deboursement                  Cumul6
(Quarter Ending)                  (Quarters from Board)               (Disbursement)               (Cumulative)
sep./Sept. 1987                               1                                0.0                        0.0
dec./Dec.  1987                               2                                1.5                         1.5
mars/March 1988                               3                                2.2                         3.7
juin/June  1988                               4                                2.3                        6.0
sep./Sept. 1988                               5                                2.0                        8.0
dec./Dec.  1988                               6                                2.4                       10.4
mars'March 1989                               7                                2.5                       12.9
juin/June  1989                               8                                2.6                       15.5
sep./Sept. 1989                               9                                3.0                       18.5
d6c./Dec.  1989                              10                                3.0                       21.5
mars/March 1990                              11                                4.0                        25.5
juin/June  1990                              12                                3.5                       29.0
sep./Sept. 1990                              13                                0.8                       29.8
d6c./Dec.  1990                              14
mars/March 1991                              15
juin/June  1991                              16
sep./Sept. 1991                              17
dec./Dec.  1991                              18
mars/March 1992                              19
WAPTR
avril/April 1987



- 109 -
ANNEX 4-12
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Composante Portuaire/Port Component
Calendrier eatimatif des deboursements/Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Trimestre apres                           $EU million/US$ million
Trimestre terminant               prdsentation au Conseil                Deboursement                  Cumule
(Quarter Ending)                 (Quarters from Board)                (Disbursement)              (Cumulative)
sep./Sept. 1987                               1                               0.2                        0.2
d.c./Dec.  1987                               2                               0.4                        0.6
mars/March 1988                               3                               1.9                        2.5
juin/June  1988                              4                                 --                        2.5
sep./Sept. 1988                               5                               0.1                        2.6
dcc./Dec.  1988                               6                               0.1                        2.7
mars/March 1989                               7                               0.6                        3.3
juin/June  1989                              8                                1.4                        4.7
sep./Sept. 1989                              9                                1.4                        6.1
dec./Dec.  1989                              10                               1.4                        7.5
miars/March 1990                             11                               1.2                        8.7
juin/June  1990                             12                                1.2                        9.9
sep./Sept. 1990                             13                                0.5                       10.4
dec./Dec.  1990                             14                                0.4                       10.8
mars/March 1991                              15                               0.1                       10.9
juin/June  1991                             16
sep./Sept. 1991                             17                                0.1                       11.0
WAPTR
avril/April 1987



- 110 -                                     ANNEX 4-12
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORTEL DES TRANSPORTS
Composante Portuaire/Port Component
Plan de Financement/Financing Plan
USS m equivalent
Item                   PAC         IDA       AfDB       KfW       GTZ       Total
A. Fermeture du port
(Siltation Protection Dike)     0.88                             11.57                12.45
B.  Dragage/Dredging              ).19                  3.91                            4.10
C. Terminal a conteneurs
(Container Berth)            1.25                  18.74                           19.99
D. Appontement petrolier
(Fuel Jetty)                 0.28        5.73                                       6.01
E. Travaux de rehabilitation
(Rehabilitation Works)       0.20        2.55                                       2.75
F. Aides a la navigation
(Navigation Aids)                        0.65                                       0.65
G. Assistance technique
(Technical Assistance)       0.21        0.43       1.80       0.60       1.00      4.04
Cooat de base/Total Base Cost     3.01       9.36      24.45       12.17      1.00     49.99
H. Imprdvus
(Physical Contingency)       0.36        1.02       3.14       1.02      0.10       5.64
I. Hausse des prix
(Price Contingency)          1.63       0.55        1.42       0.71      0.06       4.37
Total imprevus
(Total Contingencies)        1.99        1.57       4.56       1.73      0.16      10.01
Coat total                                              /a
(Total Cost)                 5.00      10.93       29.01 -    13.90       1.16     60.00
la AfDB contribution is US$30.0 m equivalent.
/b  Equivalent to DM 25 million at a rate of exchange of US$1 - DM 1.773
WAPTR, avril/April 1987



il-                                              ANNEX 4-13
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Composantes Aviation et Secteur des Transports/Avistion and Transport Sector Components
Calendrier estimatif des d6boursements/Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Trimestre aprbs                          $EU million/US$ million
Trimestre terminant      presentation au Conseil                  Aviation             Secteur Transgort
(Quarter Ending)         (Quarters from Board)         Deb./Disb.      Cumul.      Deb./Disb.    Cumul.
sep./Sep,    1987                   1                      0.1          0.1           0.2         0.2
dec./Dec.    1987                   2                      0.5          0.6           0.1         0.3
mar./Mar.   1988                    3                      0.5          1.1           0.1         0.4
jui./Jun.    1988                   4                      0.6          1.7           0.2         0.6
sep./Sep.    1988                   5                      0.7          2.4           0.2         0.8
dec./Dec.    1988                   6                      0.9          3.3           0.2         1.0
mar./Mar.    1989                   7                      1.0          4.3           0.2         1.2
jui./Jun.    1989                   8                      1.1          5.4           0.2         1.4
sep./Sep.    1989                   9                      1.2          6.6           0.2         1.6
d6c-/Dec.   1989                   10                      1.0          7.6           0.2         1.8
mar./Mar.    1990                  11                      0.9          8.5           0.2          2.0
jui./Jun.    1990                  12                      0.7          9.2           0.2         2.2
sep./Sep.    1990                  13                      0.5          9.7           0.2         2.4
d4c.Dec.     1990                  14                      0.4         10.1           0.2         2.6
mar./Mar.    1991                  15                      0.3         10.4           0.2         2.8
jui./Jun.    1991                  16                      0.3         10.7           0.2         3.0
sep./Sep.   1991                   17                      0.2         10.9           0.1         3.1
d6c./Dec.    1991                  18                      0.1         11.0           0.1         3.2
mar./Mar.   1992                   19                       --           - 
jui./Jun.    1992                  20                       --           --            --          --
WAPTR
avril/April 1987



- 112 -                              ANNEX 5-1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Composante Rout iere /Road Component
Param6tres de 1'evaluation 6conomigue des renforcements et enduisages
Parameters for the Economic Evaluation of Pavement Strengthening and Resurfacing
1.        The economic evaluation of civil works to be carried out under the project is
based on the Kighway Design and Maintenance Standard Model (HDMS), and more particularly
on the model's evaluation of pavement deterioration processes under specified climatic
conditions and traffic levels. These processes are known to be non-linear, with an
extended initial phase of little manifestation of distress, followed by a phase of rapidly
accelerating deterioration which, in the absence of major periodic maintenance interven-
tion, leads to complete structural failure within five years in all but the most favorable
circumstances. This non-linear behavior of pavement deterioration is critical in the
determination of optimal maintenance strategies for paved roads. Estimated pavement
deterioration rates for Guinea are in Table 5-1, 1 below.
2.        Of the road sectiors to be rehabilitated under the project, only 23% do not show
significant problems. Some 20% exhibit manifestations of beginning pavement failure while
57% have already reached the phase of distress. These sections have been assigned corre-
sponding average roughness indices of (a) IRI - 4; (b) IRI - 5; and (c) IRI - 8, respec-
tively, which indicate the need for different rehabilitation techniques: single surface
or double surface treatments for (a) and (b), and full pavement reconstruction for (c).
3. Scenario de degradation des chaussees en Guinee/Pavement Deterioration Scenario for
Paved Roads in Guinea
Table 5-1, 1: Evolution IRI -- Development of Roughness Index
-- Sans (without) projet --
ROAD CONDITION:   ETAT 1             ETAT 2              ETAT 3
ACTION: Monocouche/         Bicouche/        Renforcement/        -- Avec (with) --
Ann6e/Year            SST                 DST            Strengthening             Projet
1987
1988                   4.00               5.00                8.0                   3.00
1989                   4.25               5.75               10.0                   3.00
1990                   4.50               6.50               12.5                   3.00
1991                   4.75               7.25               15.0                   3.25
1992                   5.00               8.00               15.0                   3.25
1993                   5.75              10.00               15.0                   3.50
1994                    6.50             17.50               15.0                   3.50
1995                    7.25             15.00               15.0                   3.50
1996                   8.00              15.00               15.0                   3.75
1997                  10.00              15.00               15.0                   3.75
1998                  12.50              15.00               15.0                   4.00
1999                  15.00              15.00               15.0                   3.00
2001                  15.00              15.00               15.0                   3.00
2002                  15.00              15.00               15.0                   3.00



-  113 -                                 ANNEX 5-1
Page 2 of 2
4. Parameters for the calculation of vehicle operating costs are shown in Table 5-1, 2
below.
Table 5-1, 2:  CoQts d'exploitation des vyhicules -- $EUIkm et composition du trafic
Vehicle Operating Costs (voc) US$/km and traffic composition
Groupe                     V6hicule                       %                  Equation
Voiture particuliere/Passenger car           33
1         camionette/Pick up                           16      C    1  CP(4.02 + 0.057 iril
Minibus/Minibus                               5         300
Petit camion/Light truck                      8
2         Camion moyen/Medium truck                    18      C =  1  &P(5.02 + 0.045 ir B
Camion lourd/Ileavy truck                    14         300
3         Semi remorque/Trailer                         6      C =  1 IfV(5.88 + 0.041 ir 
300
100
Source: HDM 3 -- VOC sub model
Mission esti.mates
WAPTR
avril/April 1987



REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Composante Routi4re/Road Component
Evaluation Economique de la Rebabilitstion de Trois Troncons de Route
Economic Evaluation of the Rebabilitation of Three Road Sections
A. MNmou-Rissidougou                     S. Kissidougou-G4eckecou                           C. Kaanar- oke                                 Total Road Compow.nt
voe                                          VOC                                          voe                                            bc
Maint.    Savings      Net                  Maint.     Savings       Net                  Maint.     Savings      Net                 Naint.       Savings      Net
Inv.       Entret. Economies    Sens.        Inv.      Entret.   Economies    Bens.       Inv.       Entret.   Economies    Bens.       Inv.      Entret.    Economies    ;ens.
D       15.400                         -15.400      5.819                            -5.819       0.817                            -0.817     22.036      0.1815                -22.036
1                 0.1035     1.371       1.268                 0.046S      0.397      0.350                  0.0315     0.080      0.048                             1.848        1.666
2                            2.087       1.984                             0.600      0.553                             0.104      0.073                              2.791       2.610
3                            3.107       3.003                             0.885      0.838                             0.132      0.100                             4.124        3.941
4                            4.241       4.138                             1.196      1.149                             0.138       0.106                            4.699        5.393    -
5                            4.486       4.383                             1.280      1.233                             0.168      0.137                             5.934        S.753
6                            4.799       4.695                             1.408      1.361                             0.231      0.199                             6.438        6.255
7                            5.312       5.208                             1.616      1.569                             0.326      0.294                             6.928        7.on
8                             5.899      5.79f                             1.8S6      1.810                             0.432       0.400                            8.187        8.005
9                 0.1035     6.047       5.944                  0.0465     1.912      1.8"6                  0.0315     0.521       0.490                 0.1815     8.680        8.300
10                 2.0920     6.338       4.245                  0.9402     2.038      1.098                  0.6369     0.839      0.202                  3.6691      9.215       5.545
11                 0.1035      7.348      6.445                  0.0465     2.153      2.106                  0.0315     1.272      1.241                  0.1815     9.973        9.792
12                             7.356      7.252                             2.478      2.432                             1.951      1.920                             11.185      11.604
13                             7.650      7.546                             2.578      2.531                             2.029       1.997                           12.257       12.074
14                             7.956      7.852                             2.681      2.634                             2.110       2.079                            12.747      12.565
1S                             8.146      8.043                             2.745      2.69"                             2.161       2.124                            13.052      M2.865
ERR                            22%                                           18%                                           28%                                            21%
Ben/Cost Ratio *t 12%          1.7:1                                         1.5:1                                         3.1:1                                          1.7:1
NPV at 12%                     $10.96                                        $2.7A                                         $2.12                                          S1S5.7a
avril/hpril 1987



- 115 -
ANNEX 5-2
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Composante Routi&re/Road Compo.aent
Evaluation Economigue de la Rghabilitation de Trois Tronvons de Route
Economic Evaluation of the Rehabilitation of Three Road Sections
Analyse de SensibilitA/Sensitivity Analysis
A. Mamou - Kissidougou                                    ERR X
Base Case - Cost - US$15.4m                          22
Cost - + 80%                               12
Cost - +100%                               10
Benefits - - 20%                                18
Benefits - - 42%                                12
B. Kissidougou   Gueckedou
Base Case - Cost - US$5.8m                           18
Cost - + 40%                               12
Cost - + 60%                               10
Benefits - - 20%                               14
Benefits - - 28%                                12
C. Kamsar - Boke
Base Case - Cost - US$0.8m                           28
Cost - +100%                               19
Cost - +280%                               12
Benefits - - 20%                               24
Benefits - - 65%                               12
WAPTR
avril/April 1987



- 116 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 1 of 13
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Port Traffic Forecasts
and Economic Evaluation of the Port Component
1.        As  indicatr'I in Annex 2-6,  p. 3,  traffic  at  the Port  of
Conakry which had gro   very little for over a decade up to 1982, has
increased substantially over the past four years to a total of 4.7 m
tons in 1986. Growth was mainly in imports, while export volume (baux-
ite and alumina) stagnated due to the depressed conditions of the world
market. The explosive increase in general merchandise imports, over the
past two years in particular (from 320,000 tons in 1984 to 580,000 tons
in 1986), reflects a combination of factors:  foremost, the opening of
Guinea's economy following the 1984 change of regime, and secondly, the
vastly improved operational capacity of the port following rehabilita-
tion of essential quay and storage facilities, and renewal of floating
and handling equipment. Conditions should stabilize over the next five
year period, during which Guinea's GDP is expected to grow at about
4% p.a., and when foreign exchange availability will constrain the
country's overall volume of imports. Even so, the proportion of con-
tainerized merchandise in total imports is expected to continue growing
disproportionately. Also, Government's emphasis on agricultural devel-
opment should lead to significant growth in agricultural exports, but
these start from a very modest level of about 10,000 tpy at present.
Little growth in mineral exports can be expected in the short-to-medium
term. The traffic forecasts used for the economic analysis assume that
growth in import3 will slow to the rate of GDP growth (4% p.a.) for
1987-95,  and decline  to  3.5% p.a.  thereafter  (Annexes 2-6 and  6-3,
Table 1 give details).
2.        The ERR was calculated for the port component as a whole and
for  the  three main  sub-components:   (a) siltation prevention  dike,
establishment dredging and rehabilitation of navigational aids; (b) the
deepwater container terminal and minor rehabilitation works; and (c) the
fuel jetty).
A. Cost Parameters
3.        Cost estimates for civil works and dredging, and for operation
and maintenance of the new facilities provided under the project were
established by consultants, based on actual costs under the Conakry Port
project adjusted to January 1987 prices, and on comparable costs in
neighboring countries. They are summarized in the table which follows.



- 117 -                      ANNEX 5-3
Page 2 of 13
Investment Costs
(US$ million, January 1987 prices)
of which local
Subcomponent (a)                      18.20
Siltation Prevention Dike                    12.45              0.88               7
Dredging                                      4.10              0.29               5
Rehaeilitation of nav. aids                    0.65
Subcomponent (b)                      22.74
Container Terminal                            19.99             1.25               6
Rehabilitation Works                           2.75             0.20               7
Subcomponent (c)                       6.01
Fuel Jetty                                     6.01             0.28               5
Technical Assistance/Supervision              4.04              0.21               5
Subtotal                                     49.99              3.01               6
Physical Contingencies                        5.64              0.36               6
Price Contingencies                           4.37              1.63              37
TOTAL                                         60.00             5.00               8
4.         The  total cost of works  including physical contingencies is
thus estimated at US$51.59 m equivalent, and technical assistance and
supervision at US$4.04 m equivalent. Local costs represent 6% of total
costs on average. The share of (overabundant) local labor in the total
cost component i3 negligible at present wage rates, so no further
shadow-pricing of labor was introduced. On the assumption that physical
contingencies and technical assistance are distributed proportionately
to the base  cost over  the  different  components,  the  following  total
investment costs for the three components and their distribution over a
four-year construction period are estimated:
Subcomponent (a)       Subcomponent (b)       Subcomponent (c)
US$ m                  US$ m                  US$ m
21.95                  27.43                  7.25
1987  (10%)                  2.15                   2.74                  0.70
1988  (30%)                  6.60                   8.22                  2.10
1989  (30%)                  6.60                   8.22                  2.10
1990  (20%)                 4.40                    5.48                  1.40
1991  (10%)                  2.20                   2.77                  0.95



- 118 -                       ANNEX 5-3
Page 3 of 13
5.          Annual  operating  and  maintenance   costs   are  estimated  as
follows:
Subcomponent (a)
Estimated
Description          Life (Yrs.)                                                         US$ m
Dike                     50 +         Maintent 0.3% of inv. cost               0.003 x 15.02  -      0.05
Nav. Aids                20           Mainten:   5% of inv. cost               0.05  x  0.007 -      0.003
Dredging                50 +          Mainten: incremental cost compared
to - 8.5 in depth negligible                            --
Annual Total          0.053
Residual Value in 2010 of dike and dredged channel:  30 x 21.17                                     12.70
Subcomponent (b)
Estimated
Description          Life (Yrs.)
Container Terminal      30            Mainten: 2% of inv. cost                 0.02  x 27.43  -      0.55
and                                   Operation:  (incremental fuel,
Misc. Rehab Works                     lubricants, energy costs, etc.)in 1992                         0.10
(+ 5% in subsequent years)
Residual Value in 2010:                          10                                                  9.14
0x 27.43 -
Subcomponent (c)
Estimated
Description          Life (Yrs.)
Fuel Jetty              30            Mainten:  2% of inv. cost                 0.02 x  7.25 -       0.15
Residual Value in 2010:                          10 x  7.25                                          2.42
30
B. Benefits
6.          Benefits  of  the  three  subcomponents have  been  quantified  as
follows:



- 119 -                     ANNEX 5-3
Page 4 of 13
Subeomponent (a)
7.          (i)  Reduced Maintenance Dredging Costs:
Without Dike                 With Dike
Volume        Cost /a        Volume       Cost /a       Savings
(Ms 000)      (US$ m)        (in 000)      (US$ m)      (US$ m)
1991           880          2.20              0           --          2.20
1992           252          0.63            120          0.30         0.33
1993           880           .                0                       2.20
1994           252           .              120          0.30         0.33
1995           880           .                0
1996           252           .              120          0.30
1997           880                            0
1998           252           .              120          0.30
1999           880           .                0
2000           252           .              150          0.38         0.25
2010           252          0.63            150          0.38         0.25
/a US$2.50/ms
(ii) Reduced ship-waiting time attributable to dredging in
front of the quays:
8.        Before construction of the siltation prevention dike, observed
average ship-waiting time due to dredging before the quays has been
about four months per year.
(a)  Dredging  in  front  of  the  bauxite  quay  (08/09)  requires
0.5 months at a minimum. Given the full occupancy of the quay
year round, this would reduce bauxite exports from 3 million
tpy to 2,875,000 tpy, resulting in annual export losses of
US$25 x 125,000 - US$3,125,000.
(b)  Dredging in front of the othe. quays, if done efficiently
(which has not been the case with the state dredging company
SOMIDRAT), would still require at least two months per year,
resulting in ship-waiting time of at least 60 ship-days. At a
conservatively estimated average cost of US$7,500/day for
ships waiting at the port, annual avoided costs due to reduced
dredging time can be estimated at
US$7,500 x 60 - US$ 450,000
+ (a) above   US$3,125,000
Total           US$3,575,000



- 120 -                     ANNEX 5-3
Page 5 of 13
(iii)  Reduced trans2ort cost per ton of ore shipped due to
full ship loading
9.         The depth of  the access  channel determines  the  size of  the
load which the bulk-ore carriers currently serving Conakry can carry.
For the typical bauxite carrier (20,000 GRT 30,000 dw., draft of 10.6 m)
the relation between channel depth and average permissible load is
summarized below:
Ship Draft (in m)   Average Load of Ore    % Capacity Used      Channel Depth at Zero
(in tons)                              Port; Water Level at
+ 2.5 m Z.P.
8,4                23 000                 80                  - 7,4 m /a
9,0               24 500                  85                  - 8,0 m lb
9,5               26 000                  90                  - 8,5 m
10,0               27 500                  95                  - 9,0 m
10,6               29 000                 100                  - 9,5 m
La actual level
/b after maintenance dredging in 1987
The estimated cost per ship-day for a 30,000 dwt carrier is at least
US$8,000, of which
capital charges = 2,400 = 30% /
fuel costs        = 3,200 = 40%
other costs        = 2,400 - 30%
/a  assumes ship fully loaded in one direction, empty
in the other.
10.        Assuming further that one round trip takes 30 days on average,
and that the ship is operated 350 days per year, the following shipping
costs (total, and per ton) can be estimated for ships carrying different
loads:
Depth of                                                                                   Cost per
Access                            /                   Average  Cost per t/ Cost per t/  3 000 000 t
Channel    Fixed Cost   Fuel Cost      Total Cost      Load         day        trip       per year
below Z.P.     ($/day)       ($/day)       (S/day)       (in T)     (in $)      (in S)       (in $ m)
7,4         4 800         2 880         7 680        23 000      0,334       10,02        30,05
8,0           "           2 960         7 760        24 500      0,317        9,50         28,51
8,5           "           3 040         7 840        26 000      0,302        9,05         27,14
9,0           "           3 120         7 920        27 500      0,288        8,64         25,92
9,5         4 800         3 200         8 000        29 000      0,276        8,28        24,83
/a assumes that fuel consumption drops to 90% when the average load drops to 80% of capacity.



ANNEX 5-3
Page 6 of 13
11.       Shipping costs per ton per trip are reduced from US$10 to
US$9.05 following maintenance dredging and from US$9.05 to US$8.30 due
to establishment dredging.   (The latter will also reduce lay-over time
of ships that can now only leave port at high tide; this benefit has not
been quantified). For average annual bauxite exports of three million
tons, total savings in transport costs are US$27,140.000 - 24,830,000 -
US$2,310,000.   These  savings,  accruing  to  the  shippers  or bauxite
importers, will be partially appropriated by the Guinean economy through
significantly  higher  port  charges  on bauxite.   The  annual  savings
accruing to the Guinean economy are estimated at half the total savings
or US$1,160,000.
12.       Similar  savings will be  realized by FRIGUIA carriers  and
tankers, as well as by modern container and ro-ro ships that have begun
serving Conakry, but can now do so only on the return trip after they
have unloaded part of their cargo at other ports further down the coast.
Since this traffic cannot at present be estimated correctly, its bene-
fits have not been quantified, although they may prove to be consider-
able.
(iv) Benefits of improved navigational aids:
13.       By enabling ships to safely pass through the access channel
and dock after darkness, a better utilization of quays (two shift
system) will become feasible. The main benefit of proper signalization,
however, is the prevention of shipwrecks in the access channel, which
could block all port operations (an ore carrier actually ran aground in
the channel in December 1986, but could be freed by tugs at high tide
after three days). Since these benefits are difficult to estimate, they
have been assumed, conservatively, to be no more than the costs of the
investment.
14.       The table summarizing costs and benefits for subcomponent (a)
is on page 10. The calculated ERR is 22%.
Subcomponent (b)
(i) Avoided ship waiting time due to increased port
capacity and expedited berthing
15.       The commercial port currently disposes of four full quays:
quays 02-05, with a total length of only 480 m, are considered as three
quays, while quays 01 (FRTGUIA) and 07 (fishing vessels) are only 50%
available for handling general merchandise.  In the "without project"
case, the following daily and annual tonnages can be handled:



- 122 -                ANNEX 5-3
Page 7 of 13
Occupancy Rate
100%       85%
Year           tluay                                         (t)        (t)
1985            400     x 4 qutays x 300 working days -   480,000     408.000
1096            500                                       600,000     510,000
1987            550                                       660,000     561,000
1988            575                                       690,000     587,000
1989            600                                       720,000     612,000
1990 + beyond    625                                      750,000     638,000
16.       Based on the traffic projections for the port (Annex 2-6 and
Annex 6-3, Table 1), quay occupancy rates would be close to 100% up to
1990 and exceed 100% thereafter, resulting in infinite ship waiting
time. Part of the traffic would therefore have to be diverted to the
nearest neighboring port - Freetown in Sierra Leone -- from where goods
would have to be transported by road to Conakry.   Traffic would be
diverted when ship-waiting costs (estimated at US$7,500/day) exceed the
cost of road transport (estimated at US$30/ton). According to a formula
established by UNCTAD ("Berth Throughput," 1973), this would be the case
for volumes above 570,000 tpy corresponding to a quay occupancy rate of
about 73%. Conservatively, the analysis assumes that traffic would only
be diverted at quay occupancy rates above 85%, equivalent to an annual
port handling capacity of 638,000 tons.
17.       In the "with project" case, port capacity would be substan-
tially increased by the provision of a new container terminal to be
managed by private operators, and by further rehabilitation works of
existing port facilities. Following completion of the container termi-
nal, existing port facilities are expected to handle conventional
merchandise at a rate of 575 t per day per quay while the new container
terminal could handle up to 3,000 t of containerized cargo per day based
on two shifts/day. With a 75% occupancy rate for the existing quays and
a 45% occupancy rate of the container terminal quay, annual port capaci-
ty in 1991 would be:
4 x 300 x   575 x 0.75 - 520,000 t
1 x 300 x 3.000 x 0.45 - 405,000 t
TOTAL                     925,000 t
and traffic would be diverted only if total general merchandise imports
and exports exceeded this volume.
18.       The table below shows the quantities diverted in the "without"
and "with" project case, and the resulting avoided road transport costs:



- 123 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 8 of 13
"Without" ProJect "With" Project
Est. Vol. of Gen. Merch.
Imports + Exports   Diverted Traffic Diverted Traffic Difference Savings
(t 000)             (t 000)         (t 000)      (t 000)  (US$ m)
1991              766                128              --           128     3.84
1992             800                 162              --           162     4.86
1993              843                205              --           205     6.15
1994             883                 245              --           245     7.35
1995              920                282              --           282     8.46
1996              952                314              27           287     8.61
1997              985                347              60           287
1998            1,020                382              95           287
1999            1,055                417             130           287
2000            1,093                455             168           287     8.61
(ii)  Reduction in losses due to improved security in a
separate and privately-managed container terminal:
19.        Although port rehabilitation and especially construction of a
custom-wall and provision of floodlighting have contributed to a reduc-
tion of the extremely high pilferage rates in Conakry Port, the problem
is  far  from  eradicated.   To  avoid  security  problems,  shippers  are
increasingly containerizing goods that normally would not be (sugar,
cars, etc.) since pilferage from containers is significantly lower the.n
for general  cargo.   The new container  terminal will make  container
handling much more efficient, promote containerized traffic, and thus
reduce losses through breakage and pilferage significantly. Assuming an
average cargo value of US$650/ton of general merchandise imported, a
conservatively estimated reduction of losses by no more than one per-
cent, would result in the following savings:
Estimated Volume of               Value of 1% Reduction in
Merchandise Imports               Breakage/Pilferage Losses
(t 000)                             (US$ m)
1991                          706                                  4.59
1992                          730                                  4.75
1993                          763                                  4.96
1994                          793                                  5.15
1995                          820                                  5.33
1996                          849                                  5.52
1997                          878                                  5.70
1998                          909                                  5.90
1999                          941                                  6.12
2000                          974                                  6.33
2010                          974                                  6.33
20.        While the new container terminal will certainly result in more
efficient container handling and an associated reduction in port storage



- 124 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 9 of 13
and warehousing costs for importers, these have been disregarded in the
analysis, since they are minor compared to already quantified benefits.
21.       The table summarizing costs and benefits for subcomponent (b)
is on page 11.  The calculated ERR is 27% assuming a reduction in
breakage  and pilferage  losses by  1%.   Leaving  this  conservatively
estimated benefit aside, the ERR would still be a satisfactory 18%.
Subcomponent (c)
22.       Over 80% of all petroleum products imported into Guinea pass
through Conakry port (the remainder, mainly for Bok6 mine consumption,
being off-loaded at Kamsar).  ONAH storage facilities are situated to
the east of the port area.  Currently, oil tankers have to use the
alumina (01) and bauxite (08) quays to discharge fuel, both for FRIGUIA
and OBK use, and for ONAH.
23.       Two considerations have been uppermost in the decision to
construct a fuel jetty: the first is operational safety; the second, to
relieve  present  congestion and attendant  ship waiting time on the
mineral quays. Under current operating conditions, fire hazards are an
ever-present danger:  no fire protection is available at the mineral
quays, where missions have observed open-flame welding going on while a
tanker was discharging. The damage of a single fire -- if it destroyed
the bauxite unloading facilities and interrupted bauxite exports for
several months -- could easily reach US$10-15 m in foregone exports
alone, without counting the cost of replacing the destroyed facilities
and clearing up soil and water pollution. However, while safety con-
cerns are the main reasons for constructing the new facility, they can
not be adequately quantified, and have thus been disregarded in the ERR
calculation.
24.       As presented, the ERR for the fuel jetty is based mainly on
the savings due to reduced congestion of the mineral quays. At present,
quay 01 is occupied for at least 35 days per year for fuel discharge:
during this time, it could alternatively serve to handle some
21,000 tons of general merchandise, which would thus not have to be
diverted.   The resulting benefits are estimated at 21,000 x US$30 -
US$630.000/yr.  Concerning quay 08, its present occupancy rate is 92%.
Since oil tankers take precedence over ore-carriers, the resulting ship
waiting time amounts to some 70 ship days at a minimum, with associated
costs of 70 x US$7,500 - US$525,000/yr.
25.       A  further  quantifiable  saving  would  result  from  avoided
replacement costs for the pipeline between the FRIGUIA terminal
(quay 01) and the fuel depot. This pipeline is failing (with resultant
additional fire hazards in the commercial port areas) and would have to
be replaced at an estimated cost of US$1.25 million.
26.       The table summarizing costs and benefits for subcomponent (c)
is on page 12; the calculated ERR is 12%.
27.       The overall ERR for the port component (page 13) for the base
case presented above is 24%. Decreasing benefits by 20% reduces the ERR
to 20% overall; increasing costs by 20% results in an overall ERR of



- 125 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 10 of 13
21%. Even if benefits decreased and costs increased by 20% respective-
ly, the ERR would remain satisfactory at 17%.
Table 1
Composante Portuaire - TRI/Port Component - ERR
Costs and Benefits - Sub-Component (a): Siltation Prevention and Dredging
(in iS$ million)
NET
Year      Costs                     Benefits                       BENEFITS
(i)       Qii)        (iii)        (iv)
1987       2.15                                                        (2.15)
1988       6.60                                                        (6.60)
1989       6.60                                                        (6.60)
1990       4.40                                                        (4.40)
1991       2.25       2.20       3.58          1.16       0.78         5.47
1992       0.05       0.33       3.58          1.16                    5.01
1993      0.05        2.20       3.58          1.16                     6.88
1994       0.05       0.33       3.58          1.16                    5.01
1995       0.05       2.20       3.58          1.16                    6.88
1996       0.05       0.33       3.58          1.16                    5.01
1997       0.05       2.20       3.58          1.16                     6.88
1998       0.05       0.33       3.58          1.16                    5.01
1999       0.05       2.20       3.58          1.16                     6.88
2000       0.05       0.25       3.58          1.16                     4.93
2001       0.05       2.20       3.58          1.16                     6.88
2002       0.05       0.33       3.58          1.16                     5.01
2003       0.05       2.20       3.58          1.16                     6.88
2004       0.05       0.33       3.58          1.16                     5.01
2005       0.05       2.20       3.58          1.16                     6.88
2006       0.05       0.33       3.58          1.16                     5.01
2007       0.05       2.20       3.58          1.16                     6.88
2008       0.05       0.33       3.58          1.16                    5.01
2009       0.05       2.20       3.58          1.16                     6.88
2010    (12.70)       0.25       3.58          1.16                    17.69
ERR                               22U
NPV (at 1011                   19.85
NPV (at 151)                    7.53



- 126 -                      ANNEX 5-3
Page 11 of 13
Table 2
REPUBLIOUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Composante Portuaire - TRI/Port Component - ERR
Costs and Benefits - Sub-Component (b):
Container Terminal and Rehabilitation Works
(in US$ million)
NET BENEFITS                NET 0ENEFITS
NET               BOnefitli)                 knefitli) t
Year     Costs         Benefits         BENEFITS             less Costs                 50X kn.(ii)
---       -----   ---   ------          - - -----           -- -  ------                  less Costs
il       (-ii)
1987      2.74                             42.74)                  (2.74)                      (2.74)
1988      8.22                             48.22)                  (8.22)                      (8.22)
1989      8.22                             (8.22)                  (8.22)                      (8.22)
1990      5.48                             45.48)                  (5.48)                      (5.48)
1991      2.77       1.92      2.30         1.45                   (0.85)                       0.30
1992      0.65       4.86      4.75         8.96                   4.21                         6.59
1993      0.66       6.15      4.96        10.45                   5.49                         7.97
I        0.66       7.35      5.IS        11.84                   6.69                         9.21
1995      0.67       8.46      5.33        13.12                   7.79                        10.46
199       0.67       9.61      5.52        13.46                   7.94                        10.70
19        0.68      8.61       5.70        13.63                   7.93                        10.78
i99B      0.68      8.61       5.90        13.83                   7.93                        10.88
199       0.69       8.61      6.12        14.04                   7.92                        10.98
2000      0.70       8.61      6.33        14.24                   7.91                        11.08
2001      0.71       8.61      6.33        14.23                   7.90                        11.07
2002      0.71       9.61      6.33        14.23                   7.90                        11.07
2003      0.72       8.61      6.33        14.22                   7.89                        11.06
2004      0.73       8.61      6.33        14.21                   7.88                        11.05
2005      0.74       8.61      6.33        14.20                    7.87                       11.04
2006      0.75       8.61      6.33        14.19                   1.86                        11.03
2007      0.75       8.61      6.33        14.19                   7.86                        11.03
2008      0.76       8.61      6.33        14.18                   7.95                        11.02
2009      0.77       8.61      6.33        14.17                    7.84                       11.01
2010     (9.14)      8.61      6.33        24.08                  17.75                        20.92
ERR                           271                     18                         231
NPV (at 10?)               49.39                   18.3B                       33.88
NPY (at 15X)               22.55                    4.21                       13.38



- 127 -
AkNEX 5-3
Page 12 of 13
Table 3
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Composante Portuaire - TRI/Port Component - ERR
Costs and Benefits - Sub-Component (c): Fuel Jetty
(in US$ million)
MET
Year      Costs                      Bhnefits                                        BENEFITS
Wi)          (ii)
1987       0.70                                                                         (0.70)
1988       2.10                                                                         (2.101
1989       2.10                                                                         (2.10)
1990       1.40                                                                         41.40)
1991       0.95                   0.578          0.85                                    0.8
1992       0.15                   1.155          0.40                                    1.41
193        0.15                   1.155                                                  1.01
1994       0. 15                  1.155                                                  1.01
1995       0.15                   1.155                                                  1.01
1996       0.15                   1.155                                                  1.01
1997       0.15                   1.155                                                  1.01
1998       0.15                   1.155                                                  1.01
1999       0.15                   1.155                                                  1.01
2000       0.15                   1.15                                                    1.01
2001       0.15                   1.155                                                   1.01
2002       0.15                   1.155                                                   1.01
2003       0.15                   1.155                                                   1.01
2004       0.15                   1.155                                                   1.01
2005       0.15                   1.155                                                   1.01
2006       0.15                   1.155                                                  1.01
2007       0.15                   1.155                                                   1.01
2008       0.15                   1.155                                                  1.01
2009       0.15                   1.155                                                  1.01
2010       (2.42)                 1.155                                                  3.58
ERR                                 12%
WVY (at 10%                       1.10
WV (at 151)                      (0.78)



- 128 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 13 of 13
Table 4
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Composante Portuaire - TRI/Port Component - ERR
(in US$ million)
NET BENEFITS           M 1ET BENEFITS I MET BENEFITS
BInmeits              base case   I
Construction                                                                      a t 601    I           Benefits   I enefits(l00)
and tfaintenance                                       NET BENEFITS     Benefits  less base   I  Costs  less Costs  1    less
Year              Costs                         Benefits            (base case)  I  at 80t    case Costs  I at 1201  at 120X    1 Costs(i?7*0
(a)      (b)       (c1         (a)       lb)         (C)                                         '
*                         II
1987    2.150      2.74      0.70                                         (5.59 1                    ( 5.59) 1    6.71      (6.71) i        (6.71)
198     6.600      0.22      2.10                                        (16.92)                   (16.92) 1   20.30       (20.30)1        (20.30)
1989    6.600      9.22      2.10                                        (16.92) 1                  (16.92) 1   20.30      (20.30) 1       (20.30)
199O    4.400      5.48      1.40                                        (11.28) 1                  (11.28) 1   13.54      (13.54)         (13.54)
1991    2.250      2.77      0.95        7.72      4.22        1.43        7.39          10.69       4.72  1    7.16         6.20  1         3.53
1992    0.053      0.65      0.15        5.07      9.61        1.56       15.39          12.98      12.13  1    1.02        15.21  i        11.96
1993    0.053      0.66      0.15        6.94     11.11        1.lt       19.34          15.36       14.50  1    1.04       18.16  1        14.32
I99     0.053      0.66      0.15        5.07     12.50        1.16       17.86         14.98       14.11  1    1.04        17.68  1        13.94
1995    0.053      0.67      0.15        6.94     13.79        1.16       21.01          17.50      16.63    :   1.05       20.93  1        16.46
1996    0.053      0.67      0.15        5.07     14.13        1.16       19.48  1       16.28      15.41  1    1.05        19.30           15.23
I177    0.053      0.68      0.15        6.94     14.31        1.16       21.52  1       17.92      17.04  1    1.06        21.34           16t.86
199E    0.053      0.69      0.15        5.07     14.51        1.16       19.95  1       16.58      15.70  1    1.06        19.67  1        15.52
1M      0.053      0.69      0.15        6.94     14.73        1.16       21.93  I       18.26      17.36  1    1.07        21.75  1        17.18
2000    0.053      0.70      0.15        4."9     14.94        1.16       20.18          16.86       15.96       1.08       20.00  1        15.78
2001     0.053     0.71      0.15        6.94     14.94        1.16       22.12  '       18.42       17.51  1    1.10       21.93  1        17.33
2002    0.053      0.71      0.15        5.07     14.94        1.16       20.25  1       16.93       16.02  1    1.10       20.06           15.83
2003    0.053      0.72      0.15        6.94     14.94        1.16       22.11  1       18.42       17.50  1    1.11       21.92           17.32
2004    0.053      0.73      0.15        5.07     14.94        1.16       20.23  1       16.93       16.00  1    1.12       20.04  1        15.81
2005     0.053     0.74      0.15        6.94     14.94        1.16       22.09  1       18.42       17.49  1    1.13       21.90  1        17.29
2006    0.053      0.75      0.15        5.07     14.94        1.16       20.21          16.93      15.98  1    1.14        20.02  1        15.78
2007    0.053      0.75      0.15        6.94     14.94        1.16       22.08          18.42      17.47  1    1.14        21.89  1        17.29
2008    0.053      0.76      0.15        5.07     14.94        1.16       20.20           16.93    15.97  1    1.16        20.00  t        15.77
2009     0.053     0.77      0.15        6.94     14.94        1.16       22.06  1       18.42      17.45  1    1.17        21.86  1        17.26
2010   112.700)    (9.14)    (2.42)      4.99     14.94        1.16       45.34  I       16.86      41.12  1  (29.11)       50.19           45.98
ERR                           24 I                      2021                    2121           17t
mPV (at lOtl               70.34  1                   47.22  1                61.28  1       39.16
NPV tat 151)               29.29  1                   15.43  1                21.28  1         7.42
WAPTR, avril/April 196,



- 129 -                    ANNEX 6-1
Page 1 of 12
REPUBLIC OF GUIN!A
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Financial Evaluation of PAC
A. Recent Financial Performance and Current Financial Position
1.        PAC's summary income account and cash flow statements, includ-
ing actual data for 1983 to 1985 and estimates for 1986, are summarized
in the table below and detailed in Table 1.  From its constitution in
1982 through 1986, PAC has been carrying out all stevedoring and
on-shore handling activities, which are reflected in its revenues and
expenses.  PAC's accounts were denominated in sylis until 1985.  Since
the monetary reform in January 1986, which included a thirteen-fold
devaluation,  they are denominated  in Guinean  francs.   PAC's opening
accounts for 1986 were revaluated to reflect devaluation.
PAC's Summary Income and Cash Flow Statements
Actual                    Estimate
(in million Sylis)          (in million FC)
1983       1984       1985            1986
operating Revenues              232.4      397.3      438.1          4,430.3
Working Expenses                115.9      106.2      179.3            970.9
Depreciation and Provisions      61.4      108.8       78.1          1,431.2
Net Operating Revenue            55.1      182.3      180.7          2,028.2
Interest Charges                (1.7)       22.5       43.8          1,286.8
Extraordinary Gain (Loss)        33.8      (11.6)      (9.7)        (2,136.9)
Net Income/Loss after Taxes      55.0       96.3       82.6         (1,395.5)
Internal Cash Generation       110.9       153.0      156.7           342.2
Working Ratio (%)               50          27         41              22
Operating Ratio (%)              76         55         58              54
The revenue and cash flow objectives set for the implementation period
of the First Port Project were generally achieved, thanks to larger than
expected traffic volumes, adequate tariff revisions and low working
expenses,  including  very  low  personnel  costs.   The  1986  estimates
indicate a net loss despite a large net operating revenue, because of
exceptional  losses  and  provisions.   These  include  foreign  exchange
losses following the 1986 devaluation, a provision for deferred mainte-
nance dredging and especially a large (US$3 m) provision for losses on
long outstanding receivables from foreign shipping companies.  On the
whole, PAC's net income after taxes has averaged US$1.5 m on annual
revenues averaging US$14.6 m over the 1983-86 period. Cumulated inter-
nal cash generation over the period reached US$18.9 m, allowing PAC to
finance the local cost of the first Port Project, build its working
capital at the required levels and, after deduction of financial charges
during construction and provisions for dredging, accumulate a net cash
surplus of US$7.7 million.



- 130 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 2 of 12
2.        PAC's  balance  sheet  for  1983-86  is  summarized  below  and
detailed in Table 2.  The balance sheet for 1985 is shown before and
after revaluation, with an ectimate of the December 1986 balance sheet.
PAC's Summary Balance Sheets
(in million Sylis)         (in million FG)
1983   1984   1985   Dec. 31t 1985  Dec. 31. 1986
(revaluated)    (estimated)
Current Assets                303    482    686       6,260          9,318
Less: Current Liabilities     79      98    106         104          3,202
Net Current Assets            224    384    580       6,156          6,116
Net Fixed Assets             640    895   1.002      16.155         18.189
Total Net Assets             864   1,279   1,582      22,311        24,305
Financed by:
Long Term Debt                79    390    613       10,134         14,668
Equity and Retained Earnings  785    889    969      12,197          9,637
Total                        864  1,279   1,582       22,311        24,305
Debt/Equity Ratio            9:91   30:70             45:55          60:40
PAC's December 1985 balance sheet was fully revaluated by its Auditors;
their work included a detailed evaluation of fixed assets and was a
first of its kind for a Public Enterprise in Guinea. The revaluation
surplus amounted to FG 2,286 million. The results of this revaluation
are being agreed with the Ministry of Finance. Concurrently with the
revaluation, it has been assumed that in the December 31, 1986 balance
sheet, PAC's equity would be reduced by FG 1,600 million, as land and
old buildings which were part of the initial Government contribution
would be taken out of PAC's fixed assets.
3.        From 1983 to 1985, PAC's net accounts receivable increased
substantially to FG 2,974 million by December 1985, or more than nine
months' revenues. These include arrears of local clients, mostly public
enterprises and the administration, as well as by foreign port users.
The largest debtors among the latter were the Eastern European shipping
companies carrying bauxite exports, who have consistently paid their
debts, but have done so erratically and with considerable delays; they
also include other small companies, often trampers, which were carrying
most of the general cargo to Conakry before the large liners restarted
regular service in late  1985 and 1986.   Billings have been greatly
handicapped by the fact that PAC had to collect them through the prob-
lem-ridden parastatal Socigth Navale Guin4enne (SNG) which was the only
authorized shipping agent and consignee.   In addition, monitoring of
actual payments by foreign clients has been hampered by poor telecommu-
nications and by the fact that transfers of funds were generally per-
formed through the old state banks which had very poor bookkeeping and
abysmal losses. The liquidation of these banks in 1986, as well as the
poorly managed restructuring of SNG, has further added to the confusion.
Finally, PAC's financial and accounting department has had difficulties



- 131 -                    ANNEX 6-1
Page 3 of 12
in dealing with this complex situation and with the fast growth of
traffic, partly because specific technical assistance to the financial
department was too long delayed. Several corrective measures were taken
in  1986.   PAC appointed  the Hamburg Port  Consulting  to completely
overhaul foreign client accounts and collect arrears prior to 1986. In
addition, PAC introduced new payment procedures including advance
payments and deposits by shippers, and started applying stringent
measures including detaining delinquent ships.  As a result,  actual
collection (including arrears) during 1986 on foreign clients reached
US$8.4 m against total billings of US$9.2 m.  Total gross receivables
thereby increased only by 16% to Gi? 5,121 million by December 1986,
while total revenues increased by 36%.
4.        PAC's current assets as of December 1986 include large amounts
deposited and frozen in the liquidated state banks, of which US$8.6 m in
foreign currency. The unavailability of these sums has so far made it
impossible for PAC to have long overdue maintenance dredging carried out
by a foreign contractor. Also, PAC has not yet paid to the Treasury the
interest during construction on the loans for the first Port Project and
some taxes, which constitute the bulk of its current liabilities.
B. Tariffs
5.        Under the ongoing Port Project, a new tariff structure was put
into effect in 1984, which essentially included port dues on ships and
stevedoring charges payable in dollars, and wharf-handling and storage
charges for cargo, payable in local currency (for details see An-
nex 6-2). Regular tariff increases were implemented over 1984-85; and
following the 1986 devaluation, an intermediate revision of tariffs
payable in local currency was introduced, which compensated partly for
the effect of the devaluation. However, tariff adjustments on bauxite
and alumina shipments could not be implemented: the mining companies,
who incurred substantial losses because of insufficient dredging which
allowed only smaller ore-carriers or partially loaded larger ships to
use the port, have refused to pay the tariff increase during 1986.
6.        Further adjustments of the tariff structure are required in
1987 to reflect: (a) the transfer of the stevedoring, shorehandling and
warehousing activities from PAC to private sector operators, thereby
transforming PAC into an organization dealing essentially with infra-
structure; (b) the changed and evolving structure of the traffic to
Conakry with a higher proportion of large modern container ships and
ro-ro vessels carrying fast-growing volumes of unitized cargo; (c) the
necessity to fully recover in the future the cost of the different
investments in the proposed port extension under the project, with
charges corresponding more accurately to the cost of services which the
different users and types of cargo will receive from the new port with
its new installations and institutional set-up; and (d) a factor for
time-of-occupancy of berth in the tariffs, to encourage fast throughput.
A new tariff structure prepared by a consultant was reviewed with the
Association before negotiations and found acceptable. At the same time,
reference tariffs are being proposed for the operations taken over by
the private sector. On the whole, port charges plus stevedoring tariffs
would increase by about 28% over the 1986 levels on average. PAC's new
tariffs are expected to be put into effect at the latest by June 1987.
To achieve the financial objectives specified below, regular subsequent



- 132 -                 ANNEX 6-1
Page 4 of 12
tariff increases will be required.  The tariff structure will be re-
viewed again with the Association at the opening of the new container
terminal.
C. Financial Objectives
7.        PAC's stated objective is to be a fully autonomous, commer-
cially-oriented and profitable public enterprise.   Its statutes, cur-
rently adapted in line with the privatization process, specify that
operating revenues should cover all operating expenses, including
adequate maintenance expenditures, interest charges on debt, provision
for losses and renewals, and a minimum return of 6% on reevaluated net
fixed assets.  The authorities have consistently accepted tariff in-
creases requested by PAC to achieve stated objectives, but PAC's manage-
ment has tended to make inadequate provision for losses. Proper estima-
tion of these and setting of adequate salaries and incentives for
personnel will need special attention in the annual budget preparation
process. As under the first Port Project, PAC will be required, during
the project implementation period, to submit annual draft budgets for
comment by the Association.
8.        Progress toward financial autonomy for PAC has been less than
satisfactory with regard to control by the Government of PAC's opera-
tional expenditures and Bank accounts.  At present, all expenditures
above FG 200,000 are submitted to a priori Government control, making
the timely execution of maintenance very difficult. Also, in addition
to the regulation whereby PAC's cash surplus was to be deposited in
non-interest-bearing accounts in the Central Bank, the Government
requested in 1986 that payments by PAC's clients be effected directly
into Central Bank accounts, which makes monitoring of client accounts
extremely cumbersome. At negotiations, the Government agreed to replace
a priori control by a posteriori control for all operating expenses as
well as investments, for contracts not exceeding US$250,000. Similarly,
PAC will be allowed to (a) maintain accounts at commercial banks; and
(b) keep its surpluses in interest-bearing accounts.
9.        As mentioned in para 3, PAC's financial management needs to be
reinforced. The recent recruitment of a high-level financial expatriate
advisor, previously financial manager of the Port of Abidjan, is already
a major step towards  this reinforcement.   With his help,  PAC will
prepare a detailed program covering the strengthening of the accounting
system, the setting up of fail-safe billing procedures based on depend-
able information using a new computer system; the introduction of proper
internal controls; and the corresponding training of key personnel
abroad. Agreement of this program by the Association will be a condi-
tion of effectiveness. Its major immediate objective will be to improve
collection  of  receivables.   Significant  progress  has  already  been
achieved during the first quarter of 1987, as monthly collections
averaged 118% on billings on foreign clients and 102% on all billings.
The transfer of all stevedoring, ship consignment and especially for-
warding/custom clearing activities to private firms by April 1987, will
further improve collections, as PAC will henceforth have to deal only
with a small number of selected firms of good standing, based in
Conakry.



- 133 -                  ANNEX 6-1
Page 5 of 12
10.       Other agreements under the ongoing Port Project on financial
targets and covenants, reevaluation of assets and annual audits, and
agreement of the Association on PAC's investment expenditures during
project implementation, are being reconducted under the new project.
Financial targets agreed upon are as follows:
Financial Ratios
(a)  Working ratio:       1988 and beyond: not to exceed 60%
(b)  Operating ratio:    1988 and beyond: not to exceed 80%
(c)  Kate of return:      1988 and beyond: minimum 6% on revalued
net fixed assets in use
(d)  Cur nt ratio:       minimum 20
(e)  Debt service         after project completion, minimum 1.25
coverage ratio:
Working Capital
-- Minimum cash:    two months of working expenses
-- Receivables:     not to exceed three months' revenues
-- Inventories:     not to exceed six months' spare parts needs for
the coming year, nor fall below three months'
needs
-- Accounts         not to exceed three months' supplier accounts
payable:        and other current payables.
11.       As mentioned in paras 3 and 4, GF 3,719 m (US$9.3 m) of PAC's
cash, mostly in foreign exchange, have been frozen in the liquidated
state banks, and similarly about GF 733 m is due to PAC by the State,
mostly state enterprises (some of which are being liquidated, but also
fishing concerns which have never paid their port dues) and adminis-
tration departments.  In addition, PAC should also collect through the
State about US$3.1 m of arrears from some foreign shipping lines, mostly
the bauxite carriers, that have to be negotiated under bilateral ar-
rangements.  Conversely, PAC owes to the state GF 2,648 m in interest
during construction on the loans for the Port Project, and GF 511 m in
tax arrears. PAC has prepared a plan for compensation of those recipro-
cal debts, which was finalized and agreed upon with the Ministry of
Finance before negotiations. This plan also includes: (a) compensation
for PAC's foregone revenues of GF 174 m for the period of 1986 and 1987
during which the mining companies refused to pay announced tariff
increases; and (b) GF 557 m in foregone interest, as PAC's surplus was
frozen in non-interest-bearing accounts.  The balance of GF 3,375 m in
favor of PAC will be used in 1987 to prepay 21% (equivalent to US$8.4 m)
of the outstanding loans for the First Project, thereby reducing future
debt service to acceptable levels and improving PAC's debt-equity ratio.
Completion of all legal documentation for implementation of the restruc-
turing plan will be a condition of effectiveness.



- 134 -                  ANNEX 6-1
Page 6 of 12
12.       In addition to the debt compensation, the. Government agreed at
negotiations to:  (a) consolidate as equity the former liability la-
belled "depreciation to be paid to the Plan" by PAC under the old ac-
counting system; and (b) allow PAC to carry forward cumulated losses (as
determined on the basis of the 1985 and 1986 reevaluated financial
statements) before paying income taxes.
D. Forecast Financial Performance
13.       The  financial  forecasts  for the  1987/95 period have been
developed taking into account the fact that PAC relinquished all steve-
doring  activities  to  priva,se  sector  companies  by April 1987.   The
forecasts, in current prices, are based on conservative traffic assump-
tions, stepped tariff increases and major increases of expenditures in
local currency, the levels of which have not yet been fully adjusted
following monetary reform.   Fixed asset values and the depreciation
schedule used are derived from the revaluation for the opening balance
sheet as of December 31, 1985.  Major assumptions and considerations
used in the forecast are detailed in the Project File.
14.       Traffic forecasts used for the financial projections are very
conservative; exports of minerals (bauxite and alumina) are assumed to
remain constant at their 1986 levels (3.4 million dry ton); imports of
oil products and dry bulk products (chemicals, clinker) are supposed to
increase by about 3.7% p.a., and imports of general cargo would increase
by about 4.0% between 1986 and 1995, starting from a volume of
600,000 tons in 1986. Total labor costs in GF are assumed to increase
by 50% from 1986 to 1988, while total personnel would decrease by about
55%.  The assumed increase would compensate for the devaluation and
bring remuneration closer to a level observed in ports in neighboring
countries.   Other operating expenditures are assumed to decrease by
6% p.a. between 1986 and 1987 as PAC is transferring handling equipment
and personnel to the private stevedoring companies. Equipment trans-
ferred to private operators is expected to be sold at its book value.
It is also assumed that PAC will continue to pay high interest rates on
the loans for the Port project (13% for the IDA funds, and 11.5% on the
AfDB loan), but on reduced outstanding amounts as foreseen by the
restructuring plan described in para 11. The forecast income account is
summarized below and detailed in Annex 6-3.



- 135 -                     ANNEX 6-1
Page 7 of 12
Conakry Port -- Sumnary Forecast Income Account
(in millions of Guinean Francs)
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994  1995
Operating Revenues
(1987 tariffs)             4,411  4,547  4,671  4,803  5,040  5,353  5,453  5,556 5,654
Tariff Increase Impact         0      0    234    492  1,073  1,461  1,838  1,872 1,905
Total Revenues             4.524  4,593  4,959  5.354  6,179  6,894  7,539  7,748 7,974
Working Expenses           1,352  1,321  1,339  1,359  1,515  1,645  1,450  1,453 1,455
Depreciation               1,519  1,579  1,579  1,579  1,777  2,017           2,017 2,017
Net Operating Revenue      1,653  1,693  2,041  2,417  2,887  3,233  4,072  4,279 4,502
Interest Charges           1.669  1.596  1,946  2,396  2.729  2.781  2,463  2,351 2,239
Net Income Before Taxes      715     97      95     21    159    452  1,609  1,928 2,263
Taxes on Income                0      0       0      0      0       0    563    675   792
Net Income After Taxes       715     97      95     21    159    452  1,046  1,253 1,471
Working Ratio (%)            30%    29%    27%    25%    25%    24%    19%    19%   1P%
Operating Ratio (%)          37%    37%    41%    45%    47%    47%    54%    55%   56%
Return on Average
Net Fixed Assets in Use (%)   8%     9%      9%     9%     9%    10%    12%    14%   15%
15.        PAC's operating income would be positive all through project
construction and thereafter under this conservative traffic growth
scenario.  Under the assumption that interest on the new loans for the
project are charged to the income statement the same year, net income
would become negative in 1989 without  tariff increase other than the
1987  adjustment.   To  cover  the major  increase  in  financial  charges
between 1988 and 1992 and loan repayments thereafter, a new increase ill
tariffs will thus be needed starting at the latest in 1990. With total
tariff increases of 34% in current terms between 1989 and 1993 (with
5% p.a. in 1989 and 1990, 10% in 1991, and 5% in 1992 and in 1993),
PAC's income after taxes would be slightly positive in 1989-1991, and
become a substantial net profit from 1993 onward, when shipping would
start to fully benefit from the new port facilities. The rate of return
on net fixed assets in use would reach 9% until 1991, and exceed 10%
starting in 1992. If traffic growth exceeds 4% annually, the required
tariff increases would be substantially reduced.
16.        The forecast statement of source and application of funds is
summarized below. The full statement is shown in Annex 6-3.



- 136 -                      ANNEX 6-1
Page 8 of 12
Conakry Port -- Summary Forecast Sources and Application of Funds
(in millions of Guinean Francs)
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Sources
Internal Sources          3,903  3,272  3,620  3,996  4,664  5,250  5,526  5,621  5,726
Borrowings and Grants     1,543  4,900  5.900  7,100  3,000  1,100      0      0       0
Total Sources             5,446  8,172  9,520 11,096  7,664  6,350  5,526  5,621  5,726
Applications
The Project                  0  5,436  6,515  7,534  3,315  1,200       0      0       0
Other Investments         3,189     0       0      0      0      0    100    100    100
Increase in
Working Capital         (7,721)    19    89      98    195    167    119      34    33
/a
Debt Service              7,799  2,339  2,689  3,139  3,472  5,89748 _44O7  4,295  4,182
Total Applications        3.267  7,794  9,293 10,771  6,982  7,264  4,626  4,429  4,315
Cash at End of Year       2,331  2,739  2,966  3,291  3,993  3,094  3,994  5,186  6,597
/a
Debt Service Coverage     0.5    1.4    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3-   1.3    1.3    1.4
La Including GF 1,700 million of possible prepayment of the loans for the first project, but
which is not taken into account in the debt service ratio calculation.
During the 1987-92 period, PAC would cover with its initial cash surplus
and cash flow, US$11.4 m for maintenance dredging, minimum increases in
working capital needs and the local cost portion of the new project, as
well as some US$59 m in interest during construction and debt service on
the borrowings for the first Port project.  The substantial additional
cash outflow occurring when debt service on the new borrowings will
cumulate with the debt service on the old borrowings, would be covered
thanks to the tariff increases over 1589-92. Again, if traffic increas-
es faster than projected  in this conservative projection,  the needed
tariff increases would be smaller. In the peak year, 1992, 68% of PAC's
cash expenses would be interest paid to the Government on the credits
for the first and second port project .-e-lent at high interest rates.
Even during the two years of maximum cash outflows (1989/90), PAC would
still generate a small net cash surplus. Debt service coverage ratio
would remain at 1.3-1.4 between 1992 and 1995, which is acceptable given
the possibility of waiving the in'ome tax and the comfortable surplus
cash accumulated before  1989.   Once  the project  is completed,  it is
likely that PAC will prepay another portion of the high interest loans
of the first project with its cumulated cash surplus. The above projec-
tion assumes that PAC would prepay GF 1,700 m at the end of 1992.
17.        PAC's forecast balance sheet is summarized in the following
table, and is detailed in Annex 6-3.



- 137 -                     A       6-1
Page 9 of 12
Conakry Port -- Summary Forecast Balance Sheets
(in millions of Current Guinean Francs)
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994   1995
Net Current Assets           2,478   9,875   3,192   3,614   3,818   2,544   3,563   4,789  6,233
Net Fixed Assets in Use     19,505  17,926  21,784  26,720  32,477  33,775  33,059  31,142 29,225
Work in Progress                 0   5,436   6,515   7,534   3,315   1,200         0       0       0
TOTAL NET ASSETS            21,983  26,238  31,490  37,868  39,610  37,519  36,621  35,931 35,458
Long-Term Debt              11,631  15,688  20,745  27,002  28,486  25,883  23,939  21,996 20,052
Equity and Reserves         10,352  10,549  10,745  10,865  11,124  11,636  12,682  13,935 15,406
TOTAL                       21,983  26,238  31,490  37,868  39,610  37,519  36,621  35,931 35,458
Current Ratio                 3.6      3.8     4.1     4.6      3.2     2.1     2.6      3.1    3.7
Debt/Equity Ratio            53/47   60/40   66/34   71/29   72/28   69/31   65/35   61/29  57/33
PAC's actual fixed assets would increase substantially with the imple-
mentation of the new project. Since PAC's cash generation will be used
mostly for repayment of the loans for the first Port Project, and
payment of the maintenance dredging and interest during construction
under the new project, the new investments will be financed mainly by
the  new  loans.   PAC's  long  term  liabilities  would  thereby  increase
substantially until  1991.   Thereafter,  PAC's  debt  equity ratio would
gradually improve as repayments of principal on the new loans add to the
repayments on the earlier loans. Agreement was reached at negotiations
on a debt limitation covenant, excluding any additional long-term debt
during project implementation without approval of IDA and featuring a
minimum debt-service coverage ratio of 1.25 thereafter.
WAPTR
April 1987



-138-                                    ANNEX 6-1
Table 1
Page 10 of 12
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Income Statement of Conkry Port, 1983-86
1'000 Sylis)          ('000 FS)
1983     1984      1985           1986
(Est.)
OPERATIN7 REIEIUES
Port revenus in 4oreig  echangt                  9,424   185,162   181,523      2,590,519
Part reenues in local'currency                 137,083   210,903   243,901      1,523,243
Niscul laous                                     5,937       934    12,06         326,592
TOTAL OMEATING REVENUES                          232,444   397,299   438,090      4,430,344
OPERATING EIPENSES
Staff salaries                                  57,937    60,031    72,275        339,540
Nhterials and wvices                            34,119    14,963   70,918         327,929
Transport                                       10,027    20,381    28,775        196,516
Overhead                                         1,961     3,853    5,736          99,491
Taxes                                            3,990     6,99      1,633          7,450
Subtotal Operating Expenses                      115,934   106,224   179,337        970,926
Depreciation and murti:ation                    55,905    56,450    74,063      1,031,150
Provisions                                       5,500    52,326     4,082        400,000
Subtotal lorking Expens                          177,339   215,000   257,402      2,402,084
Financial costs                                 (1,679)  22,503    43,779       1,29t,937
TOTAL OPERA1ING EXPENSES                         175,660   237,503   301,261      3,t88,921
----- -----_----                               SSU85zu   Ill::3:SJJz:            ::;r
OPERATING INCONE (LOSS)                           56,794   159,796   136,829        741,423
Other Charges
Extraordintary  omes                           (11,303)  113,336)  (12,825)    (2,761,067)
Extraordinary gains                             45,152     1,740    3,100         624,183
33,849   (11,596)   (9,725)    12,136,904)
Net Operating Incose (Loss)                       90,633   149,200   127,104     (1,395,491)
Incom Tax                                         35,600    51,870    44,496
Net Incon After Tax   (Lss)                       55,033    96,330    92,619    (1,395,481)
Source:   1983 - Rapport d'Audit, Audit I Systes, Nars 1994
1984 & 1985 - Rapports d'Wdit, Price lterhouse Africa, Juin 1985 et 1986.
1986 - Estiuatios PNC  t IDA.
avril/April 1987



-  139 -                                ANNEX 6-1
Table 2
Page 11 of 12
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA                                    g
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Balance Shoets of Conaary Port, 1983-86
1'000 Sylis)                   ('000 FS)
_~~~  ~~ ._ .. ._.           ...   . _ ., ......  .__ .
1983      1984      M              1985       1986
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and bank                                136,488   204,807  290,778       3,048,990  5,656,171
Receivables                                  152,713   232,756   349,387      2,974,430  3,315,844
Inventories                                   14,116    19,618    14,929         97,612    147,924
Foreign exhange loss                                              21,003
Others                                                  26,174     9,805        139,043    1968,49
303,317   492,435   685,802      6,260,075  9,318,428
LESSt Current Liabilities
Suppliers                                     14,900    14,443    12,080          9,894     34,070
Government taxes                              47,276    74,045    92,502         92,502    511,053
Bank overdraft                                                       249            249
Foreign exchange gain                                    7,301
Others                                        17,151     3.031     1,483          1,483  2,657,741
79,327    98,920   106,314        104,129  3,202,864
Net Current Assets                              223,990   3B3,615   579,488      6,155,947  6,115,564
Fixed Assts                                     693,692   99t7,4   1,175,792    18,916,006 21,982,294
Les Depreciation                              53,474   102,494   173,247      2,761,172  3,792,870
Net fixed Assets                                640,218   895,001 1,002,535     16,154,834 18,189,424
TOTAL NET ASSETS                                  864,208 1,278,616 1,582,023     22,310,7B1 24,304,988
VzZ:g:M::8:g                                     u:S5  3 #u zm           z2zz     z     Xz8  z-as,s #st=
LIABILITIES
Long-Tere Debt                                   78,806   390,098   612,991     10,134,486 14,667,991
Capital                                         730,369   622,856   576,616      7,345,169  5,74,169
Cumulative Reults                                          66,115   162,445        245,063    245,063
Current Year Incoe                               55,033    96,330    82,618                (1,395,401)
Depreciation to be paid to 6overnient                     103,217   147,463      2,300,424  2,756,607
Reevaluation Surplus                                                             2,85,639  2,285,639
zi~~C ~UUUZ: u~fluz      Zgu1Z32  z=LZA=z-
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                 864,208 1,278,616 1,582,023     22,310,781 24,304,988
Source:   1983 - Rapport d'Audit, Audit I Systme, Iars 1984
1984  1985 - Rapports d'Audit, Price Waterhouse Africa, Join 1985 at 1986.
1995 Rnevalution - Rapport Preliminaire de reevalustion atifs et passif , Price Iaterhouse
Africa, fevrier 1986.
1986 - Estimations PAC et IDA.
WTR
April 1987



- 140 -
ANNEX 6-1
Table 3
Page 12 of 12
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Port of Conakry -- Sources and Applications of Funds, 1983-85
('000 Sylis)
1983       1984        1985
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Generation of Funds:
Net Operating Revenue (loss)                            55,033    96,330    82,618
Depreciation and Asortization                           55,905    56,699    74,063
Total                                                  110,938   153,029   156,681
Borrowings:
Increase in Long-Teri Debt                              76,250   390,098   222,783
Other                                                               11,777
Total                                                   76,250   401,875   222,783
increase in Equity                                        75,000    61,521       44,246
TOTAL FUNDS AVAILABLE                                    262,188   616,425   423,710
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Proposed Project
Other Investments                                         78,806   403,930   183,591
Repayment Repayment of Long-Tern Debt
Increase (Decrease) in Working
Capital EYcIuding Cash                                 86,104    82,574   109,982
TOTAL FUNDS APPLIED                                      164,910   486,504   293,573
Cash Surplus (Deficit) for the Year                       97,278   129,921   130,137
Cash at Beginning of the Year                                   0    97,278   227,199
Cash at End of the Year                                   97,278   227.199   357,336
Source:    1983 - Rapport d'Audit, Audit & Systemes, Mars 1984
1984 t 1985 - Rapports d'Audit, Price Waterhouse Africa, Juin 1985
et 1986.
WAPTR
April  1987



- 141 -                    ANNEX 6-2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Composante Portuaire/Port Component
PAC -- Tarifs actuels et tarifs propos6s
(PAC -- Existing and Proposed Tariffs)
1.        PAC's tariffs underwent substantial restructuring under the
First Port Project.  Following a consultant's study, a simplified new
tariff structure was put into effect in March 1984, with an average
tariff increase of 15% in addition to earlier increases of 30% in 1983.
The main features of the new structure were:  (a) port dues on ships
(including towage and pilotage charges) calculated on gross registered
tonnage (GRT), plus stevedoring charges, to be paid by the shipping
companies in dollars; and (b) wharf-handling and storage charges, based
on the cargo and billed to the consignee, payable in local currency.
The proportion of PAC's revenues generated by dues on ships was high,
44% compared to the 56% generated by the dues on the cargo.  Compared
with neighboring African ports, PAC's tariffs have been on the high
side, especially taking into account the less than adequate cargo
handling and transit facilities during port rehabilitation, and restric-
tion of ship movements to daytime operation because of the lack of an
operational system of lights and buoys. With the 1986 devaluation, a
revision of the tariffs payable in local currency was needed:  these
were  introduced  in May 1986.   In  accordance with  the  Government's
concern to avoid spiralling domestic price increases, port tariffs in
local currency were raised threefold, substantially less than the
devaluation but still sufficient, as a temporary measure, to protect
PAC's earnings given the relatively small proportion of local costs in
PAC's total expenses. however, proposed tariff adjustments on bauxite
and alumina shipments could not be implemented: the mining companies,
who incurred substantial losses because of insufficient dredging which
allowed only smaller ore-carriers or partially loaded larger ships to
use the port, have refused to pay the tariff increase during 1986.
2.        Further adjustments of the tariff structure were thus required
in 1987 to reflect:   (a) transfer of PAC's stevedoring, shorehandling
and warehousing activities to private sector operators, thereby trans-
forming PAC into an organization dealing essentially with infrastruc-
ture; (b) the changed and evolving structure of the traffic to Conakry
with a higher proportion of large wodern container ships and ro-ro
vessels carrying fast-growing volumes of unitized cargo; and (c) the
necessity to fully recover in the future the cost of the different
investments in the proposed port extension under the project, with
charges corresponding more accurately to the cost of services which the
different users and types of cargo will receive from the new port with
its new installations and institutional set-up.  A tariff study was
therefore carried out by a consultant in late 1986 and early 1987, which
proposed changes in the structure as well as a reasonable increase in
the levels of tariffs. The new structure maintains dues on ships based
on GRT, payable in dollars as before, but with a 30% reduction on dues
for berth occupancy ("droits sur le navire") for container ships and



-142 -                    ANNEX 6-2
Page 2 of 2
ro-ro vessels that have very fast turn-around times.  Ship dues are
constant for stays along berth up to 10 days, but a penalty is charged
beyond 10 days.  Total dues on ships would average about US$1.00 per
ton. The new tariff introduces high charges on cargo ("droits sur la
marcliandise"), payable in local currency differentiated for 25 cate-
gories of cargo; they would range from a low GF 400 per ton on rice to
GP 17,000 per ton on tobacco. Tariffs on alumina and bauxite would be
readjusted to GF 250 and GF 73 per ton, respectively.  Rental fees for
warehouses and open storage areas would be raised substantially to
GF 5,000 and GF 20,000 per ml per year, respectively, which is high but
reflects the real investment costs of these facilities.  Under the new
tariff structure, total dues would vary from about US$1.6 per ton for
minerals and other bulk products, to US$2.7 per ton for oil products and
US$6.5 per ton for general cargo, which is reasonable.  On the whole,
this proposal is satisfactory; as agreed during negotiations, it should
be put into effect at the end of the second quarter of 1987.
3.        PAC does not yet have an analytical cost accounting system to
establish a specific cost-based tariff structure, but reasonable esti-
mates of costs by profit and cost centers are already available and were
used for the tariff study.  As mentioned in Annex 6-1, beyond the 1987
tariff revision, subsequent increases will be required to achieve
financial objectives specified below. Furthermore, PAC will review the
ta.riff structure with the Association by June 1992 at the opening of the
new container terminal, to take into account the development of the
different categories of traffic and the more precise data of the new
cost accounting system, which should be fully operational by then.
WAPTR
April 1987



-143-
AMR 4-3
kliUE  K SUIIEE
Page  l of 4
PIROET   CTURIEL KEs TIWIIT                                  Table  1
Pert  utoam    de C.akry - kcsttn  Prvisiosu llus
_o .8_.___ +.   _ ,_ .       ..........__ ..
(En sillicns de fracs, guims)i
198       1987      18        198        1990      It        1W2       1"3       19l        9n
VOLUMES (000 tone)
ElIPORTATIONS
Bauxite                      2,713     2,800      2,300     2,S00     2,900     2,800      2,000     2,600     2,000     2,S00
Alu ine                        559       600        600       600       400       600        t00       400       40 t00
Soas total             3,272     3,400      3,400     3,400     3,400     3,400     3,400      3,400     3,400     3,400
Divers                          33        34         35        40        50        40         t0        00        0        100
INPORTATIONS
'ydrocarbures                  342       370        400       414       430       447        470       484       50        525
Autres vrac                    137        115       115       120       130       135        140       145       155       145
Narchandises diversus          S30       t03        430       652       80        704        730       763       793       920
Sous total             1,059     1,058      1,145     1,184     1,240     1,231     1,340      1,392     1,452     1,510
TOTK EJPORTS-INPORTS            4,331     4,48       4,545     4,586     4,640     4,41      4,740      4,M9      4,652     4,910
ahaagX  *uaulw    *%awauuua 3sesS,  USaU           amass=   mamasa.   ausmeana   Ia ,.   mas,,
!ONN.TOTAL NAVIRES (000 tJb)    5,121     5,1I0     5,99       6,191     6357      6,449     6,541     6,t13       ,6496    6,776
RECETTES
Recettes Aratemurs
Pilotage                    204.84    231.58    239.98    247.64    254.27    256.79    261.U    264.52    267.83    271.03
Remorquage                  819.36    926.32   95.90        9O.,58  1,017.09  1,035.11  1,046.59  1,058.07  1,071.32  1,64.13
Oroit de port navire      1,044.48  1,181.06  1,223.83  1,262.9   1,296.79  1,319.77  1,334.40  1,349.04  1,365."  1,382.26
Sous total          2,068.58  2,339.97  2,423.76  2,501.20  2,548.15  2,613.65  2,442.U4  2,671.64  2,705.09  2,737.42
Droits  1rcbmndisn
Bauxite                     191.05    204.40    204.40    204.40    204.40    204.40    204.40    204.40    2114.40    204.40
Aluuine                     137.38    142.50    142.50    142.50    142.50    142.50    142.0    142.50    142.50    142.50
Exports Diverses             50.82     52.36     53.90      41.40     77.00     92.40    107.80    123.20    138.60    154.00
Hydrocarbures                58.92     94.20    104.00    107.64    111.90    116.22    122.20    125.84    131.04    136.50
Autres vrac                  35.62     29.90     29.90      31.20     33.60     35.10     36.40     31.10      40.30     42.90
iarchandises diversn        83.20    928.62    970.20  1,0040.0   1,047.20  1,0l7.24  1,124.20  1,175.02  1,221.22  1,262.60
SoQU total          1,403."  1,453.98  1,504.90  1,551.42  1,414.70  1,477.66  1,73.50  1,90.64  1,878.04  I,"3..0
Autres recettm               130.00    619.00    418.00    618.00    418.00    741.00    973.0      973.00    973.00    73.00
TOTAL RECETTES (FS)          3,602.87  4,410.9   4,546.6   4,470.42  4,602.65  5,039.51  5,353.14  5,453.30  5,556.15  5,43.52
TOTAL REETTES (4)                9.01      11.03     11.37     11.68     12.01     12.60     13.38      13.63     13.6      14.13
AUGMENTATION TARIfS (Z)                                            52        51       101        52         It
Cuolee   (FS)        627.48                         233.53    492.29  1,073.U   1,461.4l  1,837.74  1,972.42  1,905.24
RECETTES TOTALES
APRES AUWENTATION       4,430.34  4,41O.95  4,546.66  4,904.16  5,2.14  6,112.93  6,314.55  7,291.04  7,42.57  7,556.74
Notes A de  fins de tcparais, In  ro  tts 1994u mt ln  recettle wirtuoll   call   se   as  dn  volum  rols ultiplin
---  par I  tarlfs propos  pnur 1,  pun cession de la    utetibhi I& differmnce                      u rpt  c rKttns rell  fier
Mus au9bntation tuifs.
WAPTR, avril/April 1987



-  144 -                            ANNEX 6-3
Page 2 of 4
Table 2
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Port Autonome de Conakry - Comptes d'Exploitation Pr6visionnels
(En millions de francs guin6ens)
1996     1987      1988      1989     1990      1991      1992     1993      1994      1995
RECETJES
Riettes d'exploitation    4,430.34  4,410.95  4,546.66  4,904.16  5,295.14  6,112.93  6,814.55  7,291.06  7,428.57  7,558.76
Autres recettes                       113.12    46.61    54.79      59.32    65.92    79.85   247.52    319.50   414.04
Sous total         4,430.34  4,524.07  4,593.27  4,958.94  5,354.46 6,175.75  6,894.40  7,538.58  7,748.07  7,973.60
CHAR6ES D'EIPLOITATION
Frais personnel             339.54    320.20    503.00    503.00    503.00    503.00    503.00   503.00   503.00   503.00
T.F.S.E                     327.93    313.00   313.00    313.00    313.00    313.00    313.00    313.00    313.00   313.00
Transports                  196.52    176.00    176.00    176.00    176.00    176.00    176.00   176.00   176.00    176.00
Frais divers de gestion     106.94    102.00    102.00    102.00    102.00    102.00    102.00    102.00    102.00    102.00
Entretien et dragage                   0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    115.00   210.00    210.00    210.00   210.00
Soas total           970.93   911.20  1,094.00  1,094.00  1,094.00  1,209.00  1,304.00  1,304.00  1,304.00  1,304.00
RESULTAT BRUT
O'EXPLOITATION       3,459.42  3,612.87  3,499.27  3,964.94  4,260.46  4,96.75  5,590.40  6,234.58  6,444.07  6,669.60
CHMR8ES FINANCIERES
Anciennes charges         1,286.84  ;,668.50  1,401.60  1,314.90  1,228.13  1,141.43  1,054.73   779.24   779.24   778.24
laterets nouv.projet         0.00      0.00    194.56   630.72  1,168.32  1,587.36  1,725.84  1,685.10  1,572.76  1,460.42
Sous total         1,286.84  1,668.50  1,596.16  1,945.62  2,396.45  2,728.79  2,790.57  2,463.34  2,351.00  2,238.66
ANIORTISS9EENTS
Anciens Aeortisseaents    1,031.16  1,119.26  1,178.70  1,178.70  1,179.70  1,178.70  1,178.70  1,178.70  1,178.70  1,178.70
Aaortiss. nouv. projet                                                      598.00    938.00   838.00   838.00   838.00
Provis. Reparations         400.00   400.0    400.00   400.00    400.00       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
SoUs total         1,431.16  1,519.26  1,578.70  1,578.70  1,578.70  1,776.70  2,016.70  2,016.70  2,016.70  2,016.70
PERTES El PROVISIONS
Pertes exceptionelles     2,136.90    441.09    227.33    245.21    264.76    305.65    340.73    145.92    148.57   151.19
Profits exceptionels          0.00   731.30      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
Sous total         2,136.90   (290.21)  227.33   245.21    264.76    305.65    340.73   145.82    148.57   151.18
REIELTAT NET               (1,395.48)   715.32    97.08    95.41     20.56    158.61   452.41  1,608.71  1,927.79  2,263.07
IFt (BIC)                      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    563.05    674.73   792.07
8EIEEICE NET               (1,395.48)   715.32    97.08    95.41     20.56    158.61    452.41  1,045.66  1,253.07  1,470.9?
NARSE NRTE D'AUtT-FIN.         35.68  2,234.51  1,675.79  1,674.12  1,599.26  1,935.31  2,469.11  3,062.37  3,269.77  3,487.70
WAPTR, avril/April 1987



- 145 -
ANNEX 6-3
Page 3 of 4
Table 3
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJE'r SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Port Autonome de Conakry - Ressources et Emplois de Fonds Pr6visionnels
(En millions de francs guineens)
1987       1988       1989       1990        1991       1992       1993        1994       1995
RESSOURCES
Narge Brute d'auto-             2,234.58  1,675.78  1,674.12  1,599.26  1,935.31  2,469.11  3,062.37  3,269.77  3,487.70
financesent
Esprunts exterieurs
IDA                             0.00  2,000.00  1,200.00  1,000.00    100.00            80.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
KFN                             0.00  2,000.00  1,600.00  1,000.00    600.00    360.00              0.00       0.00        0.00
BAD                             0.00    800.00  3,000.00  5,000.00  2,200.00    600.00              0.00       0.00        0.00
Sous total                 0.00  4,800.00  5,800.00  7,000.00  2,900.00  1,040.00             0.00        0.00       0.00
Autres Emprunts                  1,542.81
Don 6T2                              0.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00           60.00        0.00       0.00       0.00
======_= -___:====  _=-=__=== ====:==x =_===  _2 ==_== ==_X = t3z                 ==         ZsC3 =: Xl33-1=
TOTAL               3,777.39  6,575.78  7,574.12  8,699.26  4,935.31  3,569.11  3,062.37  3,269.77  3,497.70
EWPLOI
Investissement nouveau               0.00  5,436.00  6,515.00  7,534.00  3,315.00  1,200.00             0.00        0.00       0.00
projet
Autres investisseents           3,188.81        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00    100.00    100.00    100.00
Reeboursement esprunts               0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00    673.13  1,346.25  1,346.25  1,346.25
nouveaux
Reaboursesent emprunts          6,130.69    742.90    742.90    742.90    742.90  2,442.90    597.29    597.29    597.29
existants
Total Reeboursement             6,130.69    742.90    742.90    742.90    742.90  3,116.02  1,943.54  1,943.54  1,943.54
Augeentation du besoin          (7,720.97)     18.69      89.37       97.75    194.86    167.49    119.13          34.39      32.55
en fonds de roulesent
TOTAL               1,598.53  6,197.59  7,347.27  8,374.64  4,252.76  4,483.51  2,162.66  2,077.92  2,076.09
Auguentation(Diuinution)        2,178.86    378.19    226.85    324.62    692.55   (914.40)   899.70  1,191.85  1,411.61
de l'excedent de
tresorerie
Tresorerie cueulee              2,178.86  2,557.06  2,783.90  3,108.52  3,791.07  2,876.67  3,776.37  4,968.22  6,379.83
WAPTR, avril/April 1987



- 146 -                             ANNEX 6-3
Page 4 of 4
Table 4
RE.PUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET SECTORIRL DES TRANSPORTS
Port Autonome de Conakry - Bilans Previsionnels
(En millions  de  francs  guineens)
1986      1987      1988      199        1990      1991       1992      1993      1994      1995
ACTIFS
Actifs Circulants
Tresorerie                5,656.17  2,330.73  2,739.39  2,966.24  3,290.85  3, 5.57  3,094.00  3,993.71  5,185.56  6,597.17
Clients                  3,315.84  1,102.74  1,136.66  1,226.04  1,323.78  1,528.23  1,703.64  1,822.76  1,857.14  1,809.69
Inventaires                147.92      15.65     15.65      15.65     15.65     15.65      15.65     15.65     15.65     15.65
Autres                      198.49
Sous total          9,318.43  3,449.12  3,891.70  4,207.92  4,630.29  5,536.45  4,813.29  5,832.12  7,059.35  8,502.51
aoins:
Dette Court Terme
Fournisseurs                34.07    227.80    273.50    273.50    273.50    302.25    326.00    326.00    326.00    326.00
Jopots                     511.05
Autres                        9.88    742.90    742.90    742.90    742.90  1,416.02  1,943.54  1,943.54  1,943.54  1,943.54
Sous total            555.00    970.70  1,016.40  1,016.40  1,016.40  1,718.27  2,269.54  2,269.54  2,269.54  2,269.54
ACTIFS CIRCULANTS NETS       8,763.43  2,478.42  2,875.31  3,191.53  3,613.89  3,818.18  2,543.75  3,562.58  4,788.81  6,232.97
INOBILISES BRUTS           21,982.29 24,008.11 29,444.11 35,9S9.11 43,493.11 46,808.11 48,008.11 48,108.11 48,208.11 48,308.11
Amortissc ents           3,792.87  4,503.13  6,091.83  7,660.53  9,239.24 11,015.94 13,032.64 15,049.34 17,066.04 19,082.75
luobilises nets          18,189.42 19,504.98 23.342.27 28,298.57 34,253.87 35,792.17 34,975.47 33,058.76 31,142.06 2q,225.36
zs":Jc:uu  $22222*  *S223Z 833,um *Stz              U &zM= SMV Sa23 an SS SUSUSUZU ZSS              S a
TOTAL            26,952.85 21,983.40 26,237.58 31,490.10 37,867.76 39,610.35 37,519.22 36,621.34 35,930.87 35,458.33
PASSIFS
Emprunts
Eaprunts ler projet        17,315.85 11,631.08 10,888.18 10,145.29  9,402.39  8,659.49  6,362.20  5,764.91  5,117.63  4,570.34
Eoprunts 2e projet              0.00      0.00  4,800.00 10,600.00 17,600.00 19,826.08 19,520.63 18,174.38 16,828.13 15,481.80
Total Dettes LI       17,315.85 11,631.08 15,688.18 20,745.29 27,002.39 28,486.37 25,882.53 23,939.29 21,995.75 20,052.21
Fonds Propres
Dotation en capital      5,745.17  5,745.17  5,745.17  5,745.17  5,745.17  5,745.17  5,745.17  5,745.17  5,745.17  5,745.17
Ecart Reevaluation       2,295.64  2,285.64  2,285.64  2,285.64  2,285.64  2,205.64  2,28.64  2,285.64  2,285.64  2,285.64
Nouvelle Dotat. Capital  2,756.61  2,756.61  2,856.61  2,956.61  3,056.61  3,156.61  3,216.61  3,216.61  3,216.61  3,216.61
Resultat exer. ant.        245.06 (1,150.42)  (435.10)  (338.02)  (242.60)  (222.04)   163.43)   388.98  1,434.64  2,687.70
Resultat de I'exer.      (1,395.48)   715.32     97.08     95.41      20.56    158.61    452.41  1,045.66  1,253.07  1,470.99
Sons total          9,637.00 10,352.32 10,549.40 10,744.81 lO,865.37 11,123.98 11,636.39 12,682.05 13,935.12 15,406.11
TOTAL            26,952.85 21,983.40 26,237.58 31,490.10 37,867.76 39,610.35 37,519.22 36,621.34 35,930.87 35,458.33
WAPTR,  avril/April  1987



NOTES



NOTES
I



MAP SECTION



S  E  N   E   G    A    L               2
Kedougou
G   U  I N  E A                  --oun.  
12' a  '': 
B  I S    S A  Uj .b 
rX-,_7           \~~Gaouija       <oS
This mapd has1 been prepredbe
for ~         e th covrac fth
K olabouny,                             ;<'                                               DA
Kamsa re  VO theal
(mntin                      For6cra  .           5                   PR J C
on tfus map do not to-.heTondon
W             l, ~~~~~Kin         di
-10' n/  -
Dubri akt                                   S IE R RA   LE ON E
rtiw  r ha ts been p7reparec by  Doy0h 
The Vt Bfa*'s staff avCbw*S             5       
for the coiwernrr of thVWg                          sf                                  GUINEA
reaertS andt is JXCtUsWety tof theF 
rn the riatueotteWrfrnakryFmega/>/ TRANSPORT   SECT(
Corpoawrn TrwerJerutns                        F rcaria^,        5                    Dr    Cs
usedt ant ftt bouxndas shown                                                         P .rOJECT uW 
part of ThP Word Bn and fth                                                   TRANSPORT  SYSTEIV
kiternabonal Fgnce Corporation
any judpdngt on  the Sepal StatuS
ot any territory or                                                          D -   _   Paved Roads to be Rehabilitate
endorsement or acceptance of
uch boondares                *                                       oooOco  Vegetation Control Pilot
SAURITANIA                                         To be Rehabilitated
MAURITANA)                                         Paved Roads being Rehdbilitate
*  \.  fr*--  -  -   -J                                   Third Highway Project
SENEGAL      '                     MALI                            Gravel Roads Being Rehabilitat
._E _A.BA                                         7 .Third Highway Project
tHE GAMlBIA,_               w
Main Roads              +    Airfield
GUINEA-  -                                     BURKINA              Secondary Roads               Interna
B*SSAU  /  GUINEA  A@        FASO(|       |     Railways           *          Provinc
Conakry*    .f                                              Rivers                  @     Nationg
LEONE  4                                4jA       Ports                         Internal
J)    tf.J COTE D'IVOIRE   j
J L l B t R I A  5                            h t Kl Q E\'ETE<:. 0  40        80
IERIA    
tAIiK~~ U  20      40



IBRO 20074
)                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bamnoko
I)  r s   j t   .   t                                        0   }  J   M A L I
L-1 ~  ~          ~           ~         ~           ML
jW u   'vg~ kluirl   ' 's  
s      XJiS~ingutraye                            
Niandokoro               ,                     Yanfolila
00 0                                                                s   s_,    t_
0
00
Ss~~                 ~~~~        * OoKankan                         Y ~\    (I
o0 0
* aranah                                                                     -' &t i        0
LE O NE            0.                                      r  oriboya                                        C  iOTRE
NEA     9           t    \  oZ                                \
IT STECTOR                 t.        1Wog&)'
\       r                  ~~~~~~~Kirouane W 
IT SYSTEM                     5        lsdou2}gt
ed'  Kissidougou ~Mrly                              ~~o0          ~ DIOR
be Rehabilitated                                                                r          
ing Rehabilitated Under                                                                    Boylo              )
t Project                        r    Gu c <
aing Rehabilitated Under          f   Gu        u     M     acent
Project                        1     
'+    Airfields
International Airport
cIj   Province Capitals
@    National Capital                                                                      Lola
International Boundaries f
40                  !20        ltO                                f Yomou *
0      4)       60'     80      100                                                                               ToAbfd;an
1.    .j          ..\. 
IGs   L I B E R IA                                          1987
MARCH 1987



13,41                 9'0
Amarante Point
Beacon
0
GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Conakry Port Location
PROJECT SHOWN IN RED
*    Beacons
E1i   Bouys
-'-i 4-Railroads                                           Kassa
Isobaths in  meters                                    Island
13'48
13-48'  _ Internatlonal boundares
9'27'
Mgt Point
0       500  ,  10 00    1500
METERS                                                                          e
o!d ftm mif F-
Zp,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
maRW F- C, tk
'  11.a aad a  ep   a
ol  700 W40 00, *40UP
00* bowondb'o.                                          1345   9-27



13 45                                                                               9 33'
Amarante Point
Beacon
-                                                                P r u d e n t e        S h o a I
0
A
<cK  @t Siltation
Dike
,4       Beacon         ContaiNtnt               z    ter   Dock Yard
o 53/ 1t ~~~~~~~~~Fuel Je-tty 
K a s s a                                                                    -          t                  North Dike
Island                                                                    .
Boulbinet          *t- .&ol
Beacon                   CONAKRY
MStPoint            s                                                ~~~Tombo
Mgt Point
Island
Ct~~~~~~C
13;42t



IBRD 20075
9.33.
11
9,33'
P r u d e n tIe         S h o a I                                                A
13-42'                         Tamara
Island
g> + < S +\  Siltation                                                                              ",Kassa Island
PtverIi1ool.
/  \ j    Dike                        Hunler Point        Roume
X Container                                                                   Ot2 34 S                  Iln     
, nerth                               astotie    Dock Yard                            kilomewrs
- :             Fuel Jetty
X   .v. ;~;'4   North Dike                                                               9733.
9 '33 '~t9.33
Camayenne                      Pe n i n s u la
Bouibinet                        \    + . +, +, . t " |              __                     To Kindia
Beacon              .C.ON31A KRY
Tombo                                                                                                    1339
Island                                                    SENEGAL
;   SENEGAL             5~~~~~~~AL
GUINEA-BISSAU                                      L *r   *
SIERRA  LEONE4< .)
C   U         E      A
LU
*SIERRA  LEONE                     r
'            s.J     s        >   F
13'42'                                                                   9-30  .                                           LIBERIA
JAN'JARY 1987



t   G  M    -             l   - - ,-SN ( G A t
GU| NtA 7g 5          ,                   ih        - I    A d Pft
ol                                        '040v i.I' J! ,   v   | I {eaa.", ardIs A,,sA4A  br he
t;>   0j eawl use vz Zl Wor Fn
4d the
|fON     l   OI.OR(      aa rnc 'tns  o c" aneso,,,,
I0 r   l4A!,entt of                                  LI. e   ntoes
I~~~~~~0 len;              X                      onyrXatrrh
> . 'XX''~~~ OTE R  IbFA       r       "ea tl9h
L15                le                s-.-h Oatnda.i   cr 
DEEP - WATER                BER1
.  SNo.02.40   N 03
XFMIA                                        Alum'tSn



DEEP- WATER                        BERTHS                                                                                                        MINERAL BE
-1.0        No. 02 *8.5m    -6. 0           m    *  -8tOm        No. 04 *-8.0m              No. 05   -8.Om                                                                       No. 08'09
Transit       Transit                Transit                                                                                                    .  Conveyor
Shed         Shed                    ShedWC
MCI          Mc2                     Mc3
6
Mo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                        0              , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Romp for
00                                                                                                      F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iortniir Bonono S
Adms.Bldg.                             -.1 
Workshop
ttil5K00      00Pak 
,Washing                            toicrose,               i 
~jStation    [           PioIi                                                                
Ministry or 
Transporta
0
.9



IBRD 2013
GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
CONAKRY PORT LAYOUT
MINERAL BERTH
No. 05   -8.Om                                                             N    'o.0sg 1l,o          0         c-4o.m            FUEL JETTY
co,_                           OBK Admin.  uC3
.  N                              1t                                                         C                               -S~~~C 
:0 ~~~~~~~e  a~~~~                                                                                      Project:
*              Romp br I                       [       ]Areats o be paved
RBomnno Shed     /                           Customs fence
-2.Om n-2.0m                                              y /                   / I                    )       Central Building
>  //                             (2)     Port entronce ond exit
if   C;~     /                          ()       Floodlights
-*9                       //                |4)                                                    Quay coping ond aprons to be repoired
_% \ >m1m4 t 0 .                              /                                    \  /2/ //// (3)  Removol of Projecting blocks
I         )                                     0 ;                                     /                                  Rehobilitotion of contoiner terminal occess rood
Stto   /F 9/1R                                                                Work Completed under Conakry Port Project:
Sto tion 8
Sttio nc e,>ePaved areas
(DPressure       \ C,/
O D~~k~                                                                   ~~                                     Buildings constructed or rehabilitated
'Ce                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Customs fence
Existing:
ort Entrance                                                   \                                                            Wates depth in meters
Q                                                                               -.-----+-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railwoys
-         (}\<W |Fences
t + t +   Obstocles reducing depth in front of berths
0        50       100      150     :200
MEtERS
MARCH 1987



