Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14753
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 1815-GUI)
JUNE 30, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency: Guinean Franic (GNF)
US$ I = 398 (1987)
US$ I = 520 (1988)
US$ I = 590 (1989)
US$ I= 647 (1990)
US$ I =781 (1991)
US$ I = 922 (1992)
US$ I= 960 (1993)
US$ I= 990 (1994)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I to December 31
ABBREV[ATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB             African Development Bank
ANA             Agence pour la Navigation A6rienne
(Air Navigation Agency)
BSD/AT           Bureau de Strategie et de Developpement/Amenagement du Territoire
(Office for Strategy and Development/Land Development)
BSD/T           Bureaiu de Strategie et de Developpement/Transport
(Office for Strategy and Development/Transport)
DGAC             Direction Generale de l'Aviation Civile
General Directorate of Civil Aviation
DNER             Direction Nationale de l'Entretien Routier
(Road Maintenance Directorate)
DNIR            Direction Nationale des Investissemenits Routiers
(Road Investments Directorate)
ERR              Economic Rate of Retumr
FAC              Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration
(Frenchi Aid Agency)
GTZ             Gesellschatl fir Tecluiische Zusamimenarbeit
(Gennan Teclhnical Cooperation)
ICAO            Intemnational Civil Aviation Organization
KfW              Kreditanstalt fiLr Wiederaufbau
(Gennan Aid Agency)
OPR              Oflice dii Projet Routier
(Road Project Office)
PAC              Port Autonlome de Conakry
(Conakry Port Authority)
SET             Secretariat d'Etat aux Transports
(Ministry of Transport)
SETP             Secretariat d'Etat aux Travaux Publics
(Ministry of Public Works)
SOGEAC           Societe de Gestion et d'Exploitation de l'Aroport de Conakry
(Conakry Airport Managemenit Companiy)
SOGULITRO       Societe Guin6enne de Travaux Publics
(Guinean Public Works Company)
SOGETRAG        Societe Gen&rale de Transport en Guinde
(Guiinean Public Transport Company)
TSP             Transport Sector Project



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT (CREDIT 1815-GUI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface .................................................                                                                                                     ii
Evaluation Summary .................................................                                                                                         iii
Project Objectives .................................................                                                                                     iii
Implementation Experience and Results .................................................                                                                  iii
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned .........................................v
PART I. IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..................................................1
A. Background .................................................1l
B. Project Objectives Evaluation .................................................1I
C. Achievement of Project Objectives ..................................................2
D. Implementation  Record  and  Major Factors Affecting  the Project ..........................................6
E. Sustainability                                                                         .7
F. IDA's Performance ................................................8
G. Borrower Performance ................................................8
H. Assessment of Outcome ................................................9
1. Future Operations ...............................................                                                                                    10
J. Key Lessons Learned ................................................11
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES ...............................................                                                                                 12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ...............................................                                                                          12
Table 2: Related IDA Credits ...............................................                                                                             14
Table 3: Project Timetable ...............................................                                                                              15
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements:  Cumulative  Estimates vs. Actual .......................................... 15
Table  5:  Key  Indicators for Project Implementation ...............................................                                                   16
Table 6: Studies Included in Project ...............................................                                                                    20
Table 7: Project Costs ...............................................                                                                                  21
Table 8: Project Financing ...............................................                                                                              21
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants ...............................................                                                                      22
Table  10:  Bank  Resources:  Staff  Inputs ...............................................                                                             24
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions ...............................................                                                                      25
This document has a restricted disuribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wi.hout World Bank authorization.                                                                  l






ii
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT (CREDIT 1815-GUI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Transport Sector Project in
the Republic of Guinea, for which Credit 1815-GUI in the amount of SDR 42.8 million (US$55
million equivalent) was approved on May 18, 1987 and became effective on April 26, 1988.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1993, 18 months behind the originally scheduled
closing date. It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on April 27, 1994.
Cofinancing for the project was provided by the African Development Bank (AfDB), the
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), the Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ),
and the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC).
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Bernard Peccoud of the Infrastructure Operations
Division of the West Central Africa Department and Jean-Luc Aka-Adjo of the Infrastructure
Operations Division of the Western Africa Department, and reviewed by Mr. Alberto Harth, Chief,
and Mr. Jahangir Boroumand, Acting Projects Advisor. Preparation of this PCR was begun
during the project complemention mission in June 1994. It is based on material from the Project
files. The Borrower has not yet provided comments on project implementation.






REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT (CREDIT 1815-GUI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
1.    The Project's overall objectives were to improve and increase the supply and efficiency of
transport services in order to meet the growing demand and eliminate existing transport-related
bottlenecks to the development of the productive sectors of the Borrower's economy. The project's
specific objectives were sectorwide rehabilitation and upgrading of essential transport
infrastructure, plus a policy program including: (a) halting the accelerated deterioration of the
existing paved road network; (b) expanding the capacity of Conakry Port and improving its
operational and financial efficiency; (c) upgrading air navigation and safety, and meteorological
services nationwide; and (d) improving Government planning and pricing policy in the transport
sector, by restructuring and privatizing key transport parastatal companies, establishing a
regulatory framework, and sectorwide manpower development (Part I, para. 2).
2.     The Project included four major components. The road component provided financing
for the rehabilitation of deteriorated highways, for the purchase of equipment and the rehabilitation
of buildings for the Secretariat d'Etat auix Transports (SET) and the Secretariat d'Etat aux
Travaux Publics (SETP), and for technical assistance.  The port component financed the
construction of enclosures, fuel jetties and container berths, the rehabilitation of port facilities and
navigational aids, and technical assistance. The air component provided financial assistance for
the reorganization of Air Guinee, for technical assistance to establish an air navigation agency, and
install meteorological, safety and air navigational equipment for five airports.  Finally, the
transport component provided financing for technical assistance for manpower training and
capacity building at the Ministry of Transport (Part I, para. 3).
Implementation Experience and Results
3.     Project's objectives were realistic and achievable, particularly objectives (a), (b) and (c)
above. Key legal covenants were instrumental in achieving most project objectives. However,
some project objectives, particularly (d), the improvement of Govenmuent pricing policy in the
transport sector and the privatization of key transport parastatal companies, were overly ambitious
since they required unpopular political decisions. In addition, a road sector management project
was appraised but never negotiated for the same reasons (Part I, para. 5).
4.     Most of the project's specific objectives were substantially achieved as outline below:
a) Sector policy objectives. As regards objectives (a), (b) and (c), achievements were
substantial. The creation and reinforcement of ministries and autonomous agencies
facilitated the achievement of significant improvements in the transport sector as a
whole. However, as regards objective (d), results were mixed (Part I, paras. 7-10);



iv
b) Financial objectives. Overall objectives were partially achieved. The project design
facilitated the emergence of commercially oriented and financially independent
agencies. These agencies have the authority to monitor their costs and set their tariffs
to recover costs. However, sectoral financial regulations continue to heavily inflate
these agencies' non-operating costs, thus weakening their financial structure (Part I,
paras. 11-15);
c) Institutional development objectives.   As regards projects (a), (b) and (c),
achievements were substantial. Sound competency has been successfully fostered in
planning, programming and managing road investments and maintenance.  The
strengthening of the port authority's autonomy led to a significant improvement in its
planning and programming activities. The creation of two autonomous executing
agencies for the airport subsector is an achievement in itself. However, as regards
objective (d), results were mixed (Part I, paras. 16-18); and
d) Physical objectives. Achievements were substantial. Under the road component, road
rehabilitation exceeded the targets. A total of 410 km of roads were rehabilitated,
compared to 360 km foreseen. Under the port component, a dike was built along with
a container berth, storage space and a fuel jetty. Under the airport component, a brick
wall fence was built around the airfield as well as a firefighting station, both to
improve safety. (Part I, paras. 19-20).
In addition, the economic rates of return (ERR) at project completion exceeded those anticipated
at appraisal. The road component yielded an ERR of 40% against 21% estimated at appraisal; the
port component produced an ERR of 31% versus 24% estimated at appraisal. The ERR for the
airport component was not computed; however, significant safety benefits were incurred through
improved navigational aids and meteorological services (Part I, paras. 22-24).
5.     Key Factors. The Government's decision to grant the Port Authority of Conakry (PAC)
full operational and financial autonomy after the reorganization was instrumental to improving its
operational and financial efficiency. The establishment of the air navigation agency, ANA, and the
Conakry airport management company, SOGEAC, were key to improving the overall management
of the airport subsector and upgrading air navigation, safety and meteorological services
nationwide. Another factor that greatly contributed to the efficient implementation of these
components was the strong commitment of the agencies' top management, and technical assistance
to the port by Germany (Part I, paras. 25-27).
6.    Assessment of Sustainability. Because most of the project's objectives were achieved,
sustainability is likely. The project has had a significant positive impact in that it has caused new
effective and efficient institutional and financial arrangements to be put in place. Some agencies,
such as the ANA, the PAC under the Ministry of Transport, the Direction Nationale des
Investissements Routiers (DNIR), and the Direction Nationale de I'Entretien Routier (DNER),
under the Ministry of Public Works, are efficient and could carry out new transport-related
projects. Others, like the Bureau de Strategie et de D6veloppementlTransport (BSD/T) and the
Bureau de Strategie et de D6veloppement/Am6nagement du Territoire (BSD/AT), may play a
significant role in the future if their statutes and responsibilities are better defined (Part I, para.
28).



v
7.    IDA Performance. IDA's performance is rated satisfactory. Some areas of project design
and some conditionalities were difficult to implement because key points in those areas were
inadequately appraised. Project supervision was satisfactory. The project team managed to obtain
Government commitment and decisions on a number of critical issues. However, internal Bank
coordination on generic country issues was not efficient. Efforts from the project team to receive
vital support from country operations teams in resolving country generic issues yielded few results
(Part I, para. 29).
8.     Borrower Performance.  The Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory.  The
independent executing agencies were committed and effectively managed their components.
However, the Borrower did not allocate adequate funds for road maintenance, and it complied with
the project's legal covenants but only after some delays. Project coordination was deficient (Part I,
para. 30).
9.     Assessment of Outcome.  The Project's outcome is rated satisfactory.  The project
achieved many of its objectives and is expected to yield development results as supported by the
higher ERRs mentioned in para. 4 above. Accelerated deterioration of the paved network was
halted, at least on the rehabilitated network. The capacity of the port of Conakry was increased.
Air navigation and safety were upgraded; the lack of air transport industry restructuring will
continue to hamper its development. Results regarding institutional capacity are mixed (Part I,
para. 31).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
10.    The Fourth Highway Project (Cr. 1915-GUI) became effective during the implementation
of the Transport Sector Project (TSP). The project suffers from the same generic country and
specific sector issues that hampered the execution of the TSP. Insufficient counterpart fimds,
delays in procurement processing and lack of political will on sensistive issues have already led to
a second extension of its closing date. A proposed road sector management project was appraised
in July 1992 but has been dropped because the conditions of negotiations were never met;
However, Government has requested IDA's support for the preparation of a transport sector
strategy, which could lead to an investment project (Part I, para. 32).
11.    The key lessons learned are the following:
a) Usefulness of a Sector-wide Operation. A broad sector-wide investment operation, in
this case, a transport sector project covering roads, ports, airports and overall sector
planning and coordination, is an effective instrument for improving the efficiency of
transport services and increasing their supply country-wide. This is the case even in
situations where there is little institutional capacity. The creation of autonomous,
accountable subsector-specific agencies such as ANA, SOGEAC and PAC to
substitute for government departments facilitates transport for the productive
sectors(Part I, para. 33(a)).
b) Generic Country Issues. The payment of counterpart funds, procurement processes
and political constraints relative to privatization and other institutional measures affect
the implementation of all projects across all sectors in Guinea. The country economist
and officer must ensure that these issues are dealt with uniformly across the board, and



vi
the implementation of accepted solutions must be followed up consistently by the
resident mission (Part I, para. 33(b));
c) Specific Sector Issues. The privatization of State-owned enterprises and increases in
the price of public transportation are political issues. Addressing them during project
implementation is not possible without real political will. These kinds of political
measures should be conditions of project appraisal and not conditions of negotiations
or effectiveness (Part I, para. 33(c)); and
d) Project Design and Implementation. The creation of specific agencies (e.g., ANA,
PAC, SOGEAC) for the execution of a project component outside the existing
sustainable institutional framework can be effective in getting things done (Part I,
para. 33(d)).



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT (CREDIT 1815-GUI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I.       IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Background
1.    At project conception, the Government of Guinea had embarked on a courageous and
ambitious program of economic reform aimed at reversing the difficult situation it inherited from
the First Republic.  After 25 years of neglect and mismanagement, most of the transport
infrastructure in Guinea was barely operable, and the institutions for planning, running and
maintaining them needed to be completely rebuilt. The Government had accorded highest priority
to the creation of a policy framework and the re-establishment of essential transport services. The
Government's investment program focused on the elimination of four major bottlenecks: (a) the
heavily deteriorated basic trunk road system; (b) the serious congestion in the commercial port of
Conakry; (c) the unreliable and unsafe air transport system; and (d) the difficulties of transforming
a transport industry historically dominated by inefficient parastatals into an efficient, private
service industry. IDA supported the elimination of these four major bottlenecks, the priority
investment program and institutional reforms through the Transport Sector Project, for which
Credit 1815 was approved on May 18, 1987 and signed on August 28, 1987. Effectiveness,
originally scheduled for September 26, 1987, was postponed and declared on April 26, 1988.
B.    Project Objectives Evaluation
2.     The project's overall objectives were to improve and increase the supply and efficiency of
transport services in order to meet the growing demand and eliminate existing transport-related
bottlenecks to the development of the productive sectors of the Borrower's economy. The specific
objectives were sectorwide rehabilitation and upgrading of essential transport infrastructure, plus a
program aimed at: (a) halting the accelerated deterioration of the existing paved road network; (b)
expanding the capacity of Conakry Port and improve its operational and financial efficiency; (c)
upgrading air navigation and safety, and meteorological services nationwide; and (d) improving
Government planning and pricing policy in the transport sector, restructuring and privatization of
key transport parastatal companies, establishment of a regulatory framework, and sectorwide
manpower development.
3.     The Project included four major components. The road component (32% of total project
costs) included the rehabilitation of about 360 km of severely deteriorated paved road, a pilot
routine maintenance program, the purchase of equipment for the Secretariat d'Etat aux Transports
(SET) and the Secretariat d'Etat aux Travaux Publics (SETP), as well as rehabilitation of their
buildings, the transfer of the Road Project Office's (OPR) planning, programming and control
functions for road works to SETP, and technical assistance. The port component (53% of total



2
project costs) included the construction of a siltation prevention dike, an enclosure, a fuel jetty and
a container berth, rehabilitation of port facilities and navigational aids, and improvement of the
PAC's (Port Authority of Conakry) operational efficiency with technical assistance. The airport
component (12% of total project costs) included assistance for Air Guinee's reorganization,
technical assistance for the establishment of ANA (Agence pour la Navigation A&rienne),
improvement of light safety operations at Conakry airport, meteorological, safety and air
navigation equipment for five airports, and rehabilitation of airport buildings.  Finally, the
transport sector component (3% of total project costs) included the definition and implementation
of measures to create a policy environment and a fiscal and regulatory framework which would
foster entrepreneurship in the sector, would restructure public enterprises in the sector, and would
provide technical assistance for manpower training and development at the Ministry of Transport.
4.     The project implementation arrangements were subject to numerous institutional changes.
The road component was implemented by the SETP until January 1988 and thereafter, it was
implemented by the Direction Nationale des Investissements Routiers (DNIR) and the Direction
Generale de I 'Entretien Routier (DNER) first within the Ministry of Transport and Public Works
and thereafter by the Ministry of Land Development in 1992. In 1988, SET and SETP merged.
Procurement and supervision of contracts for works, studies and supervision were managed by
OPR until January 1991 and thereafter, were managed by DNIR and DNER. The port component
was implemented by PAC. The air component was implemented by the Direction Generale de
l Aviation Civile (DGAC) until April 1989 and thereafter, it was implemented by the ANA once it
was established. The transport sector component was implemented by the SET until January 1988
and then by the Ministry of Transport and Public Works before it finally was taken over by the
Ministry of Commerce, Tourism and Transport starting in 1992.
5.     On the whole, the project's objectives were realistic and achievable, particularly the first
three. The key legal covenants were instrumental in achieving most project objectives. However,
objective (d) related to making improvements in Government pricing policy in the transport sector
(SOGETRAG for public urban transportation) and privatizing key transport parastatal companies
(SOGllITRO for public works and Air Guinee for air transport) was overly ambitious. The
necessary restructuring or privatization of ailing public enterprises required unpopular political
decisions which were not made.
C.    Achievement of Project Objectives
6.     The project design included four specific project objectives that covered sector policies,
financial objectives, institutional and physical objectives.  As elaborated on in the following
paragraphs, the sector policy objectives were substantially met; the financial objectives were
partially met; the institutional objectives were substantially met, as were the physical objectives.
The overall project objectives were also substantially met, which is further supported by the
economic rates of return which, for the most part, exceeded the appraisal estimates.
Sector Policy Objectives
7.     Road Subsector. Road investment and maintenance management is now fully operated by
the Ministry of Public Works. Planning, programming and supervision functions for road works
was transferred from OPR to the Ministry. A Road Fund was established in June 1989 allowing
for the transparent management of resources allocated for road maintenance through the national



3
budget. Force account was discontinued and 100% of all road maintenance operations are now
executed by private contractors. A five-year rolling priority program for road investment and
maintenance has been established, which improved the capacity of the road sector to meet transport
demand. The project supported the sector public investment program, and helped allocate
resources for road maintenance activities more efficiently.
8.    Port Subsector.  The financial autonomy of the port authority was defined and
consolidated after the revision of its statutes and regulations in 1988. Thereafter, PAC improved
its cost recovery performance by setting its own tariffs independently. The management of all
operational activities of the port, including stevedoring activities and the new container berth, have
been fully and successfully privatized, with the sale of assets and the transfer of half of port
personnel to newly created private operators. Although this restructuring process was extremely
time consuming, port capacity was significantly increased to accompany the economic opening of
the country. The quantity of merchandise handled per ship/day grew from 500t in 1990 to 1280t in
1993 and the waiting time for ships to be unloaded or loaded was considerably reduced. As a
result, traffic increased and Guinean economic operators' satisfaction improved.
9.    Airport Subsector. Two autonomous agencies, the ANA and the Societe de Gestion et
d'Exploitation de l'Aeroport de Conakry (SOGEAC), were created to manage the subsector in
lieu of the DGAC within SET. Although the establishment of ANA met strong resistance from the
pervious administration, transparency was brought into this sector's cost recovery and financial
management. ANA and SOGEAC construct, own, operate and maintain navigational aids and
equipment, and Conakry Airport facilities and infrastructure, respectively. Together, both agencies
are financially viable as they are directly responsible for negotiating tariff increases with the
airlines. The restructuring of Air Guinee ran into substantial resistance from vested interests
including strong reaction from many Guineans who benefitted from many perks with the airline.
Thus, the objective of restructuring Air Guinee was only partially met.
10.    Some policy reforms envisaged have not been achieved.  Air Guinee has not been
privatized. Several studies have been ordered by the Government and financed by IDA to propose
adequate privatization schemes for the company but the resulting proposals have all been rejected.
Thus, the development of the air transport industry is still hampered by this state owned company
which jeopardizes the financial equilibrium of the other sector entities. Moreover, the civil aviation
sub-sector was not reorganized. The public works company, SOGUITRO, was not privatized
either. Government's new policy of privatizing all road maintenance involved the adoption of
measures designed to facilitate participation of small local construction companies. The local
construction industry has developed although slowly.
Financial Objectives
11.   The project design facilitated the emergence of commercially oriented and financially
independent agencies. These agencies have the authority to monitor their costs and set their tariffs
so as to recover costs. However, the sectoral financial regulations heavily inflate these agencies'
non operating costs, thus weakening their financial structure.
12.   Road Fund. Resources allocated to the Road Fund for road maintenance purposes
amounted to 2.8 GNF billion in 1991 and decreased to 1.2 in 1994. DNER could not execute the
mandatory road maintenance program since actual financing requirement was estimated at about



4
4.7 billion GNF in 1994 after the rehabilitation of roads financed by IDA and other donors'
projects. Although the efficiency of resource utilization on road maintenance grew substantially,
the gap was still significant.
13.   Port Autonome de Conakry (PAC). PAC revenues increased from 8.9 billion GNF in
1990 to 11 billion GNF in 1992. Most of its revenues are incurred in foreign currency. Operating
costs absorbed 37% and 36% of total revenues, respectively. However, net results have been
disappointing over the entire project implementation period (-7.3 billion GNF and -4.1 billion
GNF, respectively). PAC cannot properly finance the depreciation of its assets nor service its
foreign currency debt as long as it bears the full exchange rate risk on outstanding loans. The ever-
depreciating Guinean Franc increases both the actual cost of borrowed funds and the legal
provision required for potential exchange rate losses. In addition, some slippage occurred in PAC's
operating costs which further increased its operating costs and weakened its financial situation.
14.   Agence de la Navigation Aerienne (ANA) and Societe de Gestion et d Exploitation de
l'Agroport de Conakry (SOGEA4C). In 1993, ANA collected revenues of about 1 billion GNF. Its
operating costs amounted to more than 1.4 billion GNF whereas net losses amounted to -910
million GNF. Subjected to similar financial regulations as PAC, the exchange rate risk borne by
ANA greatly endangers its financial structure: in 1993, more than 1 billion GNF had to be
allocated to cover realized and unrealized exchange rate losses. Most of ANA's revenues are
incurred in foreign currency and if the agency was permitted to manage its cash efficiently, foreign
exchange rate losses could be significantly reduced.  SOGEAC is not subject to the same
constraints.  Its mixed-economy statutes and private-public equity structure allow for more
flexibility in terms of cash management procedures. Foreign exchange rate losses have been
almost non existant and the company has been profitable from start, despite an actual number of
employees exceeding the number required to accomplish its mission.
15.   The Government failed to provide its counterpart funding on time. Arrears reached as
much as 4.5 billion GNF in 1994 and payment delays ran up to 24 months. Private contractors'
lack of confidence in the capacity and willingness of the Government to pay counterpart funding,
coupled with financial difficulties due to delayed payments, resulted in slow implementation of
contracts for works in the airport and road sub-sectors. One contractor went so far as to halt work
on a construction contract. Works resumed only after the counterpart funds were paid with much
pressure from IDA.
Institutional Development Objectives
16.   Road Subsector.  Sound competency has been created in planning, programming and
management of road investment and maintenance. Created at the beginning of the project, the two
road entities are now able to manage the subsector without full-time technical assistance. DNER
acquired a reasonably good capacity for programming, procurement and management of road
maintenance works by contracting 100% of maintenance out to the private sector. The Road Fund
was created within DNER and emerged as an efficient mechanism for road maintenance financing.
Procurement and supervision of new works by DNIR have also dramatically improved. The
rehabilitation of the Kissidougou-Guekedou road was completed within budget and on time.
17.   Port Subsector. The strengthening of PAC's autonomy led to a significant improvement in
its planning and programming capacity. The port authority efficiently shifted from direct port



5
operations and supervision to a sub-contracting and coordination strategy. This strategic move,
although time consuming, considerably reduced PAC's workforce and rendered its overall
management and operations more responsive.  PAC also acquired competency in financial
management, although some weaknesses remain in the cost accounting monitoring and overall
operating costs control.
18.   Airport Subsector.  The creation of the two autonomous executing agencies is an
achievement in itself. Despite the traditional struggling for positions in such agencies, ANA and
SOGEAC were able to hire competent staff and effectively deliver expected services. ANA
significantly improved its financial management after recruiting a competent Finance Manager.
ANA also acquired competence in air traffic management and in equipment maintenance. This
represents a significant improvement over the previous situation in Guinea. Meteorological
forecasts and data are now made available to the satisfaction of users and finally, airport
authorities are now able to control all security aspects including traffic within the airport area,
compared to the institutional vaccum that existed previously in air navigation and meteorological
services nationwide.
Physical Objectives
19.   Road Subsector.  Compared to 360 km of rehabilitation targeted, 327 km of road
rehabilitation that have started before this project have been completed under the project. An
additional 93 km were also rehabilitated. In June 1989, IDA agreed to modify the program of road
rehabilitation as appraised. The purpose of this modification was to finance the cost overrun of
rehabilitation works for the Mamou-Faranah and Mamou-Labe sections included in the Third
Highway Project. Thus the rehabilitation of the 360 km of Mamou-Kissidougou and Kamsar-Boke
sections initially included in the project have been replaced by the completion of the rehabilitation
of Mamou-Labe and Mamou-Faranah (327 km) plus the rehabilitation of Kissidougou-Guekedou
section (93 km).
20.   Port Subsector. Port physical objectives have been achieved. A 1,500 m long siltation
prevention dike to close the two opening located at the north side of the harbor was built. A 250 m long
and 10 m deep container berth was built with 75,000 m2 storage area of which 45,000 m2 have been
paid. A fuel jetty capable of receiving vessels of up to 30,000 dwt and 190 m long. Existing port
facilities were rehabilitated: significant port areas have been paved; quay aprons were restored; effiency
of the drainage and electrical systems were improved.
21.   Airport Subsector. At Conakry airport physical objectives were achieved. An ambulance
and supply service vehicles were provided; the rundown navigation aids (VOR, ILS and VASIS)
were replaced; a firefighting station and a headquarters building for ANA were built; a full
enclosure for the airport area was constructed; and critical telecommunications equipment were
supplied. In the secondary airport, basic safety equipment was installed but the upgrading of other
infrastructure was not executed because the restructuring of the air transport sub-sector was not
implemented.
Economic Evaluation
22.   The road component yielded a rate of return of 40% against 21% estimated at appraisal.
This higher economic rate of return is due to the rehabilitation of the Labe-Marnou-Faranah road



6
which produced a rate of return of 62%, the rehabilitation of the section Labe-Mamou not having
been planned in the original project. Meanwhile the road Kissidougou-Guekedou yielded a rate of
return of only 16% against 18% estimated at appraisal. The traffic forecasts were based on the
counts done in 1990 and under the same assumptions that were developed at appraisal.
23.    The port component produced a rate of return of 31% against 24% at appraisal. Once
again the computation was done using the same methodology employed during appraisal, taking
into account the actual and forecasted traffic, and the actual investment cost for the works. The
dredging yielded a rate of return of 34% against 22% at appraisal. The construction of the
container berth produced a rate of return of 37% against 27% at appraisal and the construction of
the fuel jetty produced a rate of return 13% against 12% at appraisal. In addition, the main benefit
for the construction of the fuel jetty is the increased safety for port users, for which no rate of
return can be computed.
24.    The rate of return for the airport component was not computed. However, significant
safety benefits were incurred through the improved navigational aids and meteorological services.
D.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
25.    One of the main objectives of the project was the upgrading of air navigation and safety,
and meteorological services nationwide. The establishment of ANA in 1990 was a key factor to
achieving this objective. The creation of ANA enabled the purchase of upgraded and efficient air
navigation and safety and meteorological equipment for related services in a limited numer of
airports. It also enabled the Government to adjust outdated aircraft landing fees and thereby
develop autonomous sources of revenue for the financially autonomous and commercially oriented
agency.
26.    Another significant project objective was to improve PAC's operational and financial
efficiency. The Government decision to grant PAC full operational and financial autonomy was
instrumental in achieving this objective. This decision was translated into limiting Government
upfront approval of expenditures above US$250,000 equivalent, allowing PAC to maintain its
accounts in commercial banks, and letting PAC keep its surpluses in interest-bearing accounts.
Although interest charges on loans and foreign exchange loss provisions have significantly
increased because of the constant depreciation of the Guinean Franc, PAC has grown into an
efficiently managed commercially oriented entity which generates sufficient cash flow to cover all
other operating costs.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agencies' Control
27.    One key factor that greatly contributed to the efficient implementation of the air component
is the strong commitment of ANA's top management and willingness to make critical decisions.
Although a young agency, ANA and its management have succeeded in creating a corporate
culture and making responsible decisions when and where required. SOGEAC is overstaffed
compared to actual personnel required to provide the same services in other airports in the region.
Moreover, SOGEAC has a salary structure comparable to that of a international private firm, and
yet the company generated net income from the start. The public company ANA, which shared



7
total airport revenues with SOGEAC, was based on a local salary structure, adequately staffed,
was run efficiently and incured structural losses from the start. This discrepancy affected ANA
employees' morale at times, but its corporate culture and team spirit, fostered by the new
management team, were instrumental in keeping employee motivation and productivity high.
E.    Sustainability
28.    Since many of the project's overall and specific objectives were achieved, the project's
sustainability is likely. The project has had a significant positive impact in that it has caused new
institutional and financial arrangements to be put in place. Some agencies, such as ANA, the
PAC, under the Ministry of Transport; DNIR, and the DNER under the Ministry of Public Works,
are efficient entities and could carry out new transport related projects effectively.  Others
agencies, such as the Bureau de Strategie et de Developpement/Transport (BSD/T) and the
Bureau de Stratgie et de Developpement/ Amenagement du Territoire (BSD/AT), may play a
significant role in the future, if their statutes and responsibilities are better defined. Specifics
concerning these agencies follow.
a) The sustainability of the new road sector organization is likely provided adequate
resources are allocated. The two road entities, DNIR and DNER, are now able to
manage the entire subsector without full-time technical assistance. Sound competency
has been developed in planning, programming and management of road investment and
maintenance.  The Road Fund was created within DNER for road maintenance
financing and it emerged as an efficient mechanism for road maintenance financing, in
spite of delays and shortfallls from payments by Government.
b) The financial and strategic restructuring program of PAC makes its sustainability
likely. This program took place in 1988 and defined the port authority as a full-
fledged commercially oriented and financially independent institution.  The new
structure of port operations, with most operational activities fully and successfully
privatized operates effectively and efficiently. Users of port services are included in
the management of some activities, such as the association that manage the container
berth.
c) Although still weak, the sustainability of the structural and financial reorganization of
the airport subsector is also likely, provided Air Guinee is commercially operated and
pays for the services it collects from these agencies. ANA and SOGEAC emerged as
credible and independent institutions with strong technical and financial abilities and
sustainability is likely. The technical responsibilities of each agency are well defined
and their revenue centers have been precisely identified. The objective at appraisal
was to merge the two agencies during project implementation but the current structure
functions efficiently.
d) The sustainability of the Bureau de Strategie et de Developpement (BSD) is
uncertain. Formerly under the Ministry of Transport and Public Works of the previous
Government organization, the BSD was later split into two along with the separation
of the two ministries following the administrative reform. Neither strategic and
financial management nor the project supervision by the successive BSDs was
satisfactorily carried out, because these Departments lacked technical and managerial



8
capabilities. This lack of overall management of the project resulted in delays for
processing withdrawal applications and resulting disbursements.
F.    IDA's Performance
29.   IDA's performance is rated satisfactory for the following three reasons:
a) First, overall project supervision was satisfactory. IDA's relationship with the
Government, although conflictual in the areas of generic country issues such as
procurement and counterpart funding, was constructive and collaborative in the
transport sector from the start of project implementation to the actual closing date.
IDA pushed Government to take decisions where its commitment was the weakest and
also to comply with the Development Credit Agreement's covenants such as
counterpart funding requirements. Constant conflicts and the numerous institutional
changes were always dealt with in a constructive manner and Government decisions,
although difficult to obtain and slow to be implemented, were enforced once
Government understanding and commitment were obtained. The informal suspension
of October 1991 put the issue of counterpart funds payment at the center of all
communication between the Government and IDA thereafter. The importance of
Government participation in the project financing was thereby internalized and efforts
were made by the Government to disburse funds allocated to road maintenance close to
the agreed schedule.
b) Second, some elements of the project's design and some conditionalities were
politically difficult to implement. This project included not only major investments in
three transport subsectors, amounting to about US$100 million in physical works, but
it also encompassed major institutional reforms across the board. In essence, it was a
sector reform project. Getting to effectiveness was a laborious process: fourteen
different conditions had to be met, reflecting the needed measures that had to come up
front. Another six conditions of disbursement had to be fulfilled.
c) And third, internal Bank coordination was not efficient. Efforts from the project
team to obtain vital support from the Country Officer and Economist in resolving
country generic issues yielded little results. Thus, generic country issues, such as
counterpart funding payments, compliance with procurement procedures and political
resistance to institutional reforms, were not consistently addressed through of the
country portfolio management process. Each project, let alone sector, had to come up
with its own tailored circumstantial solution for the lack of an overall consistent
country approach. This lack of coordination negatively impacted the relationship
between IDA and the country. The parent ministry often felt that the project team was
too strict and procedure oriented, whereas others were not subject to the same
constraints.
G.    Borrower Performance
30.    The Borrower performance is rated satisfactory overall, except in the following areas:
a) First, the Borrower avoided executing agreed institutional decisions to restructure or
privatize public entities which consumed a significant amount of State funds



9
(SOGUITRO, SOGETRAG, Air Guinee). Although the Borrower requested financing
for several studies, diagnoses and appraisals for these entities, which were completed
and presented to the Government, it never implemented the recommendations.
b) Second, the Borrower did not allocate adequate funds for road maintenance in a
timely manner because of generic country issues (economic and budgetary
constreints). The low level of funds allocation and delays in the disbursement of funds
slowed down the road maintenance.  As a result, only a portion of the routine
maintenance was carried out, and the rest of the network deteriorated faster than
anticipated, which will require future rehabilitation costs to increase accordingly.
c) Third, the Borrower complied with the project's legal covenants except for some
delays with respect to poor project coordination, inadequate funds allocated for road
maintenance, delays in disbursements, and a lack of compliance with IDA procurement
procedures, all contributing to delays works execution. The Borrower has been the
object of several legal claims on civil works contracts and had to face significant
penalties.
d) Fourth, the management of the road, port, airport components was highly
satisfactory, but deficient in overall planning, restructuring and privatization.
Independent executing agencies, such as PAC, ANA, DNIR and DNER, were
committed to and effectively managed their components, but the numerous Cabinet
reshuffles slowed down project implementation and resulted in uncertain job tenure for
many civil servants responsible for project implementation.   Overall Project
coordination was deficient as proper leadership dedicated to its objectives and
achievements was lacking.  Better project coordination would have speeded up
withdrawal applications processing and disbursements.
e) Finally, the results of technical assistance were satisfactory.  The long-term
technical assistance team in the Ministries of Land Development and Public Works
completed a successful program; they implemented planning, programming and
management tools and effectively trained staff and transferred skills. ANA's, PAC's
and SOGEAC's technical assistance obtained acceptable results.
H.    Assessment of Outcome
31.    As noted in Part II, table 1, the Project's outcome is rated satisfactory. The project
achieved many of its objectives and is expected to yield significant development results. The
assessment with regard to the project objectives is as follows:
a) Accelerated deterioration of the paved network was halted, at least on the rehabilitated
network.  Rehabilitation of priority sections of the paved network will allow
maintenance on a routine basis. DNER has acquired the capacity to program and
manage road maintenance, provided that adequate financing is available. The project
also helped set up a routine maintenance system using private contractors and the
efficiency of this arrangement has been demonstrated, and the initial reluctance from
Government in this area has disappeared.



10
b) The capacity of the Conakry port has been increased through the rehabilitation of
existing infrastructure, the construction of a container berth, and the construction of
the siltation prevention dike, allowed docking ships to be fully loaded. In addition, the
privatization of port operations and the construction of infrastructure aimed at
improving port safety resulted in improved performance and increased capacity.
However, safety is still an issue as long as Government's capacity to enforce laws,
punishing thieves and burglars, is weak. The safety issue will remain one of the major
challenge regarding port performance and capacity.
c) Air navigation and safety were greatly improved but failure to restructure Air Guinde
and the air transport industry will continue to hamper its development. Conakry is
now one of the best equipped airports of the region as regards navigational aids and
meteorological equipment. The rehabilitation of basic safety equipment in domestic
airports will allow development of the domestic air transport industry. In fact, two new
private airline companies opened domestic lines during the project implementation
period. However, development will be slow and it will not be sustainable as long as
the privatization or liquidation of Air Guinee is not completed. No real competition
will be possible as long as Air Guinee receives direct or indirect subsidies and does not
pay its share of airport costs.
d) Results regarding institutional capacity are mixed. PAC's staff and management have
been slow to adjust to both accountability and initiative possibilities made available by
the authority's new autonomy. They continue to think and act as civil servants and do
not feel accountable for their financial performance nor for the ports' overall
productivity. The staff in charge of transport sector management are still far from
being able to take over planning, pricing policy, sector restructuring and establishing
and managing a regulatory framework. They lack both the competence and the
dedication, and political interference together with personal interests prevent them
from having any constructive approach regarding transport sector improvement. In the
road sub-sector, reliable capacity was built for planning and managing new works as
well as road maintenance. In the airport sub-sector dramatic progress was achieved
however the sustainability of the achievements and improvements in areas still lacking
'il not progress rapidly because political interference linked to personal interests will
not disappear in the short term.
I.     Future Operations
32.    The Fourth Highway Project (Cr. 1915-GUI) became effective during the implementation
of the Transport Sector Project (TSP). The project suffers from the same generic and specific
issues that penalized the execution of the TSP.  Insufficient counterpart funds, delays in
procurement processing and lack of political will on sensistive issues have already led to a second
extension of the closing date. A proposed road sector management project was appraised in July
1992 but has been dropped because the conditions of negotiations were not met, However,
Government has requested IDA's support for the preparation of a transport sector strategy, which
could lead to an investment project.



11
J.     Key Lessons Learned
33.    The key lessons learned are as follows:
a) Use finess of a Sector-wide Operation. A broad sector-wide investment operation, in
this case, a transport sector project covering roads, ports, airports and overall sector
planning and coordination, is an effective instrument for improving the efficiency of
transport services and increasing their supply country-wide. This is the cae even in
situations where there is little institutional capacity. The creation of autonomous,
accountable subsector-specific agencies such as ANA, SOGEAC and PAC to
substitute for government departments facilitates transport for the productive sectors.
b) Generic Country Issues included counterpart funding, the procurement process, and
political constraints relative to privatization or other public enterprise related issues.
The country team could help ensure that these issues are dealt with in a uniform
fashion across the board.  The implementation of accepted solutions should be
followed up continuously by the resident mission and taken into account through
economic management projects specifically targeted towards solving the issues
identified.
c) Sector Specific Issues. The privatization of State-owned enterprises or increasing the
price of public transportation, are political issues. Addressing these issues through
projects is impossible without real political will. It is illusory to attempt to solve these
political issues with the technical measures proposed in projects.  Government
commitment to making decisions and implementing measures presented in sector
policy letters must be carried out in compliance with the agreed time frame. Such
conditions should be conditions of appraisal and not of negotiations or effectiveness.
d) Project Design and Implementation. The creation of specific agencies for the
execution of a project outside the existing sustainable institutional framework, such as
OPR, can create obstacles to getting things done in the long run. The power and
responsibilities that they were given to independently manage projects could
considerably hinder their future integration within an existing institutional framework
or to their privatization. By the same token, relying on one or a few individuals' good
faith and competence to coordinate and execute a project is not sustainable since the
successful execution of a project can very easily be jeopardized by the high turnover
rate of civil servants in a country with an unstable political climate. Project content
should be designed to match actual project management competencies, and the
management tools implemented by foreign technical assistance should be fully
internalized by users within the existing and sustainable institutional framework. This
should be the case, despite the urgencv or the needs linked to the project objectives. In
the case of absolute urgency, it is better to implement a "ready-to-use" operation than
to arrange for new agencies.



12
PART II.      STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives     Substantial     Partial      Negligible   Not
applicable
(W)           ((/)
Macro policies                       D             D              D              El
Sector policies                                   DF D2                          D g
Financial objectives                 II                     L] [l                 I
Institutional development                          D              L              LII
Physical objectives                                LII            LI            LI
Poverty reduction                   LI              C             L              E
Gender issues                       LI             LI             0              Et
Other social objectives              1               I              I            El
Environmental objectives            LI             LI             LI            [El
Public sector management            LI                            LI             LI
Private sector development            I                           LI LEI
Other(specify)                        I            LI             LI 
B. Proiect sustainabilitv              Likely          Unlikelv          Uncertain
(i/)             (1)               (1)
10                -I               LI



13
C. Bank performance                   High-l
satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
(1)             (1)              (1/)
Identification                                         In                  I
Preparation assistance                                  n E] 
Appraisal                              L1                                []
Supervision                            L                EI
D. Borrower performance               Highly
satisfactory    Satisfactorv     Deficient
(/)             (/)               (/)
Preparation
Implementation
Covenant compliance                     nI
Operation (if applicable)               n               IZ                0
E. Assessment of outcome       Highly
satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory
(/)           (1)            (1)
E]                            LI1:



14
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
n Loa/Credit Title         Purpose:           Date of.approa..St.tu
Preceding operations  |                      r
1. Highway Project   To rehabilitate and ensure   December 23, 1975   Closed on June 30, 1980
(Cr. 596-GN)         continued maintenance of                      Rated satisfactory
Guinea's priority road
network
2. Second Highway    To continue the road      September 18, 1979   Closed on December 31, 1984
Project (Cr. 953-GN)   rehabilitation and                           Rated unsatisfactory
maintenance program
begun under the first
Highway Project.
3. Conakry Port      To increase the              June 7, 1983     Closed on December 31, 1988
Project (Cr. 1382-GN)  autonomy, efficiency and                     Rate satisfactory
productivity of the Port
Authority of Conakry by
improving its financial
and managerial functions
and by training its
personnel; and to reduce
cargo losses caused by
pilferage and poor
handling and thereby
reduce ocean freight cost
for Guinea's imports and
exports
4. Third Highway     To assist Government        April 17, 1987     Closed on September 30, 1991
Project (Cr. 1457-GN)  with (a) rehabilitation                      Rated satisfactory
and maintenance of the
priority road network; (b)
institutional building for
road maintenance and
rehabilitation; (c) staff
training; and (d)
definition of medium-
term priorities for the
transport sector
Following operations
1. Fourth Highways    The project would be the    June 7, 1988     Under supervision. As of June
Project (Cr. 1915-GN)  first phase of a long-term                   23, 1995, the project had an
development program to                        undisbursed balance of SDR
rehabilitate and improve                      8.2 million (out of a total
the national and regional                     Credit of SDR 39.7 million)
road networks. It would                       The scheduled closing date is
lay the basis for efficient                  December 31, 1996.
maintenance by contract
rather than force account,
and build on the
institutional
improvements pursued
under the Transport
Sector Project.



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Step- in project cycle            t pa d    -         c-   : -l
: : .- : ,,, -::~~~~~~ .... ..       .   --:.  -.---. ..  .   .. .   ...- -:-:. ..
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                   04/18/86
Pre-Appraisal Mission                                        10/01/86
Appraisal Mission                                            01/06/87
Credit Negotiations                                          04/20/87
Board Approval                                               06/04/87
Credit Signing                                               08/28/87
Credit Effectiveness                      11/26/87           04/26/88
Credit Closing                             6/30/92           12/31/93
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimates vs. Actual
.  FY 88  FY89  FY 90: FY 91  FY92  F
Appraisal estimate             10.80   27.00   50.30   54.40   55.00   --      --
Actual                          0.48    3.92    9.33   21.49   35.21   50.88   54.40
Actual as % of estimate        4.4%   14.5%   18.5%   39.5%   64.0%   92.5%   98.9/
Date of final disbursement                                                  04/26/94



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Road Component
. .   -.      . . . . . . . .   . .   .. . . .                                            .  . . . .....    !...
Indicator                           Appraisal comments                     Actual..
-:. i-: 7-. .   : .i t.; . .     ! ;E :   : ;       :;  :!  :: --. ....   . !: . :t ...   .. 000 ..    .. .   -:  ..    ..SC    .gA   ..   .....;;t   . Eti:
Rehabilitation of paved roads    road Mamou-Kissidougou         rehabilitation of the roads
(207 kmns)                      Mamou-Labe (143 Ions) and
Mamou-Faranah (184 kms)
road Kamsar-Boke (63 kms)    road rehabilitated
Pilot operation of vegetation   190 kms (road Kissidougou-    vegetation control works on the
control works by small          Kankan)                         road Kissidougou-Kankan and
contractors                                                     extended to the road Faranah-
Kissidougou (137 kms)
Rehabilitation of SETP          1,400 m2 of offices             SETP buildings rehabilitated
buildings including supply of
furniture and equipment         repair, repainting of rooms,
repair of electrical and water
systems
Rehabilitation of SET           810 m2 of offices               construction of a new building
buildings including supply of
furniture and equipment         repair, repainting of rooms,
repair of electrical and water
systems
Studies                         study of funding mechanism      delivered
for road maintenance
Technical assistance            implementation of the results    road fund established but
of the study of funding        without earmarked funding
mechanism for road
maintenance
privatization of OPR, 6 staff    creation of a semi-public
months                         enterprise but no shares to
pnivate partners
transfer of planning and works   done
programming to SETP
strengthen SETP's capacity to   mechanism for road
plan, programn, administer and   maintenance planing,
supervise road works: 72       implementation and control
staff-months                   established
creation of a manpower and     training plan designed. First
development training plan: 12   slices implemented
staff-months



17
Port Component
Indicator                        Appraisal comments                  Actual
Dredging                     1.8 million m3 to deepen port   water area and leading channel
water area and leading channel  dredged
to -9.5 m
Construction of a long siltation  1,500 m long            dike built
prevention dike
Extension of the Prudente    200 m long                   extension built
breakwater
Construction of a container  250 m long, 10 m deep, with a  container berth built
berth                        75,000 m2 storage area
Construction of a fuel jetty  190 m long                  fuel jetty built
Provision of navigation aids    lights and buoys          navigation aids provided
Rehabilitation of existing port  paved areas, quay aprons,  port facilities rehabilitated
facilities                   fenders, and water drainage
and electrical systems
Technical assistance         improvement of port          - privatization implemented
operations and privatization of  - no indicators set up for the
port-associated services     improvement of port operation
223 staff-months
Training                     training of the PAC's staff  done
I'



18
Aviation Component
iXndicator:  : ;   ;                 Appraisal comments:-:                    0- Actuall-              -
. . .   . .  . . . . .
Technical assistance            .eorganization of AIR
GUINEEs_______ ___
creation of Agence de           ANA created
Navigation Aerienne: 120
staff-month (for reorganization
of AIR GUINEE and creation
______ _____  _____     of ANA)
Acquisition of navigation and    supply of service vehicles and    supplied
safety equipment for Conakry    an ambulance
equipment                                                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
replacement of the rundown
navigation aids (VOR, ILS,
and VASIS)
Supply of critical              supplied
______________________telecommunication equipment
Civil works for Conakry         construction of a firefighting  built
airport                         station and a wall to enclose
_____ _____ ____ _____ ____ the   airport  area_           _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _
Acquisition of essential        telecommunication sets, NDB    delivered
navigation equipment for        radio beacons, small standby
airports: Kankan-Diana, Labe, generators
N'Zerekore and Siguiri                                           ___________f_I_GIEEad_rato
Rehabilitation of runways and   runway maintenance including   cancelled
drainage works                  drainage works for Kankan-
Diana, Labe, N'Zerekore and
_____ _____ ____ _____ ____ Siguir1   airports_            _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _
Acquisition of meteorological   telecommunication sets, BLU      delivered
equipment                       sets
Studies                         definition of the equipment for   carried out
Conakry airport, secondary
airports and "Meteorologie
Nationale"ununicationequipm
plans for the development of    carried out
._______        th secondary airportsarea
Transport Sector Component
draIndicatorks                       Appraisl w commentr Kark -A                      :
Technical assistance            development and                 done
implementation of a 5-8 year of_carriedout



19
manpower development plan:
120 staff months            I



20
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
,:..E   :E:-X-: .......    ...    .........:i               : - .   E   ! :     _.... .... .  . ...   ..   ......................  ;  
Pupose as: deine
Stud "y--;- ;-- :g-0:::g-:; :::: j   E   :    :at appraisalredifined -: Status        mpactof study
Study to determine a five-year road     definition of the road       done         program being
maintenance program                     maintenance program                       implemented
Restructuring of SOGUITRO               privatization                done         none
Rehabilitation and maintenance of local  rehabilitation of secondary   done       implementation of
airports                                airports                                  component cancelled
Conakry's traffic                       improvement of traffic       done         input for next project
Plan d'entreprise du PAC                restructuring                done         improvement of PAC
management
Feasibility and technical study for
fishing port                            preparation of the next      done         project postponed
project
Port Masterplan                         overall investments          done         improvement of port
capacity
Study for set-up of AGECO               urban works agency           done         agency set up
Procurement Reform Study                cross-sector issue           done         proposals superceded
by creation of a new
agency
Restructuring of SOGETRAG               restructuring                done         downsizing carried out
but not privatization
Feasibility study for FATALA Bridge    whether or not to include    done          none, there is no
bridge in the priority                   economic justification
__________________________________     program



21
Table 7: Project Costs
(US$M)
_____________         A  praisal Estimate  -                 Actual:
Component      Local    Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign      Total
Roads             5.9        29.4        35.3       10.54       32.46      43.00
Port              5.0        55.0        60.0        3.75       60.33      64.08
Aviation          0.8        12.2        13.0        0.80        9.44       10.24
Institutional     0.3         2.9         3.2        0.30        5.44       5.74
Strengthening  I
TOTAL             12.0       99.5       111.5       15.39      107.67      123.06
Table 8: Project Financing
(US$M)
~~~~~~~.                  . . . . . . . . . . . ....-... ..
Source              A praisal Estimate                      Actual  -_:_---_:--
Local      Foreign     Total       Local-     Foei     -  Tota
IDA                0.4       54.6        55.0                   58.40      58.40
AfDB      l                  30.0        30.0                   30.80      30.80
KfW/SJF                      13.0        13.0                   14.77       14.77
GTZ        _____ T_l_o1.0                 1.0                    2.70       2.70
FAC        _____ _1.0                     1.0 |                  1.00        1.00
PAC                5.0        0.0         5.0        3.75        0.00       3.75
Gov't              6.5        0.0         6.5       11.64        0.00       11.64
TOTAL   |         11.9 |     99.6 |     111.5       15.39      107.67      123.06



22
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
....... . ..  Ciivetant Present  Oid                              Dta Re              f                            ...ed
Ilnmtent fujfllbnen*.         Descrotio of
Agreement ~~ctIOR    type  status  date..   datecvnat(oimtt
Credit    3.01       10      Done                         Govt to onlend to PAC at          Subsidiary Loan Agreement
commercial terms                  signed Feb. 2, 1981
3.02      10      Done                         Govt. to onlend to ANA at          Done
commercial temis
3.04 (a)    11      Done                        Govt to submit study on road       Road Fund established by
maintenance funding mecanism;     Ordonnance of June 13, 1989.
Govt to approve such mecanism     Transitory measures are
and implement it                  acceptable including
postponement of earmarking
of fuel tax.
3.05      2       Done                         Govt. to allow PAC to carry        Done by Min. of Finance's
forward cumulated losses for tax  Arrete of 1/25/80
purposes.
3.06      2       Done                         Settlement of mutual debts         Done by Min. of Finance's
and arrears between PAC and       Arrete of 10/1/87; appears in
Govt./parastatals.                PAC's 12/31/87 balance sheet
3.07      12      Done                         Govt to establish ANA              ANA legally created by
Decree of April 13, 1989
3.08 (a)    2       Done                        Govt & ANA to adjust aircraft      Done as of 5/31/90, of
landing fee fust by 3/31/88 and   1/1/91 and as of 1/2/92.
periodically thereafter.
3.08 (b)    9       Done                        ANA to submit annual budget        Done
to IDA.
3.09              Done                         Govt to detach staff of            Done
Meteorologie Nationale to ANA.
3.1       9       Done                        Govt. to submit report on operation  Done
of civil aviation subsector.
3.11      12      Done                         Govt. to submit to IDA             New AIR GUINEA Established
restructuration plan of AIR GUINEA,
and implement plan thereafter
3.12      l l     Done                         Govt not to provide subsidies or   Complied with
monopoly rights to S.N.G.
3.13 (a)    10      Done                        Govt. to submit yearly to IDA 3-yr  1992-97 investment program
rolling investment program & not to    submitted and generally
carry out unsatisfactory projects.  satisfactory.
3.13 (b)    10      Done                        Govt. to submit yearly roads, ports,  1994 budget submitted
railroads & aviation maintenance
budget
4.01 (b)    I       Done                        Project accounts to be audited     Done
4.02      3       Done                         ANA to insure Project financed     Done
goods
4.03 (a)            Done                        Govt to reduce a priority control  Done by Min. of Finance's
on PAC's expenditures             Arrete of 10/26/87
4.03 (b)    2     Done but                      GovL to allow PAC to have deposits    Authorized by Min. of Finance,
not                        in interest bearing accounts in    letter of 11/11/87 but not yet enforced
efforced                      commercial banks.



23
4.03 (c)   2       Done                         Conversion of PACs forms          Authorized by Min.of Finance
depreciation allowances to be    letter of 11/2/87; equity
paid to the State in equity.      increase to appear in 12/31/87
balance sheeL
4.03 (d)    2      Done                         Govt. to let PAC make necessary   Done
Port tariff adjustments.
6.01 (a)    12     Done                         Enactment of PAC's revised        Approved by PACs
statutes and regulations;         new Board meeting on 4/16/88
implementation of new organization
structures and salary structure.
Schedule 2    B4      12      Done                         Transfer OPR's planning,          Done as of January 1991.
programnming and control to DNIR
B5       12      Done                         Transformation of OPR in a civil  Board and General Manager
works enterprise                  nominated in June 199].
SOGUITRO not fully operational
until now.
- ~~ ~~       ~        . -   - - .   - . _ _ = .



24
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
............    ._                                 ...    . .  ....  ...    ...   ..... . .  -..  _ ., .  .... .
Activty::0   FYi;: 0 i: iRS864 i FY 8700 t FY:88  iFY 89: FY90RO;;:8 FYF91Y:87   FY9Y  Y  :993   FY9. j  i   l. -T
Pre-Appraisl   28.0    39.3                                                                67.3
Appraisal              31.1                                                                31.1
Negotiations           21.5                                                                21.5
Superision              0.2    33.4      8.7      9.8    19.3    18.1    15.3    14.4   119.2
Other                                                              0.5     1.1      0.8     2.4
Total          28.0    92.1    33.4      8.7      9.8    19.3    18.6    16.4    15.2   241.5



25
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project Month/Year   No. of   Days in     Specialization     . I    pementation  e
Cycle                         persons    field--  - _         _  --u -:                       t --
Identification    Feb-86        2   _           E, HE
Pre-appraisal      Oct-86        8        21   CA, E, FA. E,M ME, ME,PB PE
Appraisal          Jan-87        9        21    , FA, FAHE HE,PE.PE.oTS
Post-appraisal    Apr-87         1        4    E
Supervision 1     Oct-87        2         5    FA, HE                       2              1
Supervision 2     Jan-88        2         6    FA, PE                       1              1
Supervision 3     May-88         1           11   FA                        2              1
Supervision 4      Jul-88       2         11    CS, FA                      2              1
Supervision 5     Dec-88         1        12   FA                           2              1
Supervision 6     Mar-89         1        6    FA                           2              1
Supervision 7     Jun-89         1        7    HE                           2              1
Supervision 8      Jul-89       2         8    CS, FA                       2              1
Supervision 9     Oct-89         1        9    FA                           2              1
Supervision 10    Jan-90         1        8    FA                           2              2
Supervision 11    May-90        2         21    FA, HE                      2              2
Supervision 12    Sep-90        2         12   FA, HE                       2              2
Supervision 13    Jan-91        2         10   HE, TS                       2              2
Supervision 14    May-91        3         18   E, FA, HE,                   3              2
Supervision 15    Sep-91        6         19   E, FA, FA, HE, TS, TS        2              2
Supervision 16    Feb-92        4         8    E, FA, FA, HE                2              2
Supervision 17    Nov-92        3         12   FA, HE, MS                   2              2
Supervision 18    Aug-93         1        6    HE                           3              3
Supervision 19    Sep-93         1        17   FA                          n.a.           n.a.
Supervision 20    Nov-93        2         2    HE, FA                       2              3
Completion 1       Jul-94       2    1         IFA, HE                      S              S
Specializations
CA=Civil Aviation Specialist
CS=Construction Specialist
E=Economist
FA=Financial Analyst
HE=Highway Engineer
ME=Mechanical Engineer
MS=Municipal Specialist
OS=Organization & Training Specialist
PE-Port
Engineer
TS=Transport Specialist















IMAGI NG
Report No:       14753
Type: ICR



