Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1815 GUI
                    (Transport Sector Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                     PORT AUTONOME DE CONAKRY
                       Dated August 28, 1987
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1815 GUI
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  August   28,  1987  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)  and  PORT AUTONOME DE
CONAKRY (PAC).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the  Republic  of  Guinea  (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has  agreed  to make available to the
Borrower an amount in  various  currencies equivalent to forty-two
million   eight   hundred    thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 42,800,000), on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that PAC agree
to undertake such obligations  toward  the  Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and PAC,  part  of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the  Development  Credit Agreement will be made
Page  2
available to PAC on  the  terms  and  conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS PAC, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective  meanings  therein set forth, and the
term "Master Plan" means  the  master  plan  for the Conakry port,
prepared by the consulting  firm  Prof.  Dr. Lackner and Partners,
volume 12, titled "Plan Directeur du Port" with attached drawings,
dated March 17, 1981,  as  may  be  amended  from  time to time in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.09 of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. PAC declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and, to this end,  shall carry out Part B of the
Project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate  administrative,   financial,   engineering  and  port
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for Part B of the Project.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for Part B of the  Project  and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the  Credit  shall  be  governed  by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. PAC shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Part B of the Project.
     Section 2.04.  PAC  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, PAC shall not  take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) PAC shall,  at  the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the  Association with regard to the pro-
gress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  PAC shall promptly inform  the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of Part B of the  Project,  the  accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the  performance  by  PAC  of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of PAC
     Section 3.01. PAC shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
Page  3
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
technical and port  practices  under  the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. PAC shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
port practices.
     Section 3.03. PAC shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible  insurers,  or  make  other  provision  satisfactory  to the
Association for, insurance against such  risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section  3.04.  PAC  shall  open  and  maintain  one  or more
commercial bank accounts on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association, in which it  shall  deposit  or cause to be deposited
all its revenues.
     Section 3.05. PAC  shall:  (a)  not  later  than December 31,
1987, furnish to the Association for its review and comment a plan
of action for improving port security; and
     (b)  thereafter promptly implement said  plan in a manner and
in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the Association.
     Section 3.06. PAC shall  carry  out the program to strengthen
PAC's financial management referred to  in Section 6.01 (d) of the
Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 3.07. PAC  shall:  (a)  take  such  steps as shall be
necessary to improve the efficiency of port operations in order to
achieve the operational targets  set  forth  in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; and
     (b)  monitor, in accordance  with  procedures satisfactory to
the  Association,  the  progress  being  made  in  achieving  said
targets.
     Section 3.08. PAC  shall  not,  until  the Project shall have
been completed, make any  investment,  in addition to expenditures
for the Project, in excess of  the equivalent of $1,000,000 in any
year  unless  such  investment  shall,   in  the  opinion  of  the
Association, be technically, financially and economically viable.
     Section 3.09. PAC shall  consult  with the Association on any
proposals which could result in a significant change or changes in
its Master Plan or its  statutes  and  by-laws and shall allow the
Association a reasonable period of  time to comment thereon before
making or authorizing said changes.
     Section 3.10. PAC shall, not later than December 31, 1987:
     (a)  employ  two  qualified   and  experienced  engineers  as
counterparts to the  consultants  employed  for the supervision of
civil works;
     (b)  establish,  and  thereafter  maintain,  a  unit  to give
impetus to and coordinate  the  implementation of the Project, and
prepare progress reports; such  unit  to  be headed by the Project
coordinator under the direct authority of PAC's General Manager.
     Section 3.11. PAC shall, not later than June 30, 1988, submit
to the Association for its  approval a training program (including
a timetable) for PAC staff, and promptly thereafter carry out such
program as shall have been satisfactory to the Association.
     Section 3.12. PAC shall, not  later  than December 31 in each
year  starting  December  31,   1987,  enter  into  a  contractual
arrangement  with  an  independent  contractor  acceptable  to the
Page  4
Association to carry out under  terms and conditions acceptable to
the  Association  cleaning  and  maintenance  works  for  all port
facilities (including navigation aids) during the following fiscal
year.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  PAC  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  PAC shall:
             (i)    have  its  records,   accounts  and  financial
                    statements  (balance   sheets,  statements  of
                    income and  expenses  and  related statements)
                    for each  fiscal  year  audited, in accordance
                    with  appropriate   auditing  principles  con-
                    sistently  applied,  by  independent  auditors
                    acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)    furnish to the  Association  as soon as avail-
                    able, but  in  any  case  not  later than four
                    months after the  end  of  each such year, (A)
                    certified copies  of  its financial statements
                    for such year as so audited and (B) the report
                    of such audit by  said auditors, of such scope
                    and in such  detail  as  the Association shall
                    have reasonably requested; and
           (iii)    furnish to the Association such other informa-
                    tion  concerning  said  records,  accounts and
                    financial  statements  as  well  as  the audit
                    thereof, as the Association shall from time to
                    time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditures, PAC shall:
        (i)    maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
       (ii)    retain,  until  at   least   one   year  after  the
               Association has received  the  audit report for the
               fiscal year in which  the  last withdrawal from the
               Credit Account  was  made,  all records (contracts,
               orders,  invoices,   bills,   receipts   and  other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;
      (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
       (iv)    ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether the  statements  of  expenditures submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. Not later  than  October  1 in each year during
the execution of the Project, PAC  shall: (a) furnish to the Asso-
ciation for its review and  comments its proposed budget for PAC's
subsequent Fiscal Year; and
     (b)  take into account comments, if any, made by the Associa-
Page  5
tion in establishing that budget.
     Section 4.03. PAC shall: (a) at least every five years, carry
out a revaluation of the  net  value  of its fixed assets, to such
extent as shall be necessary to reflect adequately, at the time of
each such revaluation,  the  current  value  thereof in accordance
with  a  sound  and  consistently  applied  method  of  valuation,
acceptable to the Association; and
     (b)  for those  years  in  which  such  a  revaluation is not
carried out, revalue  said  assets  by  applying  to its asset and
depreciation amounts an annual cost index, also in accordance with
a sound and consistently  applied  method of valuation, acceptable
to the Association.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, PAC shall, on January 1  of  each year, take or cause to be
taken all such measures  (including,  but  not limited to, adjust-
ments of the structure or  of  the  levels of its port tariffs) as
shall be required for PAC: (i)  to  ensure that it meets the local
costs of the Project from its internally generated funds available
for investments and  (ii)  to  achieve  or  maintain the financial
targets set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Before September 30  in  each  of  its fiscal years, PAC
shall, on the basis of forecasts to be prepared by PAC in a manner
satisfactory  to  the  Association,  review  the  adequacy  of its
tariffs to meet the requirements  set  forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement for the current and next following Fiscal Year and shall
furnish to the Borrower  and  the  Association the results of such
review upon its completion for their approval.
     (c)  PAC shall,  not  later  than  June  30,  1992,  take all
necessary steps to ensure  that,  not  later than January 1, 1993,
the structure and level of  PAC's  tariffs are adjusted to reflect
the opening of the container terminal and traffic conditions; such
adjustments  shall  be  made   in   a  manner  acceptable  to  the
Association.
     (d)  For the purposes  of  this  Section the term "internally
generated funds  available  for  investment"  means the difference
between:
        (i)    the sum of gross revenues from port operations, and
               any reduction in non-cash working capital; and
       (ii)    the sum  of  all  working  expenses,  as defined in
               Schedule 3 to  this  Agreement,  interest and other
               charges on debt, repayments  of loans, all taxes or
               payments in lieu  thereof,  all  cash dividends and
               other  cash  distributions   or  payments  in  lieu
               thereof, increase in net working capital other than
               needed  to  achieve  the  ratios  as  set  forth in
               Schedule 3 to  this  Agreement,  and any other cash
               outflows other  than  cash  expenditures related to
               Port operations.
     Section  4.05.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, PAC shall: (a)  not  incur  any  debt  during the period of
execution of the Project; and
     (b)  after Project completion, not  incur any debt unless the
amount of its net cash revenue  for the Fiscal Year next preceding
the date of such  incurrence  or  for  a later twelve-month period
ending prior to such incurrence,  whichever amount is the greater,
shall be  not  less  than  1.25  times  the  maximum  debt service
requirements for any succeeding fiscal  year  on all its debt. For
the purposes of this Section:
        (i)    the term "debt" means any debt by PAC maturing more
               than  one  year  after  the  date  on  which  it is
               originally  incurred,  including  debt  assumed  or
Page  6
               guaranteed by PAC;
       (ii)    debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  on  signature of such loan
               contract, agreement or instrument;  and (B) under a
               guarantee  agreement,  on  the  date  the agreement
               providing for such guarantee has been entered into,
               but only to the extent  that the guaranteed debt is
               outstanding;
      (iii)    the term "net  cash  revenue" means gross operating
               revenue  from  all   sources,  less  all  operating
               expenses including adequate  maintenance, taxes, if
               any,  and   administration   expenses,  but  before
               provision  for   depreciation   and   debt  service
               requirements; and
       (iv)    the  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund  payments,  if  any)  and  interest  and other
               charges on debt.
     Section 4.06. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, PAC shall maintain  a  ratio  of  current assets to current
liabilities of not less than 2.0.
     (b)  Before September 30  in  each  of  its fiscal years, PAC
shall, on the basis of  forecasts prepared by PAC and satisfactory
to the Association, review whether  it would meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a)  in  respect  of such year and the next
following fiscal year  and  shall  furnish  to the Association the
results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  PAC  would not meet the
requirements set forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for PAC's fiscal years
covered by such  review,  PAC  shall  promptly  take all necessary
measures  (including,  without   limitation,  adjustments  of  the
structure  or  levels  of  its   rates)  in  order  to  meet  such
requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
        (i)    the term "current  assets"  means  cash, all assets
               which could in the  ordinary  course of business be
               converted into cash within twelve months, including
               accounts    receivable,    marketable   securities,
               inventories   and    pre-paid   expenses   properly
               chargeable to  operating  expenses  within the next
               fiscal year;
       (ii)    the   term   "current    liabilities"   means   all
               liabilities which will  become  due  and payable or
               could under circumstances  then  existing be called
               for  payment   within   twelve   months,  including
               accounts payable,  customer  advances, debt service
               requirements, taxes and payments  in lieu of taxes,
               and dividends; and
      (iii)    the  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
     Section 4.07. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, PAC shall earn,  for  each  of  its  fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December  31,  1987, an annual return of not
less than 6.0% of  the  average  current  net value of PAC's fixed
assets in operation.
     (b)   Before September 30 in  each  of  its fiscal years, PAC
shall, on the basis of  forecasts prepared by PAC and satisfactory
Page  7
to the Association, review whether  it would meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a)  in  respect  of such year and the next
following fiscal year  and  shall  furnish  to the Association the
results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)   If any such review  shows  that  PAC would not meet the
requirements set forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for PAC's fiscal years
covered by such  review,  PAC  shall  promptly  take all necessary
measures  (including,  without   limitation,  adjustments  of  the
structure  or  levels  of  its   rates)  in  order  to  meet  such
requirements.
     (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
        (i)    the annual return  shall  be  calcuated by dividing
               PAC's net operating income  for  the fiscal year in
               question by one half of  the sum of the current net
               value of PAC's  fixed  assets  in  operation at the
               beginning and at the end of that fiscal year;
       (ii)    the  term  "net   operating   income"  means  total
               operating revenues less total operating expenses;
      (iii)    the term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations;
       (iv)    the  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses   related    to    operations,   including
               administration,  adequate  maintenance,  taxes  and
               payments  in  lieu  of  taxes,  and  provision  for
               depreciation, in accordance with accounting methods
               generally accepted in ports  or  on any other basis
               acceptable  to  the  Association,  of  the  average
               current  gross  value  of  PAC's  fixed  assets  in
               operation, but excluding interest and other charges
               on debt;
        (v)    the average  current  gross  value  of  PAC's fixed
               assets in operation shall be calculated as one half
               of the sum of the gross value of PAC's fixed assets
               in operation at the beginning and at the end of the
               fiscal  year,  as  valued  from  time  to  time  in
               accordance with the  methods  of valuation referred
               to in Section 4.03 of this Agreement; and
       (vi)    the term "current net  value  of PAC's fixed assets
               in operation" means the  gross value of PAC's fixed
               assets in operation less  the amount of accumulated
               depreciation,  as  valued  from  time  to  time  in
               accordance with the  methods  of valuation referred
               to in Section 4.03 of this Agreement.
     Section 4.08. Whenever for  the  purposes  of this Article it
shall be necessary  to  value,  in  terms  of  the currency of the
Borrower, debt payable in  another  currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of  the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at
which such other  currency  is,  at  the  time  of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes  of  servicing  such  debt, or, in the
absence  of  such  rate,  on  the  basis  of  a  rate  of exchange
acceptable to the Association.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of PAC  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
Page  8
of the following two dates:
             (i)    the  date  on  which  the  Development  Credit
                    Agreement shall  terminate  in accordance with
                    its terms; or
            (ii)    the date  20  years  after  the  date  of this
                    Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms  before  the  date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify PAC of
this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For PAC:
          Port Autonome de Conakry
          B.P. 805
          Conakry
          Republique de Guinee
                                            Telex:
                                               776 PAC GE
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of PAC,  or  by  PAC on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit  Agreement,  may be taken or executed
by PAC's Director General or  such  other person or persons as the
Director General shall designate in writing, and PAC shall furnish
to the Association sufficient  evidence  of  the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
Page  9
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Ismail Serageldin
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    PORT AUTONOME DE CONAKRY
                    By /s/ Tolo Beavogui
                                        Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for the works included in Part B of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.   To the extent practicable,  contracts  for all works shall be
grouped in one bid package.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Goods estimated to cost  less  than the equivalent of $20,000
per  contract,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed the
equivalent of $100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of  price quotations solicited from a list
of at least  three  suppliers  eligible  under  the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof,  the  procedures  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $100,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
Page  10
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
3.   The figure of 20% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist PAC in carrying out Part B of the Project,
PAC shall employ consultants  whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory  to  the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
              Operational Targets for Port Operations
              (Section 3.07 of the Project Agreement)
                                   1986      1989     1991
                                 (actual)  (target) (target)
Tons of general cargo per
     ship/day handled              550       800      1000
Tons of general cargo per
     gross gang hour                15        18        20
                            SCHEDULE 3
               FINANCIAL TARGETS FOR PORT OPERATIONS
              (SECTION 4.04 OF THE PROJECT AGREEMENT)
                                         1988 and beyond
1.   WORKING RATIO:              Not to exceed 60
2.   OPERATING RATIO:            Not to exceed 80
3.   WORKING CAPITAL RATIOS
     - Minimum Cash:             2 months working expenses
     - Accounts Receivable:      Not to exceed 3 months' Gross
                                 Operating Revenues
     - Inventories:              Not to exceed in value 6 months'
                                 spare part needs for the coming 12
                                 months' period, nor fall below 3
                                 months' needs.
     - Accounts Payable:         Not to exceed 3 months' supplier
                                 accounts and other current ex-
                                 penditures.
POUR MEMOIRE
4.   CURRENT RATIO:              Not less than 2.0
5.   RETURN ON ASSETS:           Not less than 6.0%
6.   CASH FLOW TARGETS                   1992 and beyond
       - Debt Service
         Coverage:               Not less than 1.25
Page  11
     For the purposes of  this  Schedule the following terms shall
have the following meaning:
     (a)  "working ratio" means  the  ratio which working expenses
bear to gross operating revenue;
     (b)  "operating  ratio"  means   the  ratio  which  operating
expenses bear to gross operating revenue;
     (c)  "working expenses" means  the  aggregate of all expenses
related  to  PAC's   port  operations,  including  administration,
adequate maintenance, taxes or any payments in lieu of taxes;
     (d)  "operating  expenses"  means  the  aggregate  of working
expenses as  defined  above  and  provision  for  depreciation and
amortization of intangibles;
     (e)  "gross operating revenue" means the sum of revenues from
all sources related to PAC's ports operations; and
     (f)  "debt service coverage" means  the ratio of annual debt-
service requirement as  defined  in  Section  4.05 (b)(iv) of this
Agreement over the net  cash  revenue  as  defined in Section 4.05
(b)(iii) of this Agreement.
