CREDIT NUMBER 1815 GUI
Development Credit Agreement
(Transport Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1815 GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    a      "Z    e02-r       , 1987, between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the Borfower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter of intent
dated May 9, 1987 from the Borrower describing the Borrower's
strategy in respect of its transport sector (the Transport
Sector), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of a
program of actions designed to achieve essential reforms of the
Borrower's Transport Sector (said strategy and actions hereinafter
called the Program) , and requesting assistance from the
Association and from the resources of the Special Facility for
Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility) in the financing of
investments in the Transport Sector in support of the Program;
(B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(C) part of the Project will be carried out by the Port
Autonome de Conakry (PAC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to PAC
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Bank (AfDB) a loan (the AfDB Loan) in an amount
equivalent to $30,000,000 to assist in financing Part B of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
AfDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
AfDB;
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt fUr
Wiederaufbau (KfW) a financial contribution from the Federal
Republic of Germany under the Special Joint Financing Agreement
for the Special African Facility (the KfW Contribution) in an
amount of twenty five million deutsche mark (DM 25,000,000) to
assist in financing Part B of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the KfW Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and KfW;
(F) the Borrower has obtained from the Gesellschaft fdr
Technische Zusammenarbeit of the Federal Republic of Germany (GTZ)


﻿-2-
a grant (the GTZ Grant) in an amount of DM 2,000,000 to assist in
financing Part B of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the GTZ Agreement) between the Borrower and
GTZ dated February 17, 1987; and
(G) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Fonds d'Aide et
d Coop6ration of the French Republic (FAC) a grant (the FAC
Grant) in an initial amount of FF 7,000,000 to assist in financing
Part C of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the FAC Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and FAC;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and PAC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
(b) Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
"(c)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in
any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost
and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower
and the Association of their respective obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit."


﻿-3-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and PAC, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "PAC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and PAC pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "ANA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and ANA pursuant to Section
3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(d) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an eKchange of letters dated June 5, 1986, and July 2,
1986, between the Borrower and the Association;
(e) "Category(ies)" means the category(ies) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(f) "Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the Borrower's or PAC's
fiscal year, as the case may be, which coincides with the calendar
year;
(g) "Air Guin6e" means a public enterprise of the Borrower
established by Ordonnance No. 048/PRG of December 30, 1960, and
operating pursuant to decree No. 134/PRG of April 19, 1961;
(h) "ANA" means the autonomous agency for air navigation and
management of secondary airports to be established by the Borrower
pursuant to Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
(i) "M6teorologie Nationale" means the Borrower's
meteorological service in the Secretariat of State for Water and
Forests of the Ministry of Natural Resources, Energy and the
Environment;


﻿(j) "Office Maritime" means the entity established by decree
No. 0080/PRG/63 of February 7, 1963 of the Borrower to take care
of the operation and maintenance of the Borrower's maritime
navigation aids;
(k) "ONCFG" means the Office National des Chemins de Fer de
la R6publique de Guin6e, a public enterprise of the Borrower
established and operating pursuant to Ordonnance No. 32/Bis/TP of
June 2, 1959;
(1) "OPR" means Office du Projet Routier, created by the
Borrower's decree No. 38/PRG/84 of February 2, 1984;
(m) "PAC" means Port Autonome de Conakry, a public
enterprise of the Borrower established by decree No. 050/PRG/82 of
June 22, 1982;
(n) "SET" means the Secr6tariat d'Etat aux Transports of the
Borrower;
(o) "SETP" means the Secr6tariat d'Etat aux Travaux Publics
of the Borrower;
(p) "SNG" means the Soci6t6 Navale Guin6enne, a public
enterprise of the Borrower established by decree dated May 8,
1968;
(q) "SOGEAC" means the Soci6t6 de Gestion et d'Exploitation
de l'A6roport de Conakry, a joint venture company in which the
Borrower is a shareholder, established pursuant to an agreement
dated July 15, 1987 between the Borrower, the Chambre de Commerce
et d'Industrie de Bordeaux and Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration
Economique acting on behalf of the Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration;
and
(r) "ONTPR-TUC" means the Office National des Transports
Publics et Routiers - Transports Urbains de Conakry, a public
enterprise of the Borrower established by decrees No. 29/PRG of
Feburary 4, 1960 and No. 104/PRG of March 31, 1961.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies


﻿-5-
equivalent to forty-two million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 42,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4,02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.


﻿-6-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1 and
November 1 commencing November 1, 1997, and ending May 1, 2037.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on
May 1, 2007, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and
one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ArTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end:
(a) shall carry out Part A of the Project through SETP and
Parts C and D of the Project through SET with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and transportation practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for said Parts of the Project;
(b) without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall
cause PAC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of PAC therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, includi-n       the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resoturces,
necessary or appropriate to enable PAC to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance;
(c) shall relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated from
time to time to Categories (1)(d), (2)(b) and (3)(b) to PAC under
a subsidiary Loan agreement t'o be entered into between the
Borrower and PAC under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association, which shall include bearing of the
foreign exchange risk by PAC, an annual interest rate of 8.00%, a
repayment period of twenty (20) years, including a grace period of
four (4) years;


﻿-7-
(d) shall relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated from
time to time to Categories (1)(e), (1)(f) and (2)(c) to ANA under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ANA under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association, which shall include bearing of the
foreign exchange risk by ANA, an annual interest rate of 8.00%, a
repayment period of twenty (20) years, including a grace period of
four (4) years;
(e) shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements or any provision thereof;
(f) the Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program; and
(g) prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree:
(a) procurement of the goods, works       and consultants'
services required for Parts A, C and D of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(b) procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Part B of the Project shall be carried out by PAC
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.04, For the purpose of Part A.6 of the Project, the
Borrower shall: (a) not later than November 15, 1987, subrit to
the Association for its review the recommendations of the study on
a mechanism for funding of road maintenance programs for the
period 1988-1993; (b) not later than December 31, 1987, approve
such mechanism, as shall have been satisfactory to the
Association; and (c) promptly thereafter, implement said
mechanism.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall allow PAC to carry forward
cumulated losses as of December 31, 1987 for the purpose of
calculating income taxes due in FY 1988 and in any subsequent
fiscal year.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall carry out and cause PAC and
all concerned public enterprises to carry out the agreement for
the settlement of their mutual debts and arrears referred to in
Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1988, establish ANA in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than March 31, 1988, adjust, and cause ANA to
adjust periodically thereafter, aircraft landing fees in
consultation with SOGEAC; and
(b) cause ANA to submit, not later than October 1 of each
year, its annual budget to the Association for its review and
comment.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall detach at all times teams of
staff from the M6t6orologie Nationale, whose qualifications,
experience and number shall be satisfactory to the Association, to
the Conakry airport and to the secondary airports.
Section 3.10. For the purposes of Part C of the Project, the
Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1990, submit to the
Association for its review and comments a report, evaluating the
operation of the reorganized civil aviation sub-sector.
Section 3.11. For the purpose of Part C.1 of the Project, the
Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1988, submit to the
Association for its review and comments a new organizational
structure to carry out the activities of Air Guin6e, and promptly


﻿-9-
thereafter, implement such structure as shall have been
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall not provide any subsidies or
monopoly rights to SNG or any other company for shipping
activities.
Section 3.13. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than
December 31 of each year, submit to the Association for its review
and comment, the Borrower's three-year total rolling investment
and expenditure program for the Transport Sector, and shall not
carry out, or guarantee the financing of, any project in said
sector whose economic, financial or technical justification shall
not have been satisfactory to the Association.
(b) As part of such program, the Borrower shall submit to
the Association infrastructure maintenance budgets for the roads,
ports, railroad and aviation sub-sectors for the following fiscal
year; such budgets shall include an outline program of works for
such year, their financing requirements and the sources of funds
for covering them.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A, C and D of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out said Parts of the Project or any portion thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and


﻿- 10 -
(iii)     furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all the expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)     maintain or cause v.o be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)      retain, until at least one year after the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii)     enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv)      ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a s,parate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause each transport sector
agency (including ANA) whose expenditures are financed in part or
in total out of the proceeds of the Credit:
(a) to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
(b) to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and


﻿- 11 -
(c) at all times to operate and to maintain its buildings,
machinery, vehicles, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
administrative, financial and technical practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, at all times:
(a) limit its a priori controls on PAC's operations to the
prior approval of contracts of an amount exceeding $250,000
equivalent, and control other expenditures as needed on an
a posteriori basis;
(b) take or cause to be taken all measures required on its
part to enable PAC to maintain one or more commercial. bank
accounts for deposit of payments received from PAC clients and to
keep PAC's surplus cash in interest bearing accounts;
(c) exempt PAC from the obligation made under the accounting
code to transfer to the Borrower the depreciation allowances
labeled "Amortissements A verser au Plan" and convert such
allowances in capital of PAC; and
(d) take or cause to be taken all measures required on its
part to enable PAC to adjust its port tariffs for purposes of
fulfilling its obligations under Section 4.04 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not exempt any entity owned
or controlled by the Borrower, or operating for the account or
benefit of the Borrower, or any of its ministries or agencies from
the payment of port tariffs to PAC for the use of ports services
and facilities.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to ensure that no financial transfers shall take place from PAC to
the Borrower or any entity or agency owned or controlled by the
Borrower, with the exception of applicable taxes and duties,
repayment of loans, remuneration for services rendered and
dividend payments out of net profits declared.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿- 12 -
(a) an event has occurred which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out;
(b) after any of the exchanges of views referred to in
Section 3.01 (f) of this Agreement, the Association shall have
determined that the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying
out the Program is not satisfactory;
(c) PAC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(d) as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that PAC will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(e) PAC's statutes or regulations shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adv.ersely the ability of PAC to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(f) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of PAC or for the suspension of its operations;
(g) any legal instrument establishing ANA shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the
Association's prior approval;
(h) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof;
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:


﻿- 13 -
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure
of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the events specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower;
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (e), (f) or (g) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (h) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (h) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) enactment of revised statutes and regulations (police,
operat4ons, personnel) for PAC; PAC's new organization chart and
salary structure are in effect; PAC's new tariffs have been
published and are in effect; and, agreement by the Borrower of the
revaluated opening balance sheet of PAC as of January 1, 1986; all
of which shall be satisfactory to the Association;
(b) promulgation of the legal instruments required pursuant
to paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 4.03 of this Agreement;
(c) signing of an agreement, satisfactory to the
Association, between the Borrower and PAC for the settlement of
their mutual debts and arrears;


﻿- 14-
(d) approval by PAC's board of directors of a program
satisfactory to the Association to strengthen PAC's financial
management (including its accounting system, cost accounting,
statistics, billing and collection procedures and internal
controls) and to train PAC personnel in such areas; and
(e) the special tax on petroleum products has been increased
by at least GF 15 per liter.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by PAC, and is legally
binding upon PAC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Article IV of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a)
and (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Borrower's Secretary of State in charge of
Transport and Secretary of State in charge of Public Works are
designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secr6tariat d'Etat aux Transports
B.P. 715
Conakry
R6publique de Guinde


﻿- 15 -
Telex:
649 MITRANS
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By /T/ 7&
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                                  Pr
Regional ice President
I           Africa


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Works:
(a) for Part A.1          14,900,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) for Part A.2             100,000       100%
(c) for Parts A.3          1,000,000       100% of foreign
and D.6                               expenditures
(d) for Parts B.5,         6,900,000       100% of foreign
B.6 and B.7                            expenditures
(e) for Parts C.3 (a),     1,000,000       100% of foreign
C.3 (c) and C.3 (f)                    expenditures
(f) for Part C.4          1,800,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(2) Goods:
(a) for Part A              700,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) for Part B.8            100,000        100% of foreign
expenditures


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(c) for Parts C.2,         2,300,000       100% of foreign
C.3 and.C.4                            expenditures
(d) for Part C.5             500,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
(3) Consultants'
services and
training:
(a) for Part A             2,000,000       100%
(b) for Part B.8            500,000        100%
(c) for Part C             1,000,000       100%
(d) for Part D             2,500,000       100%
(4) Refunding of                 400,000        Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (b) of this
Agreement
(5) Unallocated                 7,100,000
TOTAL                42,800,000


﻿- 18 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made on account of
payments made under Category (1)(a) before that date but after
June 15, 1987;
(b) payments made for expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (1)(a), unless the
Borrower has included in its budget for FY 1988 an amount adequate
to cover the maintenance of the priority road network;
(c) payments made for expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated to Categories (1)(d), (2)(b) and
(3)(b), unless the AfDB Loan and the KfW Contribution have become
effective and the Borrower has entered into the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with PAC referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement;
(d) payments made for expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated to Categories (1)(e), (1)(f) and
(2)(c), unless (i) the Borrower has entered into the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement with ANA referred to in Section 3.01 (d) of this
Agreement, and (ii) the head and one other member of the technical
assistance team have taken up their assignment at ANA; and
(e) payments made for expenditures after January 1, 1988,
unless the Borrower has increased the pump price of petroleum
products to a level satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve and increase the
supply and efficiency of transport services in order to meet the
growing demand and eliminate existing transport-related
bottlenecks to the development of the productive sectors of the
Borrower's economy.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Road Sub-sector
1.   Rehabilitation of paved roads, including about 206 km of
pavement strengthening and about 157 km of resealing, and
supervision thereof.
2.   Pilot routine maintenance program for paved roads, including
control of vegetation, on Kissidougou-Kankan road using small
contractors.
3.   Rehabilitation of offices for SETP (about 1400 m2) and
acquisition of furniture and equipment for these offices.
4.   Transfer of OPR's planning, programming and control functions
for road works (road construction and maintenance) to SETP, and
strengthening of SETP's capacity to plan, program, administer and
supervise road works, including related feasibility and
engineering studies; carrying out of organizational studies,
manpower development and staff training out.
5.   Transformation of OPR in a civil works enterprise.
6.   Improvement of mechanism for financing highway maintenance
operations.
Part B:   Port Sub-sector (Conakry Port)
1.   Construction of a siltation prevention dike of about 1500 m
at the north side of the harbor.
2.   Extension of the Prudente breakwater by about 200 m.


﻿- 20 -
3.   Construction of a container berth of about 250 m long and
10 m dee , and of a storage area (about 75,000 m2, of which about
45,000 m paved).
4.   Dredging of about 1.8 million m3 to deepen the leading
channel and port water area to minus 9.5 m.
5.   Construction of a fuel jetty for ships up to 30,000 dwt and
190 m long.
6.   Rehabilitation of existing port facilities, including paved
areas, quay aprons and fenders and water drainage and electrical
systems.
7.   Acquisition and installation of navigation aids, including
light buoys and beacons.
8.   Improvement of PAC's operational efficiency by:
(a)  strengthening of PAC in the areas of inter alia: procurement
and supervision of works, port operations (including port
security) and financial management; and (b) staff training.
Part C:   Aviation Sub-sector
1.   Restructuring of Air Guin6e.
2.   Establishment of an autonomous agency in charge of air
navigation and management of secondary airports (ANAY, and
assistance _o start-up of agency's operations, including staff
training and studies.
3.   Improve safety of flight operations at Conakry airport,
including througi:
(a) construction of a building for the security and fire-
fighting services;
(b) acquisition of an ambulance and service vehicles;
(c) construction of a wall to enclose the airport area;
(d) acquisition and installation of navigation aid
equipment;
(e) acquisition and installation of telecommunications
equipment; and


﻿- 21 -
(f) rehabilitation of airport buildings and acquisition of
office furniture and supplies for ANA.
4.   Improve safety of flight operations at Kankan-Diankana, Labe,
N'Z6rekor6 and Siguiri airports, including through:
(a) rehabilitation of runways and drainage works;
(b) rebabilitation of essential buildings and acquisition of
essential furniture; and
(c) acquisition, installation and maintenance of navigation
aid, telecommunications, power and fire-fighting equipment.
5.   Strengthening of the M6t6orologie Nationale, including staff
training, acquisition, installation, rehabilitation and
maintenance of telecommunications, weather observation and power
generation equipment, and service vehicles.
Part D:   Transport Sector Management (SET)
1.   Establishment and implementation of a policy environment and
fiscal and regulatory framework, fostering private entrepreneur-
ship in the transport sector including: (a) gradual disengagement
of the Borrower from transport sector activities; and (b)
assistance and training for private sector operators.
2.   Privatization of transit, consignment, stevedoring and other
port-related services, including establishment of a Port Labor
Office managed by the Association Guineenne des Entreprises de
Manutention Portuaire (AGEMAP) employing PAC's former dockers;
3.   Restructuring of public enterprises operating in the
transport sector.
4.   Improvement of administration of the country's vehicle fleet
through strengthening of SET's Automobile Management and Control
Directorate, enactment of regulations for axle load control and
improved enforcement of basic technical safety regulations.
5.   Strengthening of SET, including manpower development and
staff training, adjustment in staffing to meet functional
requirements, strengthening of transport sector planning and
project evaluation.


﻿- 22 -
6.   Rehabilitation of SET offices (about 800 m2) and acquisition
of office equipment and furniture.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1991.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
for Parts A, C and D of the Project
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works for
Parts A, C and D of the Project shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May
1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works for Parts A, C and D of the Project, estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $2,500,000 per contract (up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed in the case of works for Part A of
the Project the equivalent of $5,000,000), may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Goods for Parts A, C and D of the Project, estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract (up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed in the case of goods for Part C of
the Project the equivalent of $2,000,000), may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.   Goods for the vegetation control program described in Part
A.2 of the Project may be procured through OPR's purchasing agent
selected in accordance with the provisions of Section II of this
Schedule.
4.   Proprietary equipment and spare parts may be purchased by
direct negotiated purchase from one manufacturer or supplier, if
in the opinion of the Association: (a) suitable equipment or spare
parts, compatible with equipment already in place, cannot be


﻿- 24 -
obtained from another source; and (b) the cost of such equipment
or spare parts is reasonable.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A, C
and D of the Project (including for the supervision of all civil
works), the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Details of institutional set-up of the Air Navigation Agency
(ANA) to be established.
1.   The autonomous Air Navigation Agency (ANA) shall: (i) own,
install, construct, manage, operate and maintain all navigation
aids, telecommunications equipment and all other equipment and
facilities needed for air navigation in Guinea; (ii) own, install,
construct, maintain and operate all civilian facilities and
equipment, including runways, buildings, fire-fighting equipment
of all secondary airports in Guinea.
2.   ANA shall have legal capacity and financial autonomy, under
the tutelle of the Secr6tariat d'Etat aux Transports. ANA's
autonomy shall include administration, finance and personnel
matters.
3.   ANA shall be financially viable and profitable, and generate
its own revenues by levying fees on all aircraft landing and
taking off at secondary airports and through a share of the
airport fees at Conakry Airport, to be collected by SOGEAC and
shared with ANA according to arrangements satisfactory to the
Association. Airport fees shall be set at sufficient levels to
ensure that ANA's operating revenues cover all its operating
expenses, including adequate maintenance expenditures, interest
charges on debt, provisions for losses and renewals, depreciation
and amortization.
4.   The Borrower shall, without prejudice to its capital
contributions in kind at the creation of ANA, provide a cash
equity contribution of not less than US$800,000 equivalent to
finance the local costs of the investments included in the
Project; such cash contribution shall be released in annual
tranches covering such costs for each year the Project is
executed, in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the
Association.
5.   Proposals for ANA's statutes, organization, rules and
regulations of operations, shall be prepared with the assistance
of consultants and shall be submitted for the Association's
approval not later than March 31, 1988. ANA shall be established
not later than June 30, 1988.
6.   ANA shall cooperate with SOGEAC on all matters relating to
Conakry Airport and with the M6t6orologie Nationale on matters
related to meteorological services for air navigation. ANA and


﻿- 26 -
M46t6orologie Nationale will enter into an arrangement specifying
their respective duties and obligatiors for the provision of these
services, including maintenance, operations and ownership of
meteorological equipment financed under the Credit as well as
management and administration of personnel of the M6t6orologie
Nationale responsible for meteorological services for air
navigation. Such arrangement, as shall be satisfactory to the
Association, shall become effective not later than October 1,
1988.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
f hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


