oFm L E COPY nvDocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2360-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON THREE
PROPOSED LOANS
TO
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO
STOPANSKA BANKA SKOPJE
INVESTICIONA BANKA TITOGRAD
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
June 26, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit                                            Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                                =                    Din. 18.00
Din. 1                                                   US$0.0555
Din. 1,000                                               US$55.55
Din. 1,000,000                                           US$55,555.55
*The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973,
as of December 31, 1977, the rate was Din. 18.4452=$l.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
PBS        -            Privredna Banka Sarajefo
SBS        -            Stopanska Banka Skopje
IBT        -            Investiciona Banka Titograd
KBP        -            Kosovska Banka Pristina
BOAL       -            Basic Organization of Associated Labor
DFC        -            Development Finance Company
DRs        -            Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
ERR        -            Economic Rate of Return
FRR        -            Financial Rate of Return
GMP        -            Gross Material Product
Kosovo     -            Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo
LDRs       -            Less Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
SDK       -            Sluzba Drustvenog Knjigovodstva or
Social Accounting Service



FOR OWFCUL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA: FOUhRTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
SummarL of Loans and Project
Borrowers:          Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS)
Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS)
Investiciona Banka Titograd (IBT)
(Each Borrower being a party to a separate Loan
Agreement between the Bank and each such Borrower)
Guarantor:           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Amounts:            PBS, SBS and IBT:  US$20 million equivalent each, in
various currencies.
Beneficiaries:       Small- and medium-sized industrial enterprises in Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro.
Terms:              The loans would bear interest at 7.5 percent per annum.
Repayment would be according to schedules reflecting the
composite anortization schedules of the sub-loans financed.
On-lending Terms:   Individual sub-loans would be repaid over a period not'
exceeding 15 years from the date the Loan Agreements are
signed including grace periods of normally up to three
years and. in case of foreign co-financing, up to five
years. The banks would on-lend the proceeds at 11 percent
per annum with the sub-borrowers carrying the foreign
exchange risk.
Project
Description:        25 percent of eack -o  the three loans would be on-lent to
help finance the foreign exchange cost of imported equip-
ment for investments in industrial sub-projects with a
labor-intensive orientation (defined as projects creating
employment at a maximum cost per job of $23,000 equivalent)
and 75 percent of each of the three loans would be on-lent
for the niame purpose to small- and medium-size industrial
sub-projects (but without the specific labor-intensive
emphasis) in the Republics of Montenegro, Bosnia-
HerzegovLna and Macedonia.
In respect of all three loans, sub-projects with total cost
exceedinlg FS$10 million equivalent will have to meet a
cost per job criterion (US$40,000 per job or less); in
addition, while the appropriateness of international
competitive bidding (ICB) should be considered for all
foreign procurement, any individual contract to be fi-
nanced ina whol'e or in part with Bank funds for imported
goods that 1i3 expected to exceed US$2.0 million equiva-
lent will be a candidate for procurement under ICB.
Thi dtunwunt hk a restlrcted d-trltoo sa zr U ad by recipients only In the performane
of thair oil dutuu It sewns may eot o  ww bediuckd without Word Dek autbolzatoe.



- ii -
If the borrowing bank and its sub-borrower decide that ICB
is not appropriate, this decision must be justified
satisfactorily to the Bank before the sub-project will be
considered as eligible for Bank financing.
Final Date for
Sub-project
Submissions:         June 30, 1981.
Free Limit:          US$1.0 million for individual small- and medium-size sub-
projects and labor-intensive sub-projects up to an aggre-
gate of 60 percent of each recipient bank's share of the
loan.
Estimated
Disbursements:                                    1979   1980   1981   1982
Calendar Year         ----US$ million-------
PBS loan
Annual                       3.0     7.0    9.0    1.0
Cumulative                   3.0    10.0   19.0   20.0
SBS and IBT loans
Annual                       3.0     9.0    7.0    1.0
Cumulative                   3.0    12.0   19.0   20.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report Number 1865a-YU, dated June 23, 1978
EMENA Projects Department



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON THREE PROPOSED LOANS,
ONE EACH TO PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO, STOPANSKA
BANKA SKOPJE AND INVESTICIONA BANKA TITOGRAD
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on three proposed
loans, each equivalent to US$'20.0 million, to Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS),
Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS) and Investiciona Banka Titograd (IBT), all three
with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to help
finance the foreign exchange costs of investments in medium- and small-size
and labor-intensive industrial projects in three of the less developed
regions (LDRs) of Yugoslavia. The loans would bear interest at 7.5 percent
per annum and would be repaid according to schedules reflecting the composite
amortization schedules of the sub-loans financed. Individual sub-loans will
be repaid over a period not exceeding 15 years from date of signing including
grace periods of normally up to three years and in case of foreign co-financing
(para 61, this Report), up to five years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic mission visited Yugoslavia in November 1972; its
report entitled "The Economic Development of Yugoslavia" (194a-YU) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on January 2, 1974. An economic mission
visited Yugoslavia in October 1975; its report entitled "Economic Memorandum--
Yugoslavia" (1086b-YU) was distributed to the Executive Directors on September
3, 1976. A Basic Economic Mission to review the Social Development Plan 1976-
80 and to assess the economic implications of the new institutional framework
emanating from the 1974 Constitution visited Yugoslavia in October and November
1976; its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and
the Challenges of Development" (1615a-YU) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 5, 1978. Biasic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
3.        The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades
has been impressive, characterized by rapid growth accompanied by dynamic
structural and institutional changes.  GDP grew in real terms (1972 prices)
at an average annual rate of about 7 percent and, given an average population
growth rate of one percent per year, real per capita income more than tripled.
1/   Part I of this Report is identical to that in the Report and Recom-
mendation of the President for a Middle Neretva Hydro Power Project
(Report No. P-2242a-YU) dated April 19, 1978.



-2-
In 1976, per capita GNP was estimated at $1,680 (World Bank Atlas Methodology).
The activity of the social sector, especially industry, was the driving force
of the economy and the share of industry in GDP increased from about 23 per-
cent in 1955 to about 32 percent in 1976, and paved the way for the develop-
ment of a modern industry/service oriented urban society.
4.        The population growth rate which averaged 1 percent per year during
the last two decades, however, varies considerably among the regions ranging
from an average rate of 1.6 percent for the less developed Republics and
Provinces (LDRs) to 0.7 percent for the developed ones (DRs). Structural
changes in the economy have permitted a sizeable transfer of the labor force
from agriculture to industry and services. Despite this, by 1975, 39 percent
of the employed resident labor force was still engaged in agriculture and
forestry, mostly on small private farms; industry (including mining) accounted
for 24 percent, and other sectors for 37 percent.
5.        The socio-political framework evolved through several constitu-
tional amendments which were consolidated in the new Constitution of 1974.
It strengthens three important features of the socio-political system of
Yugoslavia. First, self-management, whereby the use and control of the
socially owned means of production are entrusted to the workers' collectives,
is the fundamental right and obligation of every Basic Organization of
Associated Labor (BOAL--the smallest identifiable unit of production which
produces a marketable output) in every sector and activity. Second, the
responsibility for most important social and policy decisions is shifted from
the Federation down to the Republics and Provinces, and on to the communes.
And third, the management and financial responsibility for social activities
(health, education, welfare, etc.) is transferred from the realm of the state
to Communities of Interest (decision-making bodies which comprise delegates
of both suppliers and users of the specific services). Responsibility for
certain economic activities affecting large segments of the society (like
communal services, power production, highways and water management) is pro-
gressively similarly organized through Communities of Interest.
6.        The social sector, which includes government, enterprises and public
institutions such as libraries, hospitals, theatres and schools, has the lead-
ing role in economic and social development. It accounts for 85 percent of
GDP and employs over half of the total labor force. The private sector is
comprised predominantly of peasant farms (generally with a 10 hectare limit to
land holdings) and small enterprises (generally with a 5-person limit on the
number of nonfamily workers), mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade,
transport and tourism. In the past, the private sector had been relatively
neglected by government policy. However, lately increased attention is being
devoted to private farmers with a view to accelerating the growth of agricul-
tural production and reducing the rural/urban income disparity. New legisla-
tion has also been enacted to promote private business through the pooling of
resources in joint ventures with social sector enterprises or among private
small-scale industrial, transport, trade or other entities. These measures
aim to encourage private sector productive investment and employment, by
circumventing the 5-employee limitation, and to absorb the returning migrant
workers and mobilize their savings.



- 3 -
7.        Regional income disparity--with a gradient of per capita income
falling generally from North to South--is one of the most important develop-
ment issues facing the country. Four regions can be distinguished by stage of
development. The Republic of Slovenia is the high per capita income region
with incomes almost double the :aational average.  The Republics of Serbia
and Croatia and the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina make up the middle income
regions, with incomes ranging from 100 to 125 percent of the national average.
However, even within these regions there are pockets of underdevelopment,
which basically coincide with private sector agriculture. The Republics of
Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia, with per capita incomes about
two-thirds of the national average, constitute the upper group among the
officially designated less developed regions. The Socialist Autonomous
Province of Kosovo (Kosovo), with an average per capita income of only 30
percent of the national average (about US$500.0 equivalent for 1976), is the
least developed region. These interregional disparities can be traced back
further to intra-regional disparities. Within Republics and Provinces the per
capita income spread between communes can extend over the range of 10 to 1,
and it is the prevalence of stagnating poor rural communes within the LDRs
which largely determines the disparity between the regions. The rate of
economic growth of the LDRs as a whole was only slightly below the average for
Yugoslavia, but due to the faster population growth (1.6 percent per year
versus 0.7 percent in the DRs) the income disparity had until recently tended
to widen. In order to reverse the trend and to accelerate economic growth and
social development in the LDRs, mechanisms were instituted for sizeable
transfers of financial resources, initially on a non-returnable basis. Since
1971, net credits on highly favorable terms (containing a grant element of
around 50 percent) were made available to the LDRs through the Federal Fund
for the Accelerated Development of Less Developed Regions, equivalent to about
20 percent of their total investment in the social sector. These transfers
amounted to about US$430 million equivalent in 1976 in addition to about
US$250 million equivalent being transferred as budgetary grants for social
services. The mechanism for both categories assures a growth of transfers in
line with the growth in GDP.
8.        The rate of open unemployment to the total resident labor force
amounts to about 5 percent but understates the magnitude of the employment
generation problem because of the existence of large reserves of rural under-
employed and the need to employ returning migrant workers. The rate of regis-
tered 1/ unemployment to social sector employment averaging about 11.9 percent
for the country as a whole in 1976 is perhaps a better measure.  A rapid
growth of the social sector which provides more productive employment is,
therefore, imperative if the natural increase of the labor force, in addition
to the returning migrants, is to be absorbed and the ranks of the unemployed
I/   In Yugoslavia, unemploymlent is measured in terms of registered
job seekers actually unemployed as well as those employed but seeking new
jobs.



- 4 -
reduced. This problem takes on added urgency as the incidence of unemploy-
ment 1/ is highly regionalized ranging from 25.4 percent at one extreme in
Kosovo to 1.5 percent in Slovenia.
Recent Developments
9.        In 1975, the growth rate of the economy receded to 4.5 percent, fol-
lowing the rapid increase of GDP of 9 percent in the previous year. This was
due mainly to the combined effects of a restrictive monetary policy, stagnat-
ing exports and a reduced growth of personal incomes and leveling consump-
tion; economic investment and housing construction provided the major growth
stimulus during 1975. The inflationary pressure, which built up during 1974
and extended into 1975, receded drastically in the second half of the year;
the rate of increase of industrial producer prices decreased from 30 percent
for 1974 to 22 percent in 1975, and the index of real personal receipts stag-
nated for the whole of the year.   The good harvest in 1974 had a favorable
impact on the balance of payments, although meat exports were severely affected
by the European Community ban on meat imports. Exports to oil producing coun-
tries and to the non-convertible currency area continued to expand rapidly
in 1975, but were insufficient to compensate for the sharp decline in exports
to the convertible currency area. As a result, commodity exports declined
by 2 percent in real terms. Workers' remittances and receipts from tourism
increased marginally. However, a larger contraction of imports and an
improvement in the terms of trade led to some decline in the current account
deficit to $1.0 billion as compared to $1.2 billion in 1974.
10.       Further reduction of the balance of payments deficit and of the
inflationary pressures in the economy were the major objectives of economic
policy during 1976. As compared to a nominal increase of 22 percent in 1975,
GDP grew by 14 percent in nominal and 4 percent in real terms in 1976. Fol-
lowing a near stagnation of industrial production (and economic activity in
general) in the first half of the year--as a result of the implementation
of new legislation enforcing greater financial discipline on enterprises--
industrial growth picked up in the second half of the year and recorded a rise
of about 4 percent. The combination of the economic slack and price policy
resulted in a cutback in the rise of producer prices and the cost of living to
less than 10 percent, i.e. less than half the previous year's increases.
Favorable results were also realized in the field of foreign trade. The
marked deceleration of inflation, the slackening of domestic demand and the
revival of Western European demand, as well as foreign trade policy, resulted
in a 20 percent growth of merchandise exports and about 4 percent decline of
imports in nominal terms. The reduced balance of trade deficit was also
aided by the inflow on account of invisibles, resulting in a $150 million
balance of payments surplus for the year.  Foreign exchange reserves also
reached a record of over $2.0 billion. Social sector employment grew by
3.7 percent and allowed the absorption of some returning migrant workers yet,
with the realized GDP growth rate, this meant a virtual stagnation of average
workers' productivity for the year.
1/   Ratio of registered unemployment to social sector employment.



- 5 -
Estimates for 1977 and Prospects for 1978
11.       Although initial projections for 1977 envisaged a moderate GDP growth
rate of about 5.5 percent and a balance of payments deficit of some $500 mil-
lion, estimates for the year indicate both a higher economic growth rate and
balance of payments deficit than expected. The pick-up of economic activity
which started in the second half of 1976 continued into 1977 with industrial
production growing at a rate of about 10 percent in the first half of the year.
The large monetary expansion in 1976 also enabled the expansion of investment
and other components of domestic demand and resulted in a somewhat higher
inflation rate than anticipaited (cost of living rise of 13-15 percent). For
the year as a whole, GDP is estimated to have risen by almost 7 percent with
industry growing by 8 percenit and agriculture by 4 percent. Employment is
estimated to have grown by about 3.5 percent and average workers' productivity
at an almost equal rate. The most significant deviation, however, occurred in
the foreign trade sector. As a result of the slow growth of exports and the
fast growing imports connected with expanding industrial production, which was
not compensated for by the growth of invisibles including workers' remittances,
the balance of payments deficit for 1977 is expected to amount to $1.3 billion
matching that for 1974. The country was able to contract the necessary for-
eign financing in 1977, however, maintaining its external reserves at about
the previous year's level. The program for 1978 envisages the stabilization
of the economic growth rate of 6-7 percent, a reduction of the inflation rate
and a major consolidation of the foreign trade sector to improve the balance
of payments position.
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
12.       The surfacing of major economic problems during 1974, such as high
international inflation and balance of payments pressures, led to a reappraisal
of development objectives. More emphasis was to be given to the development
of Yugoslavia's own natural resources, with the development of the energy
sector as the highest priority. The focus is on electric power, where the
generating capacity is falling critically short of the rapidly rising power
requirements of the expanding economy. The development of the power sector
will be based primarily on the largely unutilized hydropower potential and
soft-coal reserves of the country.  Other priority activities are ferrous
metallurgy, some segments of non-ferrous metallurgy (notably lead, zinc,
copper, nickel and bauxite/alumrinum), technologically advanced production
equipment, basic chemicals including petroleum refining, agriculture and food
processing, interrepublic transportation, multipurpose works, and housing and
basic construction material.
13.       This emphasis on accelerated development of the raw material basis
and of the economic infrastructure requires a more capital-intensive invest-
ment pattern, associated with .Longer time lags between investment and out-
put. To sustain this development path, both continued high borrowing abroad
and an increased savings rate will be essential. Since, with the possible
exception of private savings, interest rates have not been given a signifi-
cant role to play in the determination of the level of aggregate savings, the



- 6 -
income policy--i.e. the guidelines governing the distribution of enterprise
income between workers' income and accumulation--will have to play a crucial
role.
14.       The new Five Year Plan (1976-80) focuses on the implementation of
these ebjectives. For GDP growth, an average rate of 7 percent per year is
proposed, compared with a target growth rate of the previous Plan of 7.5 per-
cent and a realized growth rate of 6.5 percent. For employment, the average
planned growth rate would come to about 3 percent with annual increments
exceeding the natural increase of the labor force by growing margins. This
would permit more vigorous pursuit of two major social objectives: the reduc-
tion of the number of temporary migrants abroad (estimated at about 900,000 in
1975), and an increased absorption of the rural underemployed into the social
sector, which is likely to have significant impact only in the DRs. The
economy will continue to be open to the world market, although the composition
of foreign trade is expected to change with a reduced share for raw material
and semi-finished products on the import side, and an increased share for
agricultural products and manufactured goods on the export side. Workers'
remittances are not expected to increase in real terms, but rising tourism
receipts and construction work abroad are expected to compensate for the
expected declining importance of workers' remittances.
15.       The reduction of regional disparities is another priority objective
of the new Five Year Plan. To that end, the mechanisms for the transfer of
financial resources to the LDRs in the form of loans at concessionary terms
for economic investment and of budgetary grants for social development will be
continued, with some marginal increase in contributions as a proportion of
GDP. Since most of the natural resources of the country, including hydro-
power, are to be found in the LDRs, these regions will also benefit from the
increased emphasis on the development of power and basic industries which will
be financed jointly through direct financial contributions from the consuming
regions.
16.       The new Five Year Plan was prepared according to the self-management
principle stipulated in the Constitution of 1974. Self-management planning is
perceived as an iterative process of sequential, converging consensus-finding.
In the initial-stage, broad priorities (as to sectors and activities) and
general quantitative targets and constraints (like growth rates of social
product and the volume of savings and investment) are determined on the basis
of consensus by the Assemblies of t:he socio-political communities (Govern-
ments at the Communal, Republican and Provincial, and Federal levels). Sub-
sequently, the planning process starts at the bottom with individual enter-
prises and Communities of Interest setting out expectations and targets. The
planning process then proceeds through successive and partially overlapping
stages of horizontal 'adjustments within sectors and branches (aimed primarily
at eliminating gross duplications),, vertical adjustments between closely inter-
dependent sectors and branches (aimed at determining realistic orders of
magnitudes of production, conceptually within an input/output framework), and
regional adjustments between Republics and Provinces (aimed at both horizontal
and vertical consolidation). The socio-political communities participate in



- 7 -
this process by ensuring observance of the broad priorities, targets and con-
straints, and by resolving conflicts which cannot be resolved by the direct
participants. The evolving consolidated programs of action, which in their
totality constitute the operational portion of the Plan, are codified in the
form of "Social Compacts" 1/ or "Self-Management Agreements" 2/ which are
legally binding for the whole Plan period unless renegotiated in the case of
major deviations occurring in. the course of Plan implementation. The new Plan
differs from the previous one in strengthening and formalizing the commitments
for implementation by enterprises, banks and government institutions.
Creditworthiness
17.       In spite of the recent balance of payments problems, the prospects
for Yugoslavia's continued economic growth during the next decade are good.
The country's endowment of natural and human resources, its relatively low
dependence on imported primary energy, its pragmatic approach to economic
problems and its readiness to undertake institutional changes, combine to
give grounds for a favorable assessment of future prospects. Yugoslavia will
need to continue to raise foreign capital on a fairly large scale, mostly
from established channels such as the Euro-currency market, suppliers' credits
and the World Bank. In addition, greater use may be made of credit lines from
COMECON countries and the European Community, and efforts are being intensi-
fied to open up new sources of capital in OPEC countries. The debt service
ratio is estimated to have risen in 1976 (around 18 percent), but it is
expected to level at about 17 percent in 1977 and subsequent years. Taking
into account Yugoslavia's debt service record and the measures taken in the
past to control balance of payments problems, as well as the prospective
growth of production and structural improvement of the balance of trade,
Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 3/
18.       The Bank has made 47 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about US$1,808
million. Of this amount, approximately 47 percent (US$856.4 million) has been
for 17 loans for the transportation sector--9 for highways, 5 for railways,
and one each for a natural gas pipeline, an oil pipeline, and a port project.
1/   "Social Compacts" regulate broader economic issues or policies and are
concluded among Socio-Political Communities and also involving Economic
Chambers and Associations of Enterprises and Trade Unions.
2/   "Self-Management Agreements" are more specific and regulate most rela-
tions, rights and obligations within, among and between economic organ-
izations like BOALs, enterprises and banks.
3/   Substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report for a
Middle Neretva Hydro Power Project (Report No. P-2442a-YU) of April 19,
1978.



-8-
Bank lending has generally concentrated on infrastructure including, in addi-
tion to the transportation loans, four power loans, one telecommunications
loan, two water supply and sewerage and five multipurpose loans. Five loans
totalling US$206 million (about 11 ',ercent of the total amount lent to
Yugoslavia) have been made for agriculture and agro-industries. Ten loans
amounting to US$200 million (about 11 percent of the total) have also been
made for industry and two for tourism amounting to US$30 million. The $27
million first Bank loan for air pollution control was approved May 25, 1976.
In addition, IFC has made investments in eleven Yugoslav enterprises totalling
about US$155 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and
IFC investments as of April 30, 1978 and notes on the execution of on-going
projects.
19.       The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its lend-
ing to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are:
(a) to support Yugoslav effoits to address the critical issues
of regional disparities and unemployment;
(b) to promote agricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic infrastructure
and credit facilities;
(c) to encourage structural reforms in the major sectors through
improved coordination, institution-building and technical
assistance;
(d) to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic infra-
structure-particularly transport and energy; and
(e) to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
It is obvious that each and every Bank operation cannot address all these
objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the welfare of the less developed
regions (LDRs), but the basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia
has increasingly been towards the development-of the LDRs and the agricultural
sector in particular.
20.       The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDRs is fully in accord with the Federal Government's avowed policy to narrow
the gap between the richest and the poorest regions. The new development Plan
assigns even higher priority to redressing such disparity, and to that end the
Federal Government has now obtained consensus of its constituents, not only on
the channeling of domestic resources to the LDRs through the Federal Fund
mechanism (see para. 7 of this Report) but also on the distribution of external
resources including Bank lending. The Bank has actively cooperated with the
Government in evolving a distribution pattern for Bank lending which gives
weight to the income levels and population size of particular regions and has



- 9 -
on this basis over the last three years effectively directed more than two-
thirds of its lending to the LDRs.  While the Bank's ability to achieve such a
distribution is clearly influenced by the ability of the regions to generate
viable projects, recent experience in bringing forward well designed and eco-
nomically sound projects for the LDRs is cause for confidence in our ability
to maintain the level of Bank activity in the LDRs, though there will undoubt-
edly be year-to-year fluctuations.
21.        In recognition of the fact that such an expanded investment program
for the LDRs would need to be preceded by a systematic survey of these regions
to take stock of development potential and identify constraints, the Bank
undertook and completed economic surveys of the four LDRs (Kosovo, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro). These regional surveys, coupled with
intensified Bank assistance in project formulation and ongoing economic and
sector analysis, reinforce the impact of the Bank's participation in the
development of these regions.
22.        Over the past several years, more than two-thirds of our lending,
as noted in paragraph 20 above, has been to the LDRs. Operations, such as the
proposed fourth industrial credit project (which is submitted concurrently
with a proposed third industrial credit project designed to benefit Kosovo,
the poorest region of Yugoslavia), as well as operations envisaged for LDRs
over the next two years, including loans for irrigation, water supply and
sewerage and multipurpose water resource and agriculural development, emphasize
our continuing orientation to the needs of the LDRs. Recently approved loans
for a Ninth Highway Project, a Fifth Railway Project and a Middle Neretva
Hydro Power Project as well as the Second Power Transmisson Project approved
in 1977, will both assist the LDRs and promote structural reforms in the
transport and energy sectors. IFC is currently investigating several new
investment opportunities to encourage joint ventures which would provide
technical, management and marketing expertise as well as long-term capital.
23.        The Bank helped formulate the 1973 "Green Plan", a comprehensive
framework for agricultural development, which recognized the need to encourage
the role of the individual, low-income sector (which holds almost 85 percent
of the cultivated land and employs over 90 percent of the farm population).
As a follow-up, the 1976 "Green Plan" calls for even greater attention to
agriculture and clearly recognizes that the impetus for accelerated growth
must necessarily be derived from the underexploited resources of the indi-
vidual farming sector. It iis now generally appreciated that the individual
farmer sector can generate significant increases in production if provided
with sufficient support in terms of extension services, credit for inputs and
basic infrastructural facil:ities. The loans for the Ibar Multipurpose Project
(Loan No. 777-YU) and the Metohija Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 1360-YU) in
Kosovo, the first and second Agro-Industries Projects (Loan Nos. 894-YU and
1371-YU) in Macedonia, and the first and second Agricultural Credit Projects
(Loan Nos. 1129-YU and 1477--YUF, respectively), have given special attention
to the needs of the individual farmer sector.
24.        The agricultural sector deserves attention for a number of develop-
mental considerations. It is the obvious vehicle for addressing the problems



- 10 -
of rural poverty which underlies regional disparity; it can provide opportuni-
ties for productively employing the rural population, thus reducing the pres-
sure for creating non-agricultural employment; and it contributes to reducing
reliance on imports and improving the prospects for exports of food and other
agricultural products. Forthcoming projects for irrigation and rural develop-
ment will support agriculture development in general and in particular, the
individual farmer sector.
25.       Decentralized management, which is the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in for-
mulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974
constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been to revamp
the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for coordination. The
new system of self-management planning requires that the programs of all enter-
prises are discussed, negotiated and reflected in legally binding agreements.
In order to support these efforts for improved coordination, the Bank intends
to pursue vigorously the initiatives it has sponsored in terms of establishing
the basis for evolving coherent sector policies.
26.       Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system, which requires reaching
a consensus of all parties affected by any substantive decision, the process
of dealing with problems and of evolving acceptable solutions is cumbersome.
The Bank sees it important, however, to continue exerting its influence in
shaping the policy framework and having a further beneficial impact on foster-
ing coordination, particularly in the power and transport sectors where sig-
nificant progress has already been achieved. For instance, the Eighth Highway
Project (Loan No. 1377-YU) approved March 15, 1977, provides for studies of
road-user charges and railway costs which the Government and we believe essen-
tial for developing intermodal coordination and devising a policy framework
for the transport sector. The Second Power Transmission Project (Loan No.
1469-YU approved June 28, 1977), an extension of the interconnected transmis-
sion system, partly financed by the Bank in 1972 (Loan No. 836-YU), will
enable the supply of power throughout the country and thereby encourage power
exchange coordination among all republics/provinces. The promise of further
progress in the coming years is reassuring and additional improvements in
sector coordination and policy are foreseen in conjunction with upcoming
projects.
27.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and ability to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. While the Yugoslavs
are making concerted efforts to open up and enlarge access to Western finan-
cial markets and institutions (including the European Investment Bank), there
is no concrete evidence of substantial additional inflows. The Bank, there-
fore, remains a major source of long-term external capital for the foreseeable
future, and its significant level of operations in Yugoslavia not only consti-
tutes the largest source of long-term external capital but, equally important,
is regarded by international financing institutions as evidence of inter-
national confidence in Yugoslavia's economic performance, policies and
prospects. In financing of infrastructure as well as industrial and agro-
industrial projects, we continue to devote particular attention to possibili-
ties for attracting co-financing. In our support of projects in the directly



- 11 -
productive sectors, we have and will continue to devote attention to those
which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
28.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to about one-fifth of its
total public debt, outstanding and disbursed. The outstanding debt to the
Bank is, however, expected to decline gradually from its current level to
about 10 percent of Yugoslavia's total external debt. Service on Bank loans
as a proportion of total debt service was 4 percent in 1976 and is projected
to increase to about 5 perceni: by 1980.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS 1/
A.   The industrial Sector
The Role of Industry
29.       Industry has been the principal engine of Yugoslavia's impressive
economic growth since 1954; it has opened up the country to the world economy
and provided employment to the growing labor force. The industrial value
added growth rate of 9.4 percent per annum during 1956-75 exceeded the GMP 2/
growth rate of 7.2 percent per annum (in 1972 prices), resulting in an increase
in the share of industry in GMP from 23 percent in 1955 to 37 percent in 1976.
In the same period, industrial investment grew at a rate of about 7 percent in
real terms, accounting for around one-half of total social sector investment;
industrial exports, which grew at 10.3 percent per annum, accounted for about
90 percent of total commodity exports by 1975; industrial employment grew at
the rate of 5 percent per annum compared to the social sector employment
growth rate of 4 percent per annum.  Industry now accounts for 39 percent of
total social sector employment. Gains in productivity were noteworthy during
the same time span, averaging 5 percent per annum. The performance of the
industrial sector in the 1971-75 Plan period was consistent with the past
record; the 8.1 percent per annum growth rate of industrial production equal-
led the Plan target.
Structure of Industry
30.       Generally, Yugoslavia's industrial enterprises are large.  Small-
scale industrial establishments (defined as those employing less than 200
workers and having fixed assets of less than 30 million Dinars or $1.7 million
equivalent) constituted only 18 percent of the total industrial establishment
1/   Part III of this Report is identical to Part III of the Report and
Recommendation of the President for a Third Industrial Credit Project
(Report No. P-2235a-YU) dated June 26, 1978 which is being circulated
concurrently to the Executive Directors.
2/   Gross Material Product cr Social Product excludes "non-productive" (in
Yugoslav terminology) services such as education, health, administra-
tion, defense and other public services. GDP is approximately 14 percent
higher than GMP.



- 12 -
and accounted for only 2.3 percent of total industrial fixed assets and 3.1
percent of total industrial employment in 1974. The preponderance of large
establishments is the result of the past industrialization policy: the
emphasis placed on energy production and exploitation of existing natural
resources and the attempt to build up processing facilities based on newly
exploited natural resources. In 1974 basic industries, namely energy (elec-
tricity, coal and petroleum), ferrous and non-ferrous metals, chemicals and
pulp and paper, accounted for 53 percent of industrial fixed assets but only
34 percent of industrial value added and 20 percent of industrial employment.
In contrast, other industries, such as non-metallic minerals, metal products,
shipbuilding, electrical products, building materials, wood products, textiles,
leather and footwear, rubber products, food products, and printing and pub-
lishing, accounted for only 47 percent of industrial fixed assets but 66 per-
cent of industrial value added ancd 80 percent of industrial employment. This
reveals not only the domination of' basic industries in the industrial struc-
ture, but also their relatively higher capital-output and capital-labor ratios.
31.       The Less Developed Regions (LDRs).  Over the past 20 years, the
share of industry in GMP in the four LDRs grew faster than in the other
regions. Though the LDRs started with a considerably lower share of industry
in GMP after the Second World War,, by 1975 the share was 37.3 percent in the
LDRs compared to 36.8 percent in the developed regions (DRs). Bosnia-
Herzegovina had the highest share of the four LDRs, with almost 40 percent,
and Montenegro the lowest with 31.2 percent in 1975. The LDRs, more than the
rest of Yugoslavia, have considerable wealth of natural resources in mining
and energy. Basic industry (including mining) was, therefore, given top
priority. This strategy was aimed at providing power, minerals and raw
materials for processing industries in Yugoslavia, mainly located in DRs, and
for export. Moreover, compared with the requirements of promoting light
industries, basic industries were expected to economize on scarce management,
technical and marketing expertise. Mining and production of basic metals now
play an important role in the four LDRs. Approximately half of Yugoslavia's
total steel capacity is located in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia.
Considerable deposits of bauxite have enabled a rapid expansion of the aluminum
industry, centered in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Montenegro, which produces
aluminum for domestic use and significant quantities of alumina for export.
Yugoslavia's main lead and zinc ressources are mined, refined and smelted in
Kosovo and Macedonia. In 1974, the share of basic industries in total indus-
trial fixed assets in the LDRs wa;s 61 percent, in industrial value added, 45
percent, and in industrial employment, 29 percent, compared to the respective
shares of 52 percent, 28 percent and 17 percent in the DRs.  Because of the
dominance of basic industries in the four LDRs, the industrial pattern in
these regions is more capital-intensive than in the DRs. The share of pro-
cessing or fabricating industries like metal products and textiles, which are
more labor-intensive, is substantially below the Yugoslav average.
Industrial Objectives and Policy
32.       Industry will continue to be the prime mover of economic growth in
Yugoslavia as a whole and in the four LDRs. The 1976-80 Federal Plan projects
the industrial growth rate at 8 percent per annum, compared to the projected
GMP growth rate of 7 percent, and allocates 56 percent of social sector fixed



- 13 -
investment to industry. The 1976-80 Federal and Regional Plans designate
energy and other basic industries as priority sectors. The share of basic
industries in total industrial fixed investment in Yugoslavia will rise to 63
percent in this period. The share of basic industries in the LDRs is pro-
jected to be almost similar. The choice of the priority sectors was necessi-
tated by the need to remove "structural imbalances" in the Yugoslav economy
(also referred to in para 12 above). The dependence of the economy on imports
of raw materials and equipment was considered excessive and certain domestic
growth constraints, particularly in energy, agriculture and transportation,
considered serious. The Yugoslav strategy, therefore, has tended to aim at a
balanced development of the economy through encouraging the growth of those
sectors and branches that have tended to lag behind in the period after the
1965 reforms and concomitantly to achieve a significant import substitution in
priority sectors (mainly producing intermediate goods).
33.       While the choice of the priority sectors is understandable, the
impact of this strategy on employment generation would be limited. Since the
average capital-labor ratio in priority sectors is more than twice as high as
the industrial average, the plan resource allocation pattern implies a rela-
tively high investment-per-job created and, by implication, limited additional
employment opportunities. Recognizing the limited impact of the priority
sectors on employment generation, the Plan strategy recognizes the need for
emphasis on labor-intensive and small-scale industries. Social Compacts
(defined in footnote 1, page 7, this Report) on small-scale industries, which
specify promotional measures such as tax incentives and preferential credit
facilities, have been adopted. Social Compacts on employment in the social
sector have also been concluded within and between the regions. Communities
of Interest (defined in para. 5, this Report) for employment, consisting of
representatives of job-seekers and employers, have been created to coordinate
inter- and intra-republic employment policy. In addition, policies have been
adopted to encourage private sector employment and include fiscal incentives
and the creation of a new legal concept, the Contractual Organization of
Associated Labor, which can be private or mixed private-social in terms of
ownership and circumvents the five-employee limitation that has applied to
privately owned businesses. This form of enterprise may facilitate absorption
of returning migrants and the underemployed in the agricultural sector. The
extent of effectiveness of the new employment policies is, however, still to
be ascertained.
34.       The problems of unemployment (noted-in para 8, this Report) and
inter-regional disparities in income (para 7) will persist in the near future.
The rate of unemployment in Yugoslavia reached 11.9 percent in 1976, the rate
in the LDRs being 17.6 percent and that in Kosovo 25.4 percent. The rapid
migration from the agricultural sector, the limited inter-regional migration,
and the return of migrant workers are important aspects of the employment
problem. The problem in the LDRs is accentuated by the much faster natural
increase in population (see para 4, this Report), particularly in Kosovo with
an annual population growth of 2.9 percent during 1971-76. Consequently, even
if the target growth rates of social sector employment in the LDRs during
1976-80 were realized, they would be barely sufficient to absorb the natural
increase in the labor force and returning migrants and to reduce registered



-- 14 -
unemployment by 25 percent in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro;
while in Kosovo it would be barely sufficient to absorb the natural increase
and returning migrants. The need to lessen and overcome the problems of
unemployment and interregional disparities is therefore seen by the Yugoslav
authorities concerned as necessitating a policy of industrial development for
the LDRs that, in addition to diversifying the industrial structure by encour-
aging investment in medium- and smaLl-scale processing industries, gives a
more vigorous emphasis to promoting labor-intensive projects.
35.       In Kosovo, the poorest region of Yugoslavia, the need is particularly
compelling to devote greater attention, through industrial credit activity, to
developing both processing facilities as an adjunct to the schemes for natural
resource exploitation and, given the Province's relative lack of trained man-
power, appropriately designed projects which are responsive to Kosovo's need
for ameliorating rural poverty and generating employment.
B.   The Financial Sector
36.       Multi-purpose banks are the dominant form of financial intermedia-
ries, carrying out all commercial and investment banking functions for all
sectors of the economy. Each region of Yugoslavia has such a major bank,
though these banks can also have branches in other regions. The four proposed
borrowers are in this category and handle some 80 percent of investment and
commercial banking in their respective regions. In addition to these banks,
the financial sector includes the National Banks, which essentially perform
the role of central banks at the Federal and Regional levels, post office
savings institutions, investment loan funds and insurance institutions.
37.       The investment loan funds of the banks in the LDRs consist primarily
of resources provided through the Federal Fund (see para 7, this Report) and
similar funds within the regions. These funds derive their resources from
obligatory loans levied on enterprise income and, according to agreed upon
criteria for allocation to the various LDRs, transfer their resources to the
respective multi-purpose banks.
38.       A new Banking Law became effective on January 15, 1977.  The main
emphasis is on the reorganization of banks so that their services and func-
tions are more closely integrated and directed to the financial needs of their
founders (which are their depositors and borrowers). Accordingly, the new Law
requires some changes in the organization and structure of the multi-purpose
banks, but have little if any pracl:ical effect on their ability to carry on
their operations.
39.       Given the current planning mechanism (see para 16, this Report),
interest rates in Yugoslavia are assigned a limited role in resource mobil-
ization and allocation. This reflects the Marxist theoretical premise that
capital is not a separate factor oE production but "past labor". The need for
financial intermediation is accepted, however, along with interest rates.
Each bank's founders establish the bank's borrowing and lending rates each
year. As the banks are not profit oriented but service oriented, the spread
is kept as low as possible (about 2 percent is the usual target to cover



- 15 -
administrative expenses and mandatory provisions). The Yugoslav authorities
plan to undertake a comprehensive study on the role of interest rates in
Yugoslavia which is expected to be completed during the commitment period of
the proposed loans. The study is to be executed in conjunction with the Second
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1477 of July 29, 1977) and is expected to
be completed by the end of this year.
40.       Within the framework of the regional development plans and their
own plans, the multi-purposes banks, including the three borrowers under the
proposed loans, play a key role in allocating funds to sound projects. The
demand on these banks for financing has consistently exceeded the supply
of resources available to tlhem, allowing them to be selective in deciding on
projects they will support. They have the authority (which they exercise),
working in cooperation with the regional Economic Chambers (which encompass
associations of workers in the different economic sectors), to approve, modify
or reject specific investment proposals.
41.       The multi-purpose banks mobilize domestic resources by attracting
deposits from households, enterprises and other organizations. Their foreign
resource mobilization efforts are directed at guaranteeing suppliers' credits
(the most important activity in terms of amounts involved), attracting depos-
its of Yugoslav workers abroad and obtaining foreign loans.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The proposed project, which is summarized in the Loan and Project
Summary at the beginning of this report and described in detail in the "Staff
Appraisal Report on a Third and Fourth Industrial Credit Project" No. 1865a-
YU dated June 23, 1978 was appraised by a mission which visited Yugoslavia in
October 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington during March 7-14, 1978
inclusive. The Yugoslav delegation was led by Mr. Aleksander Ilic, Vice
President, Federal Committee for Industry and Energy, and included representa-
tives of the three banks concerned.
Background
43.       Tne proposed Fourth Project, with the concurrently proposed Third
Industrial Credit Project involving Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP), is a
sequel to the First and Second Industrial Credit Projects (Loans Nos. 1012/
1013 and 1277 of June 21, 1974 and June 14, 1976, respectively). These
previous two loans had the dual objectives of (a) financing small- and
medium-size sub-projects in manufacturing and processing industries, and
(b) institution-building. Progress in achieving these objectives is con-
sidered to be on the whole satisfactory. The participating banks under the
proposed Fourth Project, Investiciona Banka Titograd (IBT), Stopanska Banka
Skopje (SBS) and Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS), have committed their portions
of the earlier loans at a satisfactory rate.



- 16 -
44.       The financial rate of return (FRR) estimated by IBT, SBS and PBS and
KBP (the participating bank under a proposed Third Industrial Credit Project,
a loan for which is proposed concurrently with the proposed three loans) for
sub-projects above the free limit (see para 58, this Report) financed under
the first and second credit lines ranged from 15 percent to over 45 percent,
while the estimated economic rate of return (ERR) ranged from 12 percent to
above 40 percent; the agreed minimum being 10 percent under the First and 11
percent under the Second Industrial Credit Projects. The estimated average
total cost per job created by these projects was $39,400 equivalent in 1977
prices, which is a satisfactory average in view of the relatively advanced
stage of economic development of Yugoslavia. The second project was also
aimed at encouraging foreign co-financing by providing a higher limit for a
sub-project's total cost and a longer grace period for such co-financed sub-
projects, and the results to date are reassuring. Twelve PBS sub-projects
have attracted co-financing almost matching the amount provided to these
projects by the Bank, and six SBS sub-projects have attracted co-financing
equivalent to about two-thirds of the amount of the Bank loan committed to
these sub-projects. In the case of IBT, two sub-projects have received co-
financing almost equal to the Bank's commitment of US$2.6 million equivalent.
So far, one of KBP's sub-projects has received co-financing slightly exceeding
the Bank's commitment of US$2.5 million equivalent. Such co-financing has
been primarily in the form of medium-term commercial credits. Institution
building under the first two projects has progressed satisfactorily. The
quality of appraisal work has improved and techniques, such as those used for
financial and economic rates of return calculations, are now widely employed
in most project appraisals, whether Bank-financed or not. The first industrial
credit line is expected to be fully disbursed by the end of 1978, at which time
a project completion report (PCR) will be prepared. Data are expected to be
furnished to the Bank for this purpose as well as for the preparation of a PCR
on the Second Project. The three Borrowers, in conjunction with KBP under the
proposed Third Project (Third Credit Line Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(b)),
have undertaken to prepare PCRs on the proposed Third and Fourth Industrial
Credit Projects during the first quarter of 1984 (Fourth Credit Line Loan
Agreements, Section 3.04(b)).
Objectives of the Proposed Loans
45.       The objectives of the proposed three loans under the proposed Fourth
Industrial Credit Project, each being US$20 million to PBS, SBS and IBT,
respectively, encompass those of the previous two projects which, in addi-
tion to providing foreign exchange resources to Yugoslavia to finance indus-
trial development, were to contribute to the economic development of the
LDRs and create employment opportunities and assist the participating banks
in further strengthening their institutions.  The proposed project, in addi-
tion to these objectives, attempts to address more directly the problem of
unemployment in the LDRs. Portions of the proposed loans will be designated
specifically for labor-intensive sub-projects, defined as sub-projects pro-
viding employment at a maximum cost per job of US$23,000 equivalent. This
figure was arrived at utilizing the same methodology applied within the Bank
for devising thresholds of urban poverty in member countries and taking into
account 1979 prices which will prevail at the time the proposed project is
actually to be implemented. It should be noted that this (with the proposed



- 17 -
Third Industrial Credit Project involving Kosovo) is the first project in
Yugoslavia to have a specific labor-intensive component and thus should serve
to heighten awareness of the need to, and desirability of, providing jobs at
as low a cost as possible.
The Borrowing Banks
46.       The borrowing barks under the proposed fourth project are Privredna
Banka Sarajevo (PBS), Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS) and Investiciona Banka
Titograd (IBT), three of the four banks that participated in the first and
second projects. The basic, legal framework for these multi-purpose banks is
the new Banking Law (see para 38, this Report). Each bank has its own self-
management agreement and statutes; its operations from the viewpoint of overall
credit and monetary policy as well as its liquidity position are regulated by
the National Bank and supervised by the Social Accounting Service (SDK). Mem-
bers of each bank, who constitute its General Assembly, include organizations
of associated labor (from most of the enterprises in the particular region
served by each bank) and other social sector organizations with the exception
of governments. Every member has one vote in the Assembly, the highest
governing body of the multi-purpose banks. Each Assembly approves the medium-
range plan, annual plan ancL business policy (including interest rates) of its
bank, and these plans are harmonized with the plans of bank member organiza-
tions as well as with Republican Plans and the National Plan.
47.       The Assembly appoints, for a four-year term, each bank's General
Manager (and also, in the case of PBS, a President) who is the chief executive.
Appointments are made on the basis of professional competence and changes are
infrequent. The quality of senior management is generally good. The number
of employees varies from about 700 in IBT to over 4,000 in PBS. All three
participating banks have similar organizations, functionally divided into
departments at the head office level. Each bank has several branches, ranging
from 8 for IBT to 22 for S3S.
48.       Policies and Procecdures.  The three banks do not have formal finan-
cial policies per se concernding their operations such as exposure limits and
maximum debt to equity ratio.  Nevertheless, they generally follow prudent
practices.  The members of the banks agree on the distribution of loans among
themselves and any substantial allocation of funds to a particular project
would have to be in accordance with the plan (approved by the Assembly--
see para 46, above). The three multipurpose banks concerned all have qualified
project appraisal and supervision staff, though some staff shortages exist.
While appraisal reports received from the banks are generally good, further
upgrading is desirable. The use of financial and economic rates of return
is becoming more widespread iand is being applied to other than Bank projects.
Supervision work is satisfactory, as are disbursement and procurement proce-
dures.
49.       Financial Position.  The banks plan their operations on a disburse-
ment basis rather than on a commitment basis. As a result, each bank has
substantial overcommitments vis-a-vis available resources at any point in time
which will be covered by transfers from the Federal Fund and other sources.



- 18 -
Their balance sheets indicate a satisfactory liquidity position. Debt/equity
ratios, although they seem high, arE. not to be conventionally interpreted
since, in the Yugoslav context, capital contributions are minimized, almost all
being for liquidity and operational funds. Most of the bank resources forming
i41bilities come from the deposits of enterprises, household savings deposits
and from Federal and Regional Funds, the latter having the character of managed
funds with the banks acting essentially as conduits for disbursing them in
accordance with the provisions of the regional plans and agreements of the
receiving Republics. In any case, the solvency of Yugoslav banks is a function
of the solvency of their respective members (each member assuming unlimited
liability for the bank's debts) and, ultimately, the economy as a whole. The
fact that the banks are not profit-oriented is reflected in their income
statements. The banks do, however, earn somewhat more than is necessary to
break even, the excess being either retained or returned to their founders.
50.       The three banks' arrears position has improved over the two years
from June 1975 to June 1977, reflect:ing the improved liquidity position of
enterprises and the intensified collection procedures followed by the banks.
None of the banks has experienced sLignificant write-offs in the past and
reschedulings have been few. However, because of the limited availability
of data and the multi-purpose nature of the banks, it is difficult to assess
the quality of the long-term loan portfolios. In the framework of annual
audits to be undertaken by each of the Borrowers (Loan Agreements, Section
4.02), the three banks have assured the Bank that they will each carry out
an annual portfolio analysis covering loan arrears and reschedulings and, on
the basis of this analysis, assess the risk and magnitude of possible losses.
This understanding is similar to the one reached in connection with the Second
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1477-YU of July 29, 1977) and is identically
reflected in the terms of the proposed loan under the simultaneously proposed
Third Industrial Credit Project.
51.       Each of the three participating banks is now audited by the Social
Accounting Service (SDK) following, to the extent possible, generally accepted
international accounting standards. Over the past several years, SDK has been
successful in expanding the scope of its international standard audits and in
fact for 1976 was able to give its unqualified opinion on the accounts of PBS
and SBS. While normal audits per Yugoslav standards are currently carried out
for IBT, it is expected that SDK will be able to execute audits on this bank
in accordance with acceptable international standards on the 1977 and future
accounts. This steady progress in extending audits is one tangible result of
a Bank supported training program for SDK which began in 1974.
52.       Each of the three banks concerned is considered creditworthy for
Bank lending, though a conventional assessment of creditworthiness is neither
fully possible nor entirely appropriate in view of the unique Yugoslav economic
system. This assessment is based on the fact that (a) there have been no
significant loan losses in the past and the arrears situation is manageable;
(b) management of resources and appraisal and supervision of projects are
sound; and (c) each bank is such an integral part of its region's economy and
the economy as a whole that failure is exceedingly unlikely.



- 19 -
53.       Operations.  The main areas of operation of the three participating
banks are loans and guarantees; equity investments are negligible. Long-term
loan commitments have increased over the past several years, reflecting the
increase in investment activities in the regions the banks serve. In 1976,
loan commitments of the three banks totalled $1,500.8 million equivalent, of
which loans for industrial projects accounted for almost three-quarters.
Guarantees in favor of enterprises also have shown an increasing trend,
totalling $1,275.2 million equivalent in 1976.
54.       Forecast of Operations.  The banks' five-year forecasts of operations
indicate that each expects lorng-term loan commitments to continue to expand
(except IBT, which experienced exceptionally large commitments in recent years
for several major projects). Their long-term resource mobilization plans
appear reasonable, with Federal Funds expected to be the largest source. The
projected financial statements reflect the banks' efforts to maintain a spread
only sufficient to cover co.3ts and mandatory provisions. The liquidity posi-
tions, however, are forecast to be satisfactory.
Features of the Proposed Lozns
55.       Labor-Intensive Sub-Projects.  In accordance with the proposed
project's specific focus on dealing with unemployment in the LDRs, twenty-five
percent of the funds each of the three participating banks receives under the
proposed project would be earmarked for labor-intensive sub-projects, defined
in para 45 above. As the main purpose of these sub-projects is to provide
low-cost jobs, there would be no limitations on the size of sub-projects or
of sub-loans, or on the type of sub-projects as there would be for "normal"
sub-projects (see para 56), provided they satisfy the usual technical, finan-
cial and economic criteria.
56.       Diversification.  The balance of the proposed loans to PBS, SBS and
IBT (seventy-five percent) woluld continue to be used for financing "normal"
small- and medium-size sub-projects in manufacturing and processing, the same
types as were financed under the previous industrial credit lines, with
limitations as set out in para 57. This is aimed to promote diversification
within the industrial sectors of the LDRs which tend to be heavily biased in
favor of large, capital-intensive basic industries.
57.       Sub-project and Sub-Loan Size.  Under the Second Industrial Credit
Project, the total cost of sub-projects was limited to US$6.0 million equiva-
lent unless there was foreign-co-financing involved when a higher limit of
US$10.0 million equivalent applied. These limits on total sub-project cost
were imposed to help ensure that small- and medium-size sub-projects were
financed as they tend to be more labor-intensive than large sub-projects. To
allow, however, for the possibility that a larger sub-project may also be
relatively labor-intensive, it is now proposed to consider for financing under
the proposed project, sub-projects whose total cost exceeds US$10.0 million
equivalent if they create lobs at a total cost per job of US$40,000 equivalent
or jess. This figure is twro-thirds of the average fixed investment cost per
new job in the industrial sector in the LDRs in 1979 prices, based on the
average for 1974-75 (US$60,500 equivalent).  It is less than the average cost



- 20 -
per job created by sub-projects above the free limit under the previous two
projects, again adjusted for past and expected inflation (US$45,750 equiva-
lent). For those portions of the proposed loans allocated to "normal" sub-
projects, sub-loans would normally not exceed US$3.0 million equivalent (the
limit under the Second Industrial Credit Project was US$2.5 million equiva-
lent), ensuring the financing of a reasonably large number of sub-projects.
(Loan Agreements, Schedule 3, C, 6(b) and (c)).
58.       Free Limit.  In recognit:ion of the improvements in each bank's
project appraisal work and because of the Bank's growing familiarity with and
greater confidence in these instit:utions, the free limit on individual sub-
loans (including sub-loans to labor intensive sub-projects) would be raised
from the $500,000 established under the second industrial credit line to S1.0
million. The aggregate free limit: for each bank would also be raised from
about 40 percent to 60 percent of its proposed loan. This will allow the Bank
to review for approval an average of about three or four sub-projects per
bank, a reasonable number (Loan Agreements, Section 2.02(b)).
59.       Terms of Sub-loans.  Individual sub-loans would be repaid over a
period not exceeding 15 years from the date of signing of the proposed loans
(Loan Agreements, Section 2.08). Grace periods would normally be up to three
years, with up to five years allowed when there is co-financing and the need
for such a longer grace period is demonstrated (para 61 below).
60.       As under the Second Industrial Credit Project (and as noted in
para 44, this Report), sub-projects would have to have a minimum FRR and ERR
of 11 percent. The on-lending rate to be charged by the banks on Bank funds
would be 11 percent with the sub-borrowers assuming the foreign exchange
risk (Loan Agreements, Schedule 3, para C 6(f)). This rate approximates
current market costs of foreign bcrrowings to Yugoslav investors and is also
the same as applied under the Second Industrial Credit Project. In addition,
domestic resources lent to social sector sub-projects receiving Bank funds
will carry an interest rate of at least 6 percent and to private sector sub-
projects, at least 5 percent (Loan Agreements, Section 3.07). This is the
same condition introduced under thbe Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan
No. 1477), approved in July 1977, and is a further step toward unifying
lending rates on local funds countrywide by introducing floor interest rates
into the industrial sector.
61.       As under the Second Industrial Credit Project, co-financing will
continue to be encouraged in conjunction with the proposed project by allowing
longer grace periods (up to 5 years) on sub-loans when the sub-project is also
being financed from other foreign sources (Loan Agreements, Schedule 3, para C
6 (f)). These other sources typically require repayment in five to six years
with a grace period of only one to two years; therefore a longer grace period
on Bank sub-loans will provide a more appropriate cash flow pattern for the
sub-project by blending Bank funds with medium-term credits. The proposed
loans would be repaid according to amortization schedules based on the com-
posite of individual amortization schedules for sub-loans. These arrangements
are substantially the same as for the Second Industrial Credit Project.



- 21 -
62.       Procurement.  Some sub-projects may be received under the proposed
project that are of such a size and nature that international competitive
bidding (ICB), using the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement, might be the most
economical and efficient mesthod of procurement. While the detailed criteria
identifying such sub-projects cannot be established in advance, the total cost
of an individual contract is a reasonable proxy. Under the proposed project,
therefore, while the appropriateness of ICB should be considered for all for-
eign procurement, any individual contract for imported goods that is expected
to exceed US$2.0 million equivalent will be a candidate for procurement under
ICB. If the borrowing banks and its sub-borrower decide that ICB is not
appropriate, this decision must be justified to the Bank before the sub-project
will be considered as eligible for Bank financing; if they do follow ICB,
and a Yugoslav supplier wins the bid, the ex-factory cost of these goods would
be eligible for financing with Bank funds, a situation expected to arise only
in rare instances. The Bank will undertake a full review of all procurement
documents and procedures for contracts expected to exceed US$4.0 million
equivalent that are procured under ICB and will selectively review smaller
contracts. (Loan Agreements, Section 2.03, and Schedule 3, C.6.(g)).
63.       Joint Unit and Sub-Units.  A joint Unit, consisting of four Sub-
Units from PBS, SBS, IBT and KBP, the latter being treated under a separate
but parallel project (the proposed third), will handle administrative matters
involving all four banks. The individual Sub-Units will handle those matters,
including sub-loan request:s, which affect only one bank.
64.       Institution Building.  Assistance in institution building will be
provided through review of the appraisal reports on the larger projects as
well as through periodic visits and consultations.
Justification and Risk
65.       The proposed loans are justifiable at the macro level on the grounds
that they will lead to the c:reation of highly needed job opportunities in the
LDRs while contributing to the overall development and improvement of the
standard of living of the LDRs. Based on the projects identified by the three
participating banks at the time of appraisal as being eligible for financing
under the proposed loans, some 8,200 jobs would be created or retained. The
new emphasis on maximizing the number of jobs created per dollar invested is
expected to result in approximately 4,200 of these jobs being created or
retained at a cost of less than $23,000 equivalent each, the urban poverty
program threshold as adjusted to forecast 1979 costs (see para 45, this
Report). The proceeds of tlhe proposed loans will not be used to finance
projects in basic industry, which are relatively capital intensive, but
instead will promote diversification of the industrial sectors of the LDRs
towards processing and better integration into the overall Yugoslav industrial
structure.
66.       At the micro level, the ERR of sub-projects to be financed from the
proposed loans is not kncwn at this time, as is usual for DFC projects. How-
ever, the estimated ERR of sub-projects financed under the past two industrial
credit projects has ranged from 12 to above 40 percent, on average well above



- 22 -
the minimum acceptable rate of 11 percent established in the second loan
agreement (10 percent in the first). Sub-projects financed under the proposed
loans are expected to yield similar results. One-third of the sub-projects
identified by the three participating banks would involve foreign co-financing
to cover part of the foreign exchange costs.
67.       There are no special risks associated with the proposed loans.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       Each of the draft Loan Agreements between the Bank on the one hand
and Privredna Banka Sarajevo, Stopanska Banka Skopje and Investiciona Banka
Titograd respectively on the other hand, the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank and the
reports of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
69.       Special features of the loans are discussed in paragraphs 44, 55,
57, 60, 61, 62 and 64.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loans.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
June 26, 1978
Washington, D.C.



TABLE 3A                                            ANNEX I
YUGOSLAVIA          - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                          Page I of 4 pages
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)-ag-----of---pages
YUGOSLAVIA                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      255.8                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      144.2                      1960       1970   ESTIMATE           ROMANIA        SPAIN          GERMANY FED.REP. OF***
GNP PER CAPITA (USs)                    380.0 *  830,0*  1680.0 */a              550.0 /a  1580.0*    4420.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULAIION (MID-YR, MILLION)           18.4       20.4       21.5 /a            20.3        33.6        61.6
POPULATICN DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       72.0       80.0      84.0 /a             85.0        67.o       240.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       124.0      139.0     149.0 T             136.0       105.0       439.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         26.8       21.0       18.2               19.0        21.0        17.3
CRuDE DEATH F.-TE (/THOU,AV)         11.5        9.1        9.2                8.9         8.8        11.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        88.0       55.5      40.5                49.4        27.9        23.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       63.7       67.7      68.0                67.7        70.5        70.3
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.4        1.3        1.3                1.3         1.4         1.2
POPULYTION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 1.2        1.0        0.9                1.0         1.1         1.0
URBAN                                 6.0        4.6         ..                3.4         2.0         4.1
URBAN POPULATION (x OF TOTAL)          27.2       38.7       39.0 /b            40.8        59.1        82.4
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       30.7       28.3       26.3               25.9        27.8        23.2
15 TO B4 YEARS                       63.2       64.3      65.4                65.5        62.5        63.6
65 YEARS AND OVER                     6.1        7.4        8.3                8.6         9.7        13.2
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.6        0.6        0.5                0.5         0.6         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0         .         0.8 /c             0.7 lb      1.1         0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..         ..         ..                 .           .
USEki (x OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..         ..                 .
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         8300.0         ..      9150. d           9900.0    11900.0    28500.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         57.0         *-        39.  e            49.0        25.0         8.9
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)           7.0                    5.'e                          1.1 /a      0.7
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
. _ _ _ ---- _      -   -   ----
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            16.4  a   15.1           .
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            41.5 /a  41.4           ..
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             6.9 /       .6         ..
LOWEST  40% OF HOuSEHOLDS            19.0      a1.4         ..
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND ONERSHIP
N OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS GI)        15.1**    16,1**    15.1**
x OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% DWNERS(II)   84.9**    84.9**    84.9**
HiEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            1400.0  b 1010.0       850.0               680.0       740.0 lb   580.0
POPULATION PER NUR.ING PERSON       1350.q  Lb 410.n       4S0.0               200,0          ..       350.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          f200.0      17C.       170.0              140.0 IC   220.0         90.0
PER cAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        115.0      124.0    137.0                118.0       107.0       121.0
PRCTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              91.0       92.0      97.5                92.0        81.0        88.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         27.0       29.0      35.4                28.0        40.0        56.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             4.5        2.6        1.7                2.4         0.9         0.9
EOUCATI ON
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       96.0       94.0       96. L&.           113.0       123.0       129.0/a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     34-0       45.0       49.0 8             44,0        S7-0        6.0 T
'EARiS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0       12.0       12.0             12-13         11.0        15.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     72.0       72.0       74.0               58.0        20.o        48.0/a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                77.0       85.0         . .                          94.0        99.0
H3USiNG
R_kSDU5C ;Pi. RC=  (URBAN)              1.7         .-        1.3/b              1.3 /d        ..        0.7/b
PEC. DRE5 DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED MATER (%)                         ..        ..      61.5 /              88.0 /d,e    ..          0.3/c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(t  OF ALL DWELLINGS)                54.5         ,.      89.2/a              49.0 /d       ..       100.0
RURAL ONELLINGS CONNECTED
To ELECTRICITY (%)                   38.1         ..       80.1/b             27.0 /d
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         85.0      163.0     193.0                152.0      214.0       318.0
F555SNGaR CAAS (PER TFVU Pop)           3.0       35.0      72.0                   *        71.0       220.0
qtT 1KH/TR PER CAP)          480.0    '28.0   1887.0                 1615.0      1634.0     4128.0
N.PRRNY fKGO/YR PER CAP)                 2.3                  3.8                 2.6         5.8        17.7
SE f17ES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, dta. for 1960 refer to say year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
o    GNP per capita dots are beasd on tho World Back Atlas nethodology (1974-76 basis).
*    1.  Agriculture land held by social nectar (Khbinate).
*    II. Agriculture land held by private snail-holders "10 hectares naniouo".
a*e  Solettion of Federal Repablic of Gemany as an objective .o.ntry is baaad an the close nuonoPio ties naintained by the two coantries  so cell
aa an the font that the greater part of Yugoslavia'e srond one nillion workers temporarily sbroud hbvo found enployment in the Federal
Ropublic of Cernny.
YOGOSLAVIA                 1960    /.  1963;    lb  1962.
MOST RECENT ESTILEATE:   /I  1976;    /b  1971;    /c  Ratio of ppoplation under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;
/d  Including sboot 800 thous.ed nigrant .rkhrs working outoide;    /e 1975, an rati  of
active resident labor frcc;,    /f  1970-74 overufe:           g  1972;    7T  Inside only.
ROMANIA                    1970    Ia  Nat comparable to those for other Centrally Planned Eaconmio.   Derived by using the Bonk Atlas methodlo:gy,
by adjusting official Rcoanian nstionsl accounts data and conocrti.g then into US dollars at the effectivs
exchange rate for foreign trade tranacStiont which approni.ates Lei 20 per US dollar;    /b  Ratio of.pcpalation
under 15 and 65 sod over to total labor farce          /t  HospItals only, e-cludee sanitaris sod neternity 'omea;
/d  1966;    /e  Inside only.
SPAIN                      1970    /a  Employsent offico estinate;    /b  Registerd, tot all practicing in th  country.
GEhMAhY, FED. REP. OF    1970    /a  Include the relevant data relating to Berlin for whio, s-porsto data have not been nuppliod;    /b  Total, -rbac
rural;      c  Inside only.
R16, March 2. 1978
IEPINITIONS OF BOCTAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou km2)                                                                       Ponalation  ner nurainp nernan - Popuation divided by numbor of practicing
Total - rural ourface ores comprisdtg land area sod dnl1ad waters.                           tale and lcfale graduato -urnos, 'trafoed' or "certified'  -n-res, sod
Alrit. - Most rocent escisate ft agrinultaral area used temporarily or pe.ca-                arxiliary pertonoel with trooin.g or asperieno-
nencly for trops, p.tsuros, carket  ki&tchen gardes or tO Iio ftllo.                     Pnoplatioc per hbosital bhd - Population divided by ensber of hospital bods
ova ilble it public and private gasesr1 and specialised hospital and
GNR nor "Pitt UOBS) - GNP per tapita eatimtea at arrest narket prices,                       rehabilittatio  casters; esslndes  -rsiog homes aed establiehments for
calcalated by sane conrerelon method Da aorld Bask Atlas (1973-71 bhsia);                   -tdcodial sod preaestia care.
1960; 1970 sod 1975 data,                                                                Per caoita su-ply of usae ioa (% of eaniesents) - Conputod from ene-gy
equivalont cf cot food supplisa available in co.ntry per .apita per day;
Poulatlon and vital statistic!                                                              availablo supplie. eeopeise doomatic prod-ction, imports less reports, sod
Pooulatio=  pid-year nillion)   As of July first:  if not availabl, overage                  changos in stock; net suppliea occlude asimal feed, seeds, quantIties seed
of too end-ye.r ostimater; lit0, 1970 and 1975 data.                                       in food proco.siog and lossos in di.tributi..; reqair-nents were astimated
by FAO basod on physiological neodt f norma l activity and health coneD-
Poculatton denaity - ter aq.aro km - Mid-y-e  popelation par squar kilonstor                 oriog eavirontal tonper.tore, body weights, age sod ess distrio-v-  of
(110 hoctaras) of total ara.                                                               population, and *llveig lIT tar w-ate at household lavl.
Poculation density - oar square kh  of agric. iad - Cosputad as abhac  for                 par ao,ita ouooW  of  -rotein (em  ocr day) - Protein ston t of par capita
agicultucal land only.                                                                     net supply of food per day; net supply of food s defined as sbhe; require-
meets for all c-atcries established by USf) EcAonmic R ser.ch Servicee
Vital statistics                                                                             proido for a minimum1 allaea-e of 60 grems of total protein par day, sad
Crude birth rate Per tho"sased. avrage - Ad sal live birthm  pee th-oueaed of                20 ersa nf aof isal sod pulse protein, of which 10 gr,s should be sieal
mid-year populatioc; tee-ye-r aritheetic averages  ediog in 1960 and 1970,                 protein; these standarda are loser thee thoce of 75 gre    of total protein
sod five-year average ending in 1975 for coat recant estimate                              and 23 grars of animal protein as a        -avorage for the aseld, proposed by FAO
Crude death rate per thoa-nd. av-rasg- uA-awl dsehte par thoac! of aid-year                  in the Third World Food Srrey.
popolation; tan-year arith"etic averages eadiag in 1960 and 1970 and five-               per oopits  oetein -uooly tens animal and pales - Protein supply of food
year average seddog in 1975 for nost reseat  stimate.                                      dorived frde    animala and poises in gram  per day.
Infant  ortality rate (/thoo) -  onoa-l deaths of infants undor one year of ago            Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - Au-wl deaths per thousand in age gremp 1-4
pen oh-ussod livo blrths                                                                   Years, to childres  in this ago grasp; .sSgeated as an imdicator of
Life esoecctacy at b,irth (yre) - Average nuxer of yeara of life roa-iming at                malnutritos_
hirth; osnally five-year -verageo edding is 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ito  canstries.                                                                          Education
lrose  reproductie= rate - verago nmber of liv  daughters aswoman sill bear                Adls ted enrolIent riai - neisary achool - Enrollmaet of sll agse  sa per-
in her normal reproductive period if she eperiences present age-sp-itic                    cent_gs o petmary o _ hoal-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility  rates; uully five-year goera-ra edding is 1960, 1970 and 1975                   but odjusted for diffsrant lengths of primary edwoatioc; for c-ntries with
for developirg conteriee                                                                   seireral aducatian, e=roll=e=t may exceed 1007 aince a-  pupils are belo
PoPulstion  om"th rate (7) - total - Conap-ed *aacsl growth rtear  of mid-year               or sbove the official achol age.
populatiam  tsr 1950-60, 1960-70 sad 1970-75.                                            Adus ted saralLmeet ratio - ascondarv eabool - Conpated as above; .sc-dary
Poulation growth rate (5) - urba_ - Conputed like growth rate of total                      edu.otion rt quirea at least four years of approved primary itatructio=;
populatio=; ditfereno definitiore of srbho  areas may affect cosparability of              providee geSea-l, vocational or tes.her tr.aiIg ipatructiow  for pupils
data among  oou,tris-                                                                       of 12 to 17 years of age;  Porrespondence courses ave generally eeclodad
teban opulattoc (7 of total) - Ratio of urbac to trtal population; different               Years of schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total years rf
dagicitio-s of urban areas may affect .onparability of data amoag countrie.                schooling; at se.osdary level, vocational inatruction nay be partially or
sonplately emcldad.
_de strootur (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 yeses),                 Ponational enrol7meno fb. of secondary) - Pot.tianal issjitutiow  i-clude
aed retired (6) ysesr sod over) as prreetages of aid-year population                       technica, industri          t     pr        which oprt    dpd ly or
Ass deeand-oov ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                  departments at secondary institutio.a
at ages 15 through 64                                                                    Adult liter so  rats (7,) - literete adulto (able to read and wits) as per-
Economic dopcndancy ratio - tatsi of population onder 15 and 65 and noer to                   cantatg  of total adutc popuDacion aged 15 yaro and vr.
the labor foeco in age gro-p of 15-64 yeara.
Family planning - accenrors fcoaslativa, thou) - Cumolative nonber of acceptors           HB-isg
of birth-control de-iceo uder eamspice  of national family plonging program              Persona pee eons (urban) - ivarage  -bnoer of parsons per rcoo  In oncupi'd
since Inception.                                                                            coventicnal dwellings is urban areas; dwellings ossnude sam-permaneor
Fatily plannins - ueras (7% of married  -o.en) - Percentagea of m-rried -omen of              etretureat ad unoncupied part.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) who one birth-control devices to all narried             Occupied dwellings without piped -sa,r (%) - Occupied conveetional dwellins
onsn in sone age group.                                                                     is arbam  sod roral areas without isside or out-ide piped water fEcilitisa
as per--toags of a11 ocupied dwellings.
ENploynent                                                                                  to          -ssest elsotricitv C% of a11 dwellimga) - fnvontlonal dwelings with
total loabr force  (thousand) - E-ononinally active Pyrso, i=oluding armed                    electricity in living quartere as peroent #f total d-elliga is urban sad
forne-  and unemployed but e-nloding hoas-vive-, students, etc.; defititiona               rural arena
is various cosmuries ave sot conparahle.                                                 Rural dwellings connected to electricity  (f) . Conpatad as above for roasl
Labor force in asricoltare f(7) - ASricultural labor force f(i  farming, forestry,            dwellings only
hb=ting sod ftshisg) as prceocega af total labor fror.
U=lemloyed (2 of labor farce) - Unemployed are usmally defined as Parsos who                Conacaption
are  sble and willing to take a Job, eat of a )ab on a given day, ramaimad sot           Radio receivers (ear thou pop) - All typea at receivers for radio broadc..ts
of a Job, and  ea.king work for a specified =inimum priod not ex.eeding oce                 to general p=blic per thousoad of populaton; exccludes onliier.ed receivers
week; may ont he copparable bhew.as co==triea doe to diff-eort defiftrions                  inoa...trios and is years when -egi-sration of radio sets was is affet;
of =nemployed and  ource af data, e.g., employment affice atattiotts, sample                data for recent yeara may sot be conparable sitc-  most con-tries abolished
snevoys, compulaory  nnemployme=t o osurae.                                                 licensing.
Pase praar   re thom eon) - P.asseger n.rs conprise enta ~roar  seating
In..e ditribtion - Percentage of private intone (bath in cash a=d kisd)                       les ehas sight Pera---;  -lod-a obualae., her  s and military
received by richest 5%, richest 207., poorest 20Y,, and poorest 4C7 of hons.-               vehiole.
holds.                                                                                     leltticity (kws/vr xr see) - Annual coa-onptien of indastrial, c-  rnial,
public sod private ela-trisity in kilowatt houra per cspita, generlly
Dittribotion of land  -a-rahip - Peroc=tagsu of land owned by wealthiest 107.                 based on peodootiam  data, without allonance for loses ie grids but allo-
and poorest 107. of land oscars                                                            ilg for Imports sad  "mpor"t of elocriofty.
Nesprint (kg/yr ser eap) - Per .spits anneal Ceaa.Wption in kilogr
eielth and Nutrition                                                                          estimated freo  donaetic produstion plu- net Imports of npriet.
Pvpulation ear phyvain- - Population divided by numher of practicing
physicians qoalified fron a medicsi ashoal at siversity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC DhVlLoPMENT DATA
(Amoants in Million US Dollars)
Actual              Preliminary    Estimated
1972     1973      1974        1975            1976               1965-72       1972-75       1973-76         1972      1974      1976
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                        Constant 1974 Prices and Eshenge Rate of $1 = 17.0 Din.                 Averaee Annual Growth Rates                 As Percent of GDY
Gross Donestic Product                     21,638  22,720   24,769        25,887          26,922                 5.6           6.2           5.8          97.8    100         99.3
Gains fron Terms of Trade                     468      681    _             +142            +197                                                           2.2      -          0.7
Gross Donesttic Inoe                       22,106  23,401   24,765        26,029          27,119                 5.5           5.6           5.0         100.0    100        100.0
Imports (incl. NFS)                         6,588   7,600    8,312!        8,350           8,082                12.6           8.2           2.1          29.7     33.6       29.8
Exoorts (incl. NF8)                         5.437   5,788    5.694         5.872           6,506                 8.3           2.6           4.0          24.5      23.0      24.0
Resource Gap                                1,151   1,812    2,618         2,478           1,576
Consumption Expenditure                    16,139  17,716   19,953        19,795          19,670                 6.7           7.0           .35          73.0     80.6       72.5
Tnveatment ExpendIture                      6,650   6,816    7,429         8,570           8,827                 6.0           8.8           9.0          30.1     30.0       32.5
Notional Savings                            6,904   6,806    6,24 ~    7,330               8,717                 6.6           2.0           8.6          31.2      25.2      32.1
Domestic Savings                            5,499   5,006    4,812         6,092           7,252                 3.1           3.5          13.2          24.9     19.4       26.7
MERChANDISE trADE                                    Annual Data a0: Current Prices                                                                       As a Fereentaee of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                               689   1,004    1,30.         1,887           1,758                                                         21.3      17.4       23.9
Petroles snd Fools                          177      359      952          943           1,080                                                           5.5     12.6       14.6
Intermediate Goeds                        1,859   2,450    4,29L         4,109           3,618                                                         57.7      57.1       49.1
Consumption Coods                           502      698      97.          758             911                                                          15.5     12.9       12,4
Total Merch. Imports (c.i.f.)             3,227   4,511    7,520         7,697           7,367                                                        100.0    100.0       100.0
Exports
Capital Goods                               316      389      514          695             920                                                         14.1      13.5       18.8
Tootile and Leather Goods                   362      409      477          600             761                                                         16.2      12.5       15.6
Non-ferrous Metallurgy                      272      325      55i          458             472                                                         12.2      14.6        9.7
Agricultural Products (Ifcl. food)          400      475      431          488             640                                                         17.9      11.5       13.1
Other                                       887   1255    1.81!7         1.831           2.085                                                         39.6      47.9      42.8
Total Merch. Exports (f.o.b.)             2,237   2,853    3,801         4,072           4,878                                                        100.0    100.0       100.0
MERCHANDISE TRADE INDICES                                     1974 = 100
Export Price Inden                           63       76      10)          109             114
Import Prie Inden                            58       68      103          105             109
Teens of Trade Index                        109      112      10)          104             105
Eoport Volume  Index                         93       99      103           98             112
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                      Annual Data in Constant 1974 Prices and Exchange Rate
of $1   17.0 Din.                                                                         As a Percentage of Total
Agriculture                               3,213   3,496    3,763         3,663           3,846                 2.7          4.5           3,7          15.6      16.0       15.0
Manufacturing and Mining                  6,374   6,712    7,471         7,888           8,125                 6.6         704            6.6          31.0      31,8       31.8
Other                                    10,956  11 362   12.271        13,026          13,589                 5.4          5.9           6.2          53.3      52.2      53.2
Total                                    20,543  21,5      23,510       24,577          25,560                 5.3          6.2           6.2         100.0    100.0       100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE I                                              Current 1'rices                                                                           As Percent of GDP/Market Prices
Current Receipts                          2,772   3,489   Z4 8Z41         305             ..                   *-            .            *-           17.5      19.5
Current ErPenditures                      2,520   3,154    4,794         6,267            ..                   ..           ..            *-           19.0      19.4
Budgetary Savings                           252      335       47           38            ..                     *        -                             1.6       0.24
Public Scotnr Investnent                    224      281      329          352            .,                   ..           ..            ..            1.4       1.3
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORlER:                         TOTAL L4BOR FORCE                                  VALUE ADDED PER WORKER (1974 PRICES AND EXCHANGE RATE $1 = 17 Din.
Million        b of Total          1972-75                      U8 Dollars            Percent of Average         1972-75
1972    1975    1972    1975   Av. Ann. Growth Rate               1972     1975             1972      1975    Av. Ann_ Growth Rate
Agriculturo A                              3.55    3.10   45.4    39,0            -4.6                       905    1,182                34        38             9;3
Msnufacturing and Mining                   1.65    1.87   21.2    23.6            4.3                      3,863    4,218               147       136             3.0
Other 2/                                   2.60    2.95   33.4    37.4            4.3                      4 214    4.416               160       142             1.6
Total -                                    7.80    7.92  100.0   100.0             0.8                     2,634    3,103               100      T10              7
1/ Budgets of Federation, Republice and Anton--omu  Provinces, ar.d Comnnnes -nconsolidated.
2/ Total resident a'ftive labor force, i.e. eacluding workers absoad and unemployed.
3/ Estimated active labor force in the private and social agricoitural sector.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
January 27,4978



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
Annual
Actual                                 Estimated  Growth Rates
1972    1973    197.4   1975        1976        1977        1972-76
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                 3424    4363    5696    6307         7259        7985          20.0
Imports (incl. NFS)                 3828    5124    8337    8760         8664       10832          22.5
Resource Balance (X-M)              -404    -76 1   -2641   -2453       -1405      - 2847
Interest                            -165    -222    -285    -337         -350      -  428          20.2
Workers Remittances                  889    1301    1511    1575         1728        1750          18.1
Other factor services net             17       50       93      62         40          42          23.8
Current Transfers (net)               82       96      138     121        137         150          13.6
Balance on Current Account           419      464   -1184   -1032         150      - 1333
M&LT Loans L/1
Disbursements                      943    1170    1426    1850         1700        2424          15.9
Repayments                        -570    -686    -814    -930         -800      - 1091           8.8
Net Disbursements                    373      484      612     920        900        1333          24.5
Capital Transactions n.e.i./2       -117    -255       139     -68       -133         _
Use of Reserves                     -675    -663      438      180       -917         -                   Actual
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                              DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE/4    1972    1973    1974         1975
Official Grants & Grant-like          -        -        -       -    Public Debt Out. &           61-.0-o  1869.3  2056.5   227-T3
Disbursed
Public M&LT Loans
IBRD                              75.0   104.9   256.5   209.0   Interest on Public Debt    63.2    97.1   101.2    120.8
IDA                                 -        -       -        -    Repayments on Public Debt 154.3   205.0   282.3    309.0
Other Multilateral                  -        -       -        -    Total Public Debt Service 217.5   302.1   383.5    429.8
Governments                      183.9   179.7   615.4   274.7   Other Debt Service             638.2   746.4   822.7    989.7
Suppliers                         82.3      3.0       .6      -    Total Debt Service           855.7  1048.5  1206.2   1419.5
Financial Institutions           121.4       -     73.1    86.2
Bonds                               -        -     51.5       -    Burden on Export Earnings (Z)/5
Public Loans n.e.i.                4.2       -       -        -
Total Public M&LT Loans            466.8   287.6   997.2   569.9   Public Debt Services Ratio i5,6          5.2      5.2       5.A
Total Debt Service Ratio   19.3    17.6    16.4         17.6
IDS - Direct Investment Inc. -         -        -         -
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1975
EXTERNAL DEBT                Disbursements only          Percent       Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                         559.1                  24.6
IDA                                  -                     -            Int. as Z Prior Year
Other Multilateral                   5.3                    .2                         DO&D         4.7     6.0      5.4       5.9
Governments                       1304.3                  57.4          Amort. as Z Prior Year
Suppliers                          115.6                   5.1                         DO&D        11.5    12.7    15.1       15.0
Financial Institutions             269.9                  11.9
Bonds                               18.1                    .8        IBRD Debt Outs. & Disbursed
Public Debt n.e.i.                    .1                   -               as % Public Debt O&D  19.6    18.8    20.6         24.6
2,272.5                100.0             as F Public Debt
Services    14.7    12.7    11.6        12.9
Other M&LT Debts/3                3492.7X
Short-term Debt (disb. only)         -
1/ Includes direct foreign investment.
2/  Includes errors and ommissions, short term loans, neit export credits,  IMF account,
National Bank and Commercial Bank Credits.
3/  Estimate.
4/ Figures on debt service do not correspond with balance of payments figures due to
differences in coverage.
5/  Includes workers remittances.
Europe, Middle East & North Africa Region
January 27, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at April 30, 1978)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
Twenty-one Loans fully disbursed                                 567.7
777     1971   SFRY                          Multipurpose Water  45.0    15.5
782     1971   "Babin Kuk" RLotelsko
Turisticki Centar,
Dubrovnik                   Tourism               20.0     0.7
836     1972   Twelve Electiic Power
Enterprises in. Yugoslavia  Power                 75.0     5.6
894     1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje       Agricultural
industries          31.0     4.2
916     1973   Naftagas                      Gas Pipeline         59.4    21.4
990     1974   Bosnia-Herzegovina
Road Funds                  Roads                30.0      0.4
1012    1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje       Industrial Credit   28.0       2.9
1013    1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit   22.0         3.5
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                    Railways             93.0    36.3
1060    1974   Port of Bar                   Harbor Expansion    44.0    17.6
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik             Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0     5.0
1129    1975   Vojvodjanska Bainka           Agricultural
Credit              50.0    28.4
1143    1975   Republic Road Organizations
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                  Roads                40.0    20.2
1173    1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod        Pipeline             48.5    37.2
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda          Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources           20.0    17.2
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &       Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise          Sewerage            45.0    41.8
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise       Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit          Control             38.0    37.2
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanaka Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka    Second Industrial
Pristina                     Credit              50.0    32.6



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9 pages
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)             Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
1360     1977   Management Organization   Multipurpose Water  54.0          53.7
"Metohija"
1370     1977   Investiciona Banka,          Agriculture
Titograd                    Industries          26.0      25.5
1371     1977   Stopanska Banka, Skopje   Agriculture
Industries          24.0      23.7
1377     1977   Republic Road Organiza-
tions in Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Serbia,
Macedonia, and Kosovo    Roads                  56.0      47.7
1469     1977   JUGEL and six Elect:ric
Power Organizations in   Second Power
each Republic               Transmission        80.0      80.0
1477     1977   Vojvodjanska Banka           Second Agricul-
tural Credit        75.0      75.0
1534/a   1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                   Railways            100.0    100.0
1535/a   1978   Republic Road Organiza-
tions of Slovenia,
Croatia and Serbia        Roads                 80.0      80.0
Total (less cancellation)                             1,807.6/b  813.3
of which has been repaid                              195.5
Total now outstanding                                 1,612.1
Amount sold                              7.8
of which:  Amount repaid               6.8              1.0
Total now held by Bank                                1,611.1
Total undisbursed                                                813.3
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   A loan of US$73.0 million to Elektroprivredna Bosne i Hercegovine for
a Middle Neretva Hydro Power Project was approved and signed subsequent
to the above date of Statement A; it is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at April 30, 1978)
Type of       Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                      Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment               Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia           Corporation      -       2.0       2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A.   Automotive
Industry         5.0    8.0      13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev        Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt    Industry           7.5    2.7       10.2
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Diaimler           Automotive
Benz A.G.                            Industry        13.4    3.4       16.9
1972   Sava/Semperit                          Tires             4.0    1.5       5.5
1973   Belisce/Bel                            Pulp and Paper  13.3      -       13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO               Special Steel   10.0      -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                         Cement Plant    10.0      -       10.0
1975   Rudarsko Metalurski                    Steel            50.0     -       50.0
1977   Frikom ro Industrijae Smrznute         Food and Food
Hrane                                Processing       4.0    2.3        6.3
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin   Pulp and Paper
Products        15.4    2.5      17.9
Total Gross Commitments                               432.6   22.4    155.0
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment:, repayment
and sales                                             71.9    2.6      74.5
Total commitments held by IFC                          60.7   19.8       80.5
Total Undisbursed                                      14.3   11.4       25.7



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. Construction
is now underway, the main dam is completed and the reservoir is now being
filled. A small part of the irrigation network has been completed with the
remainder expected to be completed by 1979. Project costs have been above
appraisal estimates, but the overrtn financing is being provided by the
Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. Delays have been encountered
in the arrangements for boundary adjustment. Consultants have been engaged
to help find solutions, and the Kosovo Government has enacted appropriate
legislation. After a delay of about five years, a draft law has been prepared
by the Kosovo Government and is expected to be enacted in the near future,
which will assist in the provision of agricultural extension services to the
private sector.
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: December 29, 1978.
There were initial delays in the implementation of the project due
to lateness in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. Bids
for civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the project
would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated (US$49.9 million),
largely due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the proj-
ect sponsors agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 2,034 beds
(Amendment to Loan 782-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-259) at a total cost of
US$51.5 million, requiring additional financing of about US$1.6 million and
a change in sponsorship which has been approved by the Bank (Amendment to
Loan 782-YU, October 4, 1976, R76-237). The hotels were inaugurated and
opened for occupancy in June 1976. Occupancy rate for 1977 was below expecta-
tions notwithstanding 100 percent occupancy during high season. This gave
rise to financial liquidity problems which were overcome with the assistance
of the sponsoring Yugoslav banks. Advance bookings for 1978 represent a
considerable improvement over the c:orresponding 1977 period.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9 pages
Loan 836 Power Transmission: US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The Project construction has progressed slowly and is expected to
be completed by mid-1978, about one and one-half years late. Its cost has
increased to about $415 million (up 84 percent) chiefly due to escalation in
prices. The resulting cost overrun is being financed from funds received
from the Federal Republic of Germany, local loans and from the Borrowers' own
internal sources. AppointmE!nt of management consultants was delayed until
mid-1976, but their recommendations have now been made and are being discussed
with JUGEL and the Borrowers with the objective of beginning implementation of
the recommendations by mid-1978. The promulgation of the new Constitution in
1974 and the consequent evoLution of the legal and financial status of the
Borrowers, particularly in regard to the requirement of their policy of pool-
ing resources at the Republican levels required changes in the legal arrange-
ments including the application of financial covenants. These changes were
incorporated in the Second Power Transmission Project.
Loan 894 Agricultural Indus_ries (Macedonia):  US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka. Out of 43 subprojects financed
under the project, 36 are coml?leted, seven are under construction. Progress
on the latter is satisfactory.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The costs of equipment and civil works increased so that project
costs were about 71 percent above the appraisal estimate. As a result of
this and of a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the proj-
ect has been redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116).
Phase I is a reduced versicn of the original plan. Phase II provides for a
pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to be constructed under the
Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing
was obtained. Naftagas has obtained additional local currency financing
required for Phases I and Il. A delay of more than two and one-half years in
project implementation has occurred as a result of the increased project costs
and revision of the project. Construction started in late June 1976, and the
project is scheduled for ccompletion by end-1979.
Loan 990 Sixth Highway: US$30.0 million Loan of May 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 10, 1974:, Closing Date:  December 31, 1978.
All road sections3 are oDen to traffic. Two requests for changes
in road alignments have been agreed in order to provide better service to two
communities. Procurement of engineering and laboratory equipment has been
contracted and payments ares now being finalized. An EDI type training course
is also being arranged in Yugoslavia in October 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9 pages
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed. Loan
disbursements have been accelerat:ing after a slow start and are expected to
soon catch up and even surpass appraisal estimates.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0) million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways' 1973-77
Investment Plan. Government efforts to combat inflation caused railway tariffs
to lag behind inflation and gave rise to financial and administrative diffi-
culties which, in turn caused substantial delays in project implementation.
With tariff increases approved bot:h in early 1977 and 1978 these problems have
largely been resolved. Meanwhile, institutional developments, including
improved investment planning and management, the formation of COIs and the
signing of Social Agreements on railway and transport policies have been most
encouraging.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
In general the Project is progressing well. Except for railway
facilities outside the port area and the grain silos, the project is expected
to be completed by mid-1978, about six months behind schedule. The railway
facilities and grain silos are scheduled for completion by end-1978 and
end-1979, respectively.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: -June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have put
construction about a year behind schedule. Services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-.YU) were, however, completed in time for
its initial operation and the remaining water supply component is nearing com-
pletion. Construction is progressing satisfactorily on the sewerage component.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9 pages
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effec-
tive Date: Februay 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, is working satisfactorily. Project operations have shown encour-
aging progress with respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of
institution building. Ninety percent of the loan has been committed. Dis-
bursements are behind appraisal projections, given initial organizational and
learning curve problems, delays in procurement, unfamiliarity of participa-
ting banks with withdrawal applications, timetaking translations and the time
lag between commitments and disbursements. However, disbursements have
accelerated during the last year.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
With the award of the last two contracts in Montenegro, work is now
in progress on all the project roads of Serbia, Slovenia and Montenegro. The
Serbian road sections have been substantially completed and are open to traf-
fic. Work in Slovenia is on schedule but progress in Montenegro is somewhat
slow owing to contract delays. Nevertheless, all road works should be com-
pleted by the loan closing date.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: Ju:Ly 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to slower than anticipated progress of design and procurement
it is estimated that a seven-month slippage in the completion of Phase I will
occur, though it is expected that the balance of the Project will be completed
on schedule. The revised cost estimates of the project indicate that there
would be a cost overrun of about 27 percent because of required changes from
original project components and increases in local costs. The Borrower is
taking steps to obtain supplementary financing from various sources both
foreign and local. The economic viability of the project remains sound. Upon
review of the award of a site preparation contract, the Bank concluded that
the contract was not awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement and the relevant portion ($470,000) that would have otherwise been
eligible for disbursement was cancelled from the Loan.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date:  November 3  1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1980.
The regional development study is finished and the report is being
finalized. The flood control and water quality studies are underway after
initial delays in selecting consultants.  Construction of the Vrutci Dam has
begun.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9 pages
Construction is completed on the principal parts of the Cacak component, the
remainder is well advanced. Construction is also underway in Titovo Uzice.
Final designs of sewage treatment plants in Cacak are underway, and in Titovo
Uzice, are dependent upon the recruitment of suitable foreign assistance
to local consultants. The pilot irrigation components have been delayed
pending the establishment of suitable monitoring arrangements. The creation
of the Morava Region Water Community of Interest was delayed due to the longer
than anticipated process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav parties
concerned on the structure of the organization. Staffing has been strengthened
in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in the Morava Region
Water Community of Interest.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage:  US$45.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Major contracts for supply and installation of water pipes and
sewers have been awarded and construction is underway.  Prequalification
of contractors for the sewage treatment plant was completed and design work
is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Consultants for final designs and tender documents have been
recruited and work on major tenders is underway. Contracts for supply and
installation of gas distribution network and high-pressure loop-line have
been awarded and mobilization is tmderway. Tendering for gas transmission
line, Sarajevo-Zvornik, is underway.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The portions of the loans to the Bosnian, Macedonian and Montenegrin
banks have been progressing satisfactorily. The portion for the Kosovan
bank, while being committed more slowly, is forecast to be fully committed
by end-July 1978. Disbursements are slightly behind appraisal estimates.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Local consultants have been retained as project consultants and are
proceeding with final designs on the project components and preparation of
bidding documents. Two local construction contracts have been awarded and
invitations for international tenders for the dam will be issued shortly.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9 pages
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan
of March 10, 1977; '1.ffective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Institutional arrangements have been completed, and the implementa-
tion of the project is proceeding on schedule. Tendering for ICB procurement
for the winery and cold stores is in progress.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Sub-loans for four out of eleven agro-industrial sub-projects have
been approved by the Borrower. Sub-projects in the individual sector are
being processed. The hiring of procurement consultants is expected soon.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
This loan was declaLred effective September 7, 1977. All road
contracts have been awarded and work is satisfactorily in progress. The
contract for the Highway Master Plan for Kosovo has also been awarded. The
studies on Road User Charges and Rail Costs are in progress.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmiission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan was declared effective January 31, 1978.  Procurement has
commenced. The proposed loain from the European Investment Bank was signed
in November 1977 and local loan agreements have been executed.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit: US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The loan was declared effeetiv  JAnuqry 30, 1978.  All participating
banks have identified the main investors and indicated that funds will be
committed faster than under the first project.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway:  US$100 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date:  August 31, 1978, Clning Dqtg!  June 30, 1982.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is August 31, 1978.
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: July 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is July 31, 1978.



ANNEX III
YUGOSLAVIA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT IV
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
A.   First Bank Mission to review project  : June 1977
B.   Departure of Appraisal Mission            :  September 26, 1977
C.   Completion of Negotiations                   March 14, 1978
D.   Planned date of effectiveness                October 31, 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:  Special Conditions
A.   Agreements negotiated:
(i) domestic resources lent to social sector sub-projects receiving
Bank funds will carry an interest rate of at least 6 percent, and
to private sector sub-projects, at least 5 percent (para 60);
(ii)  sub-projects with total cost exceeding US$10 million equivalent
will have to meet a cost per job criteria (US$40,000 per job or
less--para 57).
i\.  SpQCigl COndition3  foe BnAra presentation, effectiveness and dlsbursement:
None.



