CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1612 YU
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Industrial Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO UDRUZENA BANKA
Dated July 26, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1612 YU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank), and PRIVREDNA 1BANKA SARAJEVO UDRUZENA BANKA, acting in
its own behalf and on behalf of its founder banks (hereinafter
sometimes called the Borrower or PBS, as the case may be).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project as hereinafter defined by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (herein-
after called the Guarantor), in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
guarantee the Loan as to payment of principal, interest and other
charges;
(C) the Bank has entered into three loan agreements of even
date herewith with Udrulena Kosovska Banka Priltina (hereinafter
sometimes called KBP), with Stopanska Banka Skopje Zdrulena Banka
(hereinafter sometimes called SBS) and with Investiciona Banka
Titograd Udrugena Banka (hereinafter sometimes called IBT),
whereunder the Bank has agreed to make a loan to KBP in an amount
equivalent to $40,000,000, a loan to SBS in an amount equivalent
to $20,000,000 and a loan to IBT in an amount equivalent to
$20,000,000 (such loans hereinafter collectively called the
Other Loans and each of such loans being hereinafter sometimes
referred to as an Individual Loan) in order to assist KBP, SBS and
IBT, respectively, in the financing of similar types of projects
consisting of various Investment Projects (as defined in said
agreements) in the Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo, in the
Socialist Republic of Macedonia and in the Socialist Republic of
Montenegro, respectively, said loan agreements being hereinafter
sometimes referred to as the Other Loan Agreements;
(D) the Borrower on the one hand and KBP, SBS and IBT on
the other hand have agreed to cooperate with each other in the
carrying out of their respective projects to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and of the Other Loans, through a Unit as
further described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and in each of
the Other Loan Agreements; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1,01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) (i) "Bosnia and Herzegovina", (ii) "Montenegro" and
(iii) "Macedonia" mean respectively the Socialist Republic of such
name.
(b) "Kosovo" means the Socialist Autonomous Province of such
name.
(c) "Unit" means the unit established jointly by, and in
agreement between the Borrower, KBP, SBS and IBT pursuant to
Section 6.01 of the Second Loan Agreement and to be maintained
in accordance with Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, all for
the purpose of the cooperation among each other as described in
Recital D of the Preamble to this Agreement.
(d) "Sub-Unit" means the sub-unit established by the Bor-
rower pursuant to Section 6.01 of the Second Loan Agreement and
to be maintained in accordance with Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement.


﻿-3-
(e) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an
Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit
sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a
free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement.
(f) "Investment Enterprise" means an industrial enterprise
to which the Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan.
(g) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan, provided, however that such a devel-
opment project shall not include any project in the agricultural
sector.
(h) "Labor Intensive Investment Project" means an Invest-
ment Project the value of whose fixed assets (including permanent
working capital) shall, when dividEd by the number of jobs to be
created or to be maintained as a result of the Investment Project,
not exceed the equivalent of $23,000 in current prices.
(i) "Self-Management Agreement of the Borrower" means the
Self-Management Agreement of the Borrower dated December 27, 1977,
as amended from time to time.
(j) "Borrower's Statutes" means the Statutes of the Borrower
dated December 27, 1977, as amended from time to time.
(k) "Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project"
means the statement of lending and investment operations and
policies for the Project set forth in Part C of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, as such statement may be amended from time to time with
the prior approval of the Bank.
(1) "Social Accounting Service" means the Slulba Drultvenog
Knjigovodstva referred to in Article 77 and in paragraph (5) of
Article 281 of the Constitution of the Guarantor.
(m) "KBP" means "Udrulena Kosovska Banka Prilitina", a
bank established and operating in Kosovo pursuant to the self-
management agreement dated January 13, 1978.
(n) "SBS" means "Stopanska Banka Skopje Zdrulena Banka" a
bank established and operating in Macedonia pursuant to the
self-management agreement dated December 27, 1977.


﻿-4-
(o) "IBT" means "Investiciona Banka Titograd Udrugena
Banka" a bank established and operating in Montenegro pursuant to
the self-management agreement dated January 16, 1978.
(p) "Other Loan Agreements" means the respective loan
agreements of even date herewith between the Bank on the one hand
and KBP, SBS and IBT on the other hand, and the term "Other Loans"
means the loans provided for therein.
(q) "Prior Loan Agreement" means Loan Agreement Number
1012-YU between the Bank and SBS, Subsidiary Loan Agreement
entered into by SBS and KBP in accordance with Loan Number
1012-YU, Loan Agreement Number 1013-YU between the Bank and PBS
and Subsidiary Loan Agreement entered into by PBS and IBT in
accordance with Loan Number 1013-YU, and "Prior Loan" means the
loan provided for therein.
(r) "Second Loan Agreement" means Loan Agreement Number
1277-YU between the Bank on the one hand and PBS, SBS, IBT and KBP
on the other hand, and "Second Loan" means the loan provided for
therein.
(s) "Guidelines" means the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977.
(t) "Dinars" and "Din" mean Dinars in the currency of the
Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, for amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a sub-loan (i)
to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services incurred in
currencies other than Dinars required for the Investment Project
in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is


﻿-5-
requested, or (ii) to meet the ex-factory cost of items manufac-
tured in Yugoslavia which shall have been procured in accordance
with international competitive bidding procedures consistent
with those set forth in the Guidelines; provided, however, that
no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a sub-loan unless (A)
the sub-loan shall have been approved by the Bank, or (B) the
sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Bank shall
have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of (i) $1,000,000
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or
of the Prior Loan or of the Second Loan for such Investment
Project or (ii) $12,000,000 equivalent, when added to all other
free-limit sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the foregoing amounts being subject
to change from4 time to time as determined by the Bank.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expendi-
tures before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures by
an Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to
the Bank's approval if such expenditures shall have been made
more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received in respect of such sub-loan the application and
information required by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement or,
in respect of a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior
to the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect of
such free-limit sub-loan the request and information required by
Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than
a free-limit sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory
to the Bank, together with (i) a description of the Investment
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including
the financing plan for the Investment Project and a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan; (ii) a description of the procurement procedures
followed or to be followed by the Investment Enterprise in carry-
ing out the Investment Project; (iii) the recommendations of
the Sub-Unit; (iv) the proposed terms and conditions of the


﻿-6-
sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan;
and (v) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-
loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including the financing
plan for the Investment Project and a description of the expendi-
tures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(ii) a description of the procurement procedures followed or
to be followed by the Investment Enterprise in carrying out the
Investment Project; (iii) the recommendations of the Sub-Unit; and
(iv) the terms and conditions of the sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before June 30, 1981.
(d) Except as the Ban'W shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall submit to the Bank for its approval or authorization, Labor
Intensive Investment Projects for which the estimated reasonable
foreign currency cost of goods and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be equivalent in the aggregate to
at least $5,000,000.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.


﻿-7-
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate of
the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans which have been
approved or authorized for withdrawals from the Loan Account under
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) take into account any
cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the General Conditions and
any repayments made by the Borrower under Section 2.09 of this
Agreement; provided that repayments due hereunder shall be made on
June 15 and December 15 in each year. Such amendments of said
Schedule 1 shall include amendments to the table of premiums on
prepayment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless
the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i) shall not
extend beyond fifteen years from the date of this Agreement,
and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or
more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or
approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of
principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its
prior approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made
by the Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any
sub-loan.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid
to the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or any
part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise
disposed of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower shall promptly
notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following
interest payment date, together with the premiums specified in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under
Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the
Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan or part thereof and not
theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank to the maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts


﻿-8-
corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or
maturities of the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in fi.nancing the development of productive facilities
and resources in Bosnia and Herzegovina as will contribute to
the social and economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The
Project consists in the financing of specific development projects
as specified in the Statement of Operations and Policies for the
Project through loans to industrial enterprises in Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out its activities under the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
the Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project and,
to that end, the Borrower shall, under arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank, maintain in cooperation with KBP, SBS and IBT,
respectively, the Unit and the Sub-Unit, with the composition and
functions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and the
Borrower shall have the Sub-Unit review every one of itv proposed
Investment Projects and sub-loans and make appropriate recommenda-
tions thereon before the Borrower shall make any application
or request to the Bank for approval of, or authorization to make,
withdrawals in respect of such sub-loans.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan will be made on terms
and conditions consistent with the Statement of Operations and
Policies for the Project and on additional terms and conditions
whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the
Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
including, in the case of any sub-loan, the right of the Borrower
to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate
the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and


﻿-9-
in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that:
(1) the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the require-
ments set forth in paragraphs 6 (g) and 6 (h) of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement, and (2) such goods and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investm-nt Project; (iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if
the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants
and construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) require
that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and
in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business
practice; and (2) without any limitation upon the foregoing,
such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the
Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain
all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise;
and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its
contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and of the Borrower, (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) help achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project
(including the cost thereof, the amount of financing provided by
the Borrower, disbursements, repayments, interest and other
charges on such financing, including the sub-loan therefor) and
furnish to the Bank such information concerning such records as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the


﻿- 10 -
Loan, the Project, the Unit and Sub-Unit, their procedures, opera-
tions and records, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects, and the sub-loans and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from the Loan, the Project, the Investment Projects
and the sub-loans.
(b) During the first calendar quarter of 1984, or such other
period as the Bank may agree, the Borrower shall, in cooperation
with KBP, SBS and IBT, through the Unit prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operations of the
Investment Projects financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
their costs and the benefits derived and to be derived from them,
the performance by the Borrower, KBP, SBS and IBT and the Bank of
their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
Other Loan Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan and of the Other Loans.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall at all times continue to
conduct its operations and affairs, including the Project, in
accordance with appropriate financial and investment standards and
practices, with qualified and experienced management and staff,
and in accordance with its Self-Management Agreement and its
Statutes.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all necessary measures to ensure that all complement.ry financing
shall be available to any Investment Enterprise in Bosnia and
Herzegovina as and when required to enable the Investment Enter-
prise to carry out its Investment Project in a timely manner.
Section 3.07.   Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower undertakes to charge on its respective domestic resources
made available to the Investment Projects annual rates of interest
differentiated according to the following distribution:
(a) Social Sector Investment Projects: not less than 6%.
(b) Private Sector Investment Projects: not less than 5%.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project


﻿- 11 -
and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by the Social Accounting Service or another competent and experi-
enced independent auditing organization acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case
not later thn six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets of
the Borrower or any founder bank of the Borrower as security for
any debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and
that in the creation of any such lien express provision will be
made to that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any
statutory lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or
any founder bank of the Borrower as security for any debt, the
Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien
satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, how-
ever, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall
not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the
purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.05. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the performance of the Borrower's
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower's staff and the
procedures of the Unit and Sub-Units, the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the Borrower, and to any other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request concerning its administration, operations and financial
condition, the progress of the Project and the general status of
the Loan.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall comply with any reasonable
request of the Bank for the Bank's representatives to inspect the
records referred to in Section 3.03 or Section 4.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall take all such steps satis-
factory to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself
against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of
exchange between the currencies (including Dinars and including
interest paid or to be paid or received or to be received on
account of such currencies) used in its lending and borrowing
operations.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;


﻿- 13 -
(b) a change shall have been made in the Self-Management
Agreement or in the Statutes of the Borrower which will materially
and adversely affect the financial condition or operations of the
Borrower or the carrying out of the Project; and
(c) the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Borrower or for the suspension of the operations of
the Borrower.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or
paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date of October 24, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Privredna Banka Sarajevo
Udrulena Banka
Obala 19
71000 Sarajevo
Yugoslavia


﻿- 14 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
PRIVRED BANK                       41-280 YUPBS
Sarajevo, Yugoslavia               21-235 YUPBS
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Martijn J.W.M. Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO UDRUZENA BANKA
By /s/ Josip Kulisic
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
December 15, 1980                                  100,000
June 15, 1981                                      200,000
December 15, 1981                                  500,000
June 15, 1982                                      800,000
December 15, 1982                                1,100,000
June 15, 1983                                    1,300,000
December 15, 1983                                1,400,000
June 15, 1984                                    1,500,000
December 15, 1984                                1,500,000
June 15, 1985                                    1,500,000
December 15, 1985                                1,400,000
June 15, 1986                                    1,300,000
December 15, 1986                                1,200,000
June 15, 1987                                    1,200,000
December 15, 1987                                1,100,000
June 15, 1988                                    1,000,000
December 15, 1988                                  800,000
June 15, 1989                                      600,000
December 15, 1989                                  400,000
June 15, 1990                                      300,000
December 15, 1990                                  200,000
June 15, 1991                                      200,000
December 15, 1991                                  100,000
June 15, 1992                                      100,000
December 15, 1992                                  100,000
June 15, 1993                                      100,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                            1.50%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                            3.00%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                            5.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                      6.50%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                            7.50%


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section 3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the
application of such prepayment in addition to, or in sub-
stitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of Section
3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any
amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or
(b) by the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of
the Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted
under paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall
have been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of
the Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied,
or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall
remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to
Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank
may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of the
Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
The Unit and Sub-Units;
Statement of Operations
and Policies for the Project
A.   Composition
1.   The Unit shall consist of four Sub-Units, one each from the
Borrower, SBS, IBT and KBP. The Sub-Unit of the Borrower shall
consist of three members appointed by the Borrower within its
staff and acceptable to the Bank, one of these members being
designated by the Borrower as head of the Sub-Unit. The head of
such Sub-Unit shall in cooperation with the heads of the Sub-Units
of SBS, IBT and KBP select among the heads of the four Sub-Units
one of them to serve as Chairman of the Unit for a minimum period
of six months.
2.   The Unit and Sub-Units shall meet as and when necessary.
3.   The Borrower shall provide the required supporting staff
for the Unit and the Sub-Unit in cooperation with SBS, IBT and
KBP.
B.   Functions
4.   The Unit:
(a) shall, on a uniform basis for the Borrower and for SBS,
IBT and KBP, coordinate the preparation of appropriate reports
concerning information referred to in Section 3.04 and Section
4.06 of this Agreement and of each of the Other Loan Agreements,
and forward to the Bank such reports, in such detail as the Bank
shall request, and all such other information as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request;
(b) shall, in consultation with the Bank, propose to the
Borrower and to SBS, IBT and KBP through the Sub-Units appropriate
time schedules and procedures for supervision and evaluation of
Investment Projects and shall assist the Borrower and SBS, IBT and
KBP through the Sub-Units in carrying out such supervision and
evaluation;
(c) shall maintain on behalf of the Borrower and of SBS, IBT
and KBP close relations with the Bank and assist the Bank's


﻿- 19 -
representatives in any inspection of Investment Projects financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and of each of the Other Loans and
in exchange of views with the Borrower and with SBS, IBT and KBP
on matters relating to the Loan, each of the Other Loans, the
Project and the project financed out of the proceeds of each of
the Other Loans; and
(d) shall prepare the report described in paragraph ib)
of Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   The Sub-Unit of the Borrower:
(a) shall review each proposed Investment Project and
related application or request for a sub-loan on the basis of a
detailed appraisal of the Investment Project prepared by the
Borrower, in accordance with the Statement of Operations and
Policies for the Project;
(b) shall, after its review, make recommendations to the
Borrower on each Investment Project and related sub-loan as to its
conformity to the Statement of Operations and Policies for the
Project and suggest any modifications required to achieve such
conformity;
(c) shall assist the Borrower in establishing and maintain-
ing appropriate records as provided for in Section 3.03 of the
Loan Agreement, in such detail as the Bank shall request;
(d) shall provide the Unit with such information concerning
the Borrower referred to in Section 3.04 and Section 4.06 of the
Loan Agreement; and
(e) shall, in coordination with the Unit, assist the Bor-
rower in carrying out supervision and evaluation of Investment
Projects.
C.   Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project
6.   Investment Projects, and sub-loans for Investment Projects,
shall conform to the following:
(a) Investment Projects will be limited to development
projects in manufacturing, processing and small basic industries
(excluding agro-industrial projects), provided, however, that
Labor Intensive Investment Projects may be submitted to the Bank


﻿- 20 -
for approval or authorization for any type of industrial develop-
ment Project, except for agro-industrial projects.
(b) Investment Projects will be limited to small-sized and
medium-sized projects, normally not exceeding the equivalent of
$10,000,000 in total costs unless the sub-loan is to be made to
an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project the value of
whose fixed assets (including permanent working capital) shall,
when divided by the number of jobs to be created or maintained as
a result of the Investment Project, not exceed the equivalent of
$40,000 in current prices.
(c) Except for Labor Intensive Investment Projects the
amount of a sub-loan to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall, in respect of any Investment Project, normally not
exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
(d) Investment Projects should provide satisfactory finan-
cial and economic rates of return, on the basis of detailed and
realistic estimates of costs and benefits, in addition to meeting
normal criteria of technical feasibility of the Investment Proj-
ect, marketability of its production and creditworthiness and
managerial competence of the Investment Enterprise. Normally,
Investment Projects with an internal financial rate of return of
less than 11% will be excluded. If the economic rate of return is
calculated to be less than 11%, i particular justification will be
required.
(e) The Investment Enterprise shall have a satisfactory
financial structure. Normally, its long-term debt-to-equity ratio
shall not exceed three to one unless, if higher, the appraisal of
the Investment Project should indicate that such ratio shall be
reduced below the above limit within a reasonable period of
time.
(f) Sub-loans for Investment Projects will be made for
a term consistent with the requirements of the Loan Agreement
and related to the useful life of the assets financed by the
sub-loan, or for a shorter term if consistent with the debt
servicing capacity of the Investment Enterprise. will be repay-
able in the same currencies as the corresponding principal amount
of the Loan used for the purpose and will carry interest, pay-
able with respect to that portion of the rate of interest cor-
responding to the rate of interest thereon to be paid by the
Borrower to the Bank on account of the Loan in the same currencies


﻿- 21 -
as the principal, at an annual rate of not less than 11% of the
principal amount outstanding. For the purpose of Section 2.08 (b),
a period of grace of up to five years for Investment Projects
appropriately co-financed with other foreign exchange resources
and when suitably justified and up to three years for other
Investment Projects may be deemed appropriate.
(g) Procurement of goods and services:
(i) Contracts for goods and services to be financed in
whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Loan
estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or
more shall be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding procedures in accordance
with the Guidelines unless the Borrower shall have
satisfied the Bank that such procedures are not
appropriate for such award.
(ii) With respect to each contract for goods and ser-
vices to be financed in whole or in part out of
the proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the
preceding subparagraph (i), the procurement of
such goods and services shall be made in accordance
with sound commercial practices at a reasonable
price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and,
reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and
the competence of the parties rendering them, due
consideration being given to the desirability to
apply international competitive bidding procedure.
(h) With respect to (A) all contracts for goods and services
to be financed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Loan
estimated to cost the equivalent of $4,000,000 or more and which
are to be procured in accordance with the Guidelines on the basis
of international competitive bidding procedures, and (B) whenever
the Bank shall so reasonably request, all such other contracts for
goods and services to be financed in whole or in part out of the
proceeds of the Loan and which are to be procured in accordance
with the Guidelines on the basis of international competitive
bidding:


﻿- 22 -
(i) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of
tne advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Bank shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concur-
rence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(ii) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the
award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the
bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
(iii) The terms and conditions of the contract shall
not, without the Bank's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(iv) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be
furnished to the Bank promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract.
(i) Each Investment Project will be subject to close super-
vision by the Borrower in accordance with the procedures proposed
by the Unit.


