Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFIlCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10547-HA Type: (PCR)
COUKIS, B./ X31708 / T9 102/ OEDD3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1220-HA)
APRIL 17, 1992
Infrastructure and Energy Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Fiscal Year
October 1 - September 30
CURRENC' EOUIVALENTS
January 1991
Currency Unit = Gourde (G)
Official Exchange Rate: US$1 = G 5
Free Rate:  US$1 =   G 7.5
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE      -    "Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique"' (Central
Economic Cooperation Fund)
IDA      -   International Development Association
IDB      -   Inter-American Development Bank
HTPTC    -    "Ministere des Travaux Publics, des Transports et des
Communications" (Ministry of Public Works, Transport
and Communications)
PCR       -   Project Completion Report
PPAR     -   Project Performance Audit Report
SAT       -   "Service   Autonome   des   Transports"   (Autonomous
Transport Service)
SEPRRN   -   "Service  D'Entretien  Permanent  du  Reseau  Routier
National"   (National   Permanent   Road  Maintenance
Service)
SCS       -   "Service de Construction et Supervision" (Construction
and Works Supervision Department)
UNDP      -   United Nations Development Programme
USAID    -   Uaiited States Agency for International Development



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OMCIA  US OnL
Washington, D.C. 2iL33
U.S.A.
OUit* of Oitr.cw.Gnuai
Opmt.tm. IVehaWwNi
April 17, 1992
NINUA1SDUN TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS   DTHE PRESID* NT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Haiti Sixth Highway Project
(Credit 1220-HA
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Haiti Sixth Highway Project (Credit 1220-HA)" pvipared by
the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Offico. No audit of th.'s project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department -at this tme.
Attachment
This docunent bu a restricted distribution and may be used by recipin only In the performance
of their officil duties. It contents may not othefwis be discosd without World Bank autborisetion.



FOR OFmFCIAL USE `LY
=QJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1:20-HA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paoe No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary                                                   ii
I .    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
B. Background                                                        1
C. Project. Rationale                                                3
D. Projeot Objectives and Description                                3
E. Project Design and Organiz&tion                                    5
F. Project Agreements Reached                                        5
G. Projeit Implementation                                             7
H. Project Results and Sustainability                                9
I.  Borrower Performance                                            11
J.  IDA Performance                                                 12
K.  Lessons Learned                                                 12
II.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                          15
III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                              16
A. Related Bank Projects                                            16
B. Project Timetable                                                17
C. Credit Disbursements                                             18
D. Project Implementation and Results                               19
E. Project Costs and Financing                                      21
F. Studies                                                          22
G. Compliance with Covenants                                        23
H. Staff Inputs and Missions                                        25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1220-HA)
PREFACE
1.         This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Sixth Highway
Project, for which Credit 1220-PA in the amount of USS14.0 million was
approved on April 1, 1982. The credit account war fully disbursed on July 12,
1988, more than three years behind schedule.
2.         The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy Operations
Division of the-Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office. It is based,
inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit and Project Agreements;
supervision reports; correspondence between IDA and the Borrower; and internal
IDA memoranda. On April 20, 1990, IDA sent the Borrower Parts I and III.
Since then, they have been continuously requested to prepare Part II, but as
of May 30, 1991, no reply had been received.



- ii -
PR-OJECT CONPLETION REPORT
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1220-HA)
EZLATION SUI(ARk'
ob1ectives
Li         The Project was the sixth in a seriea designed to foster the
execution of high-priority road and bridge maintenance and rehabilitation
works, and to continue IDA's long-term program of institution building in the
transport sector. It was based on an agreed five-year Road Investment and
Maintenance Program (1981-1986), and aimed at complementing on-going USAID and
IDB-supported programs.
Implementation Experience
Li.        Various problems plagued both the project and the whole road
maintenance program of the Government almost immediately after effectivnness.
USAID assistance to the national road maintenance department of MTPTC, ceaeed
one year after Credit 1220-HA became effective. The lack of counterpart funds
for the project, exacerbated by the unwillingness of the Government to
increase diesel fuel taxes, affected project implementation, despite IDA's
agreement to establish a special action program to front-load disbursements.
Social unrest and riots began to occur in Haiti in early 1984. Cabinet
reshuffles and staff changes occurred regularly from then on. Disputes with
the contractor on major rehabilitation works further delayed project
Implementation. The Credit Closing Date was extended by three years (from
June 30, 1985 to June 30, 1988). Even so, results by 1988 cannot be compared
with plans set out in the 1982 Credit Agreement, largely because most of the
planned outputs had to be either modified drastically or dropped altogether.
ILL.       The country's problematic situation during project implementation
impacted powerfully upon the civil service. The Ministry of Transport, Public
Works and Communications (MTPTC) not only lost large volumes of external
assistance but also suffered repeated turnover in its management. As a
result, works undar the project were implemented suboptimally, records leave
much to be desired, and many tasks which had been planned to be done under
Highways VI were postponed to the follow-on project. At appraisal, total
project cost was estimated at US$19.2 million; actual project cost is US$17.9
million, but the two sums are not comparable because of the drastic
modifications of the project scope that occurred in the meantime. Also, lack
of traffic data on the main components precludes the possibility of
calculating economic rates of return that might claim to be reliable. Since
road rehabilitation work was completed under the follow-on project (Transport



- iii -
VII) the most meaningrul time to reestimate ERRS will be when the PCR for that
project is prepared, some time in 1992.
Results and Sustainability
iv.        The technical and financial aspects of project preparation were
thorough, but little attention was paid to institution building, especially of
the MTPTC's maintenance department, which was performing well at the time of
appraisal but was heavily dependent on USAID technical assistance and
financial sup-ort. An a result of (i) existing unattended weaknesses within
MTPTC, (ii) th.  withdrawal of USAID's financing, and (iii) frequent staff
changes, within both the Government and IDA, little sustainable institutional
strengthening has occurred as a result of the project. As to its physical
achievements, the project prevented further transport bottlenecks by
rehabilitating priority bridges and culverts, but the major road to be
rehabilitated under the project deteriorated markedly due to delays in
completing the rehabilitation works and generally poor maintenance. The flow
of benefits from the project's physical components is therefore unlikely to be
sustainable unless adequate maintenance funding is reestablished quickly.
Findings and Lessons Learned
V.         The project was implemented during a particularly turbulent period
in the history of Haiti (1981-1988), marked by frequent changes in
administration, the withdrawal of foreign aid, tight budgetary constraints and
civil unrest. This situation clearly unsettled the overall working
environment and the institutional set-up in the country, and accounted for
part of the failure of the project. The distressing conclusion of the PCR is
that the project did little to maintain the institutional capacity of the
Ministry during that period.
vi.        This raises a question as to whether IDA was right in continuing to
disburse the credit and extending the closing date repeatedly, in the face of
widespread non-compliance with major covenants. Should it not have suspended
disbursements, or at least cancelled the undisbursed balance at the original
closing date? While this may be debatable in the country context of the time
and in view of the large cost involved in interrupting rehabilitation and
maintenance operations, in general, a more important question is why, at a
minimum, project priorities were not revised in the light of drastically
changing circumstances in the country and the sector.
vii.       In general, both the project experience and the present situation
call for:
(a)   simple project objectives in line with the limited capacity of the
Ministry;



(ivj
(b)   flexible project design (i.e. several small components) so that the
project can be adapted to changing circumstances, and/or making
procurement in the later years conditional on satisfac'.ory
performance in the prior ye'rs;
(c)   increased focus on instituticinal building, entailing especially a
close review of the Ministry's future role in road maintenance
activities and exploration of a possible stronger participation of
the private sector, coupled with necessary reinforcement of MTPTC's
supervision capacity;
(d)   a close review of fiscal and budgetary mechanisms to enable
adequate funding of road maintenance by the Government;
(el   integration of any project within a realistic c   /1 program of
Ministry, in line with the Government's e.    , priorities and
'=^ncing cc istraints; and
(f)  t.  t superv  `on by IDA.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1220-HA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
A.          Proiect Identity
1.          Sixth Highway Project
Cradit 1220-HA
Latin America and the Caribbean
Haiti
Tvansport Sector
Highway Subsector
B.          Background
2.          Up to the 1960's, Haiti's road network was rudimentary, efforts
having been concentrated on a few primary roads such as the Northern and
Southern Roads, linking Port-au-Prince with Cap Haitien and Les Cayes. As the
population grew and the poor roads serving the secondary towns and rural
communities became an obstacle to the development of an integrated national
economy, the Government decided to maintain and reconstruct the existing
network and strengthen local road maintenance capacity. In the course of the
1970's, some progress was made to improve road transport conditions, but major
shortcomings persisted in the areas of maintenance and the institutional
environment of the sector.
3.          The first Five-Year Development Plan (1971-76) gave priority to
the development of the productive sectors of the economy, particularly
agriculture, but also prepared the ground for economic and technical studies
for the reconstruction of the transport infrastructure. Starting in 1972, the
country received substantial assistance from multilateral agencies for (i)
reconstructing the road network; and (ii) upgrading road maintenance and
improving port infrastructure. Major road reconstruction projects, focussing
mainly on the rehabilitation of the Northern Road and major bridges, and
supported by IDA and IDB, were launched in 1974. Between 1975 and 1977, the
Government, with a UNDP grant of US$600,000, contracted a National Transport
Study with a consulting firm. IDA acted as an executing agency. The study
recommended a transport policy which would give priority to: (a) improved
maintenance and selected upgrading and rehabilitation of existing roads; and
(b) improved coastal shipping to achieve a more even distribution of economic
activity between Port-au-Prince ind the provincial towns. Those
recommendations were adopted in the second Five-Year National Development Pla-



(1976-1981), which provided a basis for three IDA projects, including the
Sixth Highway Project under review in this report.
4.          Over the past 25 years, the Bank Group has extended one loan and
seven IDA credits to Haiti for its transport sector. The first operation in
the sector was Loan 141-HA (US$2.6 million) for a Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project, involving about 1,000 km of roads, which became
effective in 1956.  The second operation (Credit 32-HK-.  USS350,000, in 1962)
was an Interim Highway project to complete works undertaken under the first
project. The completion reports of these projects concluded that their timAly
implementation was hampered by political and managerial problems. The Third
and Fourth Highway Projects (Credit 478-HA, US$10 million, 1974 and Credit
556-HA, US$20 million, 1975) included the reconstruction of the Northern Road
and the rehabilitation of a number of bridges. The projects achieved their
main objective of providing all-weather access between the principal port in
the Northern Region, Cap Haitien, and the capital, Port-au-Prince, as well as
linking the Artibonite Valley to the most important food-consuming centers.
The PCR for these projects presented reestimated economic returns of 25 and
41% respectively, as oppc...d to 20 and 35% estimated at appraisal. The PPAR
indicated differences of opinion between the Government and IDA on the design
standards to be used for reconstruction, particularly regarding the bearing
capacity of the pavement. In view of the limited funds available, the
Association insisted that the Northern Road be rebuilt to modest standards,
conforming to the needs of traffic anticipated in the near future. The
Government undertook to install and operate weigh scales to check overloading
between Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitian, but full implementation of this
undertaking was severely delayed.' Following the road's completion, traffic
(particularly of trucks) increased much more rapiely than anticipated and the
excessive axle loads precipitated the need to strengthen certain sections of
the road only a few years later.
5.          The Fifth Transport Project (Credit 807-HA, US$15 million, 1978)
comprised a road and bridge component and a coastal shipping component. The
road and bridge component provided for the upgrading and repaving of 54 km of
roads in the Northern Plains region, a feeder road to the port of Jeremie, and
the reconstruction of two major structures, the Hyppolite and the Three Rivers
Bridges.  The coastal shipping component included a pilot port project to
provide new terminals for shallow draft vessel1- at Port-au-Prince, Port-de
Paix and Jeremie at a total cost of USS3.5 m  liton.   The PCR highlighted
weaknesses in project supervision throughou- execution and noted that no IDA
mission visited the project for one whole year. It judged 'hat most of the
road construction deficiencies could have bean avoided by ti..ely monitoring by
the consultants in charge of supervision. A more assiduous attention to
supervision might have helped to avert increasing delays in the rehabilitation
I Haiti was the first country in LAC to agree to implement a graduated
scale for overloading.  When the time came to follow through, the Government
faced considerable opposition to the plan and never fully implemented the
program.



-3-
of several kilometers of road under the road component.   The P'   concluded
that the success of future projects in the sector would depend .o a large
extent on tight supervision.
C.          Pro,ect Rationale
6.          The Sixth Highways Project (Credit 1220-HA) formed a logical
continuation of this series of projects designed to address basic
infrastructural development needs to support Haiti's economic growth and
social objectives. The project was based on an agreed country-w4de t-ansport
development plan, derived from the National fransport Study (pa..  3), which
served as the framework for program coordination among the major a-.tors
involved in the sector (USAID, IDB and IDA). Its main objectives were -he
intensification of the road maintenance effort, the upgrading or
rehabilitation of almost 1,000 kilometers of gravel roads to paved standards,
and the improvement of another 1,000 km of secondary roads to acceptable, all-
weather, gravel.standards. In addition, the plan provided for the
rehabilitation and upgrading of a large number of aging steel and concrete
bridges.
7.          Within this rlan, IDA would concentrate on the areas of
maiatenance and rehabilitation and would reinforce its long-term program of
institution building in the transport sector. IDB would support the
construction of secondary roads and the upgrading of primary roads. The USAID
program focused on road maintenance through continued assistance to SEPRRN,
the road maintenance agency under the MTPTC.
D.          Proiect objectives and Description
8.          The main objectives of the project were to foster execution of
high priority road and bridge maintenance and rehabilitation works identified
in the Government's 1981-1986 Five-Year Plan, and prepared under on-going IDA
and other externally financed lending, and to continue IDA's lorg-term program
of institution building in the tr.isport sector. The project comprised:
(a)   acquisition of equipment to expand SEPRRN's fleet to carry out
routine and periodic road maintenance and rehabilitation in
accordance with the 19e 1986 Maintenance Program;
(b)   a program of weight and dimension control for vehicles, includs.ng
the procurement and operation of weighing equipment and the
diligent enforcement of laws and regulations governing such
control;
(c)   rehabilitation of 57 bridges and other drainage structures;
(d)   rehabilitation and strengthening of 100 km of the Northern Road;
(e)   a technical assistance component for studies of maintenance



technology and of the domestic construction industry and for
auditing of the project accounts kept by MTPTC and SEPRRN in
particular.
9.          To implement the project, IDA assisted in financing the following
items:
(a)  Main 2nance
- Road maintenance, workshop equipment and spare parts;
- Vehicle weighing equipment.
(b) Bridges and Other Drainage Structures
-  Engineering design and civil works for the repair of existing
bridges, culvert. and concrete fords and for the construction of a
number of new bridges;
-  Consultancy services for the detailed design of structures to be
included under the project.
(c) Road Rehabilitation
-   Civil works, engineering, supervisicen and technical assistance for
the rehabilitation of specific sections of the Northern Road,
totalling 94 km.
(d) Technical Assistance
-  A study to determine whether it would be better to increase
rehabilitation and carry out minor betterments and develop labor-
intensive activities rather than continue relying on SEPRRN
brigades for routine and periodic maintenance.
-  A study on the domestic construction industry to formu2ite specific
proposals for basic and vocational training for industry managers
and skilled workers, and the training of technicians;
-  Annual auditing of project accounts.
10.        The project, including capital and recurrent costs, was estimated
to cost US$19.2 million. The credit of US$14.0 million was to finance 96% of
the foreign exchange cost amounting to 73% of the total cost (100% of the
foreign exchange cost and 73% of the base cost net of contingencies). The
Government was supposed to finance the remainder (including about 2% of taxes)
and tiAe expenditures required to carry out the agreed Five-Year Maintenance
Program in the amount of some US$68 million at 1981 prices. These
expenditures included US$26 million in routine maintenance, US$24 million in
periodic maintenance and US$18 million in rehabilitation works necessary to
make roads maintainable.



E.         Prolect Deoion and Organization
11.        Overall responsibility for the project rested with the Ministry of
Public Wou:ka, Transport and Communications (MTPTC) and specifically three of
its departments, namely:
(a)  The "Service d'Entretien Permanent du Reseau Routier National"
(SEPRRN - National Permaient Road Maintenance Service) for
equipment procurement, including spec..ficationo for the bidding
documents and deployment of newly pur:hased equipment, in
accordance wich the agreed road maintenance program and for the
study of road maintenance technology;
(b)   The "Service Autonome des Transports" (SAT - Autonomous Transport
Service) for the preparation of enginee._.ing designs for the bridge
and road strengthening and rehabilitation programs and for the
Construction Industry Study;
(c)  The Construction and Works Supervision Department (SCS) for the
execution and supervision of construction, rehabilitation and
strengthening works to be carried out under the Bridges and Roads
Programs.
12.        The project's basic design constituted a logical step in furthering
the sector dialogue on: (i) policies (cost recovery and axle weight controls);
(ii) priorities (maintenance and priority investments); and (iii)
institutional strengthening (technical assistance). The project was also
designed to foster local private-sector participation in road rehabilitation
activities. The rehabilitation works were indeed later contracted to a
Haitian-American joint venture whose main partner was the local construction
firm.
13.        As described in the SAR (1.15 and 2.14 to 2.19), the organizational
and human resource shortcomings of MTPTC were identified during project
preparation, including poor planning and budgeting capacity, inefficiencies in
SEPRRN's maintenance technology and operations, and general absence of
coordination among MTPTC's departments. The technical assistance planned
under the Project was deemed the best way to address these important
shortcomings and was to be closely coordinated with the USAID-financed
strengthening program of SEPRRN.
F.         Proiect Agreements Reached
14.        The appraisal mission (May 1981) identified the following issues
and pending actions:
(a)  that the Government should increase taxes on diesel sales to the
level of those for gasoline; that no special compensatory measures
should be recommended for public transportation and industrial
consumers, but that IDA should be flexible on the deadline for the
final phasing out of the tax differential; that the Government



should reduce the tax differential vis-a-vis gasoline by 30 percent
prior to negotiations and present, during negotiations, a program
for the elimination of the differential by mid-1993;
(b)   that the Government should enforce its existing li.mits on axle
loads, and not allow them to be exceeded until it could be proven
that the road network could support higher loads; that the
Government should, prior to negotiations, confirm its intention to
enforce the legislation;
(c)  that the Government should allocate US$300,000 from the Fifth
Transport Project for studies and repairs of the Hinche Suspension
Bridge; also, IDA granted a Proiect Preparation Facility of
US$300,000 to finance studies of drainage structures and of road
rehabilitation works to be executed under the project;
(d)   that vroiect accounts be audited yearly by independent auditors,
the audit to be paid for under the credit;
(e)   in view of the involvement of both USAID and IDB in supporting
labor-intensive road construction nroiects. that IDA convene a tri-
partite meeting to discuss issues of coordination; that IDA should
seek bilateral cofinancina of about US$7-10 million for additional
high-priority bridge, drainage and road pavement works not to be
included in the project; and
(f)  that a study be carried out under the project to update that part
of the 1977 National Transport Study covering the construction
industry; the main objective of the study would be to prepare a
detailed action plan for supporting the industry with particular
reference to training at all levels.
15.        During negotiations in February 1982 the Government and IDA agreed
on the following actions:
(a) a detailed work program for SAT over the project period;
(b)   an agreement that no revisions, suspensions or exemptions to
existing regulations on axle load limits would be made without
IDA's prior agreement;
(c)  that annual consultation would take place between Government and
IDA on the success of coordination among units responsible for
planning or constructing feeder roads;
(d)   the elimination of the tax differential between gasoline and diesel
by 1993;
(e)   conditions for the utilization and maintenance of SEPRRN's
equipment fleet and the auditing of its accounts, and the quarterly



reporting to IDA on implementation of its weight and dimension
program;
(f)   that no disbursements would be made under the second traniche of the
equipment component until after completion of the road mdintenance
technology study;
(g)   availability of sufficient counterpart funds and an agreement to
review .with IDA the staffing and coordination of MTPTC to
adequately meet project implementation needs; and
(h)   outlines for the project's procurement program, bidding documents
and model contracts and terms of reference for consulting services
for engineering designs, supervision of works and related technical
assistance.
16.        IDA also required as a condition of effectiveness the adoption of a
system af sanctions for axle load violations, providing for fines proportional
to the extent of the violation, as part of the weight and dimension control
program. Standard IDA conditions were appropriate for the credit.
G.         Proiect Implementation
17.        The IDA Board approved the project on April 1st, 1982.  The
original effectiveness date of July 26th, 1982, was first deferred to August
26th, then to October 26th, and finally to December 17th, 1982. The loan
became effective on December 16, 1982, following the enactment of legislation
regarding axle load violations which was a condition of effectiveness but
which had encountered initial political resistance. The project was supposed
to be completed by December, 1984.
18.        The first two supervision missions (March and October 1983)
highlighted both strengths and weaknesses in the initial phases of project
implementation. In general, most project activities were begun during the
first year of the project, although with some delays. On the policy front the
Government increased the price of both diesel and gas by March 1983, Lut the
effective differential between them remained at about 70 US cents, prompting
IDA to continue its pressure on the Government to reduce the gap.
19.        In late 1983, about one year after Credit 1220-HA became effective,
USAID withdrew its support to Haiti, including its long-.standing assistance
and financing to SEPRRN. Although IDA subsequently stepped in by providing a
small amount of financing to SEPRRN, this was not sufficient to fully maintain
Haiti's road maintenance capacity, especially in the wake of the pervasive
deterioration in Haiti's economic and social fabric which affected the whole
implementation period of the project. In retrospect, although the project
files attest to the thoroughness of the project preparation in terms of
technical and financial criteria, it is also clear that the project did not
address the basic institutional weaknesses of MTPTC, as the already strong
technical assistance provided by USAID to SEPRRN was not expected to be
discontinued.



20.        By the time the next mission took place, in March of 1984, all
project components were officially underway, but the most important issues and
problems to dog the project for the rest of its effective life began to
emerge. While the implementation status indicators on the Form 590 elicited
no cause for special concern, the overwhelming issue facing the Government was
the lack of counterpart funds. To respond partially to this situation, IDA
agreed to front-load credit resources under a special action program due to
terminate at the end of 1984. There was, however, no assurance from the
Government that they would be able to mobilize additional funds in thp future.
The 1984 budget allocation for road maintenance and rehabilitation fell far
short of the targets agreed to at negotiations. Unforeseen time lags,
increased costs of consulting services, and the clear need for technical
assistance to bolster the road maintenance program, all exacerbated the
shortfall in credit for financing the bridge rehabilitation originally
included under the project. While the lack of counterpart funds could have
been addressed had the Government increased diesel fuel taxes sufficiently,
their failure to do so prompted IDA to advise the authorities that they were
contravening the Credit Agreement.
21.       Under the Road Rehabilitation Program, the contractor failed to
produce a satisfactory work program and staffing to carry out its tasks. IDA
raised the possibility with the Government that the contractor might have
overestimated his capabilities when accepting the contract, which proved to be
true and the reason for major delays in starting works.  IDA intervened
directly with the US partner in the consortium, who gave assurances that the
work would be underway without further delay. With time, however, another
reason for the contractor's failure to perform proved to be thp Government's
inability to pay for the limited services which they had Lctually rendered.
22.        Rising social unrest and riots began to occur in Haiti in early
1984 mostly due to: (i) the growing unpopularity of the regime ; (ii) the
extermination of the Haitian pig, which had contracted swine fever, and was
the main source of savings and protein for peasant households; (iii) the
reduction in public expenditures, including counterpart funds, for investment
financed by foreign donors; and (iv) the drought conditions in many parts of
the country. A major cabinet reshuffle took place in 1984, which brought
about the replacement of the Minister of Works and many of his key staff.
23.        By the end of 1984, the technical and financial problems thwarting
project implementation led the Government to request an extension of the
credit closing date (initially June 30, 1985). The financial problems were
caused by: (i) a 13% reduction in the US dollar vis-a-vis the SDR; (ii) the
termination of the Special Action Prograrm on December 31, 1984; and (iii) the
dearth of counterpart funds.
24.        The lack of funds was slowing down progress on the rehabilitation
of the Northern Road, and delaying the launching of the second phase of the
bridge construction program and the upgrading of tools and equipment under
SEPRRN's rehabilitation program. In view of these delays, IDA approved an
extension of the closing date to June 30th, 1986.



-9-
25.        By April 1985, the only significant advance in project
implementation was the elimination by the Government of the tax differential
between diesel and gasoline. Major lags in the Road and Bridge Rehabilitation
and Road Maintenance Programs had developed, which would necessitate a further
extension of the closing date to December 1986. Another reshuffle in the
Ministry, including the nomination of a new minister of works, had caused the
neglect of project implementation schedules. At this point, IDA started
discussions with the Government on a Seventh Transport Project mainly dew gned
to complete the works unaccomplished under the Sixth Project and deal wi-..
issues unaddressed under it, including local funding availability. A mission
in July 1985, however, confirmed little progress on any front, mainly due to
the prevailing local instability.
26.        By mid-1986, physical progress was estimated at 36% while the
disbursement lag on the project was estimated to be about 29%. The delay in
execution of physical works related mainly to the rehabilitation of the
Northern Road, which was suffering from the contractor's poor organization,
management and capacity, and lack of local funds.  IDA agreed to a second
Government request to extend the Closing Date to June 1987, and made
arrangements to reduce the Bridge Rehabilitation Program from 57 to 21 bridges
and culverts and to increase IDA's disbursement percentage on the civil works
for the Northern Road from 55% to 85%. An outbreak of civil unrest in mid-
1986 again compromised the severely delayed project implementation.  IDA
recommended to Government an amicable gettlement and termination of the
contract with the contractor on the Northern Road ccntract, and the Government
subsequently called for new bids to continue the rehabilitation works. The
project Zlosing Date was extended for a third and last time to June 1988, with
the understanding that works remaining incomplete under the credit would be
continued and finished under the Seventh Transport Project (Credit 1756-HA).
The last disbursement was finally made on July 12, 1988.
H.         Project Results and Sustainability
27.        The original contract for the Road Rehabilitation component was
award3d to a contractor in November 1983, for an amount of USS 8 million. The
contractual completion date of the works was December 1985 but execution was
beset by difficulties due to late payments by the Government and security
risks resulting in frequent work stoppages. Ultimately the contractor
abandoned the job at the beginning of 1986.
28.        In these circumstances, only 36% of the works were carried out,
though for a total cost of US$10.2 million, including US$1.5 million of
indemnities paid to the contractor by the Government. In addition, due to
these delays in the rehabilitation works and lack of maintenance, moet
sections of the Gonaives-Cap Haitien Road had to be rehabilitated under the
following project. The full rehabilitation of this section of the Northern
Road was finally completed in 1990, at a total cost of about US$19.4 million,
including more than US$2.0 million for indemnities. Of this, US$10.2 million
was financed under the Sixth Project (Credit 1220-HA), US$5.7 million under
the Seventh Project (Credit 1756-HA), and UsS3.5 million through an additional



- 10 -
grant from Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), the French
development agency.
29.        As for the bridges component, the project was designed to
rehabilitate 4 bridges and 20 culverts and to construct 6 bridges and 27
culverts for a total cost of USS3.4 million (appraisal estimates). As
implementation of this component was delayed and IDA resources needed to be
reallocated to complete other components, the construction of new drainage
structures war postponed (and completed) under the Seventh Project, and only
minor repairs of 24 bridges and culverts were carried out under The Sixth
Project, for a total amount of about USS 0.3 million.
30.        Data are not aveilable to recalculate ex-post ERRs for the road
rehabilitation component, the main investment of the project. However, the
traffic on the GonaLves to Cap Haltien Northern Road sectior. increased
considerably during the past decade, certainly due in part to the eventual
rehabilitation of this section of this road. Within 10 years, the traffic
increased from 270-410 (SAR 5.13) to 300-1070 (1Xt90 traffic counts).  The
rehabilitation of the bridges and culverts, the only part of that component to
be implemented, had very high rates of return, the final ERRs being close to
the appraisal estimate, since there were no overruns for these very small
works (UZ$ 0.3 million).
31.        In summary, the Physical components of the Sixth Project were
finally completed under the Seventh Project and the additional CCCE grant.
However, in the meantime, the overall road network has deteriorated due to
lack of maintenance activities for the last five years. These physical
achievements will not therefore be sustainable unless MTPTC's capacity to
execute or contract maintenance works is strengthened and the issue of
counterpart funding for these works is addressed.  The preparation of the
proposed Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (possibly effective in
late 1991) is focussing on these two issues.
32.        Results of the technical assistance component highlight the need
for future assistance to be prepared with a clearer definition of realistic
targets and, in particular, of performance indicators for use in measuring its
effectiveness throughout project life. As a result, it is difficult to assess
the effectiveness of the technical assistance provided, especially in view of
the overall deterioration of MTPTC's administrative structure. Overall,
however, the project failed to address the continuous weakening of the project
implementing agency during the project period. The net result is that IDA
and/or other donors will face an increasingly difficult situation when
designing follow-up operations. To a large extent, however, addressing the
issue of institution- building was beyond IDA's supervision capability as the
whole administrative and social structures in hait. were undergoing major
changes during this period.
33.        The project's legal covenants were well designed and focused on
selected priority sector policies. As in many similar sector projects,
however, the general covenant on adequate provision of maintenance funds was
not complied with. However, in view of the high priority of the project



- 11 -
rehabilitation works and the tightening budgetary constraints of the country,
the Bank chose to front- load credit resources and lower local financing
requirements rather than stop credit disbursements. The issue at stake here
is mostly one of realism in designing sector programs and targets and of
project design. In the context of Haiti -- a small country with a limited
road network, weak institutional base, and changing country circumstances -- a
sector approach with (i) annual disbursements linked to actual implementation
performance over the previous year and (ii) Bank support to review and
imple...ent fiscal 4nd budgetary mechanisms designed to raise funds for
maintenance may be more appropriate than traditional investment projects with
regular covenants.
I.         Borrower Performance
34.        Project management and implementation by the Government was
generally poor throughout the life of the project, as to both the operational
performance of MTPTC's agencies themselves and the monitoring of the
performance of contractors selected to execute major portions of the work.
These weaknesses can be attributed partly to a high turnover of decision-
making staff involved with the project, including ministers, and to dwindling
Government funds for action. Other problems which hampered effective project
implementation included the volatile political and economic environment, low
technical competence of middle-level management and poorly qualified technical
crews, and inefficient management monitoring tools throughout MTPTC.
35.        A serious shortcoming affecting the long-term objectives of the
project was MTPTC/SEPRRN's inability to account for and maintain its road
equipment and to ensure the effective execution of rehabilitation works which,
in turn, delayed progress on routine and periodic maintenance by departmental
crews throughout the life of the project. In part, the deterioration in
SEPRRN's efficiency was due to the steady decline in budget allocations
throughout the project implementation period. However, SEPRRN's budgetary
problems were compounded by an increase in unproductive personnel expenditures
and a continuous deterioration in road maintenance management following the
departure of USAID-financed technical assistance. Under these circumstances,
project experience points to the advisability of contracting out more simple
road maintenance works, equipment overhaul and maintenance in order to reduce
the volume of tasks assigned to MTPT' workshops, while increasing the
supervision capability of the Ministry over local and foreign contractors.
36.        The most serious violations of the credit agreement were:
(a)   availability of budget funds to SEPRRN (Section 3.06).  Not
complied with.
(b)   axle load limits (Sections 3.07 and 4.04).  Partial compliance due
to technical difficulties in applying higher French-based norms
than those proposed by IDA.



- 12 -
(C)   elimination of tax differential bet*een diesel and gas (Section
4.03). Some action taken in March 1985 but rescinded later due to
political difficulties.
(d)   annual audits (Section 4.01 (b)).  Qualified audit report received
only in 1986. A clarification report requested by IDA was never
received.
J.         IDA Performance
37.        Both at the project preparation stage and during implementation,
IDA faced a difficult set of social, economic and political circumstances in
Haiti. In designing and dimensioning the project, the wisdom of hindsight
suggests that less emphasis should have been given during preparation to the
potential improvement of infrastructure and more to strengthening the
institutional capability of Government agencies (especially MTPTC's
supervising capability) and the technical expertise of the local construction
industry to implement the proposed activities. Closer attention to the
financial constraints of Government and a review of maintenance funding levels
and mechanisms might also have enabled IDA to anticipate and probably
forestall difficulties, including the delays in project execution. The
availability at the outset of USAID technical assistance and financial support
to SEPRRN can however explain why IDA was little concerned with short-term
aseds for institutional strengthening, as USAID withdrawal was totally
unexpected. Furthermore, at the time of preparation of the Sixth Highway
Project, the political climate had taken a clearly optimistic turn. In good
faith, IDA assessed the improving situation to merit continued assistance.
38.        Proiect-supervision was less regular than it should have been, with
less attention being paid to important indicators of project implementation
such as the annual audit covenant, the monitoring of contractor performance,
and the need to adjust the technical and financial disbursement targets and,
possibly, the project priorities, in line with the changing circumstances in
the economy. A thorough review by IDA of maintenance methods used by MTPTC
during supervision might ideally have led to making release of the second
tranche for maintenance conditional on the introduction of more labor-
intensive technology, and the introduction of maintenance works by contract.
Though the Government violated a number of credit covenants, IDA at no time
threatened suspension of suspension of disbursements in view of Haiti's
increasing economic difficulties overall and the high priority of the road to
be rehabilitated. IDA's inadequate supervision of the project was however
mainly due to the high turnover of staff assigned to task management and to
the fact that social unrest often made it unsafe to travel to Haiti.
K.        Lessons Learned
39.        While the project's technical and financial preparation seems to
have been thorough, project implementation was affected both by project-
related weaknesses --e.g. contractor delays on the Northern Road-- and by
country-related problems --lack of counterpart funds, civil unrest, and
frequent changes in administration. In retrospect, it is difficult to assess



- 13 -
whether, in the unforeseen circumstances of Haiti, a different course of
action by IDA would have produced a better outcome. The Bank appears to have
taken too little action in two key areas:  (i) it took little action in
maintenance and counterpart funding, even though major donors had discontinued
their support to high priority maintenance activities; and (ii) it paid little
attention to the institutional strengthening efforts needed to reinforce
MTPTC's capacity to manage road rehabilitation and maintenance. In respect of
(i), the front-loading of disbursements agreed during project executior was
ineffective, as there were little prospects that the Government could increase
its own financing later on; .nstead, it would have been advisable to either
reduce the project scope, or finance a higher percentage all along, at least
for priority components of the project.
40.       This raises a qunstion as to whether IDA was right in continuing to
disburse the credit and extending the closing date repeatedly, in the face of
widespread non-compliance with major covenants. Should it not have suspended
disbursements, or at least cancelled the undisbursed balance at the original
closing date? The case of the Bolivian Highway Maintenance Project, carried
out in the economic and political crisis of 1980-85, is similar. The latter
is instructive, in that the Bank did suspend disbursements. The outcome was
that the Bolivian roads deteriorated even more rapidly, the few highway
engineers knowledgeable and concerned about road maintenance left the
government, and upon resumption of Bank activity the government had to
allocate much larger sums to road rehabilitation. The only way to interpret
this experience positively would be to argue that only by touching rock bottom
could the Bolivian people make the radical change of mentality that led to the
subsequent transformation of their political conduct and economic policies.
Our judgment is that in both cases the particular nature of maintenance and
rehabilitation cpierations makes an interruption of financing exceptionally
damaging, both to the existing physical assets and to the human capital
invested in the agency responsible.
41.        In the case of Haiti, the judgment call at the time was even harder
as (i) the project financed rehabilitation of the most important road link in
the country; and (ii) it constituted the only source of external financing in
the sector after the withdrawal of most bilateral assistance. A more
important question, however, is whether the project's priorities should not
have, at a minimum, been revised in light of the changing circumstances in the
country; there is little evidence from the files that this was seriously
considered despite the continuing non-compliance with credit covenants and the
overall deterioration in the sector.
42.        In general, both this project experience and the present (1991)
situation in Haiti call for the following in future road projects in Haiti:
(a)   simple objectives in line with the limited capacity of the
Ministry;
(b)  flexible design (i.e. several small components) so that the project
can be adapted to changing circumstances, and/or, possibly, making



- 14 -
procurement in later years conditional on satisfactory performance
in prior years;
(C)   increased focus on institutional building, entailing especially a
close review of the Ministry's future role in road maintenance
activities and exploration of a possible stronger participation of
the private sector, coupled with necessary reinforcement of MTPTC's
planning and supervision capacity;
(d)   a close review of fiscal and budgetary mechanisms to enable
adequate funding of road maintenance by the Government;
(e)   integration of any project within a realistic overall program of
the Ministry, in line with the Government's economic priorities and
financing constraints; and
(f)  tight supervision by IDA.



- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1220-HA)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
No comments, nor any contribution on Part II, were received from
the Government on the report. The request to prepare a PCR was made
repeatedly by the supervision missions on the Seventh Highway Project during
1989. The draft PCR was discussed with the Government in December 1989, and
again in March 1990, during a visit of MTPTC's officials to IDA. A copy of
the PCR and of the guidelines to prepare Part II of the report were sent
officially in early April 1990, with a request to provide comments to the next
IDA mission, scheduled to visit Haiti in early May. No comments were received
either during that missi. n, or subsequently.



- 16 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1220-HA
PART III: STATISTICAL INEFORMATION
A. RELATED BANK PROJECTS
Year of
Credit Title                   Purpose                   Approval      Status
Third Highway Project      Reconstruction of the               1974     Closed 3/31/79
Cr. 478-HA                 Northern Road (250 km),
including bridges, under
FQurth Highway Project    Cr. 478-HA ($10 M) and               1975     Closed 5/31/79
Cr. 556-HA                 Cr. 556-HA ($20 M)
Flfth Highway Project      Upgrading and paving of             1978     Closed 6/30/83
Cr. 807-HA                 54 km of the Northern
Road, including bridges
reconstruction totalling
$15 M
Seventh Highway Project   Completion of the works              1987     Closing date:  6/91
cr. 1756-HA                begun under Cr. 1220-HA
and strengthening of MTPTC
agencies



- 17 -
B. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item               Date Planned         Date Revised      Date Actual
Identifica iton                                                1977
Appraisal                                                      May 1981
Negotiations                                                   February 1982
Board Approval                                                 April 1, 1982
Credit Agreement                                               April 27, 1982
Effectiveness          July 1982             August 1982       December 17, 1982
October 1982
Project Completion    December 31. 1984
Closing Date           June 30, 1985         June 30, 1986    June 30, 1988
June 30, 1987



- 18 _
C. CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
SDR Millions (1 SDR   1.148 US$)
IDA F/Y              Cumulative                                           Disburs. as
and                  Actual    Appraisal   Interim         Final        7 of appraisal
Semester               Total      Estimate    Estimate    Estimate          Estimate
FY 1983
Dec. 1982             ,.3         0.4                                        75
Jun. 1983             0.3          3.1                                       10
FY 1984
Dec. 1983             1.1         8.0                                        14
Jun. 1984             4.4          9.1                                       48
FY 1985
Dec. 1984             5.7        11.2                                        51
Jun. 1985             7.3        12.2            7.0                         60
FY 1986
Dec. 1985             7.9        12.2           10.5                         51
Jun. 1986             9.1        12.2           11.5                         75
FY 1987
Dec. 1986             9.7        12.2           12.2                         80
Jun. 1987            10.6                                                    87
FY 1988
Dec. 1987            10.8                                    10.8           100
Jun. 1988            12.2                                    12.2           100



- 19 -
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
Indicators                        Appraisal Estimates      PCR Estimates
Road Rehabilitation component:
Rehabilitation                          94 km              36Z (including 23 km
of Gonaives to Cap.                                         rehabilitated)
Haitien Paved road 1/
Bridges and other
Drainage Structures component:
Construction of bridges                   6                    0    Z/
Construction of culverts                  27                   0    2/
Rehabilitation of bridges                 4                    4
Rehabilitation of culverts                20                   20
1/   The initial description of the works to be carried out consisted of the
rehabilitation of a 55-km montainous section and the periodic
maintenance of the remaining 39 km. Road rehabilitation works not
accomplished under Cr. 1220-HA were completed under Cr. 1756-HA and
additional CCCE financing (French development agency), but the final
scope of the works far exceeded the 1981 appraisal estimates since the
Northern Road continuously deteriorated during the whole decade due to
delays in the rehabilitation works and general lack of maintenance.
2/   Only the rehabilitation part of the bridges and culvert program was
carried out under Cr. 1220-HA. The bridges and culverts construction
program was implemented and completed under Cr. 1756-HA, together with
an additional drainage structures rehabilitation component.



- 20 -
E. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs:
1. Appraisal estimates l/
(US$ million)                Local      ForeiRn            Total
Road Rehabilitation               2          4.6             6.6
Bridges Rehabilitation
and Construction                  1          2.4             3.4
Equipment
Maintenance equipment                                      3.8
Spare parts                                                0.7
Vehicle weighing                                           0.2
Total equipment                   0.3        4.4             4.7
Final engineering.
supervision, T.A., studies        0.4        1.0             1.4
Contingencies                     0.9        2.2             3.1
Total                             4.6       14.6            19.2
2. Actual costs:
(US$ million)             1220-HA   1756-HA   CCCE         Total
Road Rehabilitation            10.2       5.7        3.5       19.4
Bridges Rehabilitation         0.3
and Construction
Equipment
Maintenance equipment    2.9  2/
Spare parts               0.2
Vehicle weighing           0.1
Total equipment                3.2
Final engineering,
supervision, T.A., Studies   3.9
PPF                            0.3
Total                         17.9
1/ according to Credit Agreement dated April 27, 1982.
2/ less maintenance equipment vras purchased than estimated at appraisal,
especially for bulldozers (from 4 to 1) and graders (from 13 to 5).



_ 21 -
B.   Project Financing
1. Appraisal estimates 1/
(US$ million)                Government  IDA             Total
Road Rehabilitation              2          4.6             6.6
Bridges Rehabilitation
and Construction                 1          2.4             3.4
Equipment                        0.3        4.4             4.7
Final engineering,
supervision. T.A.. studies       0.4        1               1.4
Contingencies                    1.5        1.6             3.1
Total                            5.2        14             19.2
2. Actual costs (US$ million)
Government      IDA       Total
Road Rehabilitaticn:                3.9  21   6.3         10.2
Drainage Structures
Component:                                     0.3        0.3
Equipment:                                     3.2        3.2
Final engineering,
supervision, T.A.. studies:                    3.9        3.9
PPF:                                           0.3        0.3
Total                                3.9       14        17.9
1/ 702 of civil works and 1001 of foreign expenditures for equipment and
consultant services. In total, IDA was to finance 73? of the total project
costs.
2/ including USS 1.5 million for indemnities paid to the local construction
firm. Total indemnities for the Northern Road rehabilitation (whose final cost
was US$ 19.4 m'llion) amounte to VS$ 2.2 million, including US$ 720,000 paid
to the French construction firm in charge of the road rehabilitation works
under Credit 1756-HA.



- 22 -
F. STUDIES
Purpose as
Defined at
Title                        Appraisal                      Status
Road Maintenance             To determine whether to             Done.
Technology Study             increase rehabilitation
and labor-intensive
activities or continue
financing expensive
routine and periodic
maintenance by force
account.
Study of the                 To formulate proposals              Done.
Domestic Construction        for training of industry
Industry                     managers, technicians and
skilled workers.



- 23 -
G. COMPLIANCE WITH COVENANTS
Section 3.06. In order to ensure
the adequacy of the road
maintenance operations of the
Maintenance Department, the
Borrower shall:
(a) make available to the                 Not complied with.
Maintenance Department
promptly as needed such funds             SEPRRN's 1987/1988
as shall be required for                  Road Maintenance Budget of
carrying out its work                     US$ 4.4 million was only half of the
program in accordance with a              US$ 8.8 million agreed by the
schedule satisfactory to the              Government and IDA.
Association;
(b) ensure that the Maintenance           Complied with.
Department equipment be used only
for works of maintenance or
rehabilitation;
(c) cause the availability and            Complied with.
utilization of the equipment
fleet of the Maintenance Department
and the percentage of the total
network to be maintained in each year
to be monitored at all times and
be reassessed annually;
(d) use its best efforts to obtain        Complied with.
and maintain such technical
assistance as shall be necessary to
ensure the sound and efficient
management of the Maintenance
Department:
(e)  exchange views with IDA on           IDA supervision mission
compliance with a, b, c and d above       discussed with MTPTC road
and on SEPRRN's management of its         maintenance related problems
equipment, planning of renewals,          and requested improved
overhauls and scrapping;                  compliance with pertinent
Credit Covenants.
(f) S :tion 3.07.  Furnish to IDA         Complied with.
quart rly reports on the status and
progress of the program to control



- 24 -
weights and dimensions of vehicles
incl. in Part B of the project:
(g) Section 4.1(b) the Borrower           Not complied with.
shall cause SEPRRN, SAT and SCS to:
(i) have the accounts and financial       Qualified audit report was received
statements related to the Project          only in 1986.
audited for each fiscal year, by
independent auditors satisfactorily
to IDA;
(h) Section 4.02.  Ex^'hange views        Complied with.
annually with IDA concerning
coordination among units charged
with planning or carrying out
construction of feeder roads.
(i) Section 4.03.  Beginning in           Complied with on March 8, 1985;
1982, increase the tax on diesel           subsequently, a newly installed
fuel so as to eliminate the               Government reduced the tax
difference between such tax and the        on diesel.
tax on gasoline by the end of 1983.
(j) Section 4.04.  Take steps to          Not complied with.
ensure enforcement of regulations          This was due to the lack of
concerning axle load limits and            suitable equipment and police
vehicle dimensions and not to              support and to technical
modify, suspend of grant exemptions        difficulties in applying higher
to any such regulations without a          French-based norms than those
prior exchange of views with IDA.          proposed by IDA.



- 25 -
H. STAFF INPUTS AND MISSIONS
Item            Month/    Number      Mission    Staff    Date of  Performance   Type of
Comiposition       Year       Persons    _          Weeks   B,eoort         atina     Problem
1/
Identification     06/80         2      ECN/EGR       3.3    7/80
Pre-Appraisal/
praisal/Post
Lppraisal          06/81        3      ECN/EGR       54.5
;upervision   1   03/83         1          EGR        3.0    04/83           1
2    10/83        2      ECN/EGR        4.0    11/83           1
3    03/84        2      ECN/EGR        4.0    05/84           2         MA,AF
4    07/84        2      ECN/EGR        3.0    07/84           2         MA*AF
5    10/84        2      ECN/EGR        4.0    12/84           2         AF
6    03/85        2      ECN/EGR        6.0    04/85           2         AF
7   07/85         2      ECN/EGR        4.0    07/85           2         AF
8    05/86        1      ECN/EGR        2.0    05/86           3         AF
9    07/86        2          EGR        2.0    09/87           3         AF
10    05/87        2      ECN/EGR        1.0    07/86           2         AF
11    04/88        1          EGR        0.5    06/88
12    11/88        1          EGR        0.5    No Report ZI
13    05/89        1          EGR        0.5    No Report V
AF  = Availability of funds
ECN =  Economist
EGR =  Engineer
MA  =  Project management
By that time, the Highway VI super"ision reports were subsumed into the Transport VII
supervision reports.



